Kainate receptors (KARs) are one of the three subtypes of ionotropic glutamate receptors in the CNS. These receptors are widely expressed pre- and postsynaptically throughout the brain. Thus, kainate receptor activation mediates a large variety of pre- and postsynaptic effects on either glutamatergic or GABAergic synaptic transmission. Although ionotropic functions for KAR have been described in multiple brain regions, there is considerable evidence from various CNS regions that KARs activation modulates GABA release through either G-protein dependent metabotropic pathway or secondary activation of G-protein coupled receptors. In the present chapter, we provide further evidence supporting that these two pathways are also involved in the modulation of GABA release in specific basal ganglia nuclei. Because of their more subtle effects on neurotransmisison regulation than other ionotropic glutamate receptors, KARs represent interesting targets for the future development of pharmacotherapy for basal ganglia diseases.
Kainate receptors (KARs) are members of the family of ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs) which also include NMDA and AMPA receptors. As ionotropic receptors, KARs have been characterized, pre and postsynaptically, in several brain regions. In this chapter we review evidence that suggests that KARs mediate some of their effects without invoking ion-fluxes. Beginning with seminal experiments described some ten years ago, when the notion of a metabotropic action of KAR was first posited in the modulation of GABA release from hippocampal interneurons, increasingly, there have been reports indicating that some KAR functions overtly depend on G-protein activation and involve the participation of intracellular signalling cascades. Thus, KAR activation instigates a cascade involving G(i/o), phospholipase C and protein kinase C to suppress the release of GABA and therefore underpins disinhibition of pyramidal cells in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. This type of metabotropic function of KARs in controlling GABA release represents an additional level of activity-dependent control of synaptic inhibition which is independent of any ionotropic activity of KARs.

TRPML2, the polypeptide product of the gene Trpml2 (aka Mcoln2), is a member of the TRPML or mucolipin branch of the TRP super family of ion channels. Although no known agonists have been discovered, the wild type channel gives basal currents when heterologously expressed in Drosophila (S2) cells and is constitutively active in mammalian cells when bearing a cell degeneration-causing, proline to alanine substitution in the fifth trans-membrane domain. TRPML2 forms channels that are inwardly rectifying and permeable to Ca(+2), Na(+), and Fe(+2). Localization studies indicate TRPML2 is present in lysosomes, late endosomes, recycling endosomes and, at a lower level, the plasma membrane. Tissue and organ distribution of TRPML2 is solely reported through RT-PCR and it is uncertain which cell types express this channel. However, various studies suggest that lymphoid cells express TRPML2. Although the function of TRPML2 is not known, distribution and channel properties suggest it could play roles in calcium release from endolysosomes, perhaps to mediate calcium-dependent events such as vesicle fusion, or to release calcium from intracellular acidic stores. However, TRPML2 may also function in the plasma membrane and its abundance in vesicles of the endocytic pathaway might occur because its presence in the cell surface is regulated by endocytosis and exocytosis. An evolutionary analysis of Trpml2 and its relatives reveals that vertebrate and invertebrate chordates have only one Trpml gene, that Trpml1 and Trpml2 are common to vertebrates, and that Trpml3 is only found in tetrapods. Ray-finned fishes contain another isoform, which we term Trpml4 or Mcoln4 (and its product TRPML4). Trpml2 is next to Trpml3 in all tetrapod genomes except that of the frog Xenopus tropicalis and of the domesticated pig, which seems to lack most of the Trpml3 gene. This close linkage across species implies that it is maintained by selective pressure and suggests that the regulation of both genes is interdependent.


Various data from scientific research studies conducted over the past three decades suggest that central neurotransmitters play a key role in the modulation of aggression in all mammalian species, including humans. Specific neurotransmitter systems involved in mammalian aggression include serotonin, dopamine, norepinephrine, GABA, and neuropeptides such as vasopressin and oxytocin. Neurotransmitters not only help to execute basic behavioral components but also serve to modulate these preexisting behavioral states by amplifying or reducing their effects. This chapter reviews the currently available data to present a contemporary view of how central neurotransmitters influence the vulnerability for aggressive behavior and/or initiation of aggressive behavior in social situations. Data reviewed in this chapter include emoiric information from neurochemical, pharmaco-challenge, molecular genetic and neuroimaging studies.
Prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) are socially monogamous rodents that form pair bonds-a behavior composed of several social interactions including attachment with a familiar mate and aggression toward conspecific strangers. Therefore, this species has provided an excellent opportunity for the study of pair bonding behavior and its underlying neural mechanisms. In this chapter, we discuss the utility of this unique animal model in the study of aggression and review recent findings illustrating the neurochemical mechanisms underlying pair bonding-induced aggression. Implications of this research for our understanding of the neurobiology of human violence are also discussed.
From psychological and sociological standpoints, aggression is regarded as intentional behavior aimed at inflicting pain and manifested by hostility and attacking behaviors. In contrast, biologists define aggression as behavior associated with attack or escalation toward attack, omitting any stipulation about intentions and goals. Certain animal signals are strongly associated with escalation toward attack and have the same function as physical attack in intimidating opponents and winning contests, and ethologists therefore consider them an integral part of aggressive behavior. Aggressive signals have been molded by evolution to make them ever more effective in mediating interactions between the contestants. Early theoretical analyses of aggressive signaling suggested that signals could never be honest about fighting ability or aggressive intentions because weak individuals would exaggerate such signals whenever they were effective in influencing the behavior of opponents. More recent game theory models, however, demonstrate that given the right costs and constraints, aggressive signals are both reliable about strength and intentions and effective in influencing contest outcomes. Here, we review the role of signaling in lieu of physical violence, considering threat displays from an ethological perspective as an adaptive outcome of evolutionary selection pressures. Fighting prowess is conveyed by performance signals whose production is constrained by physical ability and thus limited to just some individuals, whereas aggressive intent is encoded in strategic signals that all signalers are able to produce. We illustrate recent advances in the study of aggressive signaling with case studies of charismatic taxa that employ a range of sensory modalities, viz. visual and chemical signaling in cephalopod behavior, and indicators of aggressive intent in the territorial calls of songbirds.


The development of receptor subtype-selective ligands by targeting allosteric sites of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) has proven highly successful in recent years. One GPCR family that has greatly benefited from this approach is the metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGlus). These family C GPCRs participate in the neuromodulatory actions of glutamate throughout the CNS, where they play a number of key roles in regulating synaptic transmission and neuronal excitability. A large number of mGlu subtype-selective allosteric modulators have been identified, the majority of which are thought to bind within the transmembrane regions of the receptor. These modulators can either enhance or inhibit mGlu functional responses and, together with mGlu knockout mice, have furthered the establishment of the physiologic roles of many mGlu subtypes. Numerous pharmacological and receptor mutagenesis studies have been aimed at providing a greater mechanistic understanding of the interaction of mGlu allosteric modulators with the receptor, which have revealed evidence for common allosteric binding sites across multiple mGlu subtypes and the presence for multiple allosteric sites within a single mGlu subtype. Recent data have also revealed that mGlu allosteric modulators can display functional selectivity toward particular signal transduction cascades downstream of an individual mGlu subtype. Studies continue to validate the therapeutic utility of mGlu allosteric modulators as a potential therapeutic approach for a number of disorders including anxiety, schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease, and Fragile X syndrome.
Seven P2X receptor subunits have been cloned which form functional homo- and heterotrimers. These are cation-selective channels, equally permeable to Na(+) and K(+) and with significant Ca(2+) permeability. The three-dimensional structure of the P2X receptor is described. The channel pore is formed by the -helical transmembrane spanning region 2 of each subunit. When ATP binds to a P2X receptor, the pore opens within milliseconds, allowing the cations to flow. P2X receptors are expressed on both central and peripheral neurons, where they are involved in neuromuscular and synaptic neurotransmission and neuromodulation. They are also expressed in most types of nonneuronal cells and mediate a wide range of actions, such as contraction of smooth muscle, secretion, and immunomodulation. Changes in the expression of P2X receptors have been characterized in many pathological conditions of the cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, respiratory, and urinogenital systems and in the brain and special senses. The therapeutic potential of P2X receptor agonists and antagonists is currently being investigated in a range of disorders, including chronic neuropathic and inflammatory pain, depression, cystic fibrosis, dry eye, irritable bowel syndrome, interstitial cystitis, dysfunctional urinary bladder, and cancer.

The contactins are members of a protein subfamily of neural immunoglobulin (Ig) domain-containing cell adhesion molecules. Their architecture is based on six N-terminal Ig domains, four fibronectin type III domains, and a C-terminal glycophosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchor to the extracellular part of the cell membrane. Genetics of neuropsychiatric disorders, particularly autism spectrum disorders, have pinpointed contactin-4, -5, and -6 (CNTN4, -5, and -6) as potential disease genes in neurodevelopmental disorders and suggested that they participate in pathways important for appropriate brain development. These contactins have distinct but overlapping patterns of brain expression, and null-mutation causes subtle morphological and functional defects in the brain. The molecular basis of their neurodevelopmental functions is likely conferred by heterophilic protein interactions. Cntn4, -5, and -6 interact with protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor gamma (Ptptg) using a shared binding site that spans their second and third Ig repeats. Interactions with amyloid precursor protein (APP), Notch, and other IgCAMs have also been indicated. The present data indicate that Cntn4, -5, and -6 proteins may be part of heteromeric receptor complexes as well as serve as ligands themselves.
Almost any diagnosis of cancer, but particularly those primarily affecting areas related to sexual function, can lead to sexual impairment. Multiple phases of sexuality are impacted, and various dysfunctions result. Both biological and psychosocial mechanisms are involved in sexual difficulties after cancer. This chapter principally focuses on the detrimental effects of breast, cervical, vulvar, ovarian, prostate and testicular cancer on the sexual health of survivors. When applicable, pharmacologic and psychosocial treatment for sexual dysfunction is discussed.
The diagnosis of sexual dysfunction(s) or disorder(s) is paramount to the development of the field of sexual medicine. Historically, the diagnoses of these disorders have been considered reliable. The validity of diagnoses of sexual disorders (and the rest of our classification systems) has recently been questioned, especially from the point of clinical utility and homogeneity. This review discusses the issues involved in the development of valid and useful diagnoses of sexual disorders, reviews the proposed changes in the upcoming Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 5th edition, as well as the problems inherent in the revision of this (and any) diagnostic system, and suggests some possible remedies to this process.
The issue of free will is at the heart of understanding ourselves, what it means to be a conscious, thinking, and responsibly acting human being. A position on this issue has profound implications on how we see ourselves as moral agents and on our place in the universe. The developments in neuroscience over the last half century have provided us with much data concerning the function of the brain and its relationship to the mind. In this article we shall review contributions of both neurosurgeons and other neuroscientists to our understanding of free will. The volitional motor model will be emphasized for heuristic purposes. Ultimately, by understanding the limits of our freedom, we can enhance our concept of the meaning of our lives.
Clinical audits have suggested up to 40% of patients with disorders of consciousness may be misdiagnosed, in part, due to the highly subjective process of determining, from a patient's behaviour, whether they retain awareness of self or environment. To address this problem, objective neuroimaging methods, such as positron emission tomography and functional magnetic resonance imaging have been explored. Using these techniques, paradigms, which do not require the patient to move or speak, can be used to determine a patient's level of residual cognitive function. Indeed, visual discrimination, speech comprehension and even the ability to respond to command have been demonstrated in some patients who are assumed to be vegetative on the basis of standard behavioural assessments. Functional neuroimaging is now increasingly considered to be a very useful and necessary addition to the clinical assessment process, where there is concern about the accuracy of the diagnosis and the possibility that residual cognitive function has remained undetected. In this essay, the latest neuroimaging findings are reviewed, the limitations and caveats pertaining to interpretation are outlined and the necessary developments, before neuroimaging becomes a standard component of the clinical assessment are discussed.
Until recently, single-stranded negative sense RNA viruses (ssNSVs) were one of only a few important human viral pathogens, which could not be created from cDNA. The inability to manipulate their genomes hindered their detailed genetic analysis. A key paper from Conzelmann's laboratory in 1994 changed this with the publication of a method to recover rabies virus (RABV) from cDNA. This discovery not only dramatically changed the broader field of ssNSV biology but also opened a whole new avenue for studying RABV pathogenicity, developing novel RABV vaccines as well a new generation of RABV-based vaccine vectors, and creating research tools important in neuroscience such as neuronal tracing.
Consumption of Anaphe larva had been reported to cause seasonal ataxia and impaired consciousness. Therefore this study examined the neuropharmacological and mechanism(s) of action of aqueous extract of Anaphe venata in rats. Behavioural effects namely rearing, stretching, sniffing and ataxia were determined after the intraperitoneal administration of aqueous extract of Anaphe larva in rats. Animals were divided into groups and graded doses (100, 200 and 400 mg/kg, i.p.) of extract were administered. The control group was administered normal saline (vehicle). The effects of scopolamine (3 mg/kg, i.p.), flumazenil (2 mg/kg, i.p.), naloxone (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.), and thiamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.) on the observed behavioral changes were also examined. The effects of the extract administered intraperitoneally at a dose of 200 mg/kg on the amphetamine-induced stereotypy and locomotion were evaluated. Aqueous anaphe extract induced significant (p&lt; 0.01) stretching and ataxia behavioural effects while it inhibited rearing behaviour when compared with the vehicle-treated group. However, it had no significant effect on sniffing behaviour. Scopolamine reversed all the effects of the extract on rearing, stretching and ataxia. Both Flumazenil and naloxone only reversed the effects of the extract on stretching and ataxia-induced behaviours significantly. However, thiamine potentiated both stretching and ataxia-induced behaviours. The extract inhibited the amphetamine-induced stereotype behaviour and locomotion. In conclusion, these results showed that these anaphe-induced behavioural effects are mediated via cholinergic, GABAergic, opioidergic and dopaminergic receptor systems with strong muscarinic-cholinergic receptors involvement in ataxia-induced behaviour. We therefore suggest that muscranic-cholinergic like drugs may be of benefit in the management of patients that present with clinical condition of seasonal ataxia.
Honey is a natural sweet substance that bees produce by transforming flower nectar or other sweet secretions of plants. It has widespread use in traditional medicine in various parts of the world. It has been reported to assist in building the entire central nervous system. The beneficial effects of honey have been attributed to the possible polyphenolic contents and some other constituents. The geographical locations and the sources of plant nectars may contribute to the effects of honey samples. Thus, we evaluated the neuropharmacological effects of six samples of honey (10%, 20% and 40%(V)/v, p.o.) from three geographical locations of Nigeria using the following behavioral models: Novelty-induced behaviors (NIB), learning and memory, pentobarbital-induced hypnosis, anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, analgesic and antidepressant models in mice. The results showed that honey significantly (p&lt; 0.05) decreased locomotion and rearing behaviors in NIB and amphetamine-induced locomotor activity when compared to the control group. Exploratory behavior was significantly increased in both holeboard and elevated plus maze but had no significant effect on spatial working memory. Honey sample from Umudike has significant hypnotic and anticonvulsant effects. The antinociceptive models (hot plate and tail flick tests) showed that the honey samples significantly increased the pain reaction time and naloxone blocked these central antinociceptive effects. The force swimming test showed that only the Idanre (ID) honey sample had antidepressant effect. In conclusion, some of these honey samples have central inhibitory property, anxiolytic, antinociceptive, anticonvulsant and antidepressant effects, thus may be used as nutraceutic. It can also be inferred that some of these effects are probably mediated through dopaminergic and opioidergic systems.
Aging is associated with a progressive decrease in thermal perception, as revealed by increased thermal detection thresholds in the elderly. This reduction in thermosensitivity follows a distal-proximal pattern, with more pronounced decrements observed in the limbs and in the perception of warmth vs. cold. The main underlying causes of this seem to be aging of the skin and subsequent reductions in thermoreceptor density and superficial skin blood flow. However, the results from some animal studies also suggest that changes in the peripheral nerve system, particularly fiber loss and decreased conduction velocity, may also be involved. In this paper, we review age-related changes in the thermal sensitivity of humans, their underlying mechanisms, and the strengths and limitations of some of the methodologies used to assess these changes.
Invariant distortion product otoacoustic emission (DPOAE) phase elucidates scaling symmetry in the cochlea. Below some low-frequency boundary, DPOAE phase slope steepens. The origin of this break in phase invariance is not clear. Stimulus frequency (SF)OAE delays computed from the slope of phase also manifest discontinuities at low frequencies, though the relationship between the breaking of cochlear scaling as defined by SFOAE and DPOAE metrics has not been examined. In this study, OAEs were recorded in normal-hearing human adults to probe cochlear scaling and its breaking and to examine the correspondence between two OAE metrics of scaling. Results indicate: (1) the apical break in DPOAE phase invariance cannot be explained by contributions from the reflection-source component; (2) DPOAE phase signals a break from scaling near 1.5 kHz and (3) DPOAE and SFOAE metrics of cochlear scaling produce phase discontinuities within approximately one-quarter octave of each other and show comparable rates of breaking, suggesting a common underlying origin.

Neurotransmitter systems have been long recognized as important targets of the developmental actions of alcohol (i.e., ethanol). Short- and long-term effects of ethanol on amino acid (e.g.,-aminobutyric acid and glutamate) and biogenic amine (e.g., serotonin and dopamine) neurotransmitters have been demonstrated in animal models of fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD). Researchers have detected ethanol effects after exposure during developmental periods equivalent to the first, second, and third trimesters of human pregnancy. Results support the recommendation that pregnant women should abstain from drinking-even small quantities-as effects of ethanol on neurotransmitter systems have been detected at low levels of exposure. Recent studies have elucidated new mechanisms and/or consequences of the actions of ethanol on amino acid and biogenic amine neuro-transmitter systems. Alterations in these neurotransmitter systems could, in part, be responsible for many of the conditions associated with FASD, including (1) learning, memory, and attention deficits; (2) motor coordination impairments; (3) abnormal responsiveness to stress; and (4) increased susceptibility to neuropsychiatric disorders, such as substance abuse and depression, and also neurological disorders, such as epilepsy and sudden infant death syndrome. However, future research is needed to conclusively establish a causal relationship between these conditions and developmental dysfunctions in neurotransmitter systems.
Exposure to alcohol in utero is considered to be a leading cause of developmental disabilities of known causation. The most severe consequence of such exposure, fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS), is characterized by a distinct constellation of facial anomalies, growth retardation, and central nervous system dysfunction. Both animal and human studies, however, suggest that there may be considerable variability in the manifestations of in utero alcohol exposure across individuals, and, consequently, the term fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD) has come into usage to reflect the entire continuum of effects associated with such exposure. In addition to FAS, this term encompasses the conditions of partial FAS, alcohol-related neurodevelopmental disorder, and alcohol-related birth defects. Despite extensive evidence of significant cognitive, behavioral, and social deficits in people with FASD, research on behavioral interventions for FASD has lagged behind. However, in recent years there has been a marked increase in efforts to design and test interventions for this population. This article will review current empirically tested interventions, methodological challenges, and suggestions for future directions in research on the treatment of FASD.
Alcohol and other drugs are frequently used in combination. Based on data from the National Epidemiologic Survey on Alcohol and Related Conditions, Falk and colleagues (2006, 2008) reported that 21.7 percent of the sampled population used both alcohol and tobacco and 5.6 percent used alcohol and another drug. Among women aged 18 to 24 the rates were 25.5 percent and 12.5 percent, respectively. Individually, alcohol, tobacco products, and a number of illicit drugs (such as cocaine or amphetamine) are known to be harmful to the developing fetus during pregnancy. Determining the additional harm resulting from polydrug use during pregnancy is an exceptionally challenging task. The unpredictable interactive (either additive or synergistic) effects of the drugs used simultaneously have far-reaching implications on child health and development given the pervasive use of multiple drugs in our society.
Rhizoma Arisaematis (RA, the rhizome of Pinellia pedatisecta Schott) is a traditional Chinese medicine commonly used in the treatment of convulsions, inflammation, and cancer. Despite the fact that it has been used for more than 2000 years, the pharmacological and toxic effects of traditionally processed products of RA are still unclear. In this study, we attempted to investigate the effects exerted by untreated crude RA and different preparations of RA treated with alumen in combination with ginger juice (Zhinanxing) or bile juice (Dannanxing) in ICR mice. The results showed that both the Zhinanxing and Dannanxing water extracts exerted significantly increased sedative effects, as indicated by the inhibitory effects on ambulatory distances, jumps, vertical-plane entries, and prolonged pentobarbital-induced sleeping time. The extracts also exerted significantly increased analgesic effects (increase of tail flick latency in nociceptive testing) in mice than did the unprocessed crude RA after oral administration for one to three days, and effects persisted 18 days after the cessation of treatment. By contrast, the toxic effects, such as an increase in stereotype-1 episodes of locomotor activities and reduction of the retention time on a rotating rod (motor equilibrium dysfunction), were observed only in mice treated with the unprocessed crude RA for three consecutive days, and effects persisted for 18 days after the cessation of treatment. These neurotoxic effects were accompanied by an increase in plasma lipid peroxidation (LPO), decrease in whole blood nitric oxide (NO(x)) levels, and inhibition of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activities in membrane fractions of erythrocytes and in the cerebral cortex. In conclusion, these findings provide scientific evidence that the processed RA indeed possesses not only enhanced neuropharmacological efficacy but also reduced neurotoxic effects as compared to the unprocessed crude RA. The signaling of NO(x)/oxidative stress/Na(+)-K(+)- ATPase activities played a role, at least in part, in the underlying mechanisms of neurotoxic effects induced by the crude RA.
This study was designed to examine antioxidant activities, antiglycating abilities and neuroprotective effects of methanolic extracts of Salvia choloroleuca, Salvia santolinifolia and Salvia mirzayanii from Iran. The extracts were screened for their possible antioxidant activities by several biochemical assays such as DPPH, FRAP, -carotene bleaching and TEAC assays. HPLC analysis of these extracts led to the separation of a number of components such as catechine and rosmarinic acid. Based on our results, all these plants had antioxidant and antiglycating activities, among them S. choloroleuca seems to be the most effective one. Furthermore, these species not only showed no cytotoxic effects in neuron-like PC12 cells, but also protected them against oxidative stress-induced cell death, exerted by H(2)O(2). We further showed that these plants increase superoxide dismutase and catalase levels, reduce lipid peroxidation and up regulate hemeoxygenase-1 and glutamylcysteine synthetase proteins. This study raised the possibility of developing these plants as potential neuroprotective agents.
Proteases that degrade the amyloid- peptide (A) are important in protecting against Alzheimer's disease (AD), and understanding these proteases is critical to understanding AD pathology. Endopeptidases sensitive to inhibition by thiorphan and phosphoramidon are especially important, because these inhibitors induce dramatic A accumulation (30- to 50-fold) and pathological deposition in rodents. The A-degrading enzyme neprilysin (NEP) is the best known target of these inhibitors. However, genetic ablation of NEP results in only modest increases (1.5- to 2-fold) in A, indicating that other thiorphan/phosphoramidon-sensitive endopeptidases are at work. Of particular interest is the NEP homolog neprilysin 2 (NEP2), which is thiorphan/phosphoramidon-sensitive and degrades A. We investigated the role of NEP2 in A degradation in vivo through the use of gene knockout and transgenic mice. Mice deficient for the NEP2 gene showed significant elevations in total A species in the hippocampus and brainstem/diencephalon (1.5-fold). Increases in A accumulation were more dramatic in NEP2 knockout mice crossbred with APP transgenic mice. In NEP/NEP2 double-knockout mice, A levels were marginally increased (1.5- to 2-fold), compared with NEP(-/-)/NEP2(+/+) controls. Treatment of these double-knockout mice with phosphoramidon resulted in elevations of A, suggesting that yet other NEP-like A-degrading endopeptidases are contributing to A catabolism.
Mutations resulting in progranulin haploinsufficiency cause disease in patients with a subset of frontotemporal lobar degeneration; however, the biological functions of progranulin in the brain remain unknown. To address this subject, the present study initially assessed changes in gene expression and cytokine secretion in rat primary cortical neurons treated with progranulin. Molecular pathways enriched in the progranulin gene set included cell adhesion and cell motility pathways and pathways involved in growth and development. Secretion of cytokines and several chemokines linked to chemoattraction but not inflammation were also increased from progranulin-treated primary neurons. Therefore, whether progranulin is involved in recruitment of immune cells in the brain was investigated. Localized lentiviral expression of progranulin in C57BL/6 mice resulted in an increase of Iba1-positive microglia around the injection site. Moreover, progranulin alone was sufficient to promote migration of primary mouse microglia in vitro. Primary microglia and C4B8 cells demonstrated more endocytosis of amyloid 1-42 when treated with progranulin. These data demonstrate that progranulin acts as a chemoattractant in the brain to recruit or activate microglia and can increase endocytosis of extracellular peptides such as amyloid .
Stress-induced reproductive dysfunction is a relatively common cause of infertility in women. In response to everyday life stress, some individuals readily develop reproductive dysfunction (i.e., they are stress sensitive), whereas others are more stress resilient. Female cynomolgus monkeys, when exposed to mild combined psychosocial and metabolic stress (change in social environment + 20% reduced calorie diet), can be categorized as stress sensitive (SS; they rapidly become anovulatory in response to stress), medium stress resilient (MSR; they slowly become anovulatory in response to prolonged stress), or highly stress resilient (HSR; they maintain normal menstrual cycles in response to stress). In this study, we examined whether increased sensitivity to stress-induced reproductive dysfunction is associated with elevated adrenal axis activity by measuring 1) the diurnal release of ACTH and cortisol, 2) ACTH and cortisol in response to an acute psychological stress, 3) the percent suppression of cortisol in response to dexamethasone negative feedback, 4) the diurnal release of ACTH and cortisol following exposure to mild psychosocial and metabolic stress, 5) the concentration of cortisol in hair, and 6) adrenal weight. SS monkeys (n = 5) did not differ from MSR (n = 5) or HSR (n = 7) monkeys in any measurement of baseline HPA axis activity or the integrated measurements of chronic HPA axis activity. However, MSR + SS monkeys (n = 10) did secrete more cortisol than HSR monkeys during the daytime hours (1000-1800) following exposure to a novel social environment and reduced diet. We conclude that increased activity of the HPA axis is unlikely to be the primary mechanism causing increased sensitivity to stress-induced reproductive dysfunction.
In adults, the adrenal glands are essential for the metabolic response to stress, but little is known about their role in fetal metabolism. This study examined the effects of adrenalectomizing fetal sheep on glucose and oxygen metabolism in utero in fed conditions and after maternal fasting for 48 h near term. Fetal adrenalectomy (AX) had little effect on the rates of glucose and oxygen metabolism by the fetus or uteroplacental tissues in fed conditions. Endogenous glucose production was negligible in both AX and intact, sham-operated fetuses in fed conditions. Maternal fasting reduced fetal glucose levels and umbilical glucose uptake in both groups of fetuses to a similar extent but activated glucose production only in the intact fetuses. The lack of fasting-induced glucogenesis in AX fetuses was accompanied by falls in fetal glucose utilization and oxygen consumption not seen in intact controls. The circulating concentrations of cortisol and total catecholamines, and the hepatic glycogen content and activities of key gluconeogenic enzymes, were also less in AX than intact fetuses in fasted animals. Insulin concentrations were also lower in AX than intact fetuses in both nutritional states. Maternal glucose utilization and its distribution between the fetal, uteroplacental, and nonuterine maternal tissues were unaffected by fetal AX in both nutritional states. Ovine fetal adrenal glands, therefore, have little effect on basal rates of fetal glucose and oxygen metabolism but are essential for activating fetal glucogenesis in response to maternal fasting. They may also be involved in regulating insulin sensitivity in utero.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), the most common endocrine disorder in women of reproductive age, is characterized by hyperandrogenism, oligo/amenorrhea, and polycystic ovaries. We aimed to determine whether low-frequency electro-acupuncture (EA) would decrease hyperandrogenism and improve oligo/amenorrhea more effectively than physical exercise or no intervention. We randomized 84 women with PCOS, aged 18-37 yr, to 16 wk of low-frequency EA, physical exercise, or no intervention. The primary outcome measure changes in the concentration of total testosterone (T) at week 16 determined by gas and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry was analyzed by intention to treat. Secondary outcome measures were changes in menstrual frequency; concentrations of androgens, estrogens, androgen precursors, and glucuronidated androgen metabolites; and acne and hirsutism. Outcomes were assessed at baseline, after 16 wk of intervention, and after a 16-wk follow-up. After 16 wk of intervention, circulating T decreased by -25%, androsterone glucuronide by -30%, and androstane-3,17-diol-3-glucuronide by -28% in the EA group (P = 0.038, 0.030, and 0.047, respectively vs. exercise); menstrual frequency increased to 0.69/month from 0.28 at baseline in the EA group (P = 0.018 vs. exercise). After the 16-wk follow-up, the acne score decreased by -32% in the EA group (P = 0.006 vs. exercise). Both EA and exercise improved menstrual frequency and decreased the levels of several sex steroids at week 16 and at the 16-wk follow-up compared with no intervention. Low-frequency EA and physical exercise improved hyperandrogenism and menstrual frequency more effectively than no intervention in women with PCOS. Low-frequency EA was superior to physical exercise and may be useful for treating hyperandrogenism and oligo/amenorrhea.
In response to everyday life stress, some individuals readily develop reproductive dysfunction (i.e., they are stress sensitive), whereas others are more stress resilient. When exposed to mild combined psychosocial plus metabolic stress (change in social environment plus reduced diet), female cynomolgus monkeys can be categorized as stress sensitive (SS; they rapidly become anovulatory in response to stress), medium stress resilient (MSR; they slowly become anovulatory in response to prolonged stress), or highly stress resilient (HSR; they maintain normal menstrual cycles in response to stress). Previously, we reported that monkeys that develop abnormal menstrual cycles following exposure to mild combined stress (MSR + SS) have increased plasma cortisol levels the day they move to a novel room and start a reduced diet compared with HSR monkeys. In this study, we examined whether there is a similar acute effect of mild combined stress on the reproductive axis specifically in the combined group of MSR + SS animals by measuring LH pulse frequency and whether treatment with a CRH-R1 antagonist can prevent a stress-induced suppression of LH pulse frequency presumably by inhibiting activity of the HPA axis. Animals that developed abnormal menstrual cycles in response to stress (MSR + SS monkeys) suppressed LH pulse frequency in response to stress exposure. Pretreatment with 10 mg/kg iv antalarmin prevented the stress-induced suppression of LH secretion in these animals without the stress-induced increase in cortisol secretion being blocked. We conclude that CRH, acting via nonneuroendocrine mechanisms to regulate neurotransmitter systems other than the HPA axis, plays a role in causing stress-induced reproductive impairment in stress-sensitive individuals.
Hypertension alters cerebrovascular regulation and increases the brain's susceptibility to stroke and dementia. We investigated the temporal relationships between the arterial pressure (AP) elevation induced by &quot;slow pressor&quot; angiotensin II (ANG II) infusion, which recapitulates key features of human hypertension, and the resulting cerebrovascular dysfunction. Minipumps delivering saline or ANG II for 14 days were implanted subcutaneously in C57BL/6 mice (n = 5/group). Cerebral blood flow was assessed by laser-Doppler flowmetry in anesthetized mice equipped with a cranial window. With ANG II (600 ng  kg(-1)  min(-1)), AP started to rise after 9 days (P &lt; 0.05 vs. saline), remained elevated at 11-17 days, and returned to baseline at 21 days (P &gt; 0.05). ANG II attenuated the cerebral blood flow increase induced by neural activity (whisker stimulation) or endothelium-dependent vasodilators, an effect observed before the AP elevation (7 days), as well as after the hypertension subsided (21 days). Nonpressor doses of ANG II (200 ng  kg(-1)  min(-1)) induced cerebrovascular dysfunction and oxidative stress without elevating AP (P &gt; 0.05 vs. saline), whereas phenylephrine elevated AP without inducing cerebrovascular effects. ANG II (600 ng  kg(-1)  min(-1)) augmented neocortical reactive oxygen species (ROS) with a time course similar to that of the cerebrovascular dysfunction. Neocortical application of the ROS scavenger manganic(I-II)meso-tetrakis(4-benzoic acid)porphyrin or the NADPH oxidase peptide inhibitor gp91ds-tat attenuated ROS and cerebrovascular dysfunction. We conclude that the alterations in neurovascular regulation induced by slow pressor ANG II develop before hypertension and persist beyond AP normalization but are not permanent. The findings unveil a striking susceptibility of cerebrovascular function to the deleterious effects of ANG II and raise the possibility that cerebrovascular dysregulation precedes the elevation in AP also in patients with ANG II-dependent hypertension.

A case report is presented and analyzed of a patient who was a double for and imitator of the late Freddy Mercury, lead singer for the rock group Queen. The patient was socially excluded, rejected by his peers, and neglected by his parents. As a consequence he experienced self-hate, shame, low self-esteem, and serious identity problems. Although impressive Freddy Mercury imago appeared to benefit the patient, mainly though social acceptance and enhanced opportunities for relationships, in the long-term it could not cover up his deep-rooted and repressed identity problems. The struggle to cope with these problems is illustrated here.
This paper describes the design of the NeuroLOG middleware data management layer, which provides a platform to share heterogeneous and distributed neuroimaging data using a federated approach. The semantics of shared information is captured through a multi-layer application ontology and a derived Federated Schema used to align the heterogeneous database schemata from different legacy repositories. The system also provides a facility to translate the relational data into a semantic representation that can be queried using a semantic search engine thus enabling the exploitation of knowledge embedded in the ontology. This work shows the relevance of the distributed approach for neurosciences data management. Although more complex than a centralized approach, it is also more realistic when considering the federation of large data sets, and open strong perspectives to implement multi-centric neurosciences studies.
Our objective was to evaluate the neurophysiological index (NI) as a biomarker for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and to assess the validity of linear mixed effects models for describing longitudinal changes. Functional assessment and nerve conduction studies were undertaken in 58 ALS patients. Neurophysiological data were collected on four occasions over 12 weeks (baseline, weeks 4, 8 and 12). The NI was calculated for the abductor digiti minimi and ulnar nerve at the wrist. NI declined at a rate of 0.04 per week (S.E. 0.006, p &lt; 0.0001). Patients with bulbar-onset disease had 0.88 greater NI than patients with upper limb-onset disease over the follow-up period (S.E. 0.39, p = 0.03). There were no differences in the rates of decline among patients with different disease phenotypes. Rates of change in NI and functional impairment were weakly correlated (Spearman's p = 0.29, p = 0.03). Linear mixed effects models were appropriate for detailing the longitudinal changes in NI. The present findings support incorporation of NI as an outcome measure for ALS clinical trials conducted over short time periods.
Our objectives were to assess the frequency of behavioural changes in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and to compare the clinical profile of ALS patients with those with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD). Ninety-two patients with ALS and their carers participated in a postal survey. ALS patients completed self-report measures of motor function and mood. Eighty-one carers of ALS patients and 25 carers of bvFTD patients completed the revised version of the Cambridge Behavioural Inventory (CBI-R). Results showed that reduced motivation was reported in more than 80% of the ALS cases, with almost 41% of them having moderate-severe apathy. Depression was present in 30% of ALS patients and did not contribute significantly to the presence of behavioural symptoms. Bulbar and limb onset ALS patients did not differ. Abnormal behaviour and stereotypical and motor behaviours were present to a moderate-severe degree in around 20%, and 11% reached the criteria for FTD. The rate of behavioural symptoms was significantly higher in the bvFTD group than ALS in all behavioural domains (p &lt;0.001). In conclusion, apathy was the most prominent feature in ALS patients. A substantial proportion of ALS patients manifested behavioural changes of the type seen in FTD, with 11% fulfilling the criteria for FTD.

In this article, we present a point process method to assess dynamic baroreflex sensitivity (BRS) by estimating the baroreflex gain as focal component of a simplified closed-loop model of the cardiovascular system. Specifically, an inverse Gaussian probability distribution is used to model the heartbeat interval, whereas the instantaneous mean is identified by linear and bilinear bivariate regressions on both the previous R-R intervals (RR) and blood pressure (BP) beat-to-beat measures. The instantaneous baroreflex gain is estimated as the feedback branch of the loop with a point-process filter, while the RR--&gt;BP feedforward transfer function representing heart contractility and vasculature effects is simultaneously estimated by a recursive least-squares filter. These two closed-loop gains provide a direct assessment of baroreflex control of heart rate (HR). In addition, the dynamic coherence, cross bispectrum, and their power ratio can also be estimated. All statistical indices provide a valuable quantitative assessment of the interaction between heartbeat dynamics and hemodynamics. To illustrate the application, we have applied the proposed point process model to experimental recordings from 11 healthy subjects in order to monitor cardiovascular regulation under propofol anesthesia. We present quantitative results during transient periods, as well as statistical analyses on steady-state epochs before and after propofol administration. Our findings validate the ability of the algorithm to provide a reliable and fast-tracking assessment of BRS, and show a clear overall reduction in baroreflex gain from the baseline period to the start of propofol anesthesia, confirming that instantaneous evaluation of arterial baroreflex control of HR may yield important implications in clinical practice, particularly during anesthesia and in postoperative care.


Augmentation of cue exposure (extinction) therapy with cognitive-enhancing pharmacotherapy may constitute a rational strategy for the clinical management of drug relapse. While certain success has been reported for this form of therapy in anxiety disorders, in this paper we highlight several obstacles that may undermine the efficacy of exposure therapy for substance use disorders. We also review translational studies that have evaluated the facilitative effects of the cognitive enhancer D-cycloserine on extinction targeting drug-related cues. Finally, important considerations for the design and implementation of future studies evaluating exposure therapy combined with pharmacotherapy for substance use disorders are discussed.
Stress is one of the major factors in drug abuse, particularly in relapse and drug-seeking behavior. However, the mechanisms underlying the interactions between stress and drug abuse are unclear. For many years, studies have focused on the role of the dopaminergic reward system in drug abuse. Our results, for example, show that increased dopaminergic activity is induced by drug sensitization and different stressors via potentiation of the ventral subiculum-nucleus accumbens (NAc) pathway. Although the role of the norepinephrine (NE) system in stress is well known, its involvement in drug abuse has received less attention. This review explores the different mechanisms by which stressors can modulate the ventral subiculum-accumbens pathway, and how these modulations can induce alterations in the behavioral response to drug administration. In particular, we will focus on two main afferents to the NAc, the basolateral amygdala and the ventral subiculum of the hippocampus, and their interactions with the locus coeruleus-norepinephrine system.
Drug-induced alterations in gene expression throughout the reward circuitry of the brain are likely components of the persistence of the drug-addicted state. Recent studies examining the molecular mechanisms controlling drug-induced transcriptional, behavioral, and synaptic plasticity have indicated a direct role for chromatin remodeling in the regulation and stability of drug-mediated neuronal gene programs, and the subsequent promulgation of addictive behaviors. In this review, we discuss recent advances in our understanding of chromatin phenomena--or epigenetics, by one definition--that contribute to drug addiction, with the hope that such mechanistic insights may aid in the development of novel therapeutics for future treatments of addiction.
The monoaminergic neuron, in particular the dopaminergic neuron, is central to mediating the hedonic and addictive properties of drugs of abuse. The effects of amphetamine (AMPH) and cocaine (COC), for example, depend on the ability to increase dopamine in the synapse, by effects on either the plasma membrane transporter DAT or the vesicular transporter for monoamine storage, VMAT2. The potential role of DAT as a target for AMPH and COC has been reviewed extensively. Here, we present VMAT2 as a target that enables the rewarding and addictive actions of these drugs, based on imaging, neurochemical, biochemical, cell biological, genetic, and immunohistochemical evidence. The presence of VMAT2 in noradrenergic, serotoninergic, histaminergic, and potentially trace aminergic neurons invites consideration of a wider role for aminergic neurotransmission in AMPH and COC abuse and addiction.
The process of addiction is often studied in the neurosciences as a function of the quantity or type of substance consumed, with the ultimate goal of counteracting these effects by other pharmacological means. However, epidemiology and clinical research have extensively demonstrated that most individuals who use drugs do not develop dependence. Numerous factors may explain an individual's propensity to addiction. This review discusses these paradigms and summarizes research on individual differences that encompass cultural and sociodemographic factors, psychiatric or psychological vulnerability, and biological or genetic propensity to addiction. Although these different factors often interact in the expression of vulnerable phenotypes, it is possible to alter or control specific sources of vulnerability. For these reasons, integrating individual vulnerability to addiction across different research disciplines is likely to provide the greatest advances for intervention and prevention efforts.
Binge drinking is prevalent and has serious biomedical consequences. In children, adolescents, and young adults, it is a prominent risk factor for later development of alcohol-use disorders. Many preclinical models have been employed to study the genetic risks for and biomedical consequences of alcohol drinking. However, these models historically did not result in blood-alcohol concentrations (BACs) exceeding 80 mg%; this relatively modest level is the threshold that currently defines a binge session, according to the NIAAA and CDC. Nevertheless, in alcohol-dependent rodents, binge drinking has been well documented. Key neurobiological substrates localized to brain reward and stress systems have been identified. Studies of newer models of binge drinking without dependence are reviewed here. In these models, rodents, non-human primates, and flies will drink enough to reach high BACs. They often display observable signs of intoxication. The neurobiological consequences of these episodes of binge drinking without dependence are reviewed, and preliminary evidence for roles for GABA, glutamate, opioid peptides, and corticotropin releasing factor are discussed, as is the need for more work to identify the antecedents and consequences of binge drinking in both animal models and humans.
Early differential diagnosis of motor neuropathies (MN) and lower motor neuron diseases (LMND) is important, as prognosis and therapeutic approaches are different. We evaluated the diagnostic contribution of the biopsy of the motor branch of the obturator nerve and gracilis muscle in 21 consecutive patients in which, after proper clinical and neurophysiological studies, the differential diagnosis was still open. At baseline, motor biopsy was performed; diagnostic confirmation was obtained by 2-year clinical follow-up. Our results support the usefulness of this diagnostic procedure for selected cases of MN and LMND.



The absorption of light by bound or diffusible chromophores causes conformational rearrangements in natural and artificial photoreceptor proteins. These rearrangements are coupled to the opening or closing of ion transport pathways, the association or dissociation of binding partners, the enhancement or suppression of catalytic activity, or the transcription or repression of genetic information. Illumination of cells, tissues, or organisms engineered genetically to express photoreceptor proteins can thus be used to perturb biochemical and electrical signaling with exquisite cellular and molecular specificity. First demonstrated in 2002, this principle of optogenetic control has had a profound impact on neuroscience, where it provides a direct and stringent means of probing the organization of neural circuits and of identifying the neural substrates of behavior. The impact of optogenetic control is also beginning to be felt in other areas of cell and organismal biology.
The past decade has witnessed a resurgence of interest in behavioral interventions for depression. This contemporary work is grounded in the work of Lewinsohn and colleagues, which laid a foundation for future clinical practice and science. This review thus summarizes the origins of a behavioral model of depression and the behavioral activation (BA) approach to the treatment and prevention of depression. We highlight the formative initial work by Lewinsohn and colleagues, the evolution of this work, and related contemporary research initiatives, such as that led by Jacobson and colleagues. We examine the diverse ways in which BA has been investigated over time and its emerging application to a broad range of populations and problems. We close with reflections on important directions for future inquiry.
We survey the utility of animal models of mental illness, based on the identification of possible neurocognitive or neurobehavioral endophenotypes. Three broad clusters of neuropsychiatric disorder are discussed: (a) impulsive-compulsive syndromes, comprising drug addiction, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, gambling, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and compulsive eating; (b) disorders at the cognitive-emotional interface, comprising anxiety, depression, and schizophrenia; and (c) disorders purely of cognition, which contribute to the third cluster, cognitive disorders. The emphasis is thus on modeling symptoms rather than disorders per se. We also distinguish between two main aspects of any validated model: the precise neurobehavioral or neurocognitive processes implicated from detailed study of the clinical phenotype, and the perturbations, whether typically genetic, environmental, pharmacological, or neurodevelopmental, that are designed to simulate relevant neural, neurochemical, or molecular aspects of particular neuropsychiatric disorders.
Brain graphs provide a relatively simple and increasingly popular way of modeling the human brain connectome, using graph theory to abstractly define a nervous system as a set of nodes (denoting anatomical regions or recording electrodes) and interconnecting edges (denoting structural or functional connections). Topological and geometrical properties of these graphs can be measured and compared to random graphs and to graphs derived from other neuroscience data or other (nonneural) complex systems. Both structural and functional human brain graphs have consistently demonstrated key topological properties such as small-worldness, modularity, and heterogeneous degree distributions. Brain graphs are also physically embedded so as to nearly minimize wiring cost, a key geometric property. Here we offer a conceptual review and methodological guide to graphical analysis of human neuroimaging data, with an emphasis on some of the key assumptions, issues, and trade-offs facing the investigator.
Genetically encoded, single-component optogenetic tools have made a significant impact on neuroscience, enabling specific modulation of selected cells within complex neural tissues. As the optogenetic toolbox contents grow and diversify, the opportunities for neuroscience continue to grow. In this review, we outline the development of currently available single-component optogenetic tools and summarize the application of various optogenetic tools in diverse model organisms.
Placing a patient in a state of general anesthesia is crucial for safely and humanely performing most surgical and many nonsurgical procedures. How anesthetic drugs create the state of general anesthesia is considered a major mystery of modern medicine. Unconsciousness, induced by altered arousal and/or cognition, is perhaps the most fascinating behavioral state of general anesthesia. We perform a systems neuroscience analysis of the altered arousal states induced by five classes of intravenous anesthetics by relating their behavioral and physiological features to the molecular targets and neural circuits at which these drugs are purported to act. The altered states of arousal are sedation-unconsciousness, sedation-analgesia, dissociative anesthesia, pharmacologic non-REM sleep, and neuroleptic anesthesia. Each altered arousal state results from the anesthetic drugs acting at multiple targets in the central nervous system. Our analysis shows that general anesthesia is less mysterious than currently believed.
In this review, we first provide a historical perspective of inhibitory signaling from the discovery of inhibition through to our present understanding of the diversity and mechanisms by which GABAergic interneuron populations function in different parts of the telencephalon. This is followed by a summary of the mechanisms of inhibition in the CNS. With this as a starting point, we provide an overview describing the variations in the subtypes and origins of inhibitory interneurons within the pallial and subpallial divisions of the telencephalon, with a focus on the hippocampus, somatosensory, paleo/piriform cortex, striatum, and various amygdala nuclei. Strikingly, we observe that marked variations exist in the origin and numerical balance between GABAergic interneurons and the principal cell populations in distinct regions of the telencephalon. Finally we speculate regarding the attractiveness and challenges of establishing a unifying nomenclature to describe inhibitory neuron diversity throughout the telencephalon.
The basal ganglia are a chain of subcortical nuclei that facilitate action selection. Two striatal projection systems--so-called direct and indirect pathways--form the functional backbone of the basal ganglia circuit. Twenty years ago, investigators proposed that the striatum's ability to use dopamine (DA) rise and fall to control action selection was due to the segregation of D(1) and D(2) DA receptors in direct- and indirect-pathway spiny projection neurons. Although this hypothesis sparked a debate, the evidence that has accumulated since then clearly supports this model. Recent advances in the means of marking neural circuits with optical or molecular reporters have revealed a clear-cut dichotomy between these two cell types at the molecular, anatomical, and physiological levels. The contrast provided by these studies has provided new insights into how the striatum responds to fluctuations in DA signaling and how diseases that alter this signaling change striatal function.
Traditionally the object of economic theory and experimental psychology, economic choice recently became a lively research focus in systems neuroscience. Here I summarize the emerging results and propose a unifying model of how economic choice might function at the neural level. Economic choice entails comparing options that vary on multiple dimensions. Hence, while choosing, individuals integrate different determinants into a subjective value; decisions are then made by comparing values. According to the good-based model, the values of different goods are computed independently of one another, which implies transitivity. Values are not learned as such, but rather computed at the time of choice. Most importantly, values are compared within the space of goods, independent of the sensorimotor contingencies of choice. Evidence from neurophysiology, imaging, and lesion studies indicates that abstract representations of value exist in the orbitofrontal and ventromedial prefrontal cortices. The computation and comparison of values may thus take place within these regions.
Work with patient H.M., beginning in the 1950s, established key principles about the organization of memory that inspired decades of experimental work. Since H.M., the study of human memory and its disorders has continued to yield new insights and to improve understanding of the structure and organization of memory. Here we review this work with emphasis on the neuroanatomy of medial temporal lobe and diencephalic structures important for memory, multiple memory systems, visual perception, immediate memory, memory consolidation, the locus of long-term memory storage, the concepts of recollection and familiarity, and the question of how different medial temporal lobe structures may contribute differently to memory functions.
Nicotine is the principal addictive component that drives continued tobacco use despite users' knowledge of the harmful consequences. The initiation of addiction involves the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system, which contributes to the processing of rewarding sensory stimuli during the overall shaping of successful behaviors. Acting mainly through nicotinic receptors containing the 4 and 2 subunits, often in combination with the 6 subunit, nicotine increases the firing rate and the phasic bursts by midbrain dopamine neurons. Neuroadaptations arise during chronic exposure to nicotine, producing an altered brain condition that requires the continued presence of nicotine to be maintained. When nicotine is removed, a withdrawal syndrome develops. The expression of somatic withdrawal symptoms depends mainly on the 5, 2, and 4 (and likely 3) nicotinic subunits involving the epithalamic habenular complex and its targets. Thus, nicotine taps into diverse neural systems and an array of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subtypes to influence reward, addiction, and withdrawal.
As a social species, humans have a fundamental need to belong that encourages behaviors consistent with being a good group member. Being a good group member requires the capacity for self-regulation, which allows people to alter or inhibit behaviors that would place them at risk for group exclusion. Self-regulation requires four psychological components. First, people need to be aware of their behavior so as to gauge it against societal norms. Second, people need to understand how others are reacting to their behavior so as to predict how others will respond to them. This necessitates a third mechanism, which detects threat, especially in complex social situations. Finally, there needs to be a mechanism for resolving discrepancies between self-knowledge and social expectations or norms, thereby motivating behavior to resolve any conflict that exists. This article reviews recent social neuroscience research on the psychological components that support the human capacity for self-regulation.
Given that we live in highly complex social environments, many of our most important decisions are made in the context of social interactions. Simple but sophisticated tasks from a branch of experimental economics known as game theory have been used to study social decision-making in the laboratory setting, and a variety of neuroscience methods have been used to probe the underlying neural systems. This approach is informing our knowledge of the neural mechanisms that support decisions about trust, reciprocity, altruism, fairness, revenge, social punishment, social norm conformity, social learning, and competition. Neural systems involved in reward and reinforcement, pain and punishment, mentalizing, delaying gratification, and emotion regulation are commonly recruited for social decisions. This review also highlights the role of the prefrontal cortex in prudent social decision-making, at least when social environments are relatively stable. In addition, recent progress has been made in understanding the neural bases of individual variation in social decision-making.
BACKGROUND: Discourse cohesion and coherence gives our communication continuity. Deficits in cohesion and coherence have been reported in patients with cognitive-communication disorders (e.g., TBI, dementia). However, the diffuse nature of pathology and widespread cognitive deficits of these disorders have made identification of specific neural substrates and cognitive systems critical for cohesion and coherence challenging. AIMS: Taking advantage of a rare patient group with selective and severe declarative memory impairments, the current study attempts to isolate the contribution of declarative memory to the successful use of cohesion and coherence in discourse. METHODS #ENTITYSTARTX00026; PROCEDURES: Cohesion and coherence were examined in the discourse of six participants with hippocampal amnesia and six demographically matched comparison participants. Specifically, this study (1) documents the frequency, type, and completeness of cohesive ties; (2) evaluates discourse for local and global coherence; and (3) compares use of cohesive ties and coherence ratings in amnesia and healthy participants. OUTCOMES #ENTITYSTARTX00026; RESULTS: Overall, amnesia participants produced fewer cohesive ties per T-unit, the adequacy of their ties were more often judged to be incomplete, and the ratings of their local coherence were consistently lower than comparison participants. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that declarative memory may contribute to the discursive use of cohesion and coherence. Broader notions of cohesion, or interactional cohesion, i.e., cohesion across speakers (two or more people), time (days, weeks), and communicative resources (gesture), warrant further study as the experimental tasks used in the literature, and here, may actually underestimate or overestimate the extent of impairment.
Cry11Ba is one of the most toxic proteins to mosquito larvae produced by Bacillus thuringiensis. It binds Aedes aegypti brush border membrane vesicles (BBMV) with high affinity, showing an apparent dissociation constant (K(d)) of 8.2 nM. We previously reported that an anticadherin antibody competes with Cry11Ba binding to BBMV, suggesting a possible role of cadherin as a toxin receptor. Here we provide evidence of specific cadherin repeat regions involved in this interaction. Using cadherin fragments as competitors, a C-terminal fragment which contains cadherin repeat 7 (CR7) to CR11 competed with Cry11Ba binding to BBMV. This binding was also efficiently competed by the CR9, CR10, and CR11 peptide fragments. Moreover, we show CR11 to be an important region of interaction with Cry11Ba toxin. An alkaline phosphatase (AaeALP1) and an aminopeptidase-N (AaeAPN1) also competed with Cry11Ba binding to Ae. aegypti BBMV. Finally, we found that Cry11Ba and Cry4Ba share binding sites. Synthetic peptides corresponding to loops 8, 2-3 (loop 1), 8-9, and 10-11 (loop 3) of Cry4Ba compete with Cry11Ba binding to BBMV, suggesting Cry11Ba and Cry4Ba have common sites involved in binding Ae. aegypti BBMV. The data suggest that three different Ae. aegypti midgut proteins, i.e., cadherin, AaeALP1, and AaeAPN1, are involved in Cry11Ba binding to Ae. aegypti midgut brush border membranes.


The search for markers of preclinical Parkinson disease (PD) is becoming increasingly important because pathogenesis-targeted neuroprotective strategies are being developed for future use in at-risk populations, even before clinical onset of disease. Advances in clinical recognition of early symptoms and signs, development of new neuroimaging probes and technologies, identification of new neuropathological markers of PD, and breakthroughs in genetics and basic neuroscience are gradually translating into better understanding of predisposing and preclinical factors that lead to progressive neurodegeneration. Coupled with system biology tools, progress is being made in the identification of new genomic, transcriptomic, proteomic, lipidomic, and metabolomic molecules and new signaling pathways that are relevant to the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration in PD. These new tools will be critical not only in the discovery of sensitive, specific, and reliable biomarkers of preclinical PD but also in the development of tests that will aid in the early detection and differential diagnosis of parkinsonian disorders and in monitoring disease progression.
The aim of this study was to develop a reliable self-report instrument (the Suicide History Self-Rating Screening Scale: SHSS) to identify individuals with a higher propensity for suicide in the near term. One hundred and twenty nine consecutive inpatients with mental illness completed the SHSS (a 16-item measure assessing death thoughts, suicidal ideation and behavior in the last 12 months and lifetime except in the last 12 months), the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview, the Beck Hopelessness Scale, and the Gotland Male Depression Scale. SHSS scores had high correlations with commonly used measures in the field of suicide risk assessment. The ROC curves indicated that the SHSS performed well in classifying cases based on their current suicide status (suicide attempt in the last 24-48 hours). The SHSS is a valid and reliable instrument for assessing suicide risk.

The aim of this study was to assess why women delay in getting treatment (i.e. surgery) for breast cancer, as well as to explore on what type of issues are involved in such delay cases. Basic interpretative of qualitative methodology was applied to construct the reality of delay phenomena, and its interaction with social worlds. Six themes were identified: new conception of breast cancer treatment, psychological defenses, health support system, symtomatology experience, model and barriers. The delay issue in breast cancer requires attention as a multidimensional problem as this will facilitate more comprehensive and effective intervention to reduce delay.
The main objective of this paper is to examine the psychometric properties of the Malay Version of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), tested on 67 husbands of the women who were diagnosed with breast cancer. The eligible husbands were retrieved from the Clinical Oncology Clinic at three hospitals in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Data was collected at three weeks and ten weeks following surgery for breast cancer of their wives. The psychometric properties of the HADS were reported based on Cronbach' alpha, Intraclass Correlation Coefficients (ICC), Effect Size Index (ESI), sensitivity and discriminity of the scale. Internal consistency of the scale is excellent, with Cronbach's alpha of 0.88 for Anxiety subscale and 0.79 for Depression subscale. Test-retest Intraclass Correlation Coefficient (ICC) is 0.35 and 0.42 for Anxiety and Depression Subscale, respectively. Small mean differences were observed at test-retest measurement with ESI of 0.21 for Anxiety and 0.19 for Depression. Non-significant result was revealed for the discriminant validity (mastectomy vs lumpectomy). The Malay Version of the HADS is appropriate to measure the anxiety and depression among the husbands of the women with breast cancer in Malaysia.
The neuronal RNA-binding protein HuD plays a critical role in the post-transcriptional regulation of short-lived mRNAs during the initial establishment and remodelling of neural connections. We have generated transgenic mice overexpressing this protein (HuD-Tg) in adult DGCs (dentate granule cells) and shown that their mossy fibres contain high levels of GAP-43 (growth-associated protein 43) and exhibit distinct morphological and electrophysiological properties. To investigate the basis for these changes and identify other molecular targets of HuD, DGCs from HuD-Tg and control mice were collected by LCM (laser capture microscopy) and RNAs analysed using DNA microarrays. Results show that 216 known mRNAs transcripts and 63 ESTs (expressed sequence tags) are significantly up-regulated in DGCs from these transgenic mice. Analyses of the 3'-UTRs (3'-untranslated regions) of these transcripts revealed an increased number of HuD-binding sites and the presence of several known instability-conferring sequences. Among these, the mRNA for TTR (transthyretin) shows the highest level of up-regulation, as confirmed by qRT-PCR (quantitative reverse transcription-PCR) and ISH (in situ hybridization). GO (gene ontology) analyses of up-regulated transcripts revealed a large over-representation of genes associated with neural development and axogenesis. In correlation with these gene expression changes, we found an increased length of the infrapyramidal mossy fibre bundle in HuD-Tg mice. These results support the notion that HuD stabilizes a number of developmentally regulated mRNAs in DGCs, resulting in increased axonal elongation.
This research examined a novel suggestion regarding the involvement of the locus coeruleus-norepinephrine (LC-NE) system in orienting reflexive (exogenous) attention. A common procedure for studying exogenous orienting of attention is Posner's cuing task. Importantly, one can manipulate the required level of target processing by changing task requirements, which, in turn, can elicit a different time course of inhibition of return (IOR). An easy task (responding to target location) produces earlier onset IOR, whereas a demanding task (responding to target identity) produces later onset IOR. Aston-Jones and Cohen (Annual Review of Neuroscience, 28, 403-450, 2005) presented a theory suggesting two different modes of LC activity: tonic and phasic. Accordingly, we suggest that in the more demanding task, the LC-NE system is activated in phasic mode, and in the easier task, it is activated in tonic mode. This, in turn, influences the appearance of IOR. We examined this suggestion by measuring participants' pupil size, which has been demonstrated to correlate with the LC-NE system, while they performed cuing tasks. We found a response-locked phasic dilation of the pupil in the discrimination task, as compared with the localization task, which may reflect different firing modes of the LC-NE system during the two tasks. We also demonstrated a correlation between pupil size at the time of cue presentation and magnitude of IOR.
During natural vision, eye movements can drastically alter the retinotopic (eye-centered) coordinates of locations and objects, yet the spatiotopic (world-centered) percept remains stable. Maintaining visuospatial attention in spatiotopic coordinates requires updating of attentional representations following each eye movement. However, this updating is not instantaneous; attentional facilitation temporarily lingers at the previous retinotopic location after a saccade, a phenomenon known as the retinotopic attentional trace. At various times after a saccade, we probed attention at an intermediate location between the retinotopic and spatiotopic locations to determine whether a single locus of attentional facilitation slides progressively from the previous retinotopic location to the appropriate spatiotopic location, or whether retinotopic facilitation decays while a new, independent spatiotopic locus concurrently becomes active. Facilitation at the intermediate location was not significant at any time, suggesting that top-down attention can result in enhancement of discrete retinotopic and spatiotopic locations without passing through intermediate locations.
Sinusoidal forces with frequencies of 100 and 500 Hz and initial positive or negative polarities were delivered to the mastoids and Fz in normal subjects. We investigated whether the cVEMPs and oVEMPs evoked were sensitive to the polarity (phase) of vibration. With mastoid stimulation at 100 Hz, medial head acceleration produced cVEMPs with earlier latency (15.5 ms) than lateral acceleration (19.7 ms) and oVEMPs with later latency (13.8 ms) than lateral acceleration (10.6 ms). As the stimulus frequency increased, the difference in latency decreased, but was still present at 500 Hz. A similar pattern occurred following stimulation at Fz. Our results show that the initial direction of bone-conducted vibration affects both cVEMP and oVEMP properties even at relatively high frequencies.
The aim of this study is to compare the results obtained using 2 methods of treatment for horizontal semicircular canal benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (HSC-BPPV): the barbecue maneuver + forced prolonged position (FPP) versus the Gufoni maneuver. In a randomized prospective clinical trial, we recruited 147 patients affected by HSC-BPPV. The primary outcome was the absence of vertigo and nystagmus upon application of the supine roll test during the follow-up examination. A statistical evaluation was performed in order to assess whether any parameters (e.g. age, duration of nystagmus and symptoms) could influence in any way the results obtained with the 2 methods of treatment. One hundred and three of the 147 patients affected by HSC-BPPV had the geotropic form and 44 had the apogeotropic type. We were able to transform 29 cases of HSC-BPPV from apogeotropic to geotropic. Finally, we obtained a group of 112 patients who were randomized either to the barbecue + FPP procedure (54 patients) or to the Gufoni maneuver (58 patients). The most evident result is the higher percentage of success (statistically significant) with the Gufoni maneuver at the first session of treatment (86 vs. 61%). The final control showed that 44 out of 54 (81%) patients treated with the barbecue maneuver + FPP were symptom free compared to 54 out of 58 (93%) treated with the Gufoni maneuver. Both the barbecue maneuver + FPP and the Gufoni maneuver are valid methods for treating HSC-BPPV (geotropic forms). However, our results also indicate that the Gufoni maneuver has a significant advantage: the success rate shown at the follow-up, although without statistical significance, is undoubtedly higher (93 vs. 81%). This result, together with the fact that it is very easy to perform and that patient compliance is better, make the Gufoni maneuver the method of choice in HSC-BPPV treatment.
The osteointegration phase of BAHA() fixture was assessed via electrical impedance spectroscopy in BAHA() implantees. Measurements were carried out by using a prototype device and were correlated with previously published histological data obtained at certain times after surgery, i.e. 1-2 days, 1 week, 1 and 3 months. Module variations of impedance spectra were found to be in agreement with the different pathophysiological conditions of bone ingrowth. The proposed methodology has shown to be promisingly reliable to properly monitor BAHA fixture osteointegration.
High stimulation rates in cochlear implants (CI) offer better temporal sampling, can induce stochastic-like firing of auditory neurons and can increase the electric dynamic range, all of which could improve CI speech performance. While commercial CI have employed increasingly high stimulation rates, no clear or consistent advantage has been shown for high rates. In this study, speech recognition was acutely measured with experimental processors in 7 CI subjects (Clarion CII users). The stimulation rate varied between (approx.) 600 and 4800 pulses per second per electrode (ppse) and the number of active electrodes varied between 4 and 16. Vowel, consonant, consonant-nucleus-consonant word and IEEE sentence recognition was acutely measured in quiet and in steady noise (+10 dB signal-to-noise ratio). Subjective quality ratings were obtained for each of the experimental processors in quiet and in noise. Except for a small difference for vowel recognition in quiet, there were no significant differences in performance among the experimental stimulation rates for any of the speech measures. There was also a small but significant increase in subjective quality rating as stimulation rates increased from 1200 to 2400 ppse in noise. Consistent with previous studies, performance significantly improved as the number of electrodes was increased from 4 to 8, but no significant difference showed between 8, 12 and 16 electrodes. Altogether, there was little-to-no advantage of high stimulation rates in quiet or in noise, at least for the present speech tests and conditions.
In a previous study, it was shown that users of a cochlear implant and a contralateral hearing aid are sensitive to interaural time differences (ITDs). In the current study, we investigated (1) the influence on ITD sensitivity of bilaterally varying the place of excitation in the cochlea and of modulation frequency, and (2) the sensitivity to ITD with a 3-channel stimulus generated using continuous-interleaved-sampling (CIS)-like processing. The stimuli were (1) a high-frequency carrier (acoustic sinusoid and single-electrode electric pulse train), modulated with a half-wave-rectified low-frequency sinusoid (a so-called transposed stimulus), and (2) a 3-channel stimulus, generated by sending an acoustic click train through processing similar to the CIS strategy. Four bimodal listeners were sensitive to ITD for both stimulus types. For the first stimulus type, there was no significant influence on ITD sensitivity of the acoustic carrier frequency. Performance decreased with increasing modulation frequency with a limit of sensitivity at around 150-200 Hz. Sensitivity was similar for the single- and 3-channel stimulus. The results indicate the possibility of ITD perception with adapted clinical processors, which can lead to improved sound source localization and binaural unmasking.
This project aimed to measure general practitioner (GP), practice nurse and patient health literacy about memory problems, dementia and its risk factors. Data were collected from general practices across Australia and a smaller sample in England. Questionnaires explored sources and adequacy of dementia knowledge and a randomised controlled trial tested the intervention of a dementia risk reduction pamphlet on patient knowledge of dementia risk reduction strategies. Data were analysed using SPSS software. The results of 621 questionnaires from patients aged over 30 years showed 37% had memory concerns, 6% recalled having a memory test, 52% would like a memory test and 15% had heard about dementia from their GP. Patients receiving the intervention were significantly more likely to be aware of dementia risk reduction strategies (P0.005). The results of 153 GP/nurse questionnaires indicated 64% thought a doctor should discuss dementia with patients despite only 21% assessing their dementia knowledge as adequate. There was no significant difference in responses between Australia and England (P0.05). The frequency of documentation of Mini-Mental State Examination and dementia diagnosis in computerised medical records of patients over 75 years was less than 0.01. These results demonstrate that many adult patients attending GPs have memory concerns, associate dementia with memory loss, and are receptive to information about dementia risk reduction. Most general practitioners and their nurses rate their dementia knowledge as inadequate with few testing for memory problems or discussing dementia with their patients.
The present study is a long-term prospective follow-up study of a population-based cohort of 120 individuals diagnosed with autism in childhood, followed into late adolescence/early adulthood. Specific aims of the study were to attempt to measure and study social aspects/quality of life in those 108 individuals with autism alive and available for study at the time of follow-up (13-22 years after original diagnosis). A newly constructed scale for rating 'autism-friendly environment'/quality of life was used alongside a structured parent/carer interview assessing current occupation, educational history, services provided, accommodation type, and recreational activities. The majority of the group with autism remained dependent on parents/caregivers for support in education, accommodation and occupational situations. In spite of this, the estimation of the study group's general quality of life was encouragingly positive. Nevertheless, there was an obvious need for improvements in the areas of occupation and recreational activities. Future studies need to look in more depth at the concept of an autism-friendly environment and develop more detailed quality of life assessment tools relevant for people in the autism spectrum.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) have become increasingly common in recent years. The discovery of single-nucleotide polymorphisms and accompanying copy number variations within the genome has increased our understanding of the architecture of the disease. These genetic and genomic alterations coupled with epigenetic phenomena have pointed to a neuroimmunopathological mechanism for ASD. Model animal studies, developmental biology, and affective neuroscience laid a foundation for dissecting the neural pathways impacted by these disease-generating mechanisms. The goal of current autism research is directed toward a systems biological approach to find the most basic genetic and environmental causes to this severe developmental disease. It is hoped that future genomic and neuroimmunological research will be directed toward finding the road toward prevention, treatment, and cure of ASD.
While the effects of early visual deprivation on auditory and tactile functions have been widely studied, little is known about olfactory function in early blind subjects. The present study investigated the potential effect of early blindness on the electrophysiological correlates of passive odour perception. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded in eight early blind humans and eight sighted controls matched for age, sex and handedness during olfactory stimulation with 2-phenyl ethyl alcohol and trigeminal stimulation with CO2 Latencies, amplitudes and topographical distributions were analysed. As expected, the olfactory and trigeminal ERP components showed normal latencies, amplitudes and topography in both groups. Olfactory stimuli generated responses of smaller amplitude than those observed in response to trigeminal stimulation. In addition, ERP analyses did not reveal any major difference in electrocortical responses in occipital areas in early blind and sighted subjects. These results suggest that passive olfactory and trigeminal stimulation elicit the same electrophysiological responses in both groups, confirming that the neurophysiological correlates of the cross-modal compensatory mechanisms in early blind subjects do not appear during passive olfactory and trigeminal perception.
Reward-seeking behavior can be powerfully modulated by exposure to a conditioned stimulus (CS) that was previously associated with that reward. This can be demonstrated in a Pavlovian to instrumental transfer (PIT) task where presentation of a CS (e.g., tone and light) previously paired with a rewarding unconditioned stimulus (US; e.g., food) leads to increases in a behavioral response, such as a lever press, that was also paired with the same US. The transfer effect can be enhanced in rats by exposing them repeatedly to amphetamine after they have undergone Pavlovian conditioning and instrumental training. However, it is not clear if amphetamine injections given immediately after Pavlovian conditioning, which are predicted to enhance memory consolidation for the CS-US association, would also enhance the transfer effect. We tested this hypothesis by giving male, Sprague-Dawley rats i.p. injections of saline or drug (0.5, 1.0, or 3.0 mg/kg amphetamine or methamphetamine) immediately following Pavlovian conditioning sessions. We found that amphetamine, but not methamphetamine, enhanced Pavlovian approach behavior. During a subsequent PIT test done under extinction conditions, we found that rats given either drug, particularly at the highest dose, exhibited deficits in PIT relative to saline-treated controls. These results suggest that treatment with amphetamines after Pavlovian conditioning sessions, when memory consolidation of the CS-US association is hypothesized to occur, inhibits the ability of the CS to subsequently elicit reward-seeking behavior.
We have recently demonstrated that cortico-cortical paired associative stimulation (cc-PAS) can modulate interhemispheric inhibition (IHI) in the human brain. Here we further explored the after effects of cc-PAS on fine hand movements. Ten healthy right-handed volunteers received 90 paired transcranial stimuli to the right and left primary motor hand area (M1(HAND)) at an interstimulus interval (ISI) of 8 ms. We studied the after effects of cc-PAS on the performance of repetitive finger opposition movements of different complexity on both hands using a sensor-engineered glove. A quantitative evaluation of the following parameters was performed: Touch Duration (TD), Inter Tapping Interval (ITI) and Number of Errors (NE). We confirmed previous data by showing that left-to-right and right-to-left cc-PAS attenuated IHI. The new finding is that both left-to-right and right-to-left cc-PAS were able to influence the performance of a simple finger opposition movement changing the duration of TD and ITI. Interestingly the effect on the two hands was opposite in direction. These results provide further insight that cc-PAS can induce associative plasticity in connections between the targeted cortical areas influencing motor hand performances. These results may be relevant for future rehabilitative applications.
Stressors experienced by rodents during the juvenile period may have repercussions on anxiety and impulsivity that extend into adulthood. In the present investigation we demonstrate that during social interactions stressed adults might transmit their responses to juveniles thereby affecting later behavioral responses in adulthood. In the present investigation adult mice exposed to a stressor, exhibited altered social exploration of a juvenile (26-28 day old) mouse that comprised reduced body contact but elevated anogenital and facial contact. The juvenile mice that encountered the stressed adult, in turn, exhibited greater impulsivity in an elevated plus maze test, as well as elevated corticosterone levels. In a second experiment, adult animals that had experienced a stressor during the juvenile period also exhibited reduced social exploration (of a juvenile), but upon exposure to a further social stressor (social defeat), social exploration was altered further. Furthermore, when tested in an elevated plus maze the juvenile mice that had encountered an adult that had itself been stressed as a juvenile, exhibited increased impulsivity. However, if they encountered an adult that had been stressed both as a juvenile and as an adult, the behavioral profile of the juveniles was altered yet again in that they exhibited greater impulsivity coupled with anxiety. It is suggested that the juvenile period represents one during which stressor sensitivity is high, so that transmission of stressor effects from adults occurs readily. Moreover, stressors experienced during the juvenile period may have persistent effects on social behaviors, thereby affecting conspecifics with which they interact.
Environmental enrichment (EE) has been shown to exert various behavioral and mood effects in rodents including emotionality, which has a high propensity to be influenced by sex. However, there are only a few comparative studies evaluating the effect of EE and their results are both inconsistent and inconclusive. In the present study, male and female C57BL/6J adolescent mice were housed in either physical enrichment or standard conditions for four weeks with analysis of affective behaviors in the open field, elevated T-maze and forced swim tests. Hippocampal gene expression was characterized in an additional group of mice. In the open field test, exploration was similarly inhibited by EE in male and female mice. Both sex and housing condition influenced the time mice spent in the center of the arena. In the elevated T-maze, anxiety-like behavior was increased in female and decreased in male mice following EE. We observed a trend for EE-induced inhibition of glucocorticoid receptor (GR) mRNA expression in male but not in female mice. In contrast, mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) expression was unaffected by 10 days of physical enrichment but was lower in female mice compared to male mice. Our data suggest that the balance between hippocampal GR and MR may contribute to the observed sex-specific effect of physical enrichment on emotionality-related behavior.
During development of the central nervous system, neurons pass through critical periods of vulnerability to environmental factors. Exposure to ethanol during gastrulation or during neuronal generation results in a permanent reduction in the number of neurons in trigeminal-associated cranial nerve nuclei. Normal functioning of the trigeminal system is required for social behavior, the present study examined the effects of acute prenatal exposure to ethanol on social interactions across ontogeny. Pregnant Long-Evans rats were injected with 2.9 g/kg ethanol (i.p., 20%, v/v solution; peak blood ethanol concentrations of 300 mg/dl) or an equivalent volume of saline on gestational day (G) 7 (gastrulation) or G12 (neuronal generation). Subsequently, social investigation, play fighting, contact behavior, social motivation, and overall locomotor activity in the social context were assessed in male and female off-spring during early adolescence, late adolescence, or adulthood, on postnatal day (P) 28, P42, or P75, respectively, using a modified social interaction test. Ethanol exposure on G7 resulted in mild changes of social behavior evident in young adolescents only. In contrast, animals exposed to ethanol on G12 demonstrated pronounced behavioral deficits throughout ontogeny, with deficits being most robust in male off-spring. Males exposed to ethanol on G12 showed decreases in social investigation, contact behavior, and play fighting, whereas a decrease in social motivation, i.e., transformation of social preference into social avoidance, was evident at P42 and P75 regardless of sex. These findings show that acute exposure to ethanol alters social behavior, and that the timing of the exposure defines the behavioral outcome.
Cognitive, clinical, and neuroimaging studies on planning abilities most frequently implement the Tower of London task or one of its variants. Yet, cumulating evidence from a series of experiments suggests that the commonly used approximation of problem difficulty in terms of the minimum number of moves for goal attainment is too coarse a measure for the underlying cognitive operations, and in some cases may be even misleading. Rather, problem difficulty can be more specifically characterized by a set of structural task parameters such as the number and nature of optimal and suboptimal solution paths, the required search depths, the patterns of intermediate and goal moves, goal hierarchies and the associated degree of ambiguity in the sequential ordering of goal moves. First applications in developmental and patient studies have proven fruitful in targeting fundamental alterations of planning abilities in healthy and clinical conditions. In addition, recent evidence from neuroimaging shows that manipulations of problem structure relate to separate cognitive and neural processes and are accompanied by dissociable brain activation patterns. Here, we briefly review these structural problem parameters and the concepts behind. As controlling for task parameters and selecting a balanced problem set is a complex and error-prone endeavor, we further present TowerTool, a software solution that allows easy access to in-depth analysis of the problem structure of widely used planning tasks like the Tower of London, the Tower of Hanoi, and their variants. Thereby, we hope to encourage and facilitate the implementation of structurally balanced task sets in future studies on planning and to promote transfer between the cognitive, developmental, and clinical neurosciences.
Homeostatic response is an endowed self-correcting/maintaining property for living units, ranging from subcellular domains, single cells, and organs to the whole organism. Homeostatic responses maintain stable function through the ever-changing internal and external environments. In central neurons, several forms of homeostatic regulation have been identified, all of which tend to stabilize the functional output of neurons toward their prior &quot;set-point.&quot; Medium spiny neurons (MSNs) within the forebrain region the nucleus accumbens (NAc) play a central role in gating/regulating emotional and motivational behaviors including craving and seeking drugs of abuse. Exposure to highly salient stimuli such as cocaine administration not only acutely activates a certain population of NAc MSNs, but also induces long-lasting changes in these neurons. It is these long-lasting cellular alterations that are speculated to mediate the increasingly strong cocaine-craving and cocaine-seeking behaviors. Why do the potentially powerful homeostatic mechanisms fail to correct or compensate for these drug-induced maladaptations in neurons? Based on recent experimental results, this review proposes a hypothesis of homeostatic dysregulation induced by exposure to cocaine. Specifically, we hypothesize that exposure to cocaine generates false molecular signals which misleads the homeostatic regulation process, resulting in maladaptive changes in NAc MSNs. Thus, many molecular and cellular alterations observed in the addicted brain may indeed result from homeostatic dysregulation. This review is among the first to introduce the concept of homeostatic neuroplasticity to understanding the molecular and cellular maladaptations following exposure to drugs of abuse.
Arginine-vasopressin (AVP) activation of V1a AVP receptors in the medial preoptic area-anterior hypothalamus (MPOA-AH) plays a critical role in the control of a form of social communication called flank marking. The ability of AVP and V1a receptors in the MPOA-AH to regulate flank marking is modulated by a number of factors including galanin (GAL), serotonin (5-HT) and gonadal hormones. More recent studies suggest that there may be seasonal differences in the number or type of AVP receptors in the MPOA-AH controlling flank marking or in the modulation of these mechanisms by GAL or 5-HT. The purpose of the present study was to examine how exposure to &quot;summer-like&quot; and &quot;winter-like&quot; photoperiods alters the neural mechanisms regulating flank marking. These studies confirmed that V1a AVP receptors, but not V1b AVP receptors play a significant role in controlling flank marking in the MPOA-AH in both LP and SP-housed hamsters. These studies also found that there were no significant differences between hamsters housed in LP and SP in the ability of serotonin 5-HT1a/7 and 5-HT1b receptor agonists injected into the MPOA-AH to inhibit odor-induced flank marking. Finally, these studies found that GAL could significantly inhibit the ability of AVP to stimulate flank marking in SP-housed hamsters and that there were no differences between hamsters housed in LP and SP in the ability of a GAL antagonist to inhibit AVP-induced flank marking. The present study confirms that V1a receptors are critical for AVP regulation of flank marking and that photoperiodic mechanisms do not alter the modulation of flank marking by GAL or 5-HT in the MPOA-AH.
Zebrafish are becoming increasingly popular in behavioral neuroscience as investigators have started to realize the benefits of sophisticated genetic tools specifically developed for this species along with the pharmacological tools already available for other laboratory model organisms. The zebrafish has been proposed as an in vivo tool for the analysis of vertebrate fear responses as well as human psychopathological conditions such as anxiety. We have been developing behavioral tasks for zebrafish that could be utilized for screening mutation or drug induced changes in fear responses. In this paper we present a modified version of a previously developed predator avoidance paradigm that now allows the induction and quantification of avoidance reactions that we previously could not elicit. Most importantly, in the current paradigm zebrafish are now shown to respond to the appearance of a moving image of a sympatric predator, the Indian leaf fish, by increasing their distance from the image, a robust reaction that is easy to quantify in an automated manner. Unexpectedly, however, another fear response, the &quot;diving&quot; response, was seen robustly only at the beginning of the test but not in response to the predator stimulus. We discuss the implications of these results and conclude that although zebrafish fear responses are complex and context dependent, the current paradigm is a significant step towards high throughput screening for alterations in fear responses of zebrafish.
Functional neuroimaging studies have shown that younger adults tend to asymmetrically recruit specific regions of an hemisphere in an episodic memory task (Hemispheric Encoding Retrieval Asymmetry-HERA model). In older adults, this hemispheric asymmetry is generally reduced as suggested by the Hemispheric Asymmetry Reduction for OLDer Adults-HAROLD-model. Recent works suggest that while low-performing older adults do not show this reduced asymmetry, high-performing older adults counteract age-related neural decline through a plastic reorganization of cerebral networks that results in reduced functional asymmetry. However, the issue of whether high- and low-performing older adults show different degrees of asymmetry and the relevance of this process for counteracting aging have not been clarified. We used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to transiently interfere with the function of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) during encoding or retrieval of associated and non-associated word pairs. A group of healthy older adults was studied during encoding and retrieval of word pairs. The subjects were divided in two subgroups according to their experimental performance (i.e., high- and low-performing). TMS effects on retrieval differed according to the subject's subgroup. In particular, the predominance of left vs. right DLPFC effects during encoding, predicted by the HERA model, was observed only in low-performing older adults, while the asymmetry reduction predicted by the HAROLD model was selectively shown for the high-performing group. The present data confirm that older adults with higher memory performance show less prefrontal asymmetry as an efficient strategy to counteract age-related memory decline.
In humans, iron deficiency early in life produces persistent, impaired cognition. Dietary iron replacement does not ameliorate these problems and to date, no attempt to treat these individuals pharmacologically has been reported. The aim of this work was to test the hypothesis that rats made iron deficient in early infancy exhibit cognitive deficits similar to those seen in humans at adolescence. A second aim was to investigate whether the deficit could be treated pharmacologically. Sprague-Dawley rats were made iron deficient (ID) starting at postnatal day 4 by being placed with iron-deficient dams (vs. control). At weaning, all pups were placed on an iron-sufficient diet for the remainder of the study. At 45 days of age, the animals were tested for attention set shifting. After testing, the animals were assigned to one of three methylphenidate (MePh) dose groups, 1, 5 or 10 mg/kg, p.o., vs. vehicle control and treated daily for 15 days prior to a second round of attention set shift testing and continued throughout testing. The results showed that ID rats performed more poorly than controls overall on attentional set-shift testing. MePh improved ID rats' performance and lower doses were more effective than higher doses. This is the first demonstration that MePh can improve cognitive deficits produced by early ID in animals. These findings may open the possibility of pharmacotherapy to treat the persistent cognitive difficulties in children who were severely iron deficient in early infancy.
The aim of this study was to examine the influence of the number of cues and cue location in human spatial learning. To assess their importance, subjects performed variants of a virtual task called &quot;The Boxes Room&quot;. Participants were trained to locate, in a computer-generated environment with 16 boxes, the rewarded boxes through 8 trials. In experiment I, the number of distal cues available was zero, one, two or the standard arrangement (seven cues). In experiment II, place navigation was compared based on distal landmarks (extra-maze cues placed on the walls) and proximal landmarks (proximal cues placed between the boxes). The results of experiment I demonstrated that one cue in the room is enough to obtain a good performance in the task. Experiment II showed that groups using proximal cues were slower and less accurate than groups using distal cues. In addition, our data suggest that men are better navigators than women, as they found the rewarded boxes sooner and committed fewer errors in both studies. These results indicate that performance can change depending on the number and location of available cues.
Behavioural and psychological signs and symptoms of dementia encompass a wide range of neuropsychiatric disturbances which coincide with progressing cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Physical aggression and agitation, which occurs in 20-65% of AD patients, is physically and emotionally stressful, not only to patients but also to immediate family and caregivers. The exact mechanisms underlying the increased aggressive behaviour in AD has yet to be elucidated. We used a transgenic mouse model, denoted Tg2576, which over-expresses a mutated human amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene implicated in familial AD, to investigate aggressive behaviour of males at the stage of amyloid beta pathology preceding overt amyloid plaque deposition in the brain. The aggressive behaviour of transgenic and non-transgenic littermate males was evaluated in a standard resident-intruder test in which an isolated resident male responded aggressively toward an experimentally nave intruder male of A/J strain. We showed that 7-month-old Tg2576 resident males demonstrated significantly higher and unchanged level of aggression towards intruder males during 3 consecutive encounters as compared to their non-transgenic littermate counterparts. These results validate further the Tg2576 mouse model of AD underscoring its usefulness in studying non-mnemonic changes in behaviour related to the disease.
Social stress may precipitate psychopathological disorders in susceptible individuals. The present experiments were focused on the biology beyond the differential susceptibility to social stress. Social defeat, an ethologically relevant stressor known to elicit different coping strategies, was used in two mouse strains differing for baseline emotionality, such as C57BL6/J and BalbC. In separate experiments, in both strains a single social defeat decreased home-cage activity without altering social aversion; it diminished body weight only in defeated BalbC mice. In longitudinal experiments, mice experienced repeated social defeats that induced multiple long-term consequences. Defeated C57BL6/J increased their body weight and food intake; defeated BalbC mice diminished their metabolic efficiency. Only defeated BalbC subjects exhibited increased social avoidance levels; no differences from controls were seen on forced swim test response in defeated mice of either strain. No long-term effects of social defeat were detected in peripheral biomarkers of stress, metabolic, and immune responses, although the analysis of selected internal organs revealed decreases in abdominal fat and gonadal organs in all defeated subjects. These results demonstrated a strain-distinctive profile in the susceptibility to social defeat stress, either acutely or chronically, with metabolic consequences more consistently found in C57BL6/J while social aversion induced predominantly in BalbC subjects.
Despite the evidence for a communicative function of rodent scent marks and ultrasonic vocalizations, relatively little is known about the impact of social factors on these two forms of communication. Here, we tested the effects of two important social factors, prior exposure to a female and freshness of female urine, on male scent marks and ultrasonic vocalizations elicited by female urine. We also asked whether a recently reported strain difference between the highly social strain C57BL/6J (B6) and the mouse model of autism BTBR T+tf/J (BTBR) herein is specifically seen in response to female urine or also detectable in response to male urine traces. Results show that the emission of female urine-elicited ultrasonic vocalizations was dependent on previous female experience, while scent-marking behavior was not affected. A positive correlation was detected between scent-marking behavior and ultrasonic calling in the most biologically relevant context, male mice exposed to fresh female urine after female experience. Correlations were less prominent or missing in less biologically relevant contexts, e.g. in male mice exposed to fresh female urine without previous female experience, indicating that previous female experience is affecting both the emission of female urine-elicited ultrasonic vocalizations and the correlation between olfactory and acoustic communication. The strain difference in scent-marking behavior and ultrasonic calling between B6 and BTBR appears to be specific to female urine-elicited behavior as it was not seen in response to male urine traces, highlighting the relevance of the social context in which mouse communication is evaluated.
Existing empirical data on proper names processing are critically reviewed in trying to understand which tasks may involve the left temporal pole, which proper name related functions are supported by this structure and eventually offer some speculations about why these functions might have developed in this location in the course of human evolution. While clinical group studies support the idea that proper name processing takes place in the left temporal pole, single case studies of selective proper name anomia or sparing, as well as neuroimaging studies, suggest the involvement of a larger neural network. Within this network, an important role may be played by the ventro-medial prefrontal cortex, including areas critical in social interaction. The differentiation in the brain of proper name processing from common names processing could in part be due to social pressure, favouring a neural system able to more efficiently and unambiguously sustain designating categories or designating individual entities. The activation of the left temporal pole in proper name processing is shown to increase with age. Longer social interaction may thus contribute to convey proper names processing toward areas closer to those supporting social cognition.
In the elderly, fear of falling (FoF) can lead to activity restriction and affect quality of life (QoL). Our aim was to identify the characteristics of FoF in Parkinson's disease and assess its impact on QoL. We assessed FoF in 130 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) on scales measuring perceived self-efficacy in performing a range of activities (FES), perceived consequences of falling (CoF), and activity avoidance (SAFFE). A significant difference was found in FoF between PD patients who had previously fallen and those who had not and between frequent and infrequent fallers. Patient-rated disability significantly influenced FoF. Difficulty in rising from a chair, difficulty turning, start hesitation, festination, loss of balance, and shuffling were the specific mobility problems which were associated with greater FoF in PD. Disability was the main predictor of FoF, additionally depression predicted perceived consequences of falling, while anxiety predicted activity avoidance. The FoF measures explained 65% of the variance of QoL in PD, highlighting the clinical importance of FoF. These results have implications for the clinical management of FoF in PD.
Functional imaging studies consistently find that older adults recruit bilateral brain regions in cognitive tasks that are strongly lateralized in younger adults, a characterization known as the Hemispheric Asymmetry Reduction in Older Adults model. While functional imaging displays what brain areas are active during tasks, it cannot demonstrate what brain regions are necessary for task performance. We used behavioral data from acute stroke patients to test the hypothesis that older adults need both hemispheres for a verbal working memory task that is predominantly left-lateralized in younger adults. Right-handed younger (age  50, n = 7) and older adults (age &gt; 50, n =21) with acute unilateral stroke, as well as younger (n =6) and older (n =13) transient ischemic attack (TIA) patients, performed a self-paced verbal item-recognition task. Older patients with stroke to either hemisphere had a higher frequency of deficits in the verbal working memory task compared to older TIA patients. Additionally, the deficits in older stroke patients were mainly in retrieval time while the deficits in younger stroke patients were mainly in accuracy. These data suggest that bihemispheric activity is necessary for older adults to successfully perform a verbal working memory task.
This study investigated the cognitive profile and the cerebral perfusion pattern in a highly educated 70 year old gentleman with posterior cortical atrophy (PCA). Visuo-perceptual abilities, spatial memory, spatial representation and navigation, visuo-spatial mental imagery, semantic and episodic-autobiographical memory were assessed. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was imaged with SPECT. Cognitive testing showed visual-perceptual impairment, apperceptive visual and landmark agnosia, topographical disorientation with way-finding deficits, impaired map learning and poor mental image generation. Semantic memory was normal, while episodic-autobiographical memory was impaired. Reduced rCBF was found mainly in the right hemisphere, in the precentral gyrus, posterior cingulate and middle temporal gyri, cuneus and precuneus, in the left superior temporal and lingual gyri and in the parahippocampus bilaterally. Hypoperfusion in occipito-parietal regions was associated with visuo-spatial deficits, whereas deficits in visuo-spatial mental imagery might reflect dysfunction related to hypoperfusion in the parahippocampus and precuneus, structures which are responsible for spatial and imagery processing. Dissociating performance between preserved semantic memory and poor episodic-autobiographical recall is consistent with a pattern of normal perfusion in frontal and anterior temporal regions but abnormal rCBF in the parahippocampi. The present findings indicate that PCA involves visuo-spatial imagery deficits and provide further validation to current neuro-cognitive models of spatial representation and topographical disorientation.
Non-epileptic attack disorder (NEAD) is one of the most important differential diagnoses of epilepsy. Impairment of consciousness is the key feature of non-epileptic attacks (NEAs). The first half of this review summarises the clinical research literature featuring observations relating to consciousness in NEAD. The second half places this evidence in the wider context of the recent discourse on consciousness in neuroscience and the philosophy of mind. We argue that studies of consciousness should not only distinguish between the 'level' and `content' of consciousness but also between 'phenomenal consciousness' (consciousness of states it somehow &quot;feels to be like&quot;) and 'access consciousness' (having certain 'higher' cognitive processes at one's disposal). The existing evidence shows that there is a great intra- and interindividual variability of NEA experience. However, in most NEAs phenomenal experience - and, as a precondition for that experience, vigilance or wakefulness - is reduced to a lesser degree than in those epileptic seizures involving impairment of consciousness. In fact, complete loss of &quot;consciousness&quot; is the exception rather than the rule in NEAs. Patients, as well as external observers, may have a tendency to overestimate impairments of consciousness during the seizures.
We conducted a follow-up of a previously reported study of internet-delivered cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) for IBS, based on exposure and mindfulness exercises (Ljtsson et al. (2010). Internet-delivered exposure and mindfulness based therapy for irritable bowel syndrome - a randomized controlled trial. Behaviour Research and Therapy, 48, 531-539). Seventy-five participants from the original sample of 85 (88%) reported follow-up data at 15-18 months (mean 16.4 months) after completing treatment. The follow-up sample included participants from both the original study's treatment group and waiting list after it had been crossed over to treatment. Intention-to-treat analysis showed that treatment gains were maintained on all outcome measures, including IBS symptoms, quality of life, and anxiety related to gastrointestinal symptoms, with mainly large effect sizes (within-group Cohen's d=0.78-1.11). A total of fifty participants (59% of the total original sample; 52% of the original treatment group participants and 65% of the original waiting list participants) reported adequate relief of symptoms. Improvements at follow-up were more pronounced for the participants that had completed the full treatment and maintenance of improvement did not seem to be dependent on further treatment seeking. This study suggests that internet-delivered CBT based on exposure and mindfulness has long-term beneficial effects for IBS-patients.
One of the major current challenges to both medicine and neuroscience is the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases, which pose an ever-increasing medical, social and economic burden in the developed world. These disorders, which include Alzheimer's, Huntington's and Parkinson's diseases, and the rarer prion diseases, are separate entities clinically but have common features, including aggregates of misfolded proteins and varying patterns of neurodegeneration. A key barrier to effective treatment is that patients present clinically with advanced, irreversible, neuronal loss. Critically, mechanisms of neurotoxicity are poorly understood. Prevention of neuronal loss, ideally by targeting underlying pathogenic mechanisms, must be the aim of therapy. The present review describes the rationale and experimental approaches that have allowed such prevention, rescuing neurons in mice with prion disease. This rescue cured animals of a rapidly fatal neurodegenerative condition, resulting in symptom-free survival for their natural lifespan. Early pathological changes were reversed; behavioural, cognitive and neurophysiological deficits were recovered; and there was no neuronal loss. This was achieved by targeting the central pathogenic process in prion disease rather than the presumed toxic species, first by proof-of-principle experiments in transgenic mice and then by treatment using RNA interference for gene knockdown. The results have been a new therapeutic target for prion disease, further insight into mechanisms of prion neurotoxicity and the discovery of a window of reversibility in neuronal damage. Furthermore, the work gives rise to new concepts for treatment strategies for other neurodegenerative disorders, and highlights the need for clinical detection of early neuronal dysfunction, so that similar early rescue can also be achieved for these disorders.
Recent studies have indicated a calcium-activated large conductance potassium channel in rat brain mitochondrial inner membrane (mitoBK channel). Accordingly, we have characterized the functional and pharmacological profile of a BK channel from rat brain mitochondria in the present study. Brain mitochondrial inner membrane preparations were subjected to SDS-PAGE analysis and channel protein reconstitution into planar lipid bilayers. Western blotting and antibodies directed against various cellular proteins revealed that mitochondrial inner membrane fractions did not contain specific proteins of the other subcellular compartments except a very small fraction of endoplasmic reticulum. Channel incorporation into planar lipid bilayers revealed a voltage dependent 211 pS potassium channel with a voltage for half activation (V(1/2)) of 11.41.1mV and an effective gating charge z(d) of 4.70.9. Gating and conducting behaviors of this channel were unaffected by the addition of 2.5mM ATP, and 500 nM charybdotoxin (ChTx), but the channel appeared sensitive to 100 nM iberiotoxin (IbTx). Adding 10mM TEA at positive potentials and 10mM 4-AP at negative or positive voltages inhibited the channel activities. These results demonstrate that the mitoBK channel, present in brain mitochondrial inner membrane, displays different pharmacological properties than those classically described for plasma membrane, especially in regard to its sensitivity to iberiotoxin and charybdotoxin sensitivity.
Cationic liposomes have been proposed as biocompatible gene delivery vectors, able to overcome the barriers imposed by cell membranes. Besides lipids, other surfactant molecules have been successfully used in the composition of gene carriers. In the present work, we used a Gemini surfactant, represented by the general structure [C(14)H(29)(CH(3))(2)N(+)(CH(2))(2)N(+)(CH(3))(2)C(14)H(29)]2Br(-) and herein designated 14-2-14, to prepare cationic gene carriers, both as the sole component and in combination with neutral helper lipids, cholesterol and DOPE. The effectiveness of three Gemini-based formulations, namely neat 14-2-14, 14-2-14:Chol (1:1 molar ratio) and 14-2-14:Chol:DOPE (2:1:1 molar ratio), to mediate gene delivery was evaluated in DNA mixtures of +/- charge ratios ranging from 1/1 to 12/1. After ruling out cytotoxicity as responsible for the differences observed in the transfection competence, structural and physical properties of the vector were investigated, using several techniques. The size and surface charge density (zeta potential) of surfactant-based structures were determined by conventional techniques and the thermotropic behaviour of aqueous dispersions of surfactant/lipid/DNA formulations was monitored by fluorescence polarization of DPH and DPH-PA probes. The capacity of lipoplexes to interact with membrane-mimicking lipid bilayers was evaluated, using the PicoGreen assay and a FRET technique. Our data indicate inefficiency of the neat 14-2-14 formulation for gene delivery, which could result from the large dimensions of the particles and/or from its relative incompetence to release DNA upon interaction with anionic lipids. The addition of cholesterol or cholesterol and DOPE conferred to Gemini-based gene carrier transfection activity at specific ranges of +/- charge ratios. Fluorescence polarization data suggest that an order parameter within a specific range was apparently needed for complexes to display maximal transfection efficiency. The transfection-competent formulations showed to be efficiently destabilized by interaction with different anionic and zwitterionic bilayers, including those containing PS and cardiolipin. These data are discussed in terms of the potential of these formulations to address different intracellular targets.
Neuroinflammation has been implicated in the pathogenesis or the progression of a variety of acute and chronic neurological and neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease. Prostaglandin H synthases or cyclooxygenases (COX -1 and COX-2) play a central role in the inflammatory cascade by converting arachidonic acid into bioactive prostanoids. In this review, we highlighted recent experimental data that challenge the classical view that the inducible isoform COX-2 is the most appropriate target to treat neuroinflammation. First, we discuss data showing that COX-2 activity is linked to anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective actions and is involved in the generation of novel lipid mediators with pro-resolution properties. Then, we review recent data demonstrating that COX-1, classically viewed as the homeostatic isoform, is actively involved in brain injury induced by pro-inflammatory stimuli including A, lipopolysaccharide, IL-1, and TNF-. Overall, we suggest revisiting the traditional views on the roles of each COX during neuroinflammation and we propose COX-1 inhibition as a viable therapeutic approach to treat CNS diseases with a marked inflammatory component.

Melanocytes, the pigmented cells of the skin, and the glial Schwann cells lining peripheral nerves are developmentally derived from an early and transient ectodermal structure of the vertebrate embryo, the neural crest, which is also at the origin of multiple neural and non-neural cell types. Besides melanocytes and neural cells of the peripheral nervous system, the neural crest cells give rise to mesenchymal cell types in the head, which form most of the craniofacial skeleton, dermis, fat tissue and vascular musculo-connective components. How such a wide diversity of differentiation fates is established during embryogenesis and is later maintained in adult tissues are among key questions in developmental and stem cell biology. The analysis of the developmental potentials of single neural crest cells cultured in vitro led to characterizing multipotent stem/progenitor cells as well as more restricted precursors in the early neural crest of avian and mammalian embryos. Data support a hierarchical model of the diversification of neural crest lineages through progressive restrictions of multipotent stem cell potentials driven by local environmental factors. In particular, melanocytes and glial Schwann cells were shown to arise from a common bipotent progenitor, which depends upon the peptide endothelin-3 for proliferation and self-renewal ability. In vivo, signaling by endothelin-3 and its receptor is also required for the early development of melanocytes and proper pigmentation of the vertebrate body. It is generally assumed that, after lineage specification and terminal differentiation, specialized cell types, like the melanocytes and Schwann cells, do not change their identity. However, this classic notion that somatic cell differentiation is a stable and irreversible process has been challenged by emerging evidence that dedifferentiation can occur in different biological systems through nuclear transfer, cell fusion, epigenetic modifications and ectopic gene expression. This review considers the issue of whether neural crest-derived lineages are endowed with some phenotypic plasticity. Emphasis is put on the ability of pigment cells and Schwann cells to dedifferentiate and reprogram their fate in vitro. To address this question, we have studied the clonal progeny of differentiated Schwann cells and melanocytes after their isolation from the sciatic nerve and the back skin of quail embryos, respectively. When stimulated to proliferate in vitro in the presence of endothelin-3, both cell types were able to dedifferentiate and produce alternative neural crest-derived cell lineages. Individual Schwann cells isolated by FACS, using a glial-specific surface marker, gave rise in culture to pigment cells and myofibroblasts/smooth muscle cells. Treatment of the cultures with endothelin-3 was required for Schwann cell conversion into melanocytes, which involved acquisition of multipotency. Moreover, Schwann cell plasticity could also be induced in vivo: following transplantation into the branchial arch of a young chick host embryo, dedifferentiating Schwann cells were able to integrate the forming head structures of the host and, specifically, to contribute smooth muscle cells to the wall of cranial blood vessels. We also analyzed the in vitro behavior of individual pigment cells obtained by microdissection and enzymatic treatment of quail epidermis at embryonic and hatching stages. In single cell cultures treated with endothelin-3, pigment cells strongly proliferated while rapidly dedifferentiating into unpigmented cells, leading to the formation of large colonies that comprised glial cells and myofibroblasts in addition to melanocytes. By serially subcloning these primary colonies, we could efficiently propagate a bipotent glial-melanocytic precursor that is generated in the progeny of the melanocytic founder. These data therefore suggest that pigment cells have the ability to revert back to the state of self-renewing neural crest-like progenitors. Altogether, these studies have shown that Schwann cells and pigment cells display an unstable status of differentiation, which can be disclosed if these differentiated cells are displaced out of their native tissue. When challenged with new environmental conditions in vitro, differentiated Schwann cells and pigment cells can reacquire stem cell properties of their neural crest ancestors. Notably, such reprogramming was achieved through the effect of a single exogenous factor and without the need of any induced genetic modification. Deciphering the cellular and molecular mechanisms that regulate the plasticity and maintenance of neural crest-derived differentiated cells is likely to be an important step towards the understanding of the neurocristopathies and cancers that target neural crest derivatives in humans.
The tragical consequences of the Hiroshima and Nagasaki atomic bombs in 1945 were to lead to the discovery of hematopoietic stem cells and their phenotypic plasticity, in response to environmental factors. These concepts were much later extended to the founding cells of other tissues. In the following collection of articles, the mechanisms underlying this plasticity, at the frontiers of developmental biology and oncology, are illustrated in the case of various cell types of neural origin and of some tumours.
The purpose of this review is to summarize the recent studies examining the expression of leukotrienes (LTs) and their receptors in nociceptive pathways, and their crucial roles in pathological pain conditions. LTs belong to a large family of lipid mediators, termed eicosanoids, which are derived from arachidonic acids and released from the cell membrane by phospholipases. LTs are known to be important factors in a variety of local and systemic diseases and allergic/inflammatory diseases. We examined whether LTs were implicated in neuropathic pain following peripheral nerve injury. Using the SNI model in rats, we investigated the expression of LT synthases and receptors mRNAs in the spinal cord and the roles on the pain behaviors. We found the expression of 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO), FLAP and the cysteinyl leukotrienes (CysLT1) mRNAs in spinal microglia, LTA4h and LTC4s mRNAs in both spinal neurons and microglia, and BLT1 mRNA in spinal neurons. Administration of the 5-LO inhibitor or the receptor antagonists suppressed mechanical allodynia. Our findings suggest that the increase of LT synthesis in spinal microglia produced via p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) plays a role in the generation of neuropathic pain. We also examined the expression and roles on pain behaviors of LT receptors in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) using a peripheral inflammation model. The data indicate CysLT2 expressed in DRG neurons may play a role as a modulator of P2X3, and contribute to the potentiation of the neuronal activity following peripheral inflammation. This review summarizes the hypothesis that LTs might work in the spinal cord and primary afferent in pathological pain conditions.
The injury-induced intense stimulation of spinal cord neurons causes lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) biosynthesis. LPA(1) receptor activation causes demyelination and sprouting of dorsal root fibers, leading to an induction of synaptic reorganization underlying allodynia, in which innocuous (tactile) stimuli cause intense pain. The LPA(1) signal also initiates the up-regulation of Ca(v)21 in dorsal root ganglion and PKC in the dorsal horn, underlying mechanisms for characteristic neuropathic hyperalgesia in myelinated sensory (A-type) fibers. On the other hand, the LPA(3) receptor mediates microglia activation at the early stage after nerve injury and LPA-induced LPA biosynthesis. Thus, both the LPA(1) and LPA(3) receptors play key roles in the initiation step using a feed-forward system for neuropathic pain.

Numerous studies have repeatedly shown that women who smoke experience problems establishing and maintaining pregnancies, and recent work has further demonstrated that the in utero effects of smoke may not be manifested until months or even years after birth. The purpose of this review is to examine the recent literature dealing with the effects of cigarette smoke on the earliest stages of human prenatal development. Studies in this area have included the use of animal models, patients undergoing in vitro fertilization, and embryonic stem cell models. Events leading to fertilization, such as cumulus expansion, hyperactivation of sperm motility, and oocyte pick-up by the oviduct are all impaired by smoke exposure in animal models. Steps crucial to fertilization such as the acrosome reaction and sperm binding to the zona pellucida are likewise inhibited by cigarette smoke. Preimplantation embryos and stem cells that model embryos show a number of adverse responses to smoke exposure, including poor adhesion to extracellular matrices, diminished survival and proliferation, and increased apoptosis. The current literature demonstrates that the earliest stages of prenatal development are sensitive to smoke exposure and indicates that pregnant women should be advised not to smoke during this time.
Glioma remains the most challenging solid organ tumor to treat successfully. Based on the capacity of stem cells to migrate extensively and target invading glioma cells, the transplantation of stem cells as a cell-based delivery system may provide additional tools for the treatment of gliomas. In addition to the use of modified stem cells for the delivery of therapeutic agents, unmodified stem cells have been shown to have growth-suppressing effects on tumors in vitro and in vivo. This review outlines the probable factors involved in tumor tropism and tumor growth suppression, with a specific focus on the use of unmodified stem cells in the treatment of gliomas. Based on these and further future data, clinical trials may be justified.
Two complementary stereospecific synthetic approaches for the preparation of unsymmetrical ortho-substituted N-(4,4-diphenylbut-3-enyl) derivatives of nipecotic acid are described. Determination of the activity of the prepared compounds at the GAT-1 transporter highlighted differing SAR requirements of the E- and Z-phenyl rings, and led to the discovery of a compound with comparable potency to tiagabine. Some attempts to replace nipecotic acid with alternative novel amino acids are also described.
To improve the conventional bacterial surface display systems and to display a co-factor containing enzyme, -transaminase from Vibrio fluvialis, which needs pyridoxal phosphate (PLP) for efficient transamination, Bacillus subtilis spore display system with cotG, as an anchoring motif was used. Flow cytometry of the B. subtilis spore-expressing -transaminase proved its surface localization on the spore. The enzymatic activity of the spore expressing -transaminase was more than 30 times higher than that of the host spore. Protease treatment of the -transaminase displaying spores resulted in decreased transaminase activity, which is in keeping with the surface location of the fusion protein, CotG--transaminase.
In this work, based on behavioural and dynamical evidence, a study of simulated agents with the capacity to change feedback from their bodies to accomplish a one-legged walking task is proposed to understand the emergence of coupled dynamics for robust behaviour. Agents evolve with evolutionary-defined biases that modify incoming body signals (sensory offsets). Analyses on whether these agents show further dependence to their environmental coupled dynamics than others with no feedback control is described in this article. The ability to sustain behaviours is tested during lifetime experiments with mutational and sensory perturbations after evolution. Using dynamical systems analysis, this work identifies conditions for the emergence of dynamical mechanisms that remain functional despite sensory perturbations. Results indicate that evolved agents with evolvable sensory offset depends not only on where in neural space the state of the neural system operates, but also on the transients to which the inner-system was being driven by sensory signals from its interactions with the environment, controller, and agent body. Experimental evidence here leads discussions on a dynamical systems perspective on behavioural robustness that goes beyond attractors of controller phase space.

This paper investigates the potential threat to the prohibition of the hostile misuse of the life sciences embodied in the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention from the rapid advances in the field of neuroscience. The paper describes how the implications of advances in science and technology are considered at the Five Year Review Conferences of the Convention and how State Parties have developed their appreciations since the First Review Conference in 1980. The ongoing advances in neurosciences are then assessed and their implications for the Convention examined. It is concluded that State Parties should consider a much more regular and systematic review system for such relevant advances in science and technology when they meet at the Seventh Review Conference in late 2011, and that neuroscientists should be much more informed and engaged in these processes of protecting their work from malign misuse.
This review begins with background information about the discovery and conceptual steps contributing to our current knowledge of purinergic signalling. It then deals with several topics concerned with the physiology and pathophysiology of the lower urinary tract, including: the involvement in the voiding reflex of ATP released as a co-transmitter with acetylcholine from parasympathetic nerves supplying the bladder and ATP released from urothelial cells during bladder distension to initiate the voiding reflex via P2X receptors on suburothelial low-threshold sensory nerve fibres; this latter mechanosensory transduction pathway is also involved via high-threshold fibres in the initiation of pain. Treatment of prostate and bladder cancer with ATP not only appears to be effective against the primary tumours, but also improves the systemic symptoms associated with advanced malignancy. There is dual control of the tone of blood vessels: constriction by ATP released as a co-transmitter from sympathetic nerves and vasodilatation via ATP released from endothelial cells during shear stress acting on endothelial P2 receptors to release nitric oxide. A purinergic hypothesis is discussed for the mechanism underlying acupuncture, widely used for the treatment of urinary disorders.


The article by Middleton and Moncrieff questions the role of antidepressants in treating depression on both philosophical and practical grounds; namely that depression isn't a brain disease to be treated by a drug and that antidepressants are ineffective except as placebos. We argue that their stance is unhelpful and factually incorrect and that a more dimensional and integrative approach is needed in order to be able to best tailor treatment to individual needs. This involves a personalised assessment of the likely benefits and risks of both psychological and drug approaches when recommending treatment for someone with depression.


Gait disturbances are common in the elderly. Cerebral small vessel disease, including white matter lesions and lacunars infarcts, is thought to disrupt white matter tracts that connect important motor regions, hence resulting in gait disturbances. Pathological studies have demonstrated abnormalities in white matter that may appear normal on brain imaging. The loss of integrity in such normal-appearing white matter may partly be due to small vessel disease and may play a role in causing gait disturbances. The white matter regions involved in these gait disturbances, both in white matter lesions and normal-appearing white matter, remain unclear. We, therefore, aimed to investigate the relation between the location of white matter lesions and gait using voxel-based morphometry analysis, as well as between white matter integrity and gait by applying tract-based spatial statistics to diffusion tensor imaging parameters. Magnetic resonance imaging was carried out on 429 individuals in the age range of 50 and 85 years, with cerebral small vessel disease without dementia or parkinsonism. Gait was assessed quantitatively. White matter lesions, especially in the centrum semiovale and periventricular frontal lobe, were related to a lower gait velocity, shorter stride length and broader stride width. Loss of white matter integrity, as indicated by a lower fractional anisotropy and higher mean diffusivity, in numerous regions was related to a lower gait performance. Most of these regions were located in the normal-appearing white matter. The strongest significant association was found in the corpus callosum, particularly the genu. Most of the associations in the normal-appearing white matter disappeared after controlling for white matter lesions and lacunar infarcts, except for some in the corpus callosum. In conclusion, our study showed that using a combination of voxel-based morphometry analysis of the white matter lesions and diffusion tensor imaging is of added value in investigating the pathophysiology of gait disturbances in subjects with small vessel disease. Our data demonstrate that, in elderly subjects with small vessel disease, widespread disruption of white matter integrity, predominantly in the normal-appearing white matter, is involved in gait disturbances. In particular, loss of fibres interconnecting bilateral cortical regions, especially the prefrontal cortex that is involved in cognitive control on motor performance, may be important. The most important mechanisms underlying affected normal-appearing white matter are probably a direct effect of small vessel disease or, indirectly, remote effects of white matter lesions and lacunar infarcts.
The pre-Btzinger complex has been identified as an essential part of the medullary respiratory network in mammals. Although well described in experimental animals, its localization in the human brain has remained elusive. Using serially sectioned brainstems from 19 normal individuals and patients suffering from neurodegenerative diseases (multiple system atrophy, n = 10; spinocerebellar ataxia type 3, n = 8), we have identified a circumscribed area of the ventrolateral medulla that represents the human homologue of the pre-Btzinger complex and have mapped its longitudinal and horizontal extents. The presumed human pre-Btzinger complex is characterized by an aggregation of loosely scattered, small and lipofuscin-rich neurons, which contain neurokinin 1 receptor as well as somatostatin, but are negative for markers of monoaminergic neurons and of motoneurons. In brains of patients suffering from multiple systems atrophy (with central respiratory deficits but without swallowing problems), pre-Btzinger complex neurons were reduced, whereas pharyngeal motoneurons of the ambigual nucleus were not affected. In contrast, in brains of patients with spinocerebellar ataxia 3 (no reported central respiratory deficits but with dysphagia), pre-Btzinger complex neurons were preserved, whereas ambigual motoneurons, which control swallowing, were diminished. These pathoanatomical findings support the view, that affection of the central respiratory network, including the pre-Btzinger complex, contributes to breathing disorders in multiple system atrophy, whereas damage to ambigual motoneurons is important for pathogenesis of breathing disturbances and dysphagia in patients with spinocerebellar ataxia type 3. On the basis of these findings, the putative human homologue of the pre-Btzinger complex can now be reliably delineated on pigment-Nissl-stained sections, making neuropathological investigations of central respiratory disturbances feasible.
We examined the chemoarchitecture of layer 4 isocortex and the number of myelinated nerve fibers of selected cranial nerves in the American water shrew (Sorex palustris). This study took advantage of the opportunity to examine juvenile brain tissue, which often reveals the most distinctive cortical modules related to different sensory representations. Flattened cortical sections were processed for the metabolic enzyme cytochrome oxidase, revealing a number of modules and septa. Subdivisions related to sensory representations were tentatively identified by performing microelectrode recordings in a single adult shrew in this study, combined with microelectrode recordings and anatomical findings from a previous investigation. Taken together, these results suggest that characteristic chemoarchitectonic borders in the shrew neocortex can be used to delineate and quantify cortical areas. The most obvious subdivisions in the water shrew include a relatively small primary visual cortex which responded to visual stimuli, a larger representation of vibrissae in the primary somatosensory cortex, and a prominent representation of oral structures apparent in the more rostral-lateral cortex. A presumptive auditory area was located in the far caudal cortex. These findings for the cortex are consistent with counts from optic, auditory and trigeminal nerves, suggesting that somatosensory inputs dominate the shrew's senses whereas visual and auditory inputs play a small role in navigation and in finding prey. More generally, we find that shrews share unusual features of cortical organization with moles, supporting their close taxonomic relationship.

Owls are highly efficient predators with a specialized auditory system designed to aid in the localization of prey. One of the most unique anatomical features of the owl auditory system is the evolution of vertically asymmetrical ears in some species, which improves their ability to localize the elevational component of a sound stimulus. In the asymmetrically eared barn owl, interaural time differences (ITD) are used to localize sounds in azimuth, whereas interaural level differences (ILD) are used to localize sounds in elevation. These two features are processed independently in two separate neural pathways that converge in the external nucleus of the inferior colliculus to form an auditory map of space. Here, we present a comparison of the relative volume of 11 auditory nuclei in both the ITD and the ILD pathways of 8 species of symmetrically and asymmetrically eared owls in order to investigate evolutionary changes in the auditory pathways in relation to ear asymmetry. Overall, our results indicate that asymmetrically eared owls have much larger auditory nuclei than owls with symmetrical ears. In asymmetrically eared owls we found that both the ITD and ILD pathways are equally enlarged, and other auditory nuclei, not directly involved in binaural comparisons, are also enlarged. We suggest that the hypertrophy of auditory nuclei in asymmetrically eared owls likely reflects both an improved ability to precisely locate sounds in space and an expansion of the hearing range. Additionally, our results suggest that the hypertrophy of nuclei that compute space may have preceded that of the expansion of the hearing range and evolutionary changes in the size of the auditory system occurred independently of phylogeny.
Rodents are a major order of mammals that is highly diverse in distribution and lifestyle. Five suborders, 34 families, and 2,277 species within this order occupy a number of different niches and vary along several lifestyle dimensions such as diel pattern (diurnal vs. nocturnal), terrain niche, and diet. For example, the terrain niche of rodents includes arboreal, aerial, terrestrial, semi-aquatic, burrowing, and rock dwelling. Not surprisingly, the behaviors associated with particular lifestyles are also highly variable and thus the neocortex, which generates these behaviors, has undergone corresponding alterations across species. Studies of cortical organization in species that vary along several dimensions such as terrain niche, diel pattern, and rearing conditions demonstrate that the size and number of cortical fields can be highly variable within this order. The internal organization of a cortical field also reflects lifestyle differences between species and exaggerates behaviorally relevant effectors such as vibrissae, teeth, or lips. Finally, at a cellular level, neuronal number and density varies for the same cortical field in different species and is even different for the same species reared in different conditions (laboratory vs. wild-caught). These very large differences across and within rodent species indicate that there is no generic rodent model. Rather, there are rodent models suited for specific questions regarding the development, function, and evolution of the neocortex.
Understanding how the human cerebral cortex evolved to its present complex state is a fascinating topic for neuroscience, genetics, bioinformatics and comparative biology. To gain further insights into the origins of the mammalian neocortex and to understand how the cortex evolved to be able to serve more complex cognitive functions, we study the development of various extant species. Our aim is to correlate cortical cell numbers and neuronal cell types with the elaboration of cortical progenitor populations and their modes of proliferation in different species. There are several progenitors, i.e. the ventricular radial glia, the subventricular intermediate progenitors and subventricular (outer) radial glia types, but the contribution of each to cortical layers and cell types through specific lineages is not fully understood. Recent comparisons of the proportions of these progenitors in various species during embryonic neurogenesis have revealed the elaboration and cytoarchitectonic compartmentalization of the germinal zone, with alterations in the proportions of various types that can be included among the intermediate progenitors. Across species, larger and more diverse intermediate progenitor populations correlate with brain size and cortical cell diversity. Understanding the molecular and cellular interactions regulating the divisions of these intermediate progenitors not only has implications for cortical evolution but also relates to stem cell biology and illuminates the pathomechanisms of several cortical developmental disorders.
The principal nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTpr) and posterodorsal part of the medial amygdalar nucleus (MEApd) are densely interconnected sites transmitting olfactory information to brain areas mediating sociosexual behaviors. In male prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster), the BSTpr and MEApd contain hundreds of cells densely immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Such tremendous numbers of TH-immunoreactive (TH-ir) cells do not exist in other rodents examined, and studies from our laboratory suggest these cells may be part of a unique chemical network necessary for monogamous behaviors in prairie voles. To obtain information about how these TH-ir cells communicate with other sites involved in social behaviors, we first used biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) to determine sites that receive BSTpr efferents and also contain TH-ir fibers. Only in the medial preoptic area (MPO) and MEApd did we find considerable comingling of BDA-containing and TH-ir fibers. To examine if these sites receive input specifically from BSTpr TH-ir cells, the retrograde tracer Fluorogold was infused into the MPO or MEApd. Almost 80% of TH-ir projections to the MPO originated from the BSTpr or MEApd, involving about 40% of all TH-ir cells in these sites. In contrast, the MEApd received almost no input from TH-ir cells in the BSTpr, and received it primarily from the ventral tegmental area. Retrograde tracing from the BSTpr itself revealed substantial input from MEApd TH-ir cells. Thus, the male prairie vole brain contains a species-specific TH-ir network involving the BSTpr, MEApd, and MPO. By connecting brain sites involved in olfaction, sociality and motivation, this network may be essential for monogamous behaviors in this species.
In this study we examine the size of primary sensory areas in the neocortex and the cellular composition of area 17/V1 in three rodent groups: laboratory nocturnal Norway rats (Long-Evans; Rattus norvegicus), wild-caught nocturnal Norway rats (R. norvegicus), and laboratory diurnal Nile grass rats (Arvicanthis niloticus). Specifically, we used areal measures of myeloarchitecture of the primary sensory areas to compare area size and the isotropic fractionator method to estimate the number of neurons and nonneurons in area 17 in each species. Our results demonstrate that the percentage of cortex devoted to area 17 is significantly greater and the percentage of cortex devoted to S1 is significantly smaller in the diurnal Nile grass rat compared with the nocturnal Norway rat groups. Further, the laboratory rodent groups have a greater percentage of cortex devoted to auditory cortex compared with the wild-caught group. We also demonstrate that wild-caught rats have a greater density of neurons in area 17 compared to laboratory-reared animals. However, there were no other clear cellular composition differences in area 17 or differences in the percentage of brain weight devoted to area 17 between nocturnal and diurnal rats. Thus, there are differences in primary sensory area size between diurnal versus nocturnal and laboratory versus wild-caught rat groups and cellular density between wild-caught and laboratory rat groups. Our results demonstrate that the differences in the size and cellular composition of cortical areas do not fit with what would be expected based on brain scaling differences alone, and have a consistent relationship with lifestyle and sensory morphology.


The extent and boundaries of the roof, or pallium, of the telencephalon in lungfishes have been debated for over 30 years, and two hypotheses exist. Proponents of a restricted pallium claim that the medial border of the pallium occurs in a dorsal position and that the entire medial hemispheric wall is formed by the septal nuclei. Proponents of an extended pallium claim that the medial border of the pallium occurs in a more ventral position and that the medial hemispheric wall is divided into a dorsal medial pallium and ventral septal nuclei, as in amphibians. Immunohistochemical data have generally been interpreted to support the hypothesis of an extended pallium, but disagreement still exists. To clarify the extent of the pallium in lungfishes, the connections of the dorsal and ventral divisions of the medial hemispheric wall in the Spotted African Lungfish were examined using a number of neuronal tracers. In amphibians and other tetrapods, the afferent projections to the medial pallium and the septal nuclei differ extensively, as do the commissural routes taken by decussating interhemispheric connections. Although the descending projections of the medial pallium and septal nuclei are very similar to one another in amphibians and other tetrapods, they do differ in that the septal nuclei and the ventral thalamus are extensively interlinked, whereas the medial pallium lacks such connections. These differences also characterize the connections of the dorsal and ventral divisions of the medial hemispheric wall in the Spotted African Lungfish, which supports the hypothesis of an extended pallium. The telencephalic organization in lungfishes thus appears remarkably similar to that in amphibians and reflects a pattern that almost certainly existed in the last common ancestor of lungfishes and tetrapods.
Multivariate analysis of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data allows investigations into network behavior beyond simple activations of individual regions. We apply group independent component analysis to fMRI data collected in a previous study looking at the sustained neuromodulatory effects of electrical tongue stimulation in balance-impaired individuals. Twelve subjects with balance disorders viewed optic flow in an fMRI scanner before and after 5 days of electrical tongue stimulation. Nine healthy controls also viewed the visual stimuli but did not receive any stimulation. Multiple regression of the 47 estimated components found two that were modulated by the visual stimuli. Component 7, comprised primarily of the primary visual cortex (V1), responded to all visual stimuli and showed no difference in task-related activity between the healthy controls and the balance-impaired subjects before or after stimulation. Component 11 responded only to motion in the visual field and contained multiple cortical and subcortical regions involved in processing information pertinent to balance. Two-sample t-tests of the calculated signal change revealed that the task-related activity of this network is greater in balance-impaired subjects compared with controls before stimulation (p=0.02), but that this network hypersensitivity decreases after electrical tongue stimulation (p=0.001).
A primary objective in neuroscience is to determine how neuronal populations process information within networks. In humans and animal models, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is gaining increasing popularity for network mapping. Although neuroimaging with fMRI-conducted with or without tasks-is actively discovering new brain networks, current fMRI data analysis schemes disregard the importance of the total neuronal activity in a region. In task fMRI experiments, the baseline is differenced away to disclose areas of small evoked changes in the blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal. In resting-state fMRI experiments, the spotlight is on regions revealed by correlations of tiny fluctuations in the baseline (or spontaneous) BOLD signal. Interpretation of fMRI-based networks is obscured further, because the BOLD signal indirectly reflects neuronal activity, and difference/correlation maps are thresholded. Since the small changes of BOLD signal typically observed in cognitive fMRI experiments represent a minimal fraction of the total energy/activity in a given area, the relevance of fMRI-based networks is uncertain, because the majority of neuronal energy/activity is ignored. Thus, another alternative for quantitative neuroimaging of fMRI-based networks is a perspective in which the activity of a neuronal population is accounted for by the demanded oxidative energy (CMR(O2)). In this article, we argue that network mapping can be improved by including neuronal energy/activity of both the information about baseline and small differences/fluctuations of BOLD signal. Thus, total energy/activity information can be obtained through use of calibrated fMRI to quantify differences of CMR(O2) and through resting-state positron emission tomography/magnetic resonance spectroscopy measurements for average CMR(O2).
Resting-state functional connectivity has become a topic of enormous interest in the Neuroscience community in the last decade. Because resting-state data (1) harbor important information that often is diagnostically relevant and (2) are easy to acquire, there has been a rapid increase in the development of a variety of network analytic techniques for diagnostic applications, stimulating methodological research in general. While we are among those who welcome the increased interest in the resting state and multivariate analytic tools, we would like to draw attention to some entrenched practices that undermine the scientific quality of diagnostic functional-connectivity research, but whose correction is relatively easy to accomplish. With the current commentary we also hope to benefit the field at large and contribute to a healthy debate about research goals and best practices.
Over the past 20 years, neuroimaging has become a predominant technique in systems neuroscience. One might envisage that over the next 20 years the neuroimaging of distributed processing and connectivity will play a major role in disclosing the brain's functional architecture and operational principles. The inception of this journal has been foreshadowed by an ever-increasing number of publications on functional connectivity, causal modeling, connectomics, and multivariate analyses of distributed patterns of brain responses. I accepted the invitation to write this review with great pleasure and hope to celebrate and critique the achievements to date, while addressing the challenges ahead.
Neurological and psychiatric disorders disturb higher cognitive functions and are accompanied by aberrant cortico-cortical axonal pathways or synchronizations of neural activity. A large proportion of neuroimaging studies have focused on examining the focal morphological abnormalities of various gray and white matter structures or the functional activities of brain areas during goal-directed tasks or the resting state, which provides vast quantities of information on both the structural and functional alterations in the patients' brain. However, these studies often ignore the interactions among multiple brain regions that constitute complex brain networks underlying higher cognitive function. Information derived from recent advances of noninvasive magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques and computational methodologies such as graph theory have allowed researchers to explore the patterns of structural and functional connectivity of healthy and diseased brains in vivo. In this article, we summarize the recent advances made in the studies of both structural (gray matter morphology and white matter fibers) and functional (synchronized neural activity) brain networks based on human MRI data pertaining to neuropsychiatric disorders. These studies bring a systems-level perspective to the alterations of the topological organization of complex brain networks and the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms. Specifically, noninvasive imaging of structural and functional brain networks and follow-up graph-theoretical analyses demonstrate the potential to establish systems-level biomarkers for clinical diagnosis, progression monitoring, and treatment effects evaluation for neuropsychiatric disorders.
Neurological findings in a three-year-old child with meroacrania provide new insights into how the nervous system develops and functions in the absence of superior levels of control from the time of origin. The girl is the first child of a non-consanguineous white Brazilian couple, born at term, weighing 2650 g and measuring 44 cm in length. Upon examination at 43 months, she had quadriplegia, global hypotonia with occasional body hypertonia in a decorticate posture, hyperreflexia, ankle clonus, and extensor plantar response. This case allowed us to verify that, in the absence of upper structures and subcortical nuclei, there are clear signs that suggest corticospinal primacy in motor functions without a substitute pathway. Sound orientation responses suggest the independence of the vestibular-acoustic-ocular system, and manifestations of responsiveness to the environment raise questions about consciousness.



Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is a neuroinflammatory disease mainly affecting young adults. A major pathological hallmark of MS is the presence of demyelinated lesions in the central nervous system. In the active phase of the disease, astrocytes become activated, migrate and contribute to local tissue remodeling that ultimately can result in an astroglial scar. This process is facilitated by extracellular matrix proteins, including fibronectin. Tissue Transglutaminase (TG2) is a multifunctional enzyme with a ubiquitous tissue distribution and it has been shown that inflammatory cytokines can induce TG2 activity. In addition, TG2 is known to mediate cell adhesion and migration. We therefore hypothesized that TG2 is present in MS lesions and plays a role in cell adhesion and/or migration. Our studies showed that TG2 immunoreactivity appeared in astrocytes in active and chronic active MS lesions. These TG2 positive astrocytes partly co-localized with fibronectin. Additional in vitro studies showed that TG2 mediated astrocytoma adhesion to and migration on the extracellular matrix protein fibronectin. We therefore speculate that TG2 mediates the enhanced interaction of astrocytes with fibronectin in the extracellular matrix of MS lesions, thereby contributing to astrocyte adhesion and migration, and thus in tissue remodeling and possibly glial scarring.

The recent development of optogenetic techniques has generated considerable excitement in neuroscience research. Optogenetics uses light to control the activity of neurons which have been modified to express light-sensitive proteins. Some proteins, such as channelrhodopsin, are cation channels that produce depolarization of neurons when illuminated. In other cases, neuronal activity can be inhibited through illumination of proteins, such as the chloride pump halorhodopsin, that hyperpolarize neurons. Because these proteins can be selectively expressed in specific cell types and/or in specific locations, optogenetics avoids several of the non-specific effects of electrical or pharmacological brain stimulation. This short review will explain the physiology of this technique, describe the basic and technical aspects of the method, and highlight some of the research as well as the clinical potential of optogenetics.
The Actinopterygii or ray-finned fishes comprise, in addition to the large superorder of teleosts, four other superorders, namely the cladistians, the chondrosteans, the ginglymodes, and the halecomorphs, each with a limited number of species. The telencephalon of actinopterygian fishes differs from that in all other vertebrates in that it consists of a pair of solid lobes. Lateral ventricles surrounded by nervous tissue are entirely lacking. At the end of the nineteenth century, the theory was advanced that the unusual configuration of the forebrain in actinopterygians results from an outward bending or eversion of its lateral walls. This theory was accepted by some authors, rejected or neglected by others, and modified by some other authors. The present paper is based on the data derived from the literature, complemented by new observations on a large collection of histological material comprising specimens of all five actinopterygian superorders. The paper consists of three parts. In the first, a survey of the development of the telencephalon in actinopterygian fishes is presented. The data collected show clearly that an outward bending or eversion of the pallial parts of the solid hemispheres is the principal morphogenetic event in all five actinopterygian superorders. In all of these superorders, except for the cladistians, eversion is coupled with a marked thickening of the pallial walls. In the second part, some aspects of the general morphology of the telencephalon in mature actinopterygians are highlighted. It is pointed out that (1) the degree of eversion varies considerably among the various actinopterygian groups; (2) eversion leads to the transformation of the telencephalic roof plate into a wide membrane or tela choroidea, which is bilaterally attached to the lateral or ventrolateral aspect of the solid hemispheres; (3) the lines of attachment or taeniae of the tela choroidea form the most important landmarks in the telencephalon of actinopterygians, indicating the sites where the greatly enlarged ventricular surface of the hemispheres ends and its reduced meningeal surface begins; (4) the meningeal surface of the telencephalon shows in most actinopterygians bilaterally a longitudinally oriented sulcus externus, the depth of which is generally positively correlated with the degree of eversion; (5) a distinct lateral olfactory tract, occupying a constant topological position close to the taenia, is present in all actinopterygians studied; and (6) this tract is not homologous to the tract of the same name in the evaginated and inverted forebrains of other groups of vertebrates. In the third and final section, the concept that the structural organization of the pallium in actinopterygians can be fully explained by a simple eversion of its walls, and the various theories, according to which the eversion is complicated by extensive shifts of its constituent cell groups, are discussed and evaluated. It is concluded that there are no reasons to doubt that the pallium of actinopterygian fishes is the product of a simple and complete eversion.
The main aim of the present study was to compare volume differences in the hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus as biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Based on the previous findings, we hypothesized that there would be significant volume differences between cases of healthy aging, amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI), and mild AD. Furthermore, we hypothesized that there would be larger volume differences in the parahippocampal gyrus than in the hippocampus. In addition, we investigated differences between the anterior, middle, and posterior parts of both structures. We studied three groups of participants: 18 healthy participants without memory decline, 18 patients with aMCI, and 18 patients with mild AD. 3 T T1-weighted MRI scans were acquired and gray matter volumes of the anterior, middle, and posterior parts of both the hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus were measured using a manual tracing approach. Volumes of both the hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus were significantly different between the groups in the following order: healthy&gt;aMCI&gt;AD. Volume differences between the groups were relatively larger in the parahippocampal gyrus than in the hippocampus, in particular, when we compared healthy with aMCI. No substantial differences were found between the anterior, middle, and posterior parts of both structures. Our results suggest that parahippocampal volume discriminates better than hippocampal volume between cases of healthy aging, aMCI, and mild AD, in particular, in the early phase of the disease. The present results stress the importance of parahippocampal atrophy as an early biomarker of AD.
Estradiol affects a variety of brain regions by modulating physiological and cellular functions as well as neuronal morphology. Within the striatum, estradiol is known to induce physiological and molecular changes, yet estradiol's effects on striatal dendritic morphology have not yet been evaluated. Using ballistic delivery of the lipophilic dye DiI to tissue sections, we were able to evaluate estradiol's effects on striatal morphology in female Syrian hamsters. We found that estradiol significantly decreased spine density within the nucleus accumbens core, with no effect in the nucleus accumbens shell or caudate. Interestingly, estradiol treatment caused a significant deconstruction of spines from more to less mature spine subtypes in both the nucleus accumbens core and shell regardless of changes in spine density. These results are significant in that they offer a novel mechanism for estradiol actions on a wide variety of nucleus accumbens functions such as motivation or reward as well as their pathological consequences (e.g. drug addiction).
The cells that project from the brain to the spinal cord have previously been mapped in a wide range of mammalian species, but have not been comprehensively studied in the mouse. We have mapped these cells in the mouse using retrograde tracing after large unilateral Fluoro-Gold (FG) and horseradish peroxidase (HRP) injections in the C1 and C2 spinal cord segments. We have identified over 30 cell groups that project to the spinal cord, and have confirmed that the pattern of major projections from the cortex, diencephalon, midbrain, and hindbrain in the mouse is typically mammalian, and very similar to that found in the rat. However, we report two novel findings: we found labeled neurons in the precuneiform area (an area which has been associated with the midbrain locomotor center in other species), and the epirubrospinal nucleus. We also found labeled cells in the medial division of central nucleus of the amygdala in a small number of cases. Our findings should be of value to researchers engaged in evaluating the impact of spinal cord injury and other spinal cord pathologies on the centers which give rise to descending pathways.
The emotional power of music opens novel prospects in the field of affective neurosciences. To clarify the neurobiological substrate of emotions brought by music, we adopted an integrative approach, which combines neuropsychology, brain imaging and electrophysiology (intracranial depth electrode recordings). The results of a series of studies carried out in patients with focal brain lesions allow to describe the involvement of different temporal lobe regions and, in particular, of the amygdala in these emotional judgments before discussing the therapeutic benefits of music to handle Alzheimer's disease.





Selective transsphenoidal adenomectomy is generally recommended for initial treatment of Cushing's disease (CD) because it achieves a high (70-85%) rate of remission. However, if initial surgery is not successful, the approach to persistent or recurrent CD is more complex. Because residual or recurrent adenoma is typically found at the site of the original adenoma, repeat transsphenoidal surgery is recommended including selective adenomectomy, hemihypophysectomy or total hypophysectomy. If repeat pituitary surgery does not achieve remission, then possible adjuvant therapies include radiosurgery or stereotactic radiotherapy, bilateral adrenalectomy, and/or medical therapy. In all cases of persistent or recurrent CD, successful treatment requires close collaboration of endocrinologists, radiation oncologists and neurosurgeons.
This descriptive correlational study examined relationships between mild stroke functional and psychosocial outcomes over the early post-discharge period among dyads of mild stroke patients (n=38) and their spousal caregivers (n=38). We measured patients' functional scores using the modified Rankin Scale; patients' and caregivers' quality of life (QoL) using Stroke Impact Scale and Short-Form 36 respectively, mood using the Beck Depression Inventory-II, and marital function scores using the Family Assessment Device. Spousal caregivers also completed the Bakas Caregiving Outcomes Scale as a measure of caregiver strain. The average age of stroke patients was 64 years and of spousal caregivers 58 years. All stroke patients were male; all spousal caregivers female. At three months post discharge, patient functional status scores had significantly improved from discharge (p=0.026) with a corresponding increase in QoL scores (p=0.012). Functional status was significantly correlated with patient perceptions of QoL at three months (r=.014, p=0.024) and spousal caregiver perceptions of physical domain QoL (r=.-.397, p=0.014). Spousal caregivers' mood at three months post discharge was strongly correlated with their perceptions of marital satisfaction (r=.578, p=0.000) and caregiver strain (r=-.620, p=0.000). In preparing patients for discharge following mild stroke, nurses must consider the psychological and social implications of the recovery process over time for both the patient with stroke and their spousal caregivers.
Cytokines play an important role in the pathophysiology of traumatic brain injury (TBI). This study was designed to determine the effects of administering progesterone (P) and estrogen (E), alone and in combination, on brain water content, blood-brain barrier (BBB) disturbance, and brain level of cytokines following diffuse TBI. Ovariectomized rats were divided into 9 groups, treated with vehicle, E1, E2, P1, P2, E1+P1, E1+P2, E2+P1, and E2+P2. Levels of BBB disruption (5 h), cytokines, and water content (24 h) were evaluated after TBI induced by the Marmarou method. Physiological (E1 and P1) and pharmacological (E2 and P2) doses of estrogen and progesterone were administered 30 min after TBI. Water content in the E1+P2-treated group was higher than in the E1-treated group. The inhibitory effect of E2 on water content was reduced by adding progesterone. The inhibitory effect of E1 and E2 on Evans blue content was reduced by treatment with E1+P1 and E2+P2, respectively. The brain level of IL-1 was reduced in E1 and E2, after TBI. In the E2+P2-treated group, this level was higher than in the E2-treated group. The brain level of TGF- was also elevated by the administration of progesterone and estrogen alone, and reduced when the hormones were administered in combination. In conclusion, a combined administration of progesterone and estrogen inhibited the decreasing effects of administration of progesterone and estrogen alone on water content and BBB disruption that mediated to change the proinflammatory cytokines.
Glioblastomas continue to carry poor prognoses for patients despite advances in surgical, chemotherapeutic, and radiation regimens. One feature of glioblastoma associated with poor prognosis is the degree of hypoxia and expression levels of hypoxia-inducible factor-1  (HIF-1). HIF-1 expression allows metabolic adaptation to low oxygen availability, partly through upregulation of VEGF and increased tumor angiogenesis. Here, we demonstrate an induced level of astrocyte-elevated gene-1 (AEG-1) by hypoxia in glioblastoma cells. AEG-1 has the capacity to promote anchorage-independent growth and cooperates with Ha-ras in malignant transformation. In addition, AEG-1 was recently demonstrated to serve as an oncogene and can induce angiogenesis in glioblastoma. Results from in vitro studies show that hypoxic induction of AEG-1 is dependent on HIF-1 stabilization during hypoxia and that PI3K inhibition abrogates AEG-1 induction during hypoxia through loss of HIF-1 stability. Furthermore, we show that AEG-1 is induced by glucose deprivation and that prevention of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) production prevents this induction. Additionally, AEG-1 knockdown results in increased ROS production and increased glucose deprivation-induced cytotoxicity. On the other hand, AEG-1 overexpression prevents ROS production and decreases glucose deprivation-induced cytotoxicity, indicating that AEG-1 induction is necessary for cells to survive this type of cell stress. These observations link AEG-1 overexpression in glioblastoma with hypoxia and glucose deprivation, and targeting these physiological pathways may lead to therapeutic advances in the treatment of glioblastoma in the future.
The Andersen-Tawil syndrome (ATS) is characterized by hypo-normokaliemic muscle periodic paralysis, dysmorphic features and ventricular arrhythmias. Most cases are caused by mutations in KCNJ2, encoding for the potassium inwardly rectifying channel, Kir2.1 (ATS1). Although KCNJ2 mutations show no obvious genotype-phenotype correlations and incomplete penetrance, signs of cardiac involvement are usually present in most ATS1 cases. In contrast, here we describe an Italian ATS1 patient, carrying a c.574AG mutation in KCNJ2, who had both facial dysmorphisms and muscle periodic paralysis but who did not manifest any cardiac involvement, although the same mutation was originally described in a Japanese kindred, in which all affected individuals manifested a severe cardiac phenotype.
The literature emphasizes the risk of depression after a stroke. Less well known is the fact that depression may be as big a risk factor for strokes as hypertension, particularly in the older age group. This article reviews the risk for stroke and cognitive impairment consequent to depression, and describes the cardiovascular and immunological mechanisms that would appear to link depression to its cerebrovascular consequences. As well, the article refers to the brain imaging signatures that may allow prediction of impending brain injury. Finally, some questions that might be explored by future research are suggested, and some practical means to identify and help those at risk for the development of depression-associated vascular disease of the brain are suggested.

Recent animal experiments indicate a critical role for opening of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in the pathogenesis of post-traumatic epilepsy (PTE). This study aimed to investigate the frequency, extent, and functional correlates of BBB disruption in epileptic patients following mild traumatic brain injury (TBI). Thirty-seven TBI patients were included in this study, 19 of whom suffered from PTE. All underwent electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings and brain magnetic resonance imaging (bMRI). bMRIs were evaluated for BBB disruption using novel quantitative techniques. Cortical dysfunction was localized using standardized low-resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (sLORETA). TBI patients displayed significant EEG slowing compared to controls with no significant differences between PTE and nonepileptic patients. BBB disruption was found in 82.4% of PTE compared to 25% of non-epileptic patients (P = .001) and could be observed even years following the trauma. The volume of cerebral cortex with BBB disruption was significantly larger in PTE patients (P = .001). Slow wave EEG activity was localized to the same region of BBB disruption in 70% of patients and correlated to the volume of BBB disrupted cortex. We finally present a patient suffering from early cortical dysfunction and BBB breakdown with a gradual and parallel resolution of both pathologies. Our findings demonstrate that BBB pathology is frequently found following mild TBI. Lasting BBB breakdown is found with increased frequency and extent in PTE patients. Based on recent animal studies and the colocalization found between the region of disrupted BBB and abnormal EEG activity, we suggest a role for a vascular lesion in the pathogenesis of PTE.


Acute necrotizing encephalopathy (ANE) is a severe neurological complication of influenza infection, including H1N1 influenza. Many cases of ANE have been reported in the pediatric literature, but very few cases have been described in adults. The cause of ANE remains unknown-the influenza virus is not known to be neurotropic, and evidence of direct viral involvement of the central nervous system (CNS) has not been demonstrated in the limited cases of ANE in which pathological specimens have been obtained. Here we report a fatal case of ANE from H1N1 influenza infection in an adult. Neuroimaging and postmortem analysis both showed widespread brain edema, necrosis, and hemorrhage, but molecular studies and postmortem pathology revealed no evidence of direct viral involvement of the CNS. This case of fatal ANE in an adult is consistent with the hypothesis generated from pediatric cases that the host immune response, and not direct viral invasion of the CNS, is responsible for pathogenesis of ANE.
Based on exclusion criteria in the landmark NINDS-rtPA trial, current expert consensus guidelines preclude the use of intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (IV rtPA) in acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients with intracranial neoplasm. There are only 3 published cases of administration of IV rtPA to AIS patients with intracranial neoplasms in the literature. Two of these published cases involved malignant brain parenchymal lesions discovered only after rtPA was inadvertently given, and one of these cases was associated with hemorrhage within the tumor. In this paper, we report two cases of administration of IV rtPA in AIS patients with intracranial neoplasms observed on neuroimaging prior to IV rtPA administration. In both cases, the tumor was outside of the brain parenchyma. The first case was an acoustic schwannoma and the second a falcine meningioma. Neither case was associated with intratumoral hemorrhage as of at least one week following IV rtPA treatment. More published cases are definitely warranted, but our experience with these two cases suggests that administration of IV rtPA to AIS patients in the presence of extraparenchymal brain tumors may not necessarily precipitate intra-tumoral bleeding and thereby worsen clinical outcomes.
We report the case of a 37-year-old female in which the removal of a suprasellar neoplasm was accompanied by the disappearance of a longstanding olfactory delusion syndrome. In primary care the patient condition was exclusively thought to be psychic in origin, neglecting the possible, not infrequent, organic contribution. The delayed diagnosis produced neurological impairment, only partially recovered after surgical therapy. This case might help to improve the patient management via multi-specialist cooperation and to broaden the knowledge about somatic mechanisms of psychic disturbances, are not often taken into account.
Patients with psychotic major depression suffer prolonged duration and greater severity of illness, including an increased likelihood of recurrent episodes and resistance to conventional pharmacotherapies. They do not respond to placebo and respond poorly to antidepressant or antipsychotic monotherapy. On the other hand, as has been demonstrated, they do respond well to antidepressant and antipsychotic combination therapies. Different combinations of drugs were studied, but little is known up to now with regard to the combination of venlafaxine and olanzapine. The following paper presents three separate case studies of female patients suffering from psychotic unipolar major depression, all of whom were admitted to a psychiatric ward and successfully treated with a combination of venlafaxine and olanzapine.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a rare hereditary neurodegenerative disorder characterized in over 90 percent of cases by chorea as the presenting motor symptom. We report a 54-year-old male who presented with Parkinsonism as the initial symptom of the disease. Genetic analysis revealed expansion of 40 CAG repeats, and brain MRI showed both severe caudate nuclei and cortical atrophy. Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging of the dopamine transporter showed nigrostriatal pathway degeneration. Here, we also describe his 2 years of clinical followup after ensuing dopaminergic stimulation.
We describe a case report of an 80-year-old woman who presented with symptomatology compatible with an episode of major depression with catatonia. After psychiatric admission, electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) was applied, but symptoms progressed with cognitive impairment, bradykinesia, widespread stiffness, postural tremor, and gait disturbance. After compatible magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), diffusion changes, and electroencephalogram (EEG) findings the case was reoriented to Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD). The genetic study found a methionine/valine heterozygosity at codon 129 of the prion protein gene PrP(Sc). On followup, a significant clinical recovery turned out. For this reason, EEG and MRI were repeated and confirmed the findings. The patient subsequently demonstrated progressive clinical deterioration and died 21 months later. The diagnosis was verified postmortem by neuropathology. The vCJD subtype MV2 is indeed characterized by early and prominent psychiatric symptoms and a prolonged disease duration however no frank clinical recovery has before been reported.
Background: An imbalance of the cerebrovascular response during functional activation of the brain has been postulated as a factor in the pathophysiology of migraine. The purpose of this study was to determine the transcranial doppler sonography (TDS) diagnostic value for the cerebral flow velocity changes in the interictal phase of classic migraine. Methods: This study was carried out on 46 patients (23 cases and 23 controls). We used Doppler instrument via trans-temporal window and detected middle cerebral artery, anterior cerebral artery and posterior cerebral artery by 2 MHz probe. The flow velocity in the posterior cerebral artery before, during and immediately after stimulation was recorded. Stimulation was done using a flickering light in 100 seconds. Results: At the baseline, the middle cerebral artery had more peak systolic velocity in migraineurs than the control group. Although peak systolic velocity changes in the mid-photic period is not statistically significant. On the other hand, post-photic peak systolic velocity increased significantly. The diagnostic accuracy of the peak systolic volume (PSV) changes in the posterior cerebral artery (PCA) for the migraine was 72.3%. Conclusion: This stimulation we found altered cerebral vasomotor reactivity in the interictal phase in migraineurs with visual aura. This seemed to be an unavoidable hindrance for the wider implementation of functional TCD in diagnostic work up of migraine patients.
Cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) are now known to mediate much more than adhesion between cells and between cells and the extracellular matrix. Work by many researchers has illuminated their roles in modulating activation of molecules such as receptor tyrosine kinases, with subsequent effects on cell survival, migration, and process extension. CAMs also are known to serve as substrates for proteases which can create diffusible fragments capable of signaling independently from the CAM. The diversity of interactions is further modulated by membrane rafts, which can co-localize or separate potential signaling partners to affect the likelihood of a given signaling pathway being activated. Given the ever-growing number of known CAMs and the fact that their heterophilic binding in cis or in trans can affect their interactions with other molecules, including membrane-bound receptors, one would predict a wide range of effects attributable to a particular CAM in a particular cell at a particular stage of development. The function(s) of a given CAM must therefore be considered in the context of the history of the cell expressing it and the repertoire of molecules expressed both by that cell and its neighbors.
Neuromedin U (NMU) has recently been reported to play a role in nociception. However, to date, the relevant mechanisms still remain unknown. In the present study, we investigated the expression profile of NMU receptors in mouse dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and identified a novel functional role of NMU in modulating T-type Ca(2+) channel currents (T-currents) as well as membrane excitability in small DRG neurons. We found that NMU inhibited T-currents in a dose-dependent manner in mouse small DRG neurons that endogenously expressed NMU type 1 (NMUR1), but not NMUR2 receptors. NMU (1M) reversibly inhibited T-currents by 27.4%. This inhibitory effect was blocked by GDP--S or pertussis toxin (PTX), indicating the involvement of a G(i/o)-protein. Using depolarizing prepulse or intracellular application of QEHA, a synthetic peptide which competitively blocks G-protein  subunit (G()) mediated signaling, we found the absence of functional coupling between G() and T-type Ca(2+) channels. Pretreatment of the cells with H89, a protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor, or intracellular application of PKI 5-24, blocked NMU-induced T-current inhibition, whereas inhibition of phospholipase C or protein kinase C elicited no such effects. In addition, we observed a significant decreased firing frequency of action potentials of small DRG neurons induced by NMU, which could be abrogated by pretreatment of the cells with NiCl(2) (100 M). Taken together, these results suggested that NMU inhibits T-currents via PTX-sensitive PKA pathway, which might contribute to its physiological functions including neuronal hypoexcitability in small DRG neurons in mice.
IGF1, an anabolic and neuroprotective factor, promotes neuronal survival by blocking apoptosis. It is released into the bloodstream by the liver, or synthesized locally by muscles and neural cells, acting in an autocrine or paracrine fashion. Intriguingly, genetic studies conducted in invertebrate and murine models also suggest that an excess of IGF1 signaling may trigger neurodegeneration. This emphasizes the importance of gaining a better understanding of the mechanisms controlling IGF1 regulation and gene transcription. In the cerebellum, Igf1 expression is activated just before birth in a subset of Purkinje cells (PCs). Mice carrying a null mutation for HLH transcription factor EBF2 feature PC apoptosis at birth. We show that Igf1 is sharply downregulated in Ebf2 null PCs starting before the onset of PC death. In vitro, EBF2 binds a conserved distal Igf1 promoter region. The pro-survival PI3K signaling pathway is strongly inhibited in mutant cerebella. Finally, Ebf2 null organotypic cultures respond to IGF1 treatment by inhibiting PC apoptosis. Consistently, wild type slices treated with an IGF1 competitor feature a sharp increase in PC death. Our findings reveal that IGF1 is required for PC survival in the neonatal cerebellum, and identify a new mechanism regulating its local production in the CNS.
We used pulsed stable isotope labeling of amino acids in cell culture (pSILAC) to assess protein dynamics during monocyte-macrophage differentiation. pSILAC allows metabolic labeling of newly synthesized proteins. Such de novo protein production was evaluated from 3 to 7 days in culture. Proteins were identified by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry then quantified by MaxQuant. Protein-protein linkages were then assessed by Ingenuity Pathway Analysis. Proteins identified were linked to cell homeostasis, free radical scavenging, molecular protein transport, carbohydrate metabolism, small molecule chemistry, and cell morphology. The data demonstrates specific biologic events that are linked to monocyte transformation in a defined biologic system.
Herein, we investigate the differential D1 dopaminergic receptor (D1R) regulation by G protein-coupled receptor kinase (GRK) 2 and 3 using two truncated receptors lacking the distal (425) and distal-central (379) cytoplasmic tail (CT) regions. We first show the association between D1R and GRKs in co-transfected cells and rat striatum. Our studies further indicate that deletion of distal CT region of D1R does not alter the association between receptor and GRK2. Meanwhile, removal of both distal and central CT regions culminates in a drastic increase in the basal association between 379 and GRK2 relative to D1R and 425. Interestingly, CT truncations have no effect on the basal and DA-induced association of receptors with GRK3. Furthermore, we demonstrate that desensitization of D1R is considerably more robust in cells expressing GRK3. Notably, the robust GRK3-induced D1R desensitization is not attenuated by CT deletions. However, GRK2-induced 425 desensitization is not detectable whereas we unexpectedly find that 379 desensitization is similar to GRK2-induced D1R desensitization. GRK2 and GRK3-dependent desensitization of wild type D1R is not linked to differences in the extent of DA-induced receptor phosphorylation. Moreover, our studies show that GRK2-induced D1R phosphorylation is only modulated by deletion of distal CT region while distal and central CT regions control GRK3-induced D1R phosphorylation. Intriguingly, dopamine-induced 379 phosphorylation by GRK3 was significantly lower than receptor phosphorylation in cells harboring 379 alone or 379 and GRK2. Overall, our study suggests an intricate interplay between CT regions of D1R in differentially regulating receptor responsiveness by GRK2 and GRK3.
The RUN domain is a less conserved protein motif that consists of approximately 70 amino acids, and because RUN domains are often found in proteins involved in the regulation of Rab small GTPases, the RUN domain has been suggested to be involved in Rab-mediated membrane trafficking, possibly as a Rab-binding site. However, since the Rab binding activity of most RUN domains has never been investigated, in this study we performed a genome-wide analysis of the Rab binding activity of the RUN domains of 19 different RUN domain-containing proteins by yeast two-hybrid assays with 60 different Rabs as bait. The results showed that only six of them interact with specific Rab isoforms with different Rab binding specificity, i.e., DENND5A/B with Rab6A/B, PLEKHM2 with Rab1A, RUFY2/3 with Rab33, and RUSC2 with Rab1/Rab35/Rab41. We also identified the minimal functional Rab35-binding site of RUSC2 (amino acid residues 982-1199) and succeeded in developing a novel GTP-Rab35-specific trapper, which we named RBD35 (Rab-binding domain specific for Rab35). Recombinant RBD35 was found to trap GTP-Rab35 specifically both in vitro and in PC12 cells, and overexpression of fluorescently tagged RBD35 in PC12 cells strongly inhibited nerve growth factor-dependent neurite outgrowth.
Dynamin, a ~100 kDa large GTPase, is known as a key player for membrane traffic. Recent evidence shows that dynamin also regulates the dynamic instability of microtubules by a mechanism independent of membrane traffic. As microtubules are highly dynamic during mitosis, we investigated whether the regulation of microtubules by dynamin is essential for cell cycle progression. Dynamin 2 intensely localized at the mitotic spindle, and the localization depended on its proline-rich domain (PRD), which is required for microtubule association. The deletion of PRD resulted in the impairment of cytokinesis, whereby the mutant had less effect on endocytosis. Interestingly, dominant-negative dynamin (K44A), which blocks membrane traffic but has no effect on microtubules, also blocked cytokinesis. On the other hand, the deletion of the middle domain, which binds to -tubulin, impaired the entry into mitosis. As both deletion mutants had no significant effect on endocytosis, dynamin 2 may participate in cell cycle progression by regulating the microtubules. These data suggest that dynamin may play a key role for cell cycle progression by two distinct pathways, membrane traffic and cytoskeleton.
A diet containing high levels of saturated fat and cholesterol is detrimental to many aspects of health and is known to lead to obesity, metabolic syndrome, heart disease, diabetes, and cancer. However, the effects of a diet rich in saturated fat and cholesterol on the brain are not currently well understood. In order to determine direct effects of a high saturated fat and cholesterol diet upon fetal hippocampal tissue, we transplanted hippocampal grafts from embryonic day 18 rats to the anterior eye chamber of 16-month-old host animals that were fed either a normal rat chow diet or a 10% hydrogenated coconut oil + 2% cholesterol diet (HFHC diet) for 8 weeks. One eye per rat received topical application of an IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra, Kineret) and the other served as a saline control. Results revealed that the HFHC diet led to a marked reduction in hippocampal transplant growth, and detrimental effects of the diet were alleviated by the IL-1 receptor antagonist IL-1Ra. Graft morphology demonstrated that the HFHC diet reduced organotypical development of the hippocampal neuronal cell layers, which was also alleviated by IL-1Ra. Finally, grafts were evaluated with markers for glucose transporter expression, astrocytes, and activated microglia. Our results demonstrate significant effects of the HFHC diet on hippocampal morphology, including elevated microglial activation and reduced neuronal development. IL-1Ra largely blocked the detrimental effects of this diet, suggesting a potential use for this agent in neurological disorders involving neuroinflammation.
Many studies have reported the contribution of bone marrow-derived cells (BMDC) to the CNS, raising the possibility of using them as a new source to repair damaged brain tissue or restore neuronal function. This process has mainly been investigated in the cerebellum, in which a degenerative microenvironment has been suggested to be responsible for its modulation. The present study further analyzes the contribution of BMDC to different neural types in other adult brain areas, under both physiological and neurodegenerative conditions, together with the mechanisms of plasticity involved. We grafted genetically marked green fluorescent protein/Cre bone marrow in irradiated recipients: a) the PCD (Purkinje Cell Degeneration) mutant mice, suffering a degeneration of specific neuronal populations at different ages, and b) their corresponding healthy controls. These mice carried the conditional lacZ reporter gene to allow the identification of cell fusion events. Our results demonstrate that BMDC mainly generate microglial cells, although to a lesser extent a clear formation of neuronal types also exists. This neuronal recruitment was not increased by the neurodegenerative processes occurring in PCD mice, where BMDC did not contribute to rescuing the degenerated neuronal populations either. However, an increase in the number of bone marrow-derived microglia was found along the life span in both experimental groups. Six weeks after transplantation more bone marrow-derived microglial cells were observed in the olfactory bulb of the PCD mice compared to the control animals, where the degeneration of mitral cells was in process. In contrast, this difference was not observed in the cerebellum, where Purkinje cell degeneration had been completed. These findings demonstrated that the degree of neurodegenerative environment can foster the recruitment of neural elements derived from bone marrow, but also provide the first evidence that BMDC can contribute simultaneously to different encephalic areas through different mechanisms of plasticity: cell fusion for Purkinje cells and differentiation for olfactory bulb interneurons.
Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) is the third most frequent inherited myopathy. We previously demonstrated that mesoangioblasts can be efficiently isolated from FSHD muscles, although their differentiation ability into skeletal muscle was variably impaired. This correlates with overall disease severity and degree of histopathologic abnormalities, since mesoangioblasts from morphologically normal muscles did not show any myogenic differentiation block. The aim of our present study was to verify whether mesoangioblasts from differentially affected FSHD muscles reproduce in vivo the same differentiation ability shown in vitro by studying their capability to form new muscle fibers during muscle regeneration of experimentally damaged muscles. We show that a diverse ability of FSHD mesoangioblasts to engraft and differentiate into skeletal muscle of SCID mice is strictly related to the characteristics of the muscle of origin, closely replicating in vivo what was previously observed in vitro. Moreover, we demonstrate that mesoangioblasts obtained from severely affected muscles scarcely integrate into muscle fibers, remaining mainly localized in the connective tissue. This suggests a defective migration in response to chemoattractants released by damaged fibers, as indicated by cell migration assays in response to HMGB1 and very low levels of RAGE expression, along with a decreased ability to fuse or to appropriately trigger the myogenic program. Our study indicates that FSHD mesoangioblasts from unaffected muscles can be used as selective treatment to halt muscle degeneration in severely affected muscles, and suggests that pharmacological and molecular interventions aimed to ameliorate homing and engraftment of transplanted autologous mesoangioblasts may open the way to cell therapy for FSHD patients, without requiring immunosuppression or genetic correction in vitro.
Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is an adult-onset sporadic neurodegenerative disorder of unknown etiology featuring parkinsonism, ataxia, and autonomic failure in any combination. Because disease progression in MSA is rapid and no drug treatment consistently benefits MSA patients in the long term, neuroprotective or regenerative strategies may be invaluable in the management of MSA patients. In this study, we investigated whether human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) had a protective effect on MSA using an animal model of double-toxin-induced MSA parkinsonism (MSA-P). MSA-P was established with coinjections of MPTP and 3-NP; hMSCs were injected into the tail vein 1 day after the last toxin injection. Three groups of mice were compared (i.e., control, MPTP + 3-NP, and MPTP + 3-NP with hMSC treatment) through histopathological, behavioral, and Western blot analyses. In the substantia nigra (SN) and the striatum, 2.0% and 3.8% of total injected hMSCs were observed, respectively. Compared with double-toxin-treated mice, hMSC treatment in double-toxin-treated mice significantly increased survival of TH- and NeuN-immunoreactive cells in the SN and the striatum, with coincident improvement in motor behavior. Additionally, hMSC treatment significantly decreased double-toxin-induced microglial and astroglial activation in the SN and striatum. Western blot analysis showed that hMSC administration in double-toxin-treated mice increased the expression of p-Akt and Bcl-2 and decreased Bax and cytochrome c expression. This study demonstrates that hMSC treatment protected against loss of neurons in the SN and the striatum induced by double toxin exposure, which may be mediated by modulation of inflammatory and cell survival and death signaling-pathway as the hMSCs migrated from the peripheral circulation into the SN and striatum.
Our previous study has reported that electroacupuncture (EA) promotes survival, differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), and functional improvement in spinal cord-transected rats. In this study, we further investigated the structural bases of this functional improvement and the potential mechanisms of axonal regeneration in injured spinal cord after MSCs and EA treatment. Five experimental groups, 1) sham control (Sham-control); 2) operated control (Op-control); 3) electroacupuncture treatment (EA); 4) MSCs transplantation (MSCs), and 5) MSCs transplantation combined with electroacupuncture (MSCs + EA), were designed for this study. Western blots and immunohistochemical staining were used to assess the fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) proteins expression. Basso, Beattie, Bresnahan (BBB) locomotion test, cortical motor evoked potentials (MEPs), and anterograde and retrograde tracing were utilized to assess cortical-spinal neuronal projection regeneration and functional recovery. In the MSCs + EA group, increased labeling descending corticospinal tract (CST) projections into the lesion site showed significantly improved BBB scales and enhanced motor evoked potentials after 10 weeks of MSCs transplant and EA treatment. The structural and functional recovery after MSCs + EA treatment may be due to downregulated GFAP and CSPGs protein expression, which prevented axonal degeneration as well as improved axonal regeneration.
This case study concerns a patient with primary chronic cluster headache, who was unresponsive to all treatments and consecutively underwent hypothalamic deep brain stimulation (DBS). DBS had no effect on the cluster attacks, but cured an existing polydipsia as well as restlessness. However, hypothalamic DBS produced a constant, dull headache without concomitant symptoms and a high-frequent tremor. All of these effects were repeated when the stimulation was stopped and than started again. DBS had no effect on a pathological weight gain from 70kg to 150kg due to bulimia at night, usually during headache attacks. This case illustrates that cluster headache is, in some patients, only one symptom of a complex hypothalamic syndrome. This case also underlines that the stimulation parameters and anatomical target area for hypothalamic DBS may be too unspecific to do justice to the clinical variety of patients and concomitant symptoms. Hypothalamic DBS is an exquisite and potentially life-saving treatment method in otherwise intractable patients, but needs to be better characterised and should only be considered when other stimulation methods, such as stimulation of the greater occipital nerve, are unsuccessful.

Functional neuroimaging studies provide converging evidence for existence of intrinsic brain networks activated during resting states and deactivated with selective cognitive demands. Whether task-related deactivation of the default mode network signifies depressed activity relative to the remaining brain or simply lower activity relative to its resting state remains controversial. We employed 3D arterial spin labeling imaging to examine regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) during rest, a spatial working memory task, and a second rest. Change in regional CBF from rest to task showed significant normalized and absolute CBF reductions in posterior cingulate, posterior-inferior precuneus, and medial frontal lobes . A Statistical Parametric Mapping connectivity analysis, with an a priori seed in the posterior cingulate cortex, produced deactivation connectivity patterns consistent with the classic &quot;default mode network&quot; and activation connectivity anatomically consistent with engagement in visuospatial tasks. The large task-related CBF decrease in posterior-inferior precuneus relative to its anterior and middle portions adds evidence for the precuneus' heterogeneity. The posterior cingulate and posterior-inferior precuneus were also regions of the highest CBF at rest and during task performance. The difference in regional CBF between intrinsic (resting) and evoked (task) activity levels may represent functional readiness or reserve vulnerable to diminution by conditions affecting perfusion.
Gonadectomy in adult male rats is known to impair performance on dopamine (DA)-dependent prefrontal cortical tasks and selectively dysregulate end points in the mesoprefrontal DA system including axon density. In this study, in vivo microdialysis and high-pressure liquid chromatography were used to determine whether short (4 day)- and/or long-term (28 day) gonadectomy and hormone replacement might also influence the more functionally relevant metric of basal extracellular DA level/tone. Assessments in medial prefrontal cortex revealed that DA levels were significantly lower than control in 4-day gonadectomized rats and similar to control in 4-day gonadectomized animals supplemented with both testosterone and estradiol. Among the long-term treatment groups, DA levels were significantly higher than control in gonadectomized rats and gonadectomized rats given estradiol but were similar to control in rats given testosterone. In contrast, extracellular DA levels measured in motor cortex were unaffected by long- or short-term gonadectomy. The effects of gonadectomy and hormone replacement on prefrontal cortical DA levels observed here parallel previously identified effects on prefrontal DA axon density and could represent hormone actions relevant to the modulation of DA-dependent prefrontal cortical function and perhaps its dysfunction in disorders such as schizophrenia, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and autism where males are disproportionately affected relative to females.
The functional network topology of the adult human brain has recently begun to be noninvasively mapped using resting-state functional connectivity magnetic resonance imaging and described using mathematical tools originating from graph theory. Previous studies have revealed the existence of disproportionally connected brain regions, so called cortical hubs, which act as information convergence zones and supposedly capture key aspects of how the brain's architecture supports human behavior and how it is affected by disease. In this study, we present results showing that cortical hubs and their associated cortical networks are largely confined to primary sensory and motor brain regions in the infant brain. Our findings in infants stand in stark contrast to the situation found in adults where the majority of cortical hubs and hub-related networks are located in heteromodal association cortex. Our findings suggest that the functional network architecture in infants is linked to support tasks that are of a perception-action nature.
Evidence for interregional structural asymmetries has been previously reported for brain anatomic regions supporting well-described functional lateralization. Here, we aimed to investigate whether the two brain hemispheres demonstrate dissimilar general structural attributes implying different principles on information flow management. Common left hemisphere/right hemisphere structural network properties are estimated and compared for right-handed healthy human subjects and a nonhuman primate, by means of 3 different diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging fiber tractography algorithms and a graph theory framework. In both the human and the nonhuman primate, the data support the conclusion that, in terms of the graph framework, the right hemisphere is significantly more efficient and interconnected than the left hemisphere, whereas the left hemisphere presents more central or indispensable regions for the whole-brain structural network than the right hemisphere. From our point of view, in terms of functional principles, this pattern could be related with the fact that the left hemisphere has a leading role for highly demanding specific process, such as language and motor actions, which may require dedicated specialized networks, whereas the right hemisphere has a leading role for more general process, such as integration tasks, which may require a more general level of interconnection.


Over 2 million people are affected by intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH) worldwide every year, one third of them dying within 1 month, and many survivors being left with permanent disability. Unlike most other stroke types, the incidence, morbidity and mortality of ICH have not declined over time. No standardised diagnostic workup for the detection of the various underlying causes of ICH currently exists, and the evidence for medical or surgical therapeutic interventions remains limited. A dedicated European research programme for ICH is needed to identify ways to reduce the burden of ICH-related death and disability. The European Research Network on Intracerebral Haemorrhage EURONICH is a multidisciplinary academic research collaboration that has been established to define current research priorities and to conduct large clinical studies on all aspects of ICH.





Systematic reviews can, if done well, provide a convenient and unbiased summary of the evidence on a particular topic. The presence of substantial heterogeneity in a meta-analysis is always of interest. On the one hand, it may indicate that there is excessive clinical diversity in the studies included, and that it is inappropriate to derive an estimate of overall effect from that particular set of studies. On the other hand, appropriate exploration of the source of heterogeneity may either identify poor design of the studies included or perhaps not even identify the cause; in either case, investigating the source of the heterogeneity may be identified as a topic for future research.







The structure of the brain is a consequence of selective pressures and the ancestral brain structures modified by those pressures. The Hymenoptera are one of the most behaviorally complex insect orders, and the olfactory system of honeybees (one of the most derived members) has been extensively studied. To understand the context in which the olfactory system of the Hymenoptera evolved, we performed a variety of immunocytochemical and anatomical labeling techniques on the antennal lobes (ALs) of one of its most primitive members, the sawflies, to provide a comparison between the honeybee and other insect model species. The olfactory receptor neurons project from the antennae to fill the entire glomerular volume but do not form distinct tracts as in the honeybee. Labeling of projection neurons revealed 5 output tracts similar to those in moths and immunolabeling for several transmitters revealed distinct populations of local interneurons and centrifugal neurons that were also similar to moths. There were, however, no histaminergic or dopaminergic AL neurons. The similarities between sawflies and moths suggest that along with the great radiation and increased complexity of behavioral repertoire of the Hymenoptera, there were extensive modifications of AL structure.
One important aspect of odor hedonics is its plasticity during human development. The present study set out to probe the modulators of such olfactory change during that period by testing the hypothesis that language and semantic representations of objects are strong organizers of odor liking. To this end, 15 three-year-old children were tested in a longitudinal study. Participants were exposed to exactly the same 12 odorants once a year over a 3-year period. At each experimental session, they were asked to answer 2 questions: 1) &quot;Do you like or dislike this odor?&quot; and 2) &quot;Can you tell me what it is?&quot; The level of language production was assessed on a standardized test. The 3-year-old children were found to categorize the same number of odorants as liked and as disliked. The follow-up study, in contrast, showed that at 5 years of age they categorized more of these odors as liked and that the shift was significant only in the children with higher language production skills. Taken as a whole, these findings suggest that the 3- to 5-year age range, when children begin to master language, is a turning point in the construction of olfactory hedonic categories during childhood.
Aedes aegypti and Anopheles gambiae are among the best-characterized mosquito species within the Culicinae and Anophelinae mosquito clades which diverged 150 million years ago. Despite this evolutionary distance, the olfactory systems of these mosquitoes exhibit similar morphological and physiological adaptations. Paradoxically, mosquito odorant receptors, which lie at the heart of chemosensory signal transduction pathways, belong to a large and highly divergent gene family. We have used 2 heterologous expression systems to investigate the functional characteristics of a highly conserved subset of Ors between Ae. aegypti and An. gambiae to investigate whether protein homology correlates with odorant-induced activation. We find that these receptors share similar odorant response profiles and that indole, a common and ecologically relevant olfactory cue, elicits strong responses from these homologous receptors. The identification of other highly conserved members of this Or clade from mosquito species of varying phylogenetic relatedness supports a model in which high sensitivity to indole represents an ancient ecological adaptation that has been preserved as a result of its life cycle importance. These results provide an understanding of how similarities and disparities among homologous OR proteins relate to olfactory function, which can lead to greater insights into the design of successful strategies for the control of mosquito-borne diseases.
Telemedicine is able to provide specialized care to rural patients with limited access. The developmentally disabled population is highly suited to this modality and can be seen in general and specialized clinics. The collaborative care model, which is useful for this population, provides ongoing collaboration with both the local primary care provider and the local treatment team. Telepsychiatry can be used for education of trainees working together with an attending physician. These clinics can become exceptional opportunities to provide exposure to the specialty of child psychiatry for young doctors in training. As new programs develop, telepsychiatry for treatment and telepsychiatry for training should go hand in hand.
Individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) often struggle with complex tasks, such as those requiring divided attention (simultaneously completing two independent tasks) that also place high demands on working memory. Prior research shows that divided attention is impaired in adults and children with ASD and is related to ASD and comorbid attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) symptoms, but the impact on everyday functioning is unclear. Because ADHD symptoms are associated with poor divided attention and working memory performance in children with ASD, we also examined ADHD symptoms as moderators of divided attention performance. We examined performance on the Consonant Trigrams Test (CTT) between high-functioning 8- to 13-year-olds with ASD (n = 28) and typically developing controls (n = 18) matched on age and IQ. In the ASD group, we also correlated performance with ADHD symptoms and behavior ratings of everyday working memory. CTT performance in children with ASD was significantly worse than in matched controls. A significant correlation between CTT performance and everyday working memory was observed, but CTT performance was not related to comorbid ADHD symptoms in the ASD group. Divided attention with high working-memory demands is a relative weakness in children with high-functioning ASD; this weakness relates to everyday functioning, and it is independent from ADHD symptoms. That ADHD symptoms are not associated with divided attention performance is inconsistent with one prior investigation, which likely results from using different divided attention tasks in the two studies.
This study investigated the role of inattention and working memory in predicting academic achievement in 145 adolescents aged 13 to 18 referred for attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Path analysis was used to examine whether auditory-verbal and visual-spatial working memory would mediate the relationships between classroom inattention symptoms and achievement outcomes. Results provide support for the mediational model. Behavioral inattention significantly predicted both auditory-verbal and visual-spatial working memory performance. Auditory-verbal working memory was strongly associated with adolescents' achievement in reading and mathematics, while visual-spatial working memory was only associated with achievement in mathematics. The path from inattention symptoms to reading was partially mediated by the working memory variables, but the path from inattention to mathematics was not mediated by working memory. The proposed model demonstrated a good fit to the data and explained a substantial amount of variance in the adolescents' achievement outcomes. These findings imply that working memory is a risk factor for academic failure for adolescents with attentional problems.
The aim of this study was to examine functional attention and executive deficits present in everyday living in a large sample of children with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1). Data are presented from 199 children with NF1 and 55 unaffected sibling controls who were administered the Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function (BRIEF) and Conners' ADHD DSM-IV Scales (CADS). Convergent validity was examined by correlating scale scores from these functional measures with scores from traditional cognitive measures of attention and executive function. Results indicated global functional attention and executive deficits in children with NF1. Relationships between functional impairments and scores on cognitive measures were inconsistent; at best, the magnitude of these relationships was in the moderate range, yet there was also a lack of association between many cognitive tasks and the functional skills they purport to assess. Findings suggest that cognitive and functional measures may tap different constructs and that neuropsychological evaluations should be supplemented with functional assessment tools to provide a more accurate and sensitive encapsulation of a child's strengths and weaknesses to guide remediation programs.
Knowing the prevalence of low neurocognitive scores for the WISC-IV Canadian normative sample (WISC-IV(CDN)) is an important supplement for clinical interpretation of test performance. On the WISC-IV(CDN), it is uncommon for children and adolescents to have 4 or more subtest scores or 2 or more Index scores  9th percentile when all scores on the battery are considered simultaneously. As the level of the child's intelligence increases or the number of years of parental education increases, the prevalence of low scores decreases. These results are consistent with existing studies of the base rates of low scores in children and adolescents on pediatric cognitive batteries, including the WISC-IV American normative sample. Tables provided are ready for clinical use.
Time estimation is believed to be an adaptive function in human life. In the present study, prospective and retrospective time estimation are studied in both clinical-referred school-aged children with ADHD-C and healthy community control children, while examining more specifically the effects of type of time estimation task, length of time intervals (i.e., ranging from 3-90 s), and continuous scaling of the main ADHD symptom clusters (i.e., inattention vs. hyperactivity/impulsiveness). On a prospective verbal time estimation test, children with ADHD-C showed significant more overestimation compared to controls. For the majority of short-to-medium time intervals, this overestimation was predicted only by the continuous levels of impulsiveness or a disturbed self-regulation, indicating a dysregulation of the internal clock in ADHD. The same holds for the retrospective time estimation task. In contrast, an ADHD-related underestimation on the prospective time reproduction task was found for the longer intervals. In contrast to verbal time estimation, levels of inattention, and not the levels of impulsiveness, predicted underestimation on the time reproduction task. Our results point thereby towards parallel networks for regulating attention/working memory versus impulse regulation/inhibition as potential loci for dysfunction. These results are in contrast to the frequently cited global inhibitory executive function deficit hypothesis.
Many physicians are familiar with the parotid duct and the Danish physician/anatomist's name associated with it. However, most are unaware of Niels Stensen's life and his significant contributions to the early study of the brain. This physician of the Medici court was clearly ahead of his time and found errors in the publications of such giants as Varolius and Willis. The present review discusses the life of this seventeenth century anatomist, physician, and priest/bishop and highlights his contributions to neuroanatomy.

Group I CD1 (CD1a, CD1b, and CD1c) glycoproteins expressed on immature and mature dendritic cells present nonpeptide antigens (i.e., lipid or glycolipid molecules mainly of microbial origin) to T cells. Cytotoxic CD1-restricted T lymphocytes recognizing mycobacterial lipid antigens were found in tuberculosis patients. However, thanks to a complex interplay between mycobacteria and CD1 system, M. tuberculosis possesses a successful tactic based, at least in part, on CD1 downregulation to evade CD1-dependent immunity. On the ground of these findings, it is reasonable to hypothesize that modulation of CD1 protein expression by chemical, biological, or infectious agents could influence host's immune reactivity against M. tuberculosis-associated lipids, possibly affecting antitubercular resistance. This scenario prompted us to perform a detailed analysis of the literature concerning the effect of external agents on Group I CD1 expression in order to obtain valuable information on the possible strategies to be adopted for driving properly CD1-dependent immune functions in human pathology and in particular, in human tuberculosis.
Adamantiades-Behet's disease (ABD) is characterized by starting with oral aphthous ulceration and developing of the systemic involvements. The pathogenesis of ABD is closely correlated with the genetic factors and the triggering factors which acquire delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction against oral streptococci mediated by IL-12 cytokine family. HLA-B51 is associated in more than 60% of the patients and its restricted CD8+ T cell response is clearly correlated with the target tissues. Bes-1 gene encoded partial S. sanguinis genome which is highly homologous with retinal protein, and 65kD heat shock protein (Hsp-65) released from streptococci is playing an important role with human Hsp-60 in the pathogenesis of ABD. Although Hsp-65/60 has homologies with the respective T cell epitope, it stimulates peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from ABD patients. On the other hand, some peptides of Hsp-65 were found to reduce IL-8 and IL-12 production from PBMCs of ABD patients in active stage.

Earlier diagnosis and the availability of effective treatments have reduced the burden of high mortality and severe disability previously associated with myasthenia gravis (MG). Consequently, the prognosis of MG is now much improved. However, despite extensive knowledge of MG and its aetiology, diagnosing the disease remains problematic and can be delayed because of its nonspecific and fluctuating symptoms, and the management of MG is associated with considerable limitations. Current treatments based on immunomodulation are associated with adverse effects arising from prolonged immune suppression. There is a need for improved awareness among primary caregivers about this relatively rare, but treatable, disease.
Synchronization as a measure of quantification of similarities in dynamic systems is an important concept in many scientific fields such as nonlinear science, neuroscience, cardiology, ecology, and economics. When interdependencies and connections of coupled dynamic systems are not directly accessible and measurable such as those of the neurons of the brain, quantification of similarities between their time series outputs is the best possible way to detect the existent interdependencies among them. In recent years, Synchronization Likelihood (SL) has been used as one of the most suitable algorithms in highly nonlinear and non-stationary systems. In this method, the likelihood of patterns is measured statistically, and then it is determined which patterns of the time series are similar to each other considering a threshold. But the degree of similarities is not considered in the decision. In this paper, a new measure of synchronization, fuzzy SL, is presented using the theory of fuzzy logic and Gaussian membership functions. The new fuzzy SL is compared with the conventional SL using both a standard problem from the chaos literature and a complicated real life neurological diagnostic problem, that is, the EEG-based diagnosis of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). The results of ANOVA analysis indicate the interdependencies measured by the fuzzy SL are more reliable than the conventional SL for discriminating ADHD patients from healthy individuals.

Recent evidence of the significant impact of gastroparesis on morbidity and mortality mandates optimized management of this condition. Gastroparesis affects nutritional state, and in diabetics it has deleterious effects on glycemic control and secondary effects on organs that increase mortality. First-line treatments include restoration of nutrition and medications (prokinetic and antiemetic). We review the epidemiology, pathophysiology, impact, natural history, time trends, and treatment of gastroparesis, focusing on diabetic gastroparesis. We discuss pros and cons of current treatment options, including metoclopramide. Second-line therapeutic approaches include surgery, venting gastrostomy or jejunostomy, and gastric electrical stimulation; most of these were developed based on results from open-label trials. New therapeutic strategies for gastroparesis include drugs that target the underlying defects, prokinetic agents such as 5-hydroxytryptamine agonists that do not appear to have cardiac or vascular effects, ghrelin agonists, approaches to pace the stomach, and stem cell therapies.
Sixty-seven (N = 67) urban African American older adults were divided into successful and nonsuccessful aging groups based on objective MacArthur (i.e., physical and cognitive functioning) and on self-rated health criteria. Only 30% of the sample met objective MacArthur criteria for successful aging compared to 63% who rated themselves as successful. Self-rated successful aging was best predicted by regular exercise, whereas objective successful aging was best predicted by demographic characteristics and cognition. Reading ability mediated the relationship between both education and cognition to objectively defined success. Finally, objective successful aging was related to quantity and quality of education, whereas self-rated successful aging was related to a wider variety of variables. Defining successful aging on objective factors alone may limit our understanding of successful aging in urban African American older adults.
A survey on sleep schedule, sleep health, school performance and school start times was conducted in 1,941 adolescents. A high level of early and circadian-disadvantaged sleep/wake schedules during weekdays was observed. Shorter sleep duration on weekdays was reported, especially in upper classmen. Complaints of inadequate sleep and sleepiness during weekdays, alarm clock use, and napping were prevalent. Night awakening and prolonged sleep onset were common and associated with poor school performance. Students with a sleep length of less than 7 hours on both weekdays and weekends exhibited poorer performance, while those who made up this sleep loss on weekends did not. The total number of poor sleep factors in an individual also correlated with poor school performance. Earlier school start times were associated with a perception of poor sleep quality, shorter sleep duration and more sleep health problems. We conclude that sleep inadequacies and sleep health problems were prevalent in this population, especially in those who started school earlier in the morning, and that these poor sleep factors were associated with school performance.
Coenurosis, a rare zoonotic disease caused by the larval form of Taenia multiceps (bladderworm) is common in sheep rearing countries, but human infections are rare. Central nervous system involvement produces large giant sized cysts that radiologically closely mimic hydatid cysts. Most human infections resulting in cerebral coenuri have been reported from Europe and Africa. We report two cases of cerebral coenurosis from India, the first in a 55-year-old male presenting with a large cystic lesion in the right parietooccipital region and the second occurring in a 36-year-old male involving the left temporal trigonal region, that radiologically closely mimicked hydatid cyst. Histopathologic examination revealed characteristic features of coenuri with multiple protoscolices invaginating into a large cyst lined by outer cuticular layer. Awareness of this rare parasitic infestation is important to discriminate from the more common hydatid and giant cysticercal cysts.



This investigation explored the classification accuracy of Trail Making Test (TMT; Reitan &amp; Wolfson, 1992) indices for suboptimal effort in a sample of non-litigious acquired brain injury patients seeking outpatient rehabilitation. Patients who exhibited optimal effort completed TMT A and B faster than suboptimal effort patients. Although TMT A time to completion demonstrated adequate sensitivity to suboptimal effort, positive predictive value was fair to poor unless the base rate of suboptimal effort was inflated to 40%. TMT B time to completion yielded poor sensitivity and positive predictive value for suboptimal effort. While TMT A time to completion appears to have some value as a validity indicator, no TMT validity indicator should replace more precise symptom validity tests during neuropsychological assessment.

The understanding of dry eye disease has advanced recently through increasing recognition that the etiology of the condition involves both tear evaporation and insufficient tear production, and that tear film instability and inflammation play roles in the various stages of the disease. Of significance, it has been recognized that lipid layer thickness correlates with tear film stability. The management of dry eye involves various strategies and therapeutic approaches that address one or more etiopathological components of the disease. The purpose of this review is to outline the characteristics and clinical utility of the Systane() ocular lubricants that contain hydroxypropyl-guar and one or both of the demulcents, ie, polyethylene glycol 400 and propylene glycol. Clinically, these products are safe and are indicated for the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye. In particular, this review describes the formulations, mechanisms of action, and clinical utility of the newest additions to this topical ocular lubricant family, Systane Ultra() and Systane Balance(). Both of these ocular products are formulated with an intelligent delivery system and both provide symptomatic relief to patients with dry eye. However, Systane Balance is a novel formulation that contains both polymer and lipid components designed to protect the ocular surface and replenish tear film lipids simultaneously, a factor that is of particular relevance to patients who have dry eye associated with meibomian gland dysfunction.
Retinal vein occlusion (RVO) is a prevalent retinal vascular disease, second only to diabetic retinopathy. Previously there was no treatment for central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) and patients were simply observed for the development of severe complications, generally resulting in poor visual outcomes. The only treatment for branch vein occlusion (BRVO) was grid laser photocoagulation, which reduces edema very slowly and provides benefit in some, but not all patients. Within the past year, clinical trials have demonstrated the effects of three new pharmacologic treatments, ranibizumab, triamcinolone acetonide, and dexamethasone implants. The benefit/risk ratio is best for intraocular injections of ranibizumab, making this first-line therapy for most patients with CRVO or BRVO, while intraocular steroids are likely to play adjunctive roles. Standard care for patients with RVO has changed and will continue to evolve as results with other new agents are revealed.
Neurocognitive impairment constitutes a core feature of bipolar illness. The main domains affected are verbal memory, attention, and executive functions. Deficits in these areas as well as difficulties to get functional remission seem to be increased associated with illness progression. Several studies have found a strong relationship between neurocognitive impairment and low functioning in bipolar disorder, as previously reported in other illnesses such as schizophrenia. Cognitive remediation strategies, adapted from work conducted with traumatic brain injury patients and applied to patients with schizophrenia, also need to be adapted to individuals with bipolar disorders. Early intervention using functional remediation, involves neurocognitive techniques and training, but also psychoeducation on cognition-related issues and problem-solving within an ecological framework.

Psychiatric disorders are frequently associated with disturbances of sleep and circadian rhythms. This review focus on the relationship between sleep disturbances and eating disorders. In the first part are discussed the presence of sleep disorders among patients suffering from anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa, the macrostructure and microstructure of theirs sleep, the differences between the various subtypes in ED patients, the dreams of eating disordered patients and their recurrent contents. In the second part, there are treated sleep disturbances in binge eating disorder and other eating disorders not otherwise specified, such as nocturnal (night) eating syndrome and sleep-related eating disorder. In the third part, there are presented data concerning the neurobiological and neuroendocrinological correlates between feeding, metabolism, weight restoration and the processes regulating sleep. In conclusion, possible future investigations are proposed.


The aim of this work was to review the published data on the pharmacokinetics of cephalosporins in neonates to provide a critical analysis of the literature as a useful tool for physicians. The bibliographic search was performed for articles published up to December 3, 2010, using PubMed. In addition, the book Neofax: A Manual of Drugs Used in Neonatal Care by Young and Mangum was consulted. The cephalosporins are mainly eliminated by the kidneys, and their elimination rates are reduced at birth. As a consequence, clearance is reduced and t1/2 is more prolonged in the neonate than in more mature infants. The neonate's substantial body water content creates a large volume of distribution (Vd) of cephalosporins, as these drugs are fairly water soluble. Postnatal development is an important factor in the maturation of the neonate, and as postnatal age proceeds, the clearance of cephalosporins increases. The maturation of the kidney governs the pharmacokinetics of cephalosporins in the infant. Clearance and t1/2 are influenced by development, and this must be taken into consideration when planning a cephalosporin dosage regimen for the neonate.
Alzheimer disease is the most common cause of dementia among the elderly, accounting for ~60-70% of all cases of dementia. The neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer disease are senile plaques (mainly containing p-amyloid peptide derived from amyloid precursor protein) and neurofibrillary tangles (containing hyperphosphorylated Tau protein), along with neuronal loss. At present there is no effective treatment for Alzheimer disease. Given the prevalence and poor prognosis of the disease, the development of animal models has been a research priority to understand pathogenic mechanisms and to test therapeutic strategies. Most cases of Alzheimer disease occur sporadically in people over 65 years old, and are not genetically inherited. Roughly 5% of patients with Alzheimer disease have familial Alzheimer disease--that is, related to a genetic predisposition, including mutations in the amyloid precursor protein, presenilin 1, and presenilin 2 genes. The discovery of genes for familial Alzheimer disease has allowed transgenic models to be generated through the overexpression of the amyloid precursor protein and/or presenilins harboring one or several mutations found in familial Alzheimer disease. Although none of these models fully replicates the human disease, they have provided valuable insights into disease mechanisms as well as opportunities to test therapeutic approaches. This review describes the main transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer disease which have been adopted in Alzheimer disease research, and discusses the insights into Alzheimer disease pathogenesis from studies in such models. In summary, the Alzheimer disease mouse models have been the key to understanding the roles of soluble b-amyloid oligomers in disease pathogenesis, as well as of the relationship between p-amyloid and Tau pathologies.

Studies investigating the effect of emotional expression on spatial orienting to a gazed-at location have produced mixed results. The present study investigated the role of affective context in the integration of emotion processing and gaze-triggered orienting. In three experiments, a face gazed nonpredictively to the left or right, and then its expression became fearful or happy. Participants identified (Experiments 1 and 2) or detected (Experiment 3) a peripheral target presented 225 or 525 ms after the gaze cue onset. In Experiments 1 and 3 the targets were either threatening (a snarling dog) or nonthreatening (a smiling baby); in Experiment 2 the targets were neutral. With emotionally-valenced targets, the gaze-cuing effect was larger when the face was fearful compared to happy--but only with the longer cue-target interval. With neutral targets, there was no interaction between gaze and expression. Our results indicate that a meaningful context optimizes attentional integration of gaze and expression information.

The paper addresses a weakness in the Schwartz and Dell paper (2010)-namely, its discussion of the inclusion criteria for case series. The paper distinguishes the different types that exist and how they constrain the theoretical conclusions that one can draw about the organization of the normal cognitive system. Four different types of inclusion criteria are considered. Two are those treated by Schwartz and Dell-namely, theoretically derived clinical criteria, such as the example of semantic dementia, and broad clinical criteria such as the presence of aphasia. In addition, in the present paper two different types of anatomically based criteria are assessed-those using anatomical regions selected a priori and also regions selected as a result of an anatomical group study analysis. Putative functional syndromes are argued to be the empirical building blocks for cognitive neuropsychology. Anatomically based case series can aid in their construction or in their fractionation.
In this commentary, though acknowledging that a case-series approach in neuropsychology is not always possible, we set out a series of considerations that in our view make this approach generally superior to single-case study. We argue that case-series designs are crucial for theory-testing, assessment of computational models, evaluation of inter-patient variation (including selection criteria, patient homogeneity/heterogeneity, premorbid individual differences, etc.) and to establish solid foundations for the interpretation of behavioural dissociations and associations. We conclude by suggesting that, alongside other neuroscience techniques, case-series cognitive neuropsychology provides a crucial contribution to the future of clinical and cognitive neuroscience.
A common modern view of consciousness is that it is an emergent property of the brain, perhaps caused by neuronal complexity, and perhaps with no adaptive value. Exactly what emerges, how it emerges, and from what specific neuronal process, is in debate. One possible explanation of consciousness, proposed here, is that it is a construct of the social perceptual machinery. Humans have specialized neuronal machinery that allows us to be socially intelligent. The primary role for this machinery is to construct models of other people's minds thereby gaining some ability to predict the behavior of other individuals. In the present hypothesis, awareness is a perceptual reconstruction of attentional state; and the machinery that computes information about other people's awareness is the same machinery that computes information about our own awareness. The present article brings together a variety of lines of evidence including experiments on the neural basis of social perception, on hemispatial neglect, on the out-of-body experience, on mirror neurons, and on the mechanisms of decision-making, to explore the possibility that awareness is a construct of the social machinery in the brain.
The personality trait of extraversion has been linked to the network of brain systems controlling sensitivity to cues of reward and generating approach behavior in response, but little is known about whether extraverts' neural circuits are especially sensitive to social stimuli, given their preference for social engagement. Utilizing event-related potential (ERP) methodology, this study demonstrates that variation on the extraversion dimension is associated with the extent to which social stimuli evoke enhanced allocation of attention. Specifically, higher scores on extraversion were found to be associated with higher amplitudes of the P300 component of the ERPs elicited by human faces. This finding suggests that social stimuli carry enhanced motivational significance for individuals characterized by high extraversion, and that individual differences in personality are related to meaningful individual differences in neural responses to social stimuli.
An astonishing number of extracellular matrix glycoproteins are expressed in dynamic patterns in the developing and adult nervous system. Neural stem cells, neurons, and glia express receptors that mediate interactions with specific extracellular matrix molecules. Functional studies in vitro and genetic studies in mice have provided evidence that the extracellular matrix affects virtually all aspects of nervous system development and function. Here we will summarize recent findings that have shed light on the specific functions of defined extracellular matrix molecules on such diverse processes as neural stem cell differentiation, neuronal migration, the formation of axonal tracts, and the maturation and function of synapses in the peripheral and central nervous system.
Jelena Krmpoti-Nemani (1921-2008) was a world-famous anatomist, internationally distinguished otolaryngologist, a member of the Croatian Academy of Sciences &amp; Arts and appreciated professor at the School of Medicine University of Zagreb. The founding influence in her scientific career came from her mentor Drago Perovid who was a student of Ferdinand Hochstetter, the leading authority in the field of human developmental neuroanatomy and embryology. Such an influence was obviously important in early shaping of the research agenda of Jelena Krmpoti-Nemani, and it remains important in a long series of studies on developing human telencephalon initiated by Ivica Kostovi and his collaborators - with an always present and active support of Jelena Krmpoti-Nemani. The aim of this mini review is to briefly describe her numerous contributions to the anatomy of the human peripheral and central nervous system.
The concept of 'embodiment' and its implications for the evolution of cognitive capacities is emerging as a major issue in biology. Invertebrates have immensely diverse nervous structures and body plans, revealing the variety of solutions evolved by animals living successfully in all kinds of niches. Among invertebrates, the octopus is a special case because of its high cognitive abilities and a uniquely flexible body and manoeuvrable arms with virtually infinite degrees of freedom. Here we discuss how the octopus embodiment may be considered a 'key' to the development of its neural organisation and cognitive abilities.
Microtubules are cytoskeletal structures in the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells, and their highly dynamic properties are essential to perform a wide variety of vital functions in cells. Microtubule growth proceeds through the endwise addition of nucleotide-bound tubulin molecules. It has largely been assumed that only tubulin dimers can incorporate into microtubules, and that the chemical state of the nucleotide is crucial for the incorporation. Recent observations reveal that both tubulin dimers and oligomers can add to microtubule ends and that the chemical state of the nucleotide is not decisive for tubulin addition. Together with structural studies of tubulin, these results show tubulin assembly polymorphism, which could play a crucial role in microtubule-dependent cellular functions.
In order to characterize objectively the succession of movements observed during motor seizures, inertial and magnetic sensors were placed on epileptic patients. Video recordings synchronized with motion recordings were analyzed visually during seizures and divided, for each limb, into events corresponding to different classes of motor manifestations. For each classified event, features were extracted and a subset selection was automated using artificial neural networks. The best artificial neural network was simulated on whole recordings to generate a stereotypic evolution of motor manifestations that we called motorograms. It is shown that motorograms can point out seizure movements and emphasize epileptic patterns.


We describe a set of complementary EEG data collection and processing tools recently developed at the Swartz Center for Computational Neuroscience (SCCN) that connect to and extend the EEGLAB software environment, a freely available and readily extensible processing environment running under Matlab. The new tools include (1) a new and flexible EEGLAB STUDY design facility for framing and performing statistical analyses on data from multiple subjects; (2) a neuroelectromagnetic forward head modeling toolbox (NFT) for building realistic electrical head models from available data; (3) a source information flow toolbox (SIFT) for modeling ongoing or event-related effective connectivity between cortical areas; (4) a BCILAB toolbox for building online brain-computer interface (BCI) models from available data, and (5) an experimental real-time interactive control and analysis (ERICA) environment for real-time production and coordination of interactive, multimodal experiments.
The recent surge in computational power has led to extensive methodological developments and advanced signal processing techniques that play a pivotal role in neuroscience. In particular, the field of brain signal analysis has witnessed a strong trend towards multidimensional analysis of large data sets, for example, single-trial time-frequency analysis of high spatiotemporal resolution recordings. Here, we describe the freely available ELAN software package which provides a wide range of signal analysis tools for electrophysiological data including scalp electroencephalography (EEG), magnetoencephalography (MEG), intracranial EEG, and local field potentials (LFPs). The ELAN toolbox is based on 25 years of methodological developments at the Brain Dynamics and Cognition Laboratory in Lyon and was used in many papers including the very first studies of time-frequency analysis of EEG data exploring evoked and induced oscillatory activities in humans. This paper provides an overview of the concepts and functionalities of ELAN, highlights its specificities, and describes its complementarity and interoperability with other toolboxes.
Brainstorm is a collaborative open-source application dedicated to magnetoencephalography (MEG) and electroencephalography (EEG) data visualization and processing, with an emphasis on cortical source estimation techniques and their integration with anatomical magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data. The primary objective of the software is to connect MEG/EEG neuroscience investigators with both the best-established and cutting-edge methods through a simple and intuitive graphical user interface (GUI).
EMEGS (electromagnetic encephalography software) is a MATLAB toolbox designed to provide novice as well as expert users in the field of neuroscience with a variety of functions to perform analysis of EEG and MEG data. The software consists of a set of graphical interfaces devoted to preprocessing, analysis, and visualization of electromagnetic data. Moreover, it can be extended using a plug-in interface. Here, an overview of the capabilities of the toolbox is provided, together with a simple tutorial for both a standard ERP analysis and a time-frequency analysis. Latest features and future directions of the software development are presented in the final section.
BioSig is an open source software library for biomedical signal processing. The aim of the BioSig project is to foster research in biomedical signal processing by providing free and open source software tools for many different application areas. Some of the areas where BioSig can be employed are neuroinformatics, brain-computer interfaces, neurophysiology, psychology, cardiovascular systems, and sleep research. Moreover, the analysis of biosignals such as the electroencephalogram (EEG), electrocorticogram (ECoG), electrocardiogram (ECG), electrooculogram (EOG), electromyogram (EMG), or respiration signals is a very relevant element of the BioSig project. Specifically, BioSig provides solutions for data acquisition, artifact processing, quality control, feature extraction, classification, modeling, and data visualization, to name a few. In this paper, we highlight several methods to help students and researchers to work more efficiently with biomedical signals.
NUTMEG is a source analysis toolbox geared towards cognitive neuroscience researchers using MEG and EEG, including intracranial recordings. Evoked and unaveraged data can be imported to the toolbox for source analysis in either the time or time-frequency domains. NUTMEG offers several variants of adaptive beamformers, probabilistic reconstruction algorithms, as well as minimum-norm techniques to generate functional maps of spatiotemporal neural source activity. Lead fields can be calculated from single and overlapping sphere head models or imported from other software. Group averages and statistics can be calculated as well. In addition to data analysis tools, NUTMEG provides a unique and intuitive graphical interface for visualization of results. Source analyses can be superimposed onto a structural MRI or headshape to provide a convenient visual correspondence to anatomy. These results can also be navigated interactively, with the spatial maps and source time series or spectrogram linked accordingly. Animations can be generated to view the evolution of neural activity over time. NUTMEG can also display brain renderings and perform spatial normalization of functional maps using SPM's engine. As a MATLAB package, the end user may easily link with other toolboxes or add customized functions.
Magnetic- and electric-evoked brain responses have traditionally been analyzed by comparing the peaks or mean amplitudes of signals from selected channels and averaged across trials. More recently, tools have been developed to investigate single trial response variability (e.g., EEGLAB) and to test differences between averaged evoked responses over the entire scalp and time dimensions (e.g., SPM, Fieldtrip). LIMO EEG is a Matlab toolbox (EEGLAB compatible) to analyse evoked responses over all space and time dimensions, while accounting for single trial variability using a simple hierarchical linear modelling of the data. In addition, LIMO EEG provides robust parametric tests, therefore providing a new and complementary tool in the analysis of neural evoked responses.
This paper describes methods to analyze the brain's electric fields recorded with multichannel Electroencephalogram (EEG) and demonstrates their implementation in the software CARTOOL. It focuses on the analysis of the spatial properties of these fields and on quantitative assessment of changes of field topographies across time, experimental conditions, or populations. Topographic analyses are advantageous because they are reference independents and thus render statistically unambiguous results. Neurophysiologically, differences in topography directly indicate changes in the configuration of the active neuronal sources in the brain. We describe global measures of field strength and field similarities, temporal segmentation based on topographic variations, topographic analysis in the frequency domain, topographic statistical analysis, and source imaging based on distributed inverse solutions. All analysis methods are implemented in a freely available academic software package called CARTOOL. Besides providing these analysis tools, CARTOOL is particularly designed to visualize the data and the analysis results using 3-dimensional display routines that allow rapid manipulation and animation of 3D images. CARTOOL therefore is a helpful tool for researchers as well as for clinicians to interpret multichannel EEG and evoked potentials in a global, comprehensive, and unambiguous way.
We present a comprehensive probabilistic point process framework to estimate and monitor the instantaneous heartbeat dynamics as related to specific cardiovascular control mechanisms and hemodynamics. Assessment of the model's statistics is established through the Wiener-Volterra theory and a multivariate autoregressive (AR) structure. A variety of instantaneous cardiovascular metrics, such as heart rate (HR), heart rate variability (HRV), respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA), and baroreceptor-cardiac reflex (BRS), can be rigorously derived within a parametric framework and instantaneously updated with an adaptive algorithm. Instantaneous metrics of nonlinearity, such as the bispectrum of heartbeat intervals, can also be derived. We have applied the proposed point process framework to experimental recordings from healthy subjects in order to monitor cardiovascular regulation under propofol anesthesia. Results reveal interesting dynamic trends across different pharmacological interventions, confirming the ability of the algorithm to track important changes in cardiorespiratory elicited interactions, and pointing at our mathematical approach as a promising monitoring tool for an accurate, noninvasive assessment of general anesthesia.
Humans experience the self as localized within their body. This aspect of bodily self-consciousness can be experimentally manipulated by exposing individuals to conflicting multisensory input, or can be abnormal following focal brain injury. Recent technological developments helped to unravel some of the mechanisms underlying multisensory integration and self-location, but the neural underpinnings are still under investigation, and the manual application of stimuli resulted in large variability difficult to control. This paper presents the development and evaluation of an MR-compatible stroking device capable of presenting moving tactile stimuli to both legs and the back of participants lying on a scanner bed while acquiring functional neuroimaging data. The platform consists of four independent stroking devices with a travel of 16-20 cm and a maximum stroking velocity of 15 cm/s, actuated over non-magnetic ultrasonic motors. Complemented with virtual reality, this setup provides a unique research platform allowing to investigate multisensory integration and its effects on self-location under well-controlled experimental conditions. The MR-compatibility of the system was evaluated in both a 3 and a 7 Tesla scanner and showed negligible interference with brain imaging. In a preliminary study using a prototype device with only one tactile stimulator, fMRI data acquired on 12 healthy participants showed visuo-tactile synchrony-related and body-specific modulations of the brain activity in bilateral temporoparietal cortex.
The performance of reaching movements to visual targets requires complex kinematic mechanisms such as redundant, multijointed, anthropomorphic actuators and thus is a difficult problem since the relationship between sensory and motor coordinates is highly nonlinear. In this article, we present a neural model able to learn the inverse kinematics of a simulated anthropomorphic robot finger (ShadowHand finger) having four degrees of freedom while performing 3D reaching movements. The results revealed that this neural model was able to control accurately and robustly the finger when performing single 3D reaching movements as well as more complex patterns of motion while generating kinematics comparable to those observed in human. The long term goal of this research is to design a bio-mimetic controller providing adaptive, robust and flexible control of dexterous robotic/prosthetics hands.
Neuroplasticity induced by transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) contributes to motor learning although the underlying mechanisms are incompletely understood. Here, we investigated the effects of tDCS on resting brain dynamics recorded by whole-head magnetoencephalography (MEG) pre- and up to 35 minutes post-tDCS or sham over the left primary motor cortex (M1) in healthy adults. Owing to superior temporal and spatial resolution of MEG, we sought to apply a robust, blind and data-driven analytic approach such as independent component analysis (ICA) and statistical clustering to these data to investigate potential neuroplastic effects of tDCS during resting state conditions. We found decreased alpha and increased gamma band power that outlasted the real tDCS stimulation period in a fronto-parietal motor network relative to sham. However, this method could not find differences between anodal and cathodal polarities of tDCS. These results suggest that tDCS over M1 modulates resting brain dynamics in a fronto-parietal motor network (that includes the stimulated location), indicative of within-network enhanced localized cortical processing.
The cerebral cortex of the human brain is highly folded. It is useful for neuroscientists and clinical researchers to identify and/or quantify cortical folding patterns across individuals. The top (gyri) and bottom (sulci) of these folds resemble the &quot;blob-like&quot; features used in computer vision. In this article, we evaluate different blob detectors and descriptors on brain MR images, and introduce our own, the &quot;brain blob detector and descriptor (BBDD).&quot; For the first time blob detectors are considered as spatial filters under the scale-space framework and their impulse responses are manipulated for detecting the structures in our interest. The BBDD detector is tailored to the scale and structure of blob-like features that coincide with cortical folds, and its descriptors performed well at discriminating these features in our evaluation.
In recent years, much attention has been focused on developing stimulating strategies for somatosensory prostheses. One application of such a somatosensory prosthesis is to supply proprioceptive feedback in a brain machine interface application. One strategy for the development of such a stimulation regime is to mimic the natural representation of limb state variables. In this paper, we demonstrate that end point force is represented in primary somatosensory cortex of the macaque and force, in addition to velocity, can be decoded from S1 neural recordings. Force is represented in S1 in both a movement and isometric tasks; however, models that predict force in one condition do not generalize to the other. Possible interpretations of these apparently contradictory results are discussed.
With the advent of new approaches to upper extremity recovery after stroke and spinal cord injury, the quantitative evaluation of hand function has become a crucial component of outcome evaluation. Recently we developed a workstation, the ReJoyce (Rehabilitation Joystick for Computer Exercise) on which subjects perform a variety of movement tasks while playing computer games. An important feature of the system is the ReJoyce Automated Hand Function Test (RAHFT). In this study we compared and validated the RAHFT against two widely-used clinical tests, the Action Research Arm Test (ARAT) [1][2] and the Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA) [3]. All three tests were performed in 34 separate sessions in 13 tetraplegic individuals. Principal component and regression analyses revealed that both the ARAT and the RAHFT correlated well with the first principle component fitted to the scores of the three tests. The FMA was less well correlated. These data help validate the RAHFT as a quantitative, automated alternative to the ARAT and FMA. The RAHFT is the first comprehensive test of hand function that does not depend on human judgment.
One major challenge in neuroscience is to identify the functional modules from multichannel, multiple subjects recordings. Most research on community detection has focused on finding the association matrix based on functional connectivity, instead of effective connectivity, thus not capturing the causality in the network. In this paper, we propose a community detection algorithm suitable for weighted and asymmetric (directed) networks representing effective connectivity, and apply the algorithm to multichannel electroencephalogram (EEG) data. In addition, we extend the algorithm to find one common community structure from multiple subjects.
Functional investigation of human hand representation in the motor area M1 requires high resolution functional imaging, to finely separate activation in M1, and a perfect alignment of individual central sulci to improve functional areas overlap and significance of statistical parametric maps obtained from different hand movements. Based on anatomical measures, we show how recent global diffeomorphic registration techniques impact positively on the alignment of sulcal folds in M1 area. With functional measures, we evaluate their effect on the robust detection and localization of group brain activation for flexion/extension of right and left thumbs/fingers and wrists. The methodology we propose opens the way to a non invasive functional exploration of the human hand motor cortex at the group level under different normal, pathological or after rehabilitative conditions.
With increased attention toward physiological cognitive state assessment as a component in the larger field of applied neuroscience, the need to develop methods for robust, stable assessment of cognitive state has been expressed as critical to designing effective augmented human-machine systems. The technique of cognitive state assessment, as well as its benefits, has been demonstrated by many research groups. In an effort to move closer toward a realized system, efforts must now be focused on critical issues that remain unsolved, namely instability of pattern classifiers over the course of hours and days. This work, as part of the Cognitive State Assessment Competition 2011, seeks to explore methods for 'learning' non-stationarity as a mitigation for more generalized patterns that are stable over time courses that are not widely discussed in the literature.
We report, as part of the EMBC meeting Cognitive State Assessment (CSA) competition 2011, an empirical comparison using robust cross-validation of the performance of eleven computational approaches to real-time electroencephalography (EEG) based mental workload monitoring on Multi-Attribute Task Battery data from eight subjects. We propose a new approach, Overcomplete Spectral Regression, that combines several potentially advantageous attributes and empirically demonstrate its superior performance on these data compared to the ten other CSA methods tested. We discuss results from computational, neuroscience and experimentation points of view.
Significant growth in the field of neuroscience has occurred over the last decade such that new application areas for basic research techniques are opening up to practitioners in many other areas. Of particular interest to many is the principle of neuroergonomics, by which the traditional work in neuroscience and its related topics can be applied to non-traditional areas such as human-machine system design. While work in neuroergonomics certainly predates the use of the term in the literature (previously identified by others as applied neuroscience, operational neuroscience, etc.), there is great promise in the larger framework that is represented by the general context of the terminology. Here, we focus on the very specific concept that principles in brain-computer interfaces, neural prosthetics and the larger realm of machine learning using physiological inputs can be applied directly to the design and implementation of augmented human-machine systems. Indeed, work in this area has been ongoing for more than 25 years with very little cross-talk and collaboration between clinical and applied researchers. We propose that, given increased interest in augmented human-machine systems based on cognitive state, further progress will require research in the same vein as that being done in the aforementioned communities, and that all researchers with a vested interest in physiologically-based machine learning techniques can benefit from increased collaboration. We thereby seek to describe the current state of cognitive state assessment in human-machine systems, the problems and challenges faced, and the tightly-coupled relationship with other research areas. This supports the larger work of the Cognitive State Assessment 2011 Competition by setting the stage for the purpose of the session by showing the need to increase research in the machine learning techniques used by practitioners of augmented human-machine system design.
One of the main problems of both synchronous and asynchronous EEG-based BCIs is the need of an initial calibration phase before the system can be used. This phase is necessary due to the high non-stationarity of the EEG, since it changes between sessions and users. The calibration process limits the BCI systems to scenarios where the outputs are very controlled, and makes these systems non-friendly and exhausting for the users. Although it has been studied how to reduce calibration time for asynchronous signals, it is still an open issue for event-related potentials. Here, we propose the minimization of the calibration time on single-trial error potentials by using classifiers based on inter-subject information. The results show that it is possible to have a classifier with a high performance from the beginning of the experiment, and which is able to adapt itself making the calibration phase shorter and transparent to the user.
A brain computer interface (BCI) is a system that translates neurophysiological signals detected from the brain to supply input to a computer or to control a device. Volitional control of neural activity and its real-time detection through neuroimaging modalities are key constituents of BCI systems. The purpose of this study was to develop and test a new BCI design that utilizes intention-related cognitive activity within the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex using functional near infrared (fNIR) spectroscopy. fNIR is a noninvasive, safe, portable and affordable optical technique with which to monitor hemodynamic changes, in the brain's cerebral cortex. Because of its portability and ease of use, fNIR is amenable to deployment in ecologically valid natural working environments. We integrated a control paradigm in a computerized 3D virtual environment to augment interactivity. Ten healthy participants volunteered for a two day study in which they navigated a virtual environment with keyboard inputs, but were required to use the fNIR-BCI for interaction with virtual objects. Results showed that participants consistently utilized the fNIR-BCI with an overall success rate of 84% and volitionally increased their cerebral oxygenation level to trigger actions within the virtual environment.
This study examined the feasibility of decoding semantic information from human cortical activity. Four human subjects undergoing presurgical brain mapping and seizure foci localization participated in this study. Electrocorticographic (ECoG) signals were recorded while the subjects performed simple language tasks involving semantic information processing, such as a picture naming task where subjects named pictures of objects belonging to different semantic categories. Robust high-gamma band (60-120 Hz) activation was observed at the left inferior frontal gyrus (LIFG) and the posterior portion of the superior temporal gyrus (pSTG) with a temporal sequence corresponding to speech production and perception. Furthermore, Gaussian Nave Bayes and Support Vector Machine classifiers, two commonly used machine learning algorithms for pattern recognition, were able to predict the semantic category of an object using cortical activity captured by ECoG electrodes covering the frontal, temporal and parietal cortices. These findings have implications for both basic neuroscience research and development of semantic-based brain-computer interface systems (BCI) that can help individuals with severe motor or communication disorders to express their intention and thoughts.
Nowadays, data are recorded with increasing spatial and temporal resolution. Commonly these data are analyzed using univariate or bivariate approaches. Most of the analysis techniques assume stationarity of the underlying dynamical processes. Here, we present an approach that is capable of analyzing multivariate data, the so-called renormalized partial directed coherence. It utilizes the concept of Granger causality and is applicable to non-stationary data. We discuss its abilities and limitations, and demonstrate its usefulness in an application to murine electroencephalography (EEG) data during sleep transitions.
We study subjects with pharmacologically intractable epilepsy who undergo semi-chronic implantation of electrodes for clinical purposes. We record physiological activity from tens to more than one hundred electrodes implanted in different parts of neocortex. These recordings provide higher spatial and temporal resolution than non-invasive measures of human brain activity. Here we discuss our efforts to develop hardware and algorithms to interact with the human brain by decoding ensemble activity in single trials. We focus our discussion on decoding visual information during a variety of visual object recognition tasks but the same technologies and algorithms can also be directly applied to other cognitive phenomena.
The accelerating pace of research in neurosciences and rehabilitation engineering has created a considerable demand for implantable microsystems capable of interfacing with large groups of neurons. Such microsystems must provide multiple recording channels incorporating low-noise amplifiers, filters, data converters, neural signal processing circuitry, power management units and low-power transmitters to extract and wirelessly transfer the relevant neural data outside the body for computing and storage. This paper is reviewing several electronic recording strategies to address the challenge of operating large numbers of channels to gather the neural information from several neurons within very low-power constraints.
With continued research on brain machine interfaces (BMIs), it is now possible to control prosthetic arm position in space to a high degree of accuracy. However, a reliable decoder to infer the dexterous movements of fingers from brain activity during a natural grasping motion is still to be demonstrated. Here, we present a methodology to accurately predict and reconstruct natural hand kinematics from non-invasively recorded scalp electroencephalographic (EEG) signals during object grasping movements. The high performance of our decoder is attributed to a combination of the correct input space (time-domain amplitude modulation of delta-band smoothed EEG signals) and an optimal subset of EEG electrodes selected using a genetic algorithm. Trajectories of the joint angles were reconstructed for metacarpo-phalangeal (MCP) joints of the fingers as well as the carpo-metacarpal (CMC) and MCP joints of the thumb. High decoding accuracy (Pearson's correlation coefficient, r) between the predicted and observed trajectories (r = 0.76  0.01; averaged across joints) indicate that this technique may be suitable for use with a closed-loop real-time BMI to control grasping motion in prosthetics with high degrees of freedom. This demonstrates the first successful decoding of hand pre-shaping kinematics from noninvasive neural signals.
Model selection is a critical component of data analysis procedures, and is particularly difficult for small numbers of observations such as is typical of functional MRI datasets. In this paper we derive two Bayesian evidence-based model selection procedures that exploit the existence of an analytic form for the linear Gaussian model class. Firstly, an evidence information criterion is proposed as a model order selection procedure for auto-regressive models, outperforming the commonly employed Akaike and Bayesian information criteria in simulated data. Secondly, an evidence-based method for testing change in linear correlation between datasets is proposed, which is demonstrated to outperform both the traditional statistical test of the null hypothesis of no correlation change and the likelihood ratio test.
Coherence analysis characterizes frequency-dependent covariance between signals, and is useful for multivariate oscillatory data often encountered in neuroscience. The global coherence provides a summary of coherent behavior in high-dimensional multivariate data by quantifying the concentration of variance in the first mode of an eigenvalue decomposition of the cross-spectral matrix. Practical application of this useful method is sensitive to noise, and can confound coherent activity in disparate neural populations or spatial locations that have a similar frequency structure. In this paper we describe two methodological enhancements to the global coherence procedure that increase robustness of the technique to noise, and that allow characterization of how power within specific coherent modes change through time.
Multiunit recording with a multi-electrode in the brain has been widely used in neuroscience studies. After the data recording, neuronal spikes should be sorted according to spike waveforms. For the spike sorting, independent component analysis (ICA) has recently been used because ICA potentially solves the problem to separate even overlapped multiple neuronal spikes into the single. However, we found that multiunit signals are recorded in each electrode channel with channel-specific delay. This situation does not satisfy the instantaneous mixture condition prerequisite for most of ICA algorithms. Actually, this delayed mixture situation was shown to degrade the performance of an ordinary ICA. In this study, in order to overcome this problem, complex-valued processing in the time-frequency domain is applied to multiunit signals by the wavelet transform. In the space spanned by the wavelet coefficients, the condition of instantaneous mixture is almost fulfilled. By application to a synthetic multiunit signal, the ICA algorithm extended to complex-valued signals makes much improvement in spike sorting performance so that even overlapped multiple spikes are successfully separated. Taken together, the complex-valued method could be a powerful tool for spike sorting.
Today's brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) record the electrical signal from the cortex and use that signal to control an external device, such as a computer cursor, wheelchair, or neuroprosthetic. Two control strategies used by BCIs, process control and goal selection, differ in the amount of assistance the BCI system provides the user. This paper looks at non-invasive studies that directly compare goal selection to process control. In these studies, the assistance provided by a BCI using goal selection 1) increased the user's performance with the BCI and 2) resulted in an EEG signal that was more conducive to good performance.
With the advent of sophisticated prosthetic limbs, the challenge is now to develop and demonstrate optimal closed-loop control of the these limbs using neural measurements from single/multiple unit activity (SUA/MUA), electrocorticography (ECoG), local field potentials (LFP), scalp electroencephalography (EEG) or even electromyography (EMG) after targeted muscle reinnervation (TMR) in subjects with upper limb disarticulation. In this paper we propose design principles for developing a noninvasive EEG-based brain-machine interface (BMI) for dexterous control of a high degree-of-freedom, biologically realistic limb.
It has been suggested that the human mirror neuron system can facilitate learning by imitation through coupling of observation and action execution. During imitation of observed actions, the functional relationship between and within the inferior frontal cortex, the posterior parietal cortex, and the superior temporal sulcus can be modeled within the internal model framework. The proposed biologically plausible mirror neuron system model extends currently available models by explicitly modeling the intraparietal sulcus and the superior parietal lobule in implementing the function of a frame of reference transformation during imitation. Moreover, the model posits the ventral premotor cortex as performing an inverse computation. The simulations reveal that: i) the transformation system can learn and represent the changes in extrinsic to intrinsic coordinates when an imitator observes a demonstrator; ii) the inverse model of the imitator's frontal mirror neuron system can be trained to provide the motor plans for the imitated actions.
Optogenetic technology based on light activation of genetically targeted single component opsins such as Channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) has been changing the way neuroscience research is conducted. This technology is becoming increasingly important for neural engineering as well. The efficiency of neural stimulation with ChR2 drops at high frequencies, often before the natural limit of the neuron is reached. This study aims to investigate the underlying mechanisms that limit the efficiency of the stimulation at high frequencies. The study analyzes the dynamics of the spikes induced by ChR2 in comparison to control stimulations using patch clamp current injection. It shows that the stimulation dynamics is limited by two mechanisms: 1) a frequency independent reduction in the conductance-to-irradiance yield due to the ChR2 light adaptation process and 2) a frequency dependent reduction in the conductance-to-current yield due to a decrease in membrane re-polarization level between spikes that weakens the ionic driving force. The effect of the first mechanism can be minimized by using ChR2 mutants with lower irradiance threshold. In contrast the effect of the second mechanism is fundamentally limited by the rate the native ion channels re-polarize the membrane potential.
Many stroke patients are subject to limited hand functions in the paretic arm due to a significant loss of Corticospinal Tract (CST) fibers. A possible solution for this problem is to classify surface Electromyography (EMG) signals generated by hand movements and uses that to implement Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES). However, EMG usually presents an abnormal muscle coactivation pattern shown as increased coupling between muscles within and/or across joints after stroke. The resulting Abnormal Muscle Synergies (AMS) could make the classification more difficult in individuals with stroke, especially when attempting to use the hand together with other joints in the paretic arm. Therefore, this study is aimed at identifying the impact of AMS following stroke on EMG pattern recognition between two hand movements. In an effort to achieve this goal, 7 chronic hemiparetic chronic stroke subjects were recruited and asked to perform hand opening and closing movements at their paretic arm while being either fully supported by a virtual table or loaded with 25% of subject's maximum shoulder abduction force. During the execution of motor tasks EMG signals from the wrist flexors and extensors were simultaneously acquired. Our results showed that increased synergy-induced activity at elbow flexors, induced by increasing shoulder abduction loading, deteriorated the performance of EMG pattern recognition for hand opening for those with a weak grasp strength and EMG activity. However, no such impact on hand closing has yet been observed possibly because finger/wrist flexion is facilitated by the shoulder abduction-induced flexion synergy.
Here we report first results of numerical methods for modeling the dynamic structure and evolution of epileptic seizure activity in an intracranial subdural electrode recording from a patient with partial refractory epilepsy. A 16-min dataset containing two seizures was decomposed using up to five competing adaptive mixture independent component analysis (AMICA) models. Multiple models modeled early or late ictal, or pre- or post-ictal periods in the data, respectively. To localize sources, a realistic Boundary Element Method (BEM) head model was constructed for the patient with custom open skull and plastic (non-conductive) electrode holder features. Source localization was performed using Sparse Bayesian Learning (SBL) on a dictionary of overlapping multi-scale cortical patches constructed from 80,130 dipoles in gray matter perpendicular to the cortical surface. Remaining mutual information among seizure-model AMICA components was dominated by two dependent component subspaces with largely contiguous source domains localized to superior frontal gyrus and precentral gyrus; these accounted for most of the ictal activity. Similar though much weaker dependent subspaces were also revealed in pre-ictal data by the associated AMICA model. Electrocortical source imaging appears promising both for clinical epilepsy research and for basic cognitive neuroscience research using volunteer patients who must undergo invasive monitoring for medical purposes.
Over the last several years we have developed a rapidly-expanding suite of genetically-encoded reagents (e.g., ChR2, Halo, Arch, Mac, and others) that, when expressed in specific neuron types in the nervous system, enable their activities to be powerfully and precisely activated and silenced in response to light. If the genes that encode for these reagents can be delivered to cells in the body using gene therapy methods, and if the resultant protein payloads operate safely and effectively over therapeutically important periods of time, these molecules could subserve a set of precise prosthetics that use light as the trigger of information entry into the nervous system, e.g. for sensory replacement. Here we discuss the use of ChR2 to make the photoreceptor-deprived retina, as found in diseases such as retinitis pigmentosa, sensitive to light, enabling restoration of functional vision in a mouse model of blindness. We also discuss arrays of light sources that could be useful for delivering patterned sensory information into the nervous system.
Audiovisual interaction has been one of the most important topics in cognitive neurosciences. Visual stimuli could significantly impact the auditory perception, and vice versa. Nevertheless, how much the change in visual stimuli would influence the perception of auditory change remains to be investigated. In this paper, we designed an audiovisual experiment in which subjects were required to judge whether there is a change in the intensities of two sounds with 150 ms interval, while there are two simultaneously presented size-changed visual stimuli. Behavioral results demonstrated that incongruent audiovisual change could result in the illusory perception of the change in sound intensity. For the correctly judged trials, source analysis showed two characteristic windows post the first auditory stimulus, i.e., (i) the 160-200 ms window including the auditory P200 and visual N100 wave, which was related to audiovisual interaction and working memory of the first stimulus with localized sources in insula and agranular retrolimbic area; and (ii) the 300-400 ms window for P300 with sources in premotor cortex and caudate nucleus, which were related to later audiovisual interaction, change discrimination and working memory. These preliminary results implied two stages in the audiovisual change perception task, with the involvement of insula, agranular retrolimbic, premotor cortex and caudate nucleus.
Neuroprostheses (NPs) are electrical stimulators that help to restore sensory or motor functions lost as a result of neural damage. The Stimulus Router System (SRS) is a new type of NP developed in our laboratory. The system uses fully implanted, passive leads to &quot;capture&quot; and &quot;route&quot; some of the current flowing between pairs of surface electrodes to the vicinity of the target nerves, hence eliminating the need for an implanted stimulator. In June 2008, 3 SRS leads were implanted in a tetraplegic man for restoration of grasp and release. To reduce the size of the external wristlet and thereby optimize usability, we recently implemented a polarity reversing stimulation technique that allowed us to eliminate a reference electrode. Selective activation of three target muscles was achieved by switching the polarities of the stimulus current delivered between pairs of surface electrodes located over the pick-up terminals of the implanted leads and reducing the amplitude of the secondary phases of the stimulus pulses.
Extracellular potential recordings are important in neuroscience; however the variability of spike waveforms has not been extensively studied to date. This study examines the variability of spike recordings within and between sessions. Place cell recordings were used in order to identify the cells across successive sessions. Place cells allow neuron spike recordings to be identified across different sessions using place fields, which are independent of the cell's spike waveform. The results show that the distribution of the residues within a session does not follow a normal distribution, a t-distribution is more suitable. The results also show that the amplitude of the spikes can vary largely between successive sessions (up to 47%), this is an important factor to be considered in long term spike recording systems.
Brain Hyperscanning, i.e. the simultaneous recording of the cerebral activity of different human subjects involved in interaction tasks, is a very recent field of Neuroscience aiming at understanding the cerebral processes generating and generated by social interactions. This approach allows the observation and modeling of the neural signature specifically dependent on the interaction between subjects, and, even more interestingly, of the functional links existing between the activities in the brains of the subjects interacting together. In this EEG hyperscanning study we explored the functional hyperconnectivity between the activity in different scalp sites of couples of Civil Aviation Pilots during different phases of a flight reproduced in a flight simulator. Results shown a dense network of connections between the two brains in the takeoff and landing phases, when the cooperation between them is maximal, in contrast with phases during which the activity of the two pilots was independent, when no or quite few links were shown. These results confirms that the study of the brain connectivity between the activity simultaneously acquired in human brains during interaction tasks can provide important information about the neural basis of the &quot;spirit of the group&quot;.
In clinical practice, an objective method to assess listening effort is still not available. The benefit of such a measure would be to reduce the listening effort in hearing impaired persons by an adequate adaption of their personal hearing aids. In foregoing studies, we have shown that the wavelet phase synchronization stability (WPSS) of auditory late responses (ALRs) could serve as a feasible measure of listening effort. Here, tonal and noise embedded syllabic paradigms were employed to achieve ALR sequences in normal hearing subjects. The aims of this ongoing study were 1) to extract the WPSS of ALR sequences in hearing impaired persons, middle-aged normal hearing persons and younger normal hearing subjects, 2) to investigate possible age-related influences on the WPSS and 3) to examine a feasible influence of the hearing loss on the WPSS. It is concluded, that the WPSS of ALR sequences can be extracted in normal hearing as well as in hearing impaired persons. An age related effect regarding the WPSS was not noticeable and the intergroup comparison of the difference of the WPSS showed a tendency to be larger for the hearing impaired compared to the normal hearing middle-aged subjects. The latest can be interpreted that this subject group showed a larger effort to solve the auditory paradigms.
In the last decades, many investigations were done to examine the effects of sensorineural hearing loss on the speech perception ability. Besides testing hearing impaired persons, there is also the possibility to simulate the hearing loss. Therefore, some electrophysiological as well as speech recognition studies were performed in normal hearing subjects using techniques to model the sensorineural hearing loss. Thus, the effects of peripheral hearing loss without central auditory pathologies can be examined. In previous studies, we have shown, that the wavelet phase synchronization stability (WPSS) of auditory late responses could serve as a possible indicator of listening effort. Now, the aims of this present study were to explore the effects on the WPSS by using two different simulations of hearing loss and a simulated hearing aid. The preliminary results showed, that in case of a simultaneous simulation of hearing loss by noise masking and a hearing aid, an objective discrimination between an easy and a difficult listening situation can be achieved. Furthermore, the WPSS reflected also a good discrimination by using the filtered and attenuated paradigms.
This paper argues that basing cybertherapy approaches on a theoretical understanding of the brain has advantages. On one hand it provides for a rational approach towards therapy design while on the other allowing for a direct validation of brain theory in the clinic. As an example this paper discusses how the Distributed Adaptive Control architecture, a theory of mind, brain and action, has given rise to a new paradigm in neurorehabilitation called the Rehabilitation Gaming System (RGS) and to novel neuroprosthetic systems. The neuroprosthetic system considered is developed to replace the function of cerebellar micro-circuits, expresses core aspects of the learning systems of DAC and has been successfully tested in in-vivo experiments. The Virtual reality based rehabilitation paradigm of RGS has been validated in the treatment of acute and chronic stroke and has been shown to be more effective than existing methods. RGS provides a foundation for integrated at-home therapy systems that can operate largely autonomously when also augmented with appropriate physiological monitoring and diagnostic devices. These examples provide first steps towards a science based medicine.
Auditory steady state responses (ASSRs) are frequently used to assess auditory function. Recently, the interest in effects of attention on ASSRs has increased. In this paper, we investigated for the first time possible effects of attention on AS-SRs evoked by amplitude modulated and frequency modulated chirps paradigms. Different paradigms were designed using chirps with low and high frequency content, and the stimulation was presented in a monaural and dichotic modality. A total of 10 young subjects participated in the study, they were instructed to ignore the stimuli and after a second repetition they had to detect a deviant stimulus. In the time domain analysis, we found enhanced amplitudes for the attended conditions. Furthermore, we noticed higher amplitudes values for the condition using frequency modulated low frequency chirps evoked by a monaural stimulation. The most difference between attended and unattended modality was exhibited at the dichotic case of the amplitude modulated condition using chirps with low frequency content.
In a tDCS model study, the accuracy of isotropic and anisotropic single-layer approximations to the actual three-layered skull is evaluated. For both approximation models, the average difference in brain current density with respect to the layered skull model are shown to be small. We conclude that both approximations can be used to accurately compute the current density in the brain, provided that the radial conductivity in the model matches the effective radial conductivity of the three-layered skull.
The state of general anesthesia (GA) is associated with an increase in spectral power in scalp electroencephalogram (EEG) at frequencies below 40 Hz, including spectral peaks in the slow oscillation (SO, 0.1-1 Hz) and  (8-14 Hz) bands. Because conventional power spectral analyses are insensitive to possible cross-frequency coupling, the relationships among the oscillations at different frequencies remain largely unexplored. Quantifying such coupling is essential for improving clinical monitoring of anesthesia and understanding the neuroscience of this brain state. We tested the usefulness of two measures of cross-frequency coupling: the bispectrum-derived SynchFastSlow, which is sensitive to phase-phase coupling in different frequency bands, and modulogram analysis of coupling between SO phase and  rhythm amplitude. SynchFastSlow, a metric that is used in clinical depth-of-anesthesia monitors, showed a robust correlation with the loss of consciousness at the induction of propofol GA, but this could be largely explained by power spectral changes without considering cross-frequency coupling. Modulogram analysis revealed two distinct modes of cross-frequency coupling under GA. The waking and two distinct states under GA could be discriminated by projecting in a two-dimensional phase space defined by the SynchFastSlow and the preferred SO phase of  activity. Our results show that a stereotyped pattern of phase-amplitude coupling accompanies multiple stages of anesthetic-induced unconsciousness. These findings suggest that modulogram analysis can improve EEG based monitoring of brain state under GA.
Mapping the dynamics and spatial topography of brain source processes critically involved in initiating and propagating seizure activity is critical for effective epilepsy diagnosis, intervention, and treatment. In this report we analyze neuronal dynamics before and during epileptic seizures using adaptive multivariate autoregressive (VAR) models applied to maximally-independent (ICA) sources of intracranial EEG (iEEG, ECoG) data recorded from subdural electrodes implanted in a human patient for evaluation of surgery for epilepsy. We visualize the spatial distribution of causal sources and sinks of ictal activity on the cortical surface (gyral and sulcal) using a novel combination of multivariate Granger-causal and graph-theoretic metrics combined with distributed source localization by Sparse Bayesian Learning applied to a multi-scale patch basis. This analysis reveals and visualizes distinct, seizure stage-dependent shifts in inter-component spatiotemporal dynamics and connectivity including the clinically-identified epileptic foci.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has been applied in more than 70000 patients worldwide during the last two decades. The main target is the subthalamic nucleus (STN) for the treatment of motor complications in late stage Parkinson's disease (PD). Positive results in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated non-human primates have set the grounds for its successful translation to PD patients. Since then, this model has allowed gaining significant insights in the underlying mechanisms of action of DBS and is currently being used for the development of new stimulation techniques. Altogether, this underpins the high potential of this preclinical model for future translation of DBS research in PD.
Recent empirical neuroscience evidence increasingly supports an active role for the endogenous electromagnetic (EM) field system of brain tissue. These results undermine the long-held view that the field system is a causally inert byproduct of action potential and synapse electrochemical activity. The dominant originating mechanism for the endogenous EM field remains undetermined. The new observations make the isolation of an unambiguous original EM field source a matter of some urgency. As part of the process of elaboration of the field systems produced by coherent transmembrane filamentary currents (the most plausible original mechanism), this paper looks at the contribution by a localized density of cooperating ion channels in the form of the macular synaptic plaque engaged in conducting a post-synaptic current. The method uses the volume conduction formalism driven by filamentary currents that stand in for ion channels. Not surprisingly, the result is a pulsing dipole. Despite its extreme material abstraction, the result forms one of the basic mechanisms for future models capable of revealing whole-neuron and network-level endogenous EM field system.

Neuropsychological and neurophysiological studies have suggested that prefrontal cortex may be involved in non-verbal number processing, when relevant for current behavioural goals. More precisely, it has been suggested that an intact right inferior frontal gyrus (rIFG) in humans may be necessary to the use of a spatial representation of numbers, also known as mental number line. In a popular model of spatial functions (e.g., Corbetta etal., 2008), rIFG is part of a right-lateralised ventral fronto-parietal network that conveys signals to a dorsal network supporting attentional orienting in contralateral space. Within the dorsal network, the frontal eye fields (FEF) are known to contribute to visual scene analysis and visual conjunction search tasks when eye movement commands are not required. In the present study, we hypothesised they might also be involved in exploring a conceptual space, such as the mental number line. We examined the proposed functions of the human rIFG and right Frontal Eye Field (rFEF) by interfering with their normal functioning with repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) while participants performed numerical tasks. The results suggest that, when number magnitude is relevant to the task, rIFG supports orienting to the entire mental number line while rFEF are crucial for contralateral orienting (that is towards small numbers).

Advances in neural tissue engineering have resulted in the development and implementation of three-dimensional (3-D) neural cellular constructs, which may serve as neurofidelic in vitro investigational platforms. In addition, interfacing these 3-D cellular constructs with micro-fluidic and/or micro-electrical systems has created biohybridized platforms, providing unprecedented 3-D microenvironmental control and allowing noninvasive probing and manipulation of cultured neural cells. Cells in the brain interact within a complex, multicellular environment with tightly coupled 3-D cell-cell/cell-extracellular matrix (ECM) interactions; yet most in vitro models utilize planar systems lacking in vivo-like ECM. As such, neural cultures with cells distributed throughout a thick (&gt; 500 microm), bioactive extracellular matrix may provide a more physiologically relevant setting to study neurobiological phenomena than traditional planar cultures. This review presents an overview of 2-D versus 3-D culture models and the state of the art in 3-D neural cell-culture systems. We then detail our efforts to engineer a range of 3-D neural cellular constructs by systematically varying parameters such as cell composition, cell density, matrix constituents, and mass transport. The ramifications on neural cell survival, function, and network formation based on these parameters are specifically addressed. These 3-D neural cellular constructs may serve as powerful investigational platforms for the study of basic neurobiology, network neurophysiology, injury/disease mechanisms, pharmacological screening, or test-beds for cell replacement therapies. Furthermore, while survival and growth of neural cells within 3-D constructs poses many challenges, optimizing in vitro constructs prior to in vivo implementation offers a sound bioengineering design approach.
Methods to compartmentalize neurons allow distinct neuronal segments (i.e., cell bodies, axons, dendrites, or synapses) to be accessed, visualized, and/or manipulated. Compartmentalization has resulted in multiple studies that would not otherwise be possible in vivo or in traditional random cultures, such as investigations of axonal transport, biochemical analysis of axons, and axonal injury/regeneration. Chambers for compartmentalizing neurons were first developed for long projection peripheral neurons in the 1970s using machined Teflon dividers and relied on manually applied grease layers to spatially and fluidically separate distal axons from their cell bodies. More recently microfabrication and soft lithography techniques have been used to create compartmentalized microfluidic platforms, relying on microgrooves contained within a solid barrier through which axons and dendrites are able to extend, but not their cell bodies. These platforms are unique in their ability to culture central nervous system (CNS) neurons and allow high-resolution live imaging. These microfluidic platforms have allowed new investigations of axonal and synaptic biology in the CNS. Moreover, these microfluidic platforms offer improvements for other neural cell and tissue preparations. In this review we discuss traditional methods for compartmentalization, compartmentalized microfluidic platforms, and their use for neurobiology. Lastly, we discuss the use of these platforms for defining and manipulating synapses both pharmacologically and by electrical stimulation and recording.

Brain-machine interfaces (BMI) seek to directly communicate with the human nervous system in order to diagnose and treat intrinsic neurological disorders. While the first generation of these devices has realized significant clinical successes, they often rely on gross electrical stimulation using empirically derived parameters through open-loop mechanisms of action that are not yet fully understood. Their limitations reflect the inherent challenge in developing the next generation of these devices. This review identifies lessons learned from the first generation of BMI devices (chiefly deep brain stimulation), identifying key problems for which the solutions will aid the development of the next generation of technologies. Our analysis examines four hypotheses for the mechanism by which brain stimulation alters surrounding neurophysiologic activity. We then focus on motor prosthetics, describing various approaches to overcoming the problems of decoding neural signals. We next turn to visual prosthetics, an area for which the challenges of signal coding to match neural architecture has been partially overcome. Finally, we close with a review of cortical stimulation, examining basic principles that will be incorporated into the design of future devices. Throughout the review, we relate the issues of each specific topic to the common thread of BMI research: translating new knowledge of network neuroscience into improved devices for neuromodulation.
Abnormal levels of DNA methylation and/or histone modifications are observed in patients with a wide variety of chronic diseases. Methylation of lysines within histone tails is a key modification that contributes to increased gene expression or repression depending on the specific residue and degree of methylation, which is in turn controlled by the interplay of lysine methyl transferases and demethylases. Drugs that target these and other enzymes controlling chromatin modifications can modulate the expression of clusters of genes, potentially offering higher therapeutic efficacy than classical agents acting on downstream biochemical pathways that are susceptible to degeneracy. Lysine demethylases, first discovered in 2004, are the subject of increasing interest as therapeutic targets. This review provides an overview of recent findings implicating lysine demethylases in a range of therapeutic areas including oncology, immunoinflammation, metabolic disorders, neuroscience, virology and regenerative medicine, together with a summary of recent advances in structural biology and small molecule inhibitor discovery, supporting the tractability of the protein family for the development of selective druglike inhibitors.
Population-based studies have investigated the relation between -amyloid levels in cerebrospinal fluid or plasma and white matter lesions (WMLs). However, these circulating levels of -amyloid in cerebrospinal fluid or plasma may not reliably reflect the actual degree of amyloid present in the brain. Therefore, we investigated the relation between WMLs and -amyloid plaques and amyloid angiopathy in brain tissue. WML on MRI or CT were rated in 28 nondemented patients whose neuroimaging was available prior to death. -amyloid in plaques and arterioles were immunohistochemically stained and quantified in postmortem brain necropsies. WMLs were present in 43% of the total population. Both cortex and periventricular region showed no differences for -amyloid deposition in either plaques or blood vessel walls in patients with WMLs compared to those without WMLs. Thus, our results indicate that there is no relation between the degree of WMLs and -amyloid deposition in the brain.
Background. A &quot;dysexecutive&quot; group of patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) has been previously identified, and these patients have been found to present higher frequency of psychiatric symptoms and more pronounced functional impact. This study aimed at evaluating the frequency of neuropsychiatric symptoms in patients with early AD who present with impaired executive functioning. Methods. Thirty patients with early AD diagnosis were divided into a spared (SEF) and an impaired (IEF) executive functioning group according to their performance scores on neuropsychological tests. Their closest relatives or caregivers completed the Cambridge behavioral inventory (CBI), which assesses behavioral symptoms grouped into 13 categories. Results. A significant difference was exclusively found between SEF and IEF in terms of the frequency of stereotypies and repetitive motor behavior (U = 60.5, P = .024). Conclusions. The presence of stereotypies could be associated with a dysexecutive profile in AD patients. These results shed light on the role of frontal circuitry in the expression of motor symptoms in AD and prompt for further research that will contribute to the differential diagnosis both of different subtypes of AD and other types of dementia.
4-phenylbutyrate (PBA) is a small molecule that restores cognitive deficits in animal models of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although the molecular basis of the cognitive benefits of PBA remains unknown, a multi-modal/multi-target mechanism has been proposed. Putative targets of this drug are different from those of drugs that are now used in clinical trials. As PBA is already administered to patients with congenital defects affecting enzymes in the urea cycle, it can be rapidly tested in AD clinical trials. However, the main drawback to its therapeutic use is the high dosage required (up to 15 g/day). Thus, deciphering the precise mechanism(s) of action of this drug may enable novel drugs with similar therapeutic effects to PBA to be developed that can be used at more manageable doses.
Mitochondria play a key role in intracellular energy-generating processes, cell life and death, and are heavily involved in several metabolic pathways by integrating signaling networks; thus, a very large number of conditions are characterized by mitochondrial bioenergetic in humans. Often, mitochondrial changes are directly or indirectly dependent on the activation of intracellular stress cascades or death receptor-mediated pathways. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation, glutathione (GSH) depletion, protein alkylation and respiratory complex alterations are major events associated with mitochondrial dysfunction and represent critical initiating events in most forms of chronic liver disease. Through creating an analogy with a disrupted electric circuit gone bad, the present review focuses initially on how hepatic mitochondrial bioenergetics is affected in the context of drug and disease-induced liver failure and how targeting mitochondria with several antioxidant agents can be helpful for preventing the disruption of the mitochondrial electric circuit.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a very severe traumatic disease of the central nervous system (CNS). Because of its high incidence rate in causing disabilities, it brings great burdens to patients and society. Both Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) and Western Medicine have been adopted to ameliorate SCI with promising outcomes. In TCM, the use of Governor Vessel electro-acupuncture has achieved remarkable results on the rehabilitation of patients with SCI. In the past decade, Governor Vessel electro-acupuncture has also been used in experimentally induced SCI and this has resulted in promising functional recovery. Both neural stem cells (NSCs) and bone marrow mesenchymal cells (MSCs) have been used extensively in recent years for improvement of functional recovery of CNS disorders. We have used a combined approach by integrating the basic and clinical research in SCI in recent years. In this connection, transplantation of NSCs or MSCs coupled with the Governor Vessel electro-acupuncture (GV-EA) has been adopted to improve the recovery of SCI. Our study suggests that GV-EA may activate the process of cell metabolism, and initiate synthesis and secretion of endogenous neurotrophic factors in the ambient tissues at the lesion site of spinal cord. It is proposed that the new combined strategy could promote a better structural and functional recovery of injured spinal cord.
Fatty livers are more prone to damage caused by ischemia/reperfusion (I/R). Impaired microcirculation, Kupffer cell dysfunction, increased adhesion of leukocytes, impaired mitochondrial function and ATP depletion are probable causes for fatty liver susceptibility. Therefore, hepatic steatosis is a major risk factor for liver surgery and success of transplantation of fatty donor organs. The mechanisms involved in I/R injury are complex and there is no general consensus regarding the sources of ROS generation, nitric oxide (NO) action, the role of tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-), and transcription factors, such as nuclear factor kappa B (NFB). Impairment of mitochondrial function is one of the most important alterations that occur in I/R injury, resulting in the alteration of energy metabolism. Ischemic preconditioning (IPC) and post conditioning (IPost) are adaptive mechanisms against I/R insults that induce intracellular protective responses associated with the preservation of mitochondrial function.There are several pharmacological drugs and natural derivatives presenting metabolic and/or antioxidant effects that can directly or indirectly protect the liver against I/R injury. While the precise targets and mechanisms are still not totally understood, the mitochondrion presents itself as a major player on mediating these protective events. As so, compounds that are able to improve mitochondrial function and hepatic energetic balance might prove viable candidates when developing new pharmacological approaches that can minimize injury to steatotic livers subjected to I/R events.
Coenzyme Q10 is a small electron carrier of the respiratory chain with antioxidant properties, widely used for the treatment of mitochondrial disorders. Mitochondrial diseases are neuromuscular disorders caused by impairment of the respiratory chain and increased generation of reactive oxygen species. Coenzyme Q10 supplementation is fundamental in patients with primary coenzyme Q10 deficiency. Furthermore, coenzyme Q10 and its analogues, idebenone and mitoquinone (or MitoQ), have been also used in the treatment of other neurogenetic/neurodegenerative disorders. In Friedreich ataxia idebenone may reduce cardiac hypertrophy and, at higher doses, also improve neurological function. These compounds may also play a potential role in other conditions which have been linked to mitochondrial dysfunction, such as Parkinson disease, Huntington disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Alzheimer disease. This review introduces mitochondrial disorders and Friedreich ataxia as two paradigms of the tight links existing between oxidative stress, respiratory chain dysfunction and neurodegeneration, and focuses on current and emerging therapeutic uses of coenzyme Q10 and idebenone in neurology.
Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD) is a common disorder in psychiatric practice and drugs are widely used in its treatment, targeting symptom clusters, such as affective dysregulation, impulsive-behavioural dyscontrol, and cognitive-perceptual symptoms. In last period, a growing number of studies on pharmacological treatment of BPD have been performed, but different proposals of treatment guidelines are not completely in accordance on drug indications for BPD patients. This article reviews double-blind randomized controlled trials comparing active drugs versus placebo and drugs versus drugs, published between 1990 and 2010 and focused on the treatment of borderline personality disorder. Different classes of psychoactive agents, such as antipsychotics, mood stabilizers, antidepressants, and dietary supplementation were tested in BPD patients. More recent evidences suggest that mood stabilizers (topiramate, valproate and lamotrigine), second generation antipsychotics (olanzapine and aripiprazole) and omega-3 fatty acids can be useful to treat affective symptoms and impulsive-behavioural dyscontrol in BPD patients. Moreover, antipsychotics significantly improve cognitive symptoms in patients with BPD. SSRIs were found effective in decreasing severity of depressed mood, anxiety and anger, mainly in subjects with a concomitant affective disorder. Effects of antidepressants on impulsive behaviours are uncertain. Further studies are needed to improve methods of trials and confirm these findings.
The serotonin (5-HT) receptors of type 6 (5-HT6) are relatively new. They are quite different from all other 5-HT receptors, as they are characterized by a short third cytoplasmatic loop and a long C-terminal tail, and contain one intron located in the middle of the third cytoplasmatic loop. After some initial controversies, the available findings are now apparently more congruent. Nevertheless, discrepancies still exist, such as those in binding affinity, effects of 5-HT6 ligands on brain catecholamines and behavioral syndromes mediated by them. Much interest in 5-HT6 receptors was triggered by the evidence that some antipsychotics could bind to them. Subsequently, despite the lack of complete information on metabolic patterns of the various compounds, some of 5-HT6 receptor ligands entered the clinical development as potential anti-dementia, antipsychotic and anti-obese drugs. In any case, the available information on both the pharmacology of 5-HT6 receptors is still quite scant. Therefore, with the present paper we aimed at reporting a comprehensive review on the status of art of the 5-HT6 receptors, while highlighting the potential clinical applications of 5-HT6 receptor agonists/antagonists.
Several antineoplastic drugs induce severe and dose-limiting peripheral neurotoxicity that can significantly affect the quality of life of cancer patients and cause chronic discomfort. Despite extensive investigation, the fine mechanisms of this side-effect remain unclear. It has recently been suggested that several classes of drug transporters are involved in the genesis of chemotherapy induced peripheral neurotoxicity. Furthermore, the differential distribution and activity of these transporters could also explain the higher sensitivity of the peripheral rather than central nervous system tissues to the toxic action of the anticancer agents. These observations may have important therapeutic implications. In fact, the characterization of the proteins that mediate significant transport of clinically relevant drugs in the nervous system, and the understanding of their changes in the different pathological conditions are important in order to elucidate pathogenetic mechanisms and to identify new potential therapeutic targets so as to limit the severity of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neurotoxicity. This review will be focused on the most recent research progress on the role of drug transporters in chemotherapy-induced peripheral neurotoxicity, and we will discuss the possibility of targeting these transporters as a new and interesting potential strategy for the treatment of the neurotoxic side-effects of antineoplastic drugs.
The metabotropic glutamate type 2 (mGlu2) receptor is a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) expressed on presynaptic nerve terminals where it negatively modulates glutamate and GABA release. Mixed mGlu2/mGlu3 orthosteric agonists such as LY354740 have shown activity in a range of preclinical animal models of anxiety and schizophrenia. Clinical work with LY354740 demonstrated activity in a CO(2) inhalation study suggesting application in the treatment of anxiety related disorders. Subsequently, a related prodrug LY2140023 demonstrated improvements in positive and negative symptoms in patients suffering from schizophrenia. These molecules exhibit combined mGlu2/mGlu3 activity although there is evidence from knock-out studies that preclinical anti-psychotic effects may be mediated via the mGlu2 receptor. An alternative avenue for modulating GPCRs is to act via allosteric mechanisms, binding at a different site from the orthosteric agonist. Since the first discovery of mGlu2 positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) such as 2,2,2-TEMPS and BINA, multiple families of mGlu2 modulators have been reported and several have entered into clinical development. This review focuses on recent advances in the development of novel mGlu2 PAMs by analysis of compounds disclosed in research articles and patent literature between 2007 and 2010.
Cerebral complications of liver failure either due to chronic or acute manifestations lead to a neurological disorder known as Hepatic encephalopathy (HE). Neurosteroids, synthesized in the brain mainly by astrocytes but also in other brain cells independently from peripheral steroidal sources such as adrenal and gonads, are suggested to play a role in the pathogenesis of HE. The mechanisms by which neurosteroids affects brain function are not totally elucidated but may involve both genomic and non genomic effects. On one hand, neurosteroids bind and modulate different types of neuronal membrane receptors. While neurosteroid may affect directly postsynaptic receptors including GABA(A), 5-HT3, NMDA, glycine, and opioid receptors which have been involved in HE, neurosteroids effects through GABA(A) receptors may also compromise indirectly the function of neurons networking with GABAergic interneurons. On the other hand, some neurosteroids bind to intracellular receptors through which they also regulate gene expression, and there is substantial evidence confirming that expression of genes coding for key astrocytic and neuronal proteins are altered in HE. The mechanisms that trigger brain neurosteroid changes in HE are not yet well-known, but could involve (i) ammonia and manganese (in chronic HE)-induced translocator protein (TSPO) activation, (ii) neuroinflammation or (iii) blood-brain transfer of lipophylic neuroactive steroids. The present review summarizes evidence for the involvement of neurosteroids in HE and possible mechanisms for their altered brain production and central effects in human and experimental HE.




Mitochondria fulfill a number of essential cellular functions, being recognized that the strict regulation of the structure, function and turnover of these organelles is an immutable control node for the maintenance of neuronal integrity and homeostasis. Many lines of evidence posit that mitochondria constitute a convergence point of preconditioning - a paradigm that affords robust brain tolerance in the face of neurodegenerative insults. Indeed, it has been described that preconditioning activates an adaptive reprogramming of mitochondrial biology in response to a noxious stress-stimulus, which in turn will contribute to augment both mitochondrial and neuronal tolerance. Mitochondrial reactive species (ROS), mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium (mitoK(ATP)) channels and mitochondrial permeability transition pore have been identified as specific mitochondrial mediators and targets of the adaptive program underlying preconditioning. Recent studies further link mitochondrial biogenesis, dynamics and mitophagy to preconditioning, thereby representing novel mechanisms by which preconditioning may mediate brain tolerance. The present review summarizes the current views on how mitochondrial biology is linked to preconditioning-induced neuroprotection. A better understanding of the mitochondrial mechanisms underlying preconditioning will help in the development of novel therapeutic approaches with the primary goal of modulating mitochondria to enhance brain tolerance against neurodegenerative events.
During the past decades, we have witnessed significant advances in our understanding of the molecular etiology of Parkinson's disease (PD). The unearthing of the causative genes for hereditary PD accelerated not only the studies of the molecular mechanisms underlying this pathology, but also set mitochondria at the center of PD pathology. In this review we revisit mitochondrial key role and propose a hypothesis for PD, that allows the unification of both sporadic and familial PD forms. In light of this we also discuss new promising disease-modified therapies.
This review focuses on the discovery of activity-dependent neuroprotective protein (ADNP) and the ensuing discovery of NAP (davunetide) toward clinical development with emphasis on microtubule protection. ADNP immunoreactivity was shown to occasionally decorate microtubules and ADNP silencing inhibited neurite outgrowth as measured by microtubule associated protein 2 (MAP2) labeling. ADNP knockout is lethal, while 50% reduction in ADNP (ADNP haploinsufficiency) resulted in the microtubule associated protein tau pathology coupled to cognitive dysfunction and neurodegeneration. NAP (davunetide), an eight amino acid peptide derived from ADNP partly ameliorated deficits associated with ADNP deficiency. NAP (davunetide) interacted with microtubules, protected against microtubule toxicity associated with zinc, nocodazole and oxidative stress in vitro and against tau pathology and MAP6 (stable tubuleonly polypeptide - STOP) pathology in vivo. NAP (davunetide) provided neurotrophic functions promoting neurite outgrowth as measured by increases in MAP2 immunoreactivity and synapse formation by increasing synaptophysin expression. NAP (davunetide) protection against neurodegeneration has recently been shown to extend to katanin-related microtubule disruption under conditions of tau deficiencies. In conclusion, NAP (davunetide) provided potent neuroprotection in a broad range of neurodegenerative models, protecting the neuroglial cytoskeleton in vitro and inhibiting tau pathology (tauopathy) in vivo. Based on these extensive preclinical results, davunetide (NAP) is now being evaluated in a Phase II/III study of the tauopathy, progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP); (Allon Therapeutics Inc.).
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases represent the most prevalent neurodegenerative disorders worldwide. Current pharmacological or surgical treatments provide symptomatic benefits, particularly in the early stages, but none can delay or stop the progression of these diseases. There is an urgent need for new therapies able to modify disease progression. Gene therapy, mainly based on viral vectors, is presently being assumed as an important alternative to conventional treatments. After decades of preclinical developments, we are now facing an important period, in which several viral vector-mediated gene therapies are being tested in Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials, with some of them showing promising results. This review intends to present an overview of the current efforts in the field for the treatment of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases.
Cellular homeostasis relies on quality control systems so that damaged biologic structures are either repaired or degraded and entirely replaced by newly formed proteins or even organelles. The clearance of dysfunctional cellular structures in long-lived postmitotic cells, like neurons, is essential to eliminate, per example, defective mitochondria, lipofuscin-loaded lysosomes and oxidized proteins. Short-lived proteins are degraded mainly by proteases and proteasomes whether most long-lived proteins and all organelles are digested by autophagy in the lysosomes. Recently, it an interplay was established between the ubiquitin-proteasome system and macroautophagy, so that both degradative mechanisms compensate for each other. In this article we describe each of these clearance systems and their contribution to neuronal quality control. We will highlight some of the findings that provide evidence for the dysfunction of these systems in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Ultimately, we provide an outline on potential therapeutic interventions based on the modulation of cellular degradative systems.
The last decades have witnessed an explosion in studies of the role of amyloid- (A) in the progress of the neurodegenerative disorder Alzheimer's disease (AD) and it is now widely accepted that A is related to the pathogenesis of AD. For example, studies have shown that A is neurotoxic and that the neurotoxicity of A is related to its aggregation state. The concentration of the 42 amino acid form of A (A1-42) is reduced in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from AD patients, which is believed to reflect the AD pathology with plaques in the brain acting as sinks. Less well investigated, however, is the ability of other A isoforms to distinguish AD patients from controls and to identify treatment effects in clinical trials. Recently, novel C-truncated forms of A (A1-14, A1-15, and A1-16) were identified in human CSF. The presence of these small peptides is consistent with a catabolic amyloid precursor protein cleavage pathway by - followed by -secretase. It has been shown that A1-14, A1-15, and A1-16 increase dose-dependently in response to -secretase inhibitor treatment while A1-42 levels are unchanged. Here, we review the many aspects of A and its isoforms with special focus on their potential role as diagnostic and theragnostic markers.
Mitochondria have long been involved in several cellular processes beyond its role in energy production. The importance of this organelle for cardiac tissue homeostasis has been greatly investigated and its impairment can lead to cell death and consequent organ failure. Several compounds have been described in the literature as having direct effects on cardiac mitochondria which can provide a mechanistic explanation for their toxicological or pharmacological effects. The present review describes one classic example of drug-induced cardiac mitochondrial toxicity and another case of drug-induced mitochondrial protection. For the former, we present the case for doxorubicin, an anticancer agent whose treatment is associated with a cumulative and dose-dependent cardiomyopathy with a mitochondrial etiology. Following this, we present the case of carvedilol, a -blocker with intrinsic antioxidant activity, which has been described to protect cardiac mitochondria from oxidative injury. The final part of the review integrates information from the previous chapters, demonstrating how carvedilol can contribute to reduce doxorubicin toxicity on cardiac mitochondria. The two referred examples result in important take-home messages: a) drug-induced cardiac mitochondrial dysfunction is an important contributor for drug-associated organ failure, b) protection of mitochondrial function is involved in the beneficial impact of some clinically-used drugs and c) a more accurate prediction of toxic vs. beneficial effects should be an important component of drug development by the pharmaceutical industry.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease affecting myelin and axons, which is perpetuated by autoreactive lymphocytes and other inflammatory cell types. Because of the multifactorial nature of this disease, therapies targeting a single process may not be sufficient to halt its progression. VIP and PACAP are two neuropeptides shown to regulate multiple aspects of innate and adaptive immunity, and can also act independently on neural cells to promote their survival and regeneration. Animal studies have proven the efficacy of these peptides for the treatment of several models of neural inflammatory disorders, including those which, like MS, have major Th1/Th17 components. In this review, the immunomodulatory actions of VIP and PACAP will be discussed, with particular emphasis on their potential significance in MS.
It has become apparent over the past few decades that several factors can determine lethal or sublethal alterations of cardiovascular system cell function such as inflammatory reaction products, peptides and hormones. In turn, the loss of cellular components from the blood vessels wall and the heart tissue contributes to the development of cardiovascular diseases (CVD). Hence, in the recent years, the efforts of several research groups have specifically been devoted to deeply investigate the implication of the main forms of cell injury, necrosis, apoptosis and autophagy, in the development of cardiac and blood vessel alterations associated with human diseases. Furthermore, several lines of evidence demonstrate that CVD clearly display significant gender differences in terms of onset, progression and outcome. Cardiovascular cells contain functional estrogen and androgen receptors and are targets for sex hormone action, which can influence many physiological and pathological processes, including vascular and myocardial cell homeostasis. However, hormones are important but not unique actors in this issue, further genetic and epigenetic determinants being involved. This review focuses on recent studies on the effects of gender differences, including sex hormones, on cardiac and vascular cell injury and death and their influence in determining atherosclerosis, heart failure and other main human CVD.
According to classical thinking about Parkinson's disease, loss of dopaminergic input from the substantia nigra pars compacta leads to overactivity and underactivity of the indirect and direct output pathways, respectively, in the basal ganglia. Administration of the dopamine precursor L-DOPA (l-3, 4-dihydroxyphenylalanine) is proposed to induce changes in the opposite directions. L-DOPA is the most used drug to treat Parkinson`s disease symptoms. After repeated treatment with this compound, however, disabling secondary effects such as the abnormal involuntary movements usually appear. Nitric oxide is a free radical that can also act as an atypical neurotransmitter and influences dopamine-mediated neurotransmission. In this paper we will briefly review the role of nitric oxide on motor control and in Parkinson's disease, particularly a possible role of nitric oxide in L-DOPA induced dyskinesia in rodents. Recent results show that nitric oxide synthase inhibition reduces L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in rats and mice. The effect is dose-dependent, does not suffer tolerance nor interferes with L-DOPA positive motor effects. These preclinical findings suggest that nitric oxide is a promising therapeutic target for the reduction of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
Accumulating evidence suggests that the 7 subtype of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) plays a role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Deficits in auditory P50 evoked potential suppression in patients with schizophrenia are associated with decreased density of 7 nAChRs in the brain. Some agonists (e.g., DMXB-A and tropisetron) at 7 nAChRs can improve P50 deficits in patients with schizophrenia. Together, these findings indicate that 7 nAChRs are a potential therapeutic target for schizophrenia. Currently, a number of agonists and allosteric modulators at 7 nAChRs are under development as potential therapeutic drugs. In this article, we review recent topics on 7 nAChR agonists and 7 nAChR allosteric modulators as therapeutic drugs for schizophrenia.
The hypofunction hypothesis of glutamatergic neurotransmission via N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia suggests that increasing NMDA receptor function via pharmacological manipulation could provide a new therapeutic strategy for schizophrenia. The glycine modulatory site on NMDA receptor complex is the one of the most attractive therapeutic targets for schizophrenia. One means of enhancing NMDA receptor neurotransmission is to increase the availability of the obligatory co-agonist glycine at modulatory site on the NMDA receptors through the inhibition of glycine transporter-1 (GlyT-1) on glial cells. Some clinical studies have demonstrated that the GlyT-1 inhibitor sarcosine (N-methylglycine) shows antipsychotic activity in patients with schizophrenia. Currently, a number of pharmaceutical companies have been developing novel and selective GlyT-1 inhibitors for the treatment of schizophrenia. A recent double blind phase II study demonstrated that the novel GlyT-1 inhibitor RG1678 has a robust and clinically meaningful effect in patients with schizophrenia. In this article, the author reviews the recent findings on the GlyT-1 as a potential therapeutic target of schizophrenia.
As outlined elsewhere in this volume, sex differences can affect brain function and its dysfunction in psychiatric disorders. It is known that genetic factors contribute to these sex dimorphisms, but the individual genes have rarely been identified. The catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene, which encodes an enzyme that metabolises catechol compounds, including dopamine, is a leading candidate in this regard. COMT's enzyme activity, and the neurochemistry and behaviour of COMT knockout mice are both markedly sexually dimorphic. Furthermore, genetic associations between COMT and psychiatric phenotypes frequently show differences between men and women. Although many of these differences are unconfirmed or minor, some appear to be of reasonable robustness and magnitude and are reviewed in this chapter. Sexually dimorphic effects of COMT are usually attributed to transcriptional regulation by oestrogens; however, a careful examination of the literature suggests that additional mechanisms are likely to be at least as important. Here, we review the evidence for a sexually dimorphic influence of COMT upon psychiatric phenotypes and brain function, and discuss potential mechanisms by which this may occur. We conclude that despite the evidence being incomplete, there are accumulating and in places compelling data showing that COMT has markedly sexually dimorphic effects on brain function and its dysfunction in psychiatric disorders. Although oestrogenic regulation of COMT is probably partially responsible for these sex differences, other mechanisms are likely also involved. Since sex differences in the genetic architecture of brain function and psychiatric disorders are the rule not the exception, we anticipate that additional evidence will emerge for sexual dimorphisms, not only in COMT but also in many other autosomal genes.
The hippocampus is processing temporal and spatial information in particular contexts or episodes. Using freely moving rats, we monitored extracellular levels of acetylcholine (ACh), a critical neurotransmitter activating hippocampal circuits. We found that the ACh release in the dorsal hippocampus increases during the period of learning or exploration, exhibiting a sex-specific 24-h release profile. Moreover, neonatal increase in circulating androgen not only androgenizes behavioral and hormonal features, but also produces male-type ACh release profile after the development. The results suggest neonatal sexual differentiation of septo-hippocampal cholinergic system. Environmental conditions (such as stress, housing or food) of animals further affected the ACh release.Although recent advances of neuroscience successfully revealed molecular/cellular mechanism of learning and memory, most research were performed using male animals at specific time period. Sex-specific or time-dependent hippocampal functions are still largely unknown.
Serotonin plays an important role in both male and female sexual behaviour. In general, reduction of 5-HT function facilitates, whereas enhancement inhibits sexual behaviour. Most fundamental research on the involvement of 5-HT in sex has been performed in rats. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) have comparable effects on male and female sexual behaviour in rats; they inhibit it but only after chronic administration. Activation of the 5-HT(1A) receptor facilitates sexual behaviour in male rats but inhibits sexual behaviour in female rats, suggesting a differential role for 5-HT(1A) receptors in male and female rats. Research on sexual behaviour in rats with null mutations in the serotonin transporter (SERT) indicated also a differential role for 5-HT(1A) receptors in male and female sexual behaviour. Evidence exists that different pools of 5-HT(1A) receptors have differential roles in various parts of the cascade of sexual events occurring during sexual interactions. Roles for other 5-HT receptors are less well defined although 5-HT(1B), 5-HT(2A/B) and 5-HT(7) receptors seem to be involved. Identification of putative differential or comparable roles in female and male sexual activities requires more research.
Studies employing animal models of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) present clear inherent advantages over human studies. Animal models are invaluable tools for the study of underlying neurochemical, neuropathological and genetic alterations that cause ADHD, because they allow relatively fast, rigorous hypothesis testing and invasive manipulations as well as selective breeding. Moreover, especially for ADHD, animal models with good predictive validity would allow the assessment of potential new therapeutics. In this chapter, we describe and comment on the most frequently used animal models of ADHD that have been created by genetic, neurochemical and physical alterations in rodents. We then discuss that an emerging and promising direction of the field is the analysis of individual behavioural differences among a normal population of animals. Subjects presenting extreme characteristics related to ADHD can be studied, thereby avoiding some of the problems that are found in other models, such as functional recovery and unnecessary assumptions about aetiology. This approach is justified by the theoretical need to consider human ADHD as the extreme part of a spectrum of characteristics that are distributed normally in the general population, as opposed to the predominant view of ADHD as a separate pathological category.
We provide a general framework to guide the development of interventions that aim to address persistent features in eating disorders that may preclude effective treatment. Using perfectionism as an exemplar, we draw from research in cognitive neuroscience regarding attention and reinforcement learning, from learning theory and social psychology regarding vicarious learning and implications for the role modeling of significant others, and from clinical psychology on the importance of verbal narratives as barriers that may influence expectations and shape reinforcement schedules.
Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a serious mental disorder with impaired functioning including not only the cognitive and socio-emotional but also physical domains. Improved treatments, especially for adults with AN, are urgently needed. The insights gained from basic research in experimental animal models and the advent of cognitive neuroscience have produced major advances in our understanding of the condition, but translating these into clinical research or practice remains a challenge. We describe here what the eating disorders field can gain from schizophrenia research in this area. We use the example of socio-emotional impairments in AN to describe the iterative process between basic research and intervention development for neurobiologically informed and based treatments for this condition and briefly touch on some other examples that stem from translational science.
Hyperactivity in anorexia nervosa is difficult to control and negatively impacts outcome. Hyperactivity is a key driving force to starvation in an animal model named activity-based anorexia (ABA). Recent research has started unraveling what mechanisms underlie this hyperactivity. Besides a general increase in locomotor activity that may be an expression of foraging behavior and involves frontal brain regions, the increased locomotor activity expressed before food is presented (food anticipatory behavior or FAA) involves hypothalamic neural circuits. Ghrelin plays a role in FAA, whereas decreased leptin signaling is involved in both aspects of increased locomotor activity. We hypothesize that increased ghrelin and decreased leptin signaling drive the activity of dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area. In anorexia nervosa patients, this altered activity of the dopamine system may be involved not only in hyperactivity but also in aberrant cognitive processing related to food.
Eating disorders, such as anorexia and bulimia nervosa, are psychiatric disorders that are likely determined by a complex interaction between genetic variations, developmental processes, and certain life events. Cross-species analysis of traits related to eating disorders may provide a way to functionally and systematically study neurobiological mechanisms underlying these disorders. Interspecies trait genetics may offer opportunities to identify common neurobiological mechanisms underlying eating disorder characteristics relevant to the initiation, progression, and/or maintenance of the disease, such as cognitive rigidity, increased anxiety levels, and behavioral hyperactivity. These can subsequently be tested directly by studying allelic variation in mice and human subjects and by applying methods that can modify gene expression levels in rodent models. Increasing our knowledge about these traits and their underlying neurobiological mechanisms will be relevant to develop new therapies for patients within the heterogeneous eating disorder populations. Novel mouse genetic and phenotyping tools offer a way to study these neurobehavioral traits under controlled environmental and genetic background conditions.
The cognitive model of eating disorders (EDs) states that the processing of external and internal stimuli might be biased in mental disorders. These biases, or cognitive errors, systematically distort the individual's experiences and, in that way, maintains the eating disorder. This chapter presents an updated literature review of experimental studies investigating these cognitive biases. Results indicate that ED patients show biases in attention, interpretation, and memory when it comes to the processing of food-, weight-, and body shape-related cues. Some recent studies show that they also demonstrate errors in general cognitive abilities such as set shifting, central coherence, and decision making. A future challenge is whether cognitive biases and processes can be manipulated. Few preliminary studies suggest that an attention retraining and training in the cognitive modulation of food reward processing might be effective strategies to change body satisfaction, food cravings, and eating behavior.
Epigenetics describes the phenomenon of heritable changes in gene regulation that are governed by non-Mendelian processes, primarily through biochemical modifications to chromatin structure that occur during cell development and differentiation. Numerous lines of evidence link abnormal levels of chromatin modifications (either to DNA, histones, or both) in patients with a wide variety of diseases including cancer, psychiatry, neurodegeneration, metabolic and inflammatory disorders. Drugs that target the proteins controlling chromatin modifications can modulate the expression of clusters of genes, potentially offering higher therapeutic efficacy than classical agents with single target pharmacologies that are susceptible to biochemical pathway degeneracy. Here, we summarize recent research linking epigenetic dysregulation with diseases in neurosciences, the application of relevant animal models, and the potential for small molecule modulator development to facilitate target discovery, validation and translation into clinical treatments.
Much of the current understanding about the pathogenesis of altered mood, impaired concentration and neurovegetative symptoms in major depression has come from animal models. However, because of the unique and complex features of human depression, the generation of valid and insightful depression models has been less straightforward than modeling other disabling diseases like cancer or autoimmune conditions. Today's popular depression models creatively merge ethologically valid behavioral assays with the latest technological advances in molecular biology and automated video-tracking. This chapter reviews depression assays involving acute stress (e.g., forced swim test), models consisting of prolonged physical or social stress (e.g., social defeat), models of secondary depression, genetic models, and experiments designed to elucidate the mechanisms of antidepressant action. These paradigms are critically evaluated in relation to their ease, validity and replicability, the molecular insights that they have provided, and their capacity to offer the next generation of therapeutics for depression.
Although converging epidemiological evidence links exposure to stressful life events with increased risk for affective spectrum disorders, there is extraordinary interindividual variability in vulnerability to adversity. The environmentally moderated penetrance of genetic variation is thought to play a major role in determining who will either develop disease or remain resilient. Research on genetic factors in the aetiology of disorders of emotion regulation has, nevertheless, been complicated by a mysterious discrepancy between high heritability estimates and a scarcity of replicable gene-disorder associations. One explanation for this incongruity is that at least some specific gene effects are conditional on environmental cues, i.e. gene-by-environment interaction (GE) is present. For example, a remarkable number of studies reported an association of variation in the human serotonin (5-HT) transporter gene (SLC6A4, 5-HTT, SERT) with emotional and cognitive traits as well as increased risk for depression in interaction with psychosocial adversity. The results from investigations in non-human primate and mouse support the occurrence of GE interaction by showing that variation of 5-HTT function is associated with a vulnerability to adversity across the lifespan leading to unfavourable outcomes resembling various neuropsychiatric disorders. The neural and molecular mechanisms by which environmental adversity in early life increases disease risk in adulthood are not known but may include epigenetic programming of gene expression during development. Epigenetic mechanisms, such as DNA methylation and chromatin modification, are dynamic and reversible and may also provide targets for intervention strategies (see Bountra et al., Curr Top Behav Neurosci, 2011). Animal models amenable to genetic manipulation are useful in the identification of molecular mechanisms underlying epigenetic programming by adverse environments and individual differences in resilience to stress. Therefore, deeper insight into the role of epigenetic regulation in the process of neurodevelopmental programmes is likely to result in early diagnosis of affective spectrum disorders and will contribute to the design of innovative treatments targeting neural pathways that foster resilience.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder that is currently diagnosed by the presence of three behavioral criteria (1) qualitative impairments in reciprocal social interactions, (2) deficits in communication, including delayed language and noninteractive conversation, and (3) motor stereotypies, repetitive behaviors, insistence on sameness, and restricted interests. This chapter describes analogous behavioral assays that have been developed for mice, including tests for social approach, reciprocal social interactions, olfactory communication, ultrasonic vocalizations, repetitive and perseverative behaviors, and motor stereotypies. Examples of assay applications to genetic mouse models of autism are provided. Robust endophenotypes that are highly relevant to the core symptoms of autism are enabling the search for the genetic and environmental causes of autism, and the discovery of effective treatments.
Notch-dependent CSL transcription complexes control essential biological processes such as cell proliferation, differentiation, and cell-fate decisions in diverse developmental systems. The orthologous proteins CBF1/Rbpj (mammalian), Su(H) (Drosophila), and Lag-1 (Caenorhabditis elegans) compose the CSL family of sequence-specific DNA-binding transcription factors. The CSL proteins are best known for their role in canonical Notch signaling. However, CSL factors also form transcription complexes that can function independent of Notch signaling and include repression and activation of target gene transcription. Because the different complexes share CSL as a DNA-binding subunit, they can control overlapping sets of genes; but they can also control distinct sets when partnered with tissue-specific cofactors that restrict DNA-sequence recognition or stability of the DNA-bound complex. The Notch-independent functions of CSL and the processes they regulate will be reviewed here with a particular emphasis on the tissue-specific CSL-activator complex with the bHLH factor Ptf1a.
During morphogenesis, tissues are shaped by cell behaviors such as apical cell constriction and cell intercalation, which are the result of cell intrinsic forces, but are also shaped passively by forces acting on the cells. The latter extrinsic forces can be produced either within the deforming tissue by the tissue-scale integration of intrinsic forces, or outside the tissue by other tissue movements or by fluid flows. Here we review the intrinsic and extrinsic forces that sculpt the epithelium of early Drosophila embryos, focusing on three conserved morphogenetic processes: tissue internalization, axis extension, and segment boundary formation. Finally, we look at how the actomyosin cytoskeleton forms force-generating structures that power these three morphogenetic events at the cell and the tissue scales.
Waking neurobehavioral performance is temporally regulated by a sleep/wake homeostatic process and a circadian process in interaction with a time-on-task effect. Neurobehavioral impairment resulting from these factors is task-specific, and characterized by performance variability. Several aspects of these phenomena are not well understood, and cannot be explained solely by a top-down (subcortically driven) view of sleep/wake and performance regulation. We present a bottom-up theory, where we postulate that task performance is degraded by local, use-dependent sleep in neuronal groups subserving cognitive processes associated with the task at hand. The theory offers explanations for the temporal dependence of neurobehavioral performance on time awake, time on task, and their interaction; for the effectiveness of task switching and rest breaks to overcome the time-on-task effect (but not the effects of sleep deprivation); for the task-specific nature of neurobehavioral impairment; and for the stochastic property of performance variability.
The cellular substrates of sleep are incompletely described, but historically they have been thought to be neuronal. According to one view, sleep is produced by interactions between wake-promoting neurons, sleep-inducing neurons, and sleep-inducing substances released by neurons (e.g. adenosine)[1, 2]. Alternatively, sleep pressure may arise independently among subsets of neurons in a use-dependent fashion within the neocortex (i.e. 'local' sleep) [3, 4]. Implicit in both views is the notion that changes in neuronal activity (or plasticity) is the principle mechanism driving sleep homeostasis. Recent findings, however, suggest that the glial cells known as astrocytes may play critical roles in mammalian sleep.
This article starts with a brief review of the thalamocortical system architecture, which is composed of the projecting thalamic nuclei, the thalamic reticular nucleus, and the neocortex. Then we provide a description of the three states of vigilances followed by a detailed review of major brain rhythms present in the thalamocortical system, ranging from very slow to very fast oscillations. We provide descriptions of known mechanisms and hypotheses for unknown mechanisms for the generation of the different rhythms. The last part offers a detailed review on sleep slow oscillation describing its properties in the thalamocortical system, proposing a mechanism of generation of active states and a description of their propagation.
CK2 denotes a pleiotropic, constitutively active protein kinase whose abnormally high level in many cancer cells is held as an example of &quot;non oncogene addiction&quot;. A wide spectrum of cell permeable, fairly specific ATP site-directed CK2 inhibitors are currently available which are proving useful to dissect its biological functions and which share the property of inducing apoptosis of cancer cells with no comparable effect on their &quot;normal&quot; counterparts. One of these, CX-4945, has recently entered clinical trials for the treatment of advanced solid tumors, Castelman's disease and multiple myeloma. The solution of a wide range of 3D structures of inhibitors bound to the catalytic subunits of CK2 reveals that their efficacy substantially relies on hydrophobic interactions within a cavity which is smaller than in other protein kinases. Accordingly the potency of tetra-halogenated benzimidazoles increases upon replacement of chlorine by bromine and, even more, by iodine, and decreases if two unique bulky side chains on CK2 (Val66 and Ile174) are mutated to alanines. Many CK2 inhibitors have been tested on a panel of more than 60 kinases providing Promiscuity Scores useful to evaluate their selectivity, the lowest value (9.47), denoting highest selectivity, being displayed by quinalizarin. The observation that CK2 inhibitors with medium/high promiscuity scores share the ability to inhibit a group of protein kinases as effectively as CK2 discloses the possibility of using their scaffolds for the rational development of selective inhibitors of these kinases, with special reference to PIMs, DYRKs, HIPK2, PKD and ERK8.
Given the vast number of chemicals that are released into the environment each year, it is imperative that we develop new predictive models to identify toxicants before unavoidable exposure harms the health of humans and other organisms. In vitro models are especially attractive in predictive toxicology as they can greatly reduce assay costs and animal usage while identifying those chemicals that may require further in vivo evaluation. With the derivation of both mouse and human embryonic stem cells, new opportunities have developed that could revolutionize the field of predictive toxicology. Stem cells themselves can be used to model earliest stages of development, or they can be differentiated to study later aspects of development and thereby model post-implantation. Because embryos and fetuses are usually more sensitive to environmental toxicants than adults, stem cells provide an unique tool for studying the prenatal phase in our life cycle. The embryonic stem cell test (EST), which has been validated for use with mouse ESC (mESC), is an accurate predictor of embryotoxic compounds, particularly those that are highly embryotoxic. Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs), although not yet incorporated into a validated test, are a particularly attractive platform for toxicological testing as they can give us direct information on humans and avoid concerns about species variation in response. This review discusses toxicological studies and strategies that have been used with embryonic stem cells during the past five years and possible directions that could lead to improvements in the development of predictive assays in the future.
There is a widespread presence of both adenosine (P1) and P2 nucleotide receptors in the brain on both neurones and glial cells. Adenosine receptors play a major role in presynaptic neuromodulation, while P2X receptors are involved in fast synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity. P2Y receptors largely mediate presynaptic activities. Both P1 and P2 receptors participate in neurone-glia interactions. Purinergic signalling is involved in control of cerebral vascular tone and remodelling. Examples of the roles of purinoceptors in neuropathology involve: A(2A) receptors in Parkinson's disease and epilepsy, P2 receptors in trauma, ischaemia. Neuroinflammatory and neuropsychiatric disorders, and neuropathic pain.
Adenosine is a naturally occurring nucleoside present ubiquitously throughout the body as a metabolic intermediate. Besides its metabolic role within the cells, adenosine is released into the extracellular space either by neurons or astrocytes acting as a neuromodulator. Extracellular adenosine exerts its action by activating multiple G-protein coupled receptors (subtypes A(1), A(2A), A(2B) and A(3)) having a wide range of physiological effects in the brain. Adenosine levels rise markedly in response to ischemia, hypoxia, excitotoxicity or inflammation being a neuroprotectant under these conditions. However, adenosine may also contribute to neuronal damage and cell death in other circumstances. These actions are firmly established using multiple animal models. Therefore, increasing attention is now given to the role of adenosine in human brain function and its potential benefit for clinical applications. This review covers recent studies undertaken mostly in humans revealing the actions of adenosine and related drugs in cognition and memory as well as in various pathological situations such as psychiatric disorders, drug addiction and neurodegenerative disorders. The actual use of adenosine or adenosine receptor ligands in ongoing clinical trials for the treatment of schizophrenia, panic disorder and anxiety, cocaine dependence and Parkinson's disease is discussed. The evidence herein reviewed highlights the promising potential of adenosine or adenosine receptor ligands as therapeutic agents in several brain disorders.
7TM receptors constitute one of the largest superfamilies of proteins in the human genome. They are involved in a large number of physiological and pathological processes in the human body and thus represent major and important drug targets for the pharmaceutical industry. Although the majority have been deorphanized, many remain orphan, and these orphan receptors constitute a large pool of potential drug targets. This review focuses on one of these orphan targets, the Epstein-Barr Virus-induced receptor 2, EBI2 (or GPR183), together with two structurally related receptors, GPR17 and GPR18. The pharmacology and &quot;druggability&quot; of these three receptors is reviewed through a thorough description of their structural and functional properties and in vivo biology together with a status of currently available ligands for these receptors.
The prototypic benzodiazepines, such as diazepam, are not only anxiolytic but also produce sedation. These effects are mediated by GABA(A) receptors containing either an 1, 2, 3 or 5 subunit at which the positive modulatory effects (i.e., agonist efficacy) of benzodiazepines are mediated via a specific benzodiazepine recognition site. Recent molecular genetic and pharmacological data point to 1-containing GABA(A) receptors as the &quot;sedative&quot; and 2- and/or 3-containing receptors as the &quot;anxiolytic&quot; subtype(s). Therefore, at Merck Sharp &amp; Dohme attempts were made to identify subtype-selective compounds that modulate 2/3 but not 1 receptor function with the prediction that such compounds would be non-sedating anxiolytics. The initial strategy for discovering such &quot;anxioselective&quot; compounds focussed on producing compounds with much higher affinity at the 2/3 compared to 1 subtypes. The starting point for this approach was the triazolophthalazine series developed from a combination of a screening hit and a literature compound [1]. However, the maximum 3 versus 1 binding selectivity that could be achieved in this series was 12-fold and this was not considered sufficient for an appropriate in vivo pharmacological differentiation compared to non-selective compounds. Nevertheless, within this series compounds demonstrating (albeit to a limited extent) higher agonist efficacy at the 3 versus 1 subtype were also identified. This suggested that it might be possible to synthesize a compound with higher efficacy at the 2 and/or 3 compared to 1 subtypes, ideally with no efficacy at the latter subtype (i.e., a compound with subtype-selective efficacy). By changing the structure from a triazolophthalazine to a triazolopyridazine core, a number of either pharmacological tool compounds (L-838417, MRK-067 and MRK-696) or clinical development candidates (MRK-409 and TPA023) were identified. Encouraged by the success of this approach and the observation that the benzimidazole NS-2710 had a modest degree of 3 versus 1 selectivity efficacy, a structurally-related class of imidazopyridines was also explored. The introduction of an additional nitrogen into the imidazopyridine core gave the imidazopyrimidine series which initially had issues with poor dog pharmacokinetics. However, this was resolved and resulted in the identification of the development candidates MRK-623 and MRK-898. A fluoroimidazopyridine was found to be a bioisostere of the imidazopyrimidine core and in this series the 3-selective tool compound TP003 was identified. The addition of a further nitrogen into the imidazopyrimidine core produced the imidazotriazine series, which yielded the clinical candidate TPA023B. Imidazopyrazinone and imidazotriazinone compounds offered no advantages over their respective imidazopyrimidine and imidazotriazine analogues. Additional pharmacological tool compounds were identified within the pyridine, pyrazolotriazine, pyridazine and pyrazolopyridone series highlighting the general feasibility of GABA(A) receptor subtype selective efficacy as a strategy for developing compounds with novel in vitro and in vivo profiles.
Benzodiazepine site agonists (such as diazepam) are well-known to impair cognition. Since benzodiazepines exert their effects via modulation of 1-, 2-, 3- and 5-containing GABA(A) receptors, the cognition-impairing effects of diazepam must be associated with one or several of these subtypes. Of these different subtypes, 5-containing GABA(A) receptors represent an attractive option as the &quot;cognition&quot; subtype based upon the preferential localization of these receptors within the hippocampus and the well-established role of the hippocampus in learning and memory. As a result, it is hypothesized that an inverse agonist selective for the 5 subtype should enhance cognition. For example, L-655708, a partial inverse agonist with 50-100-fold higher affinity for the 5 relative to the 1, 2 and 3 subtypes of GABA(A) receptors, enhanced cognitive performance in rats. Unfortunately, however, pharmacokinetic properties of this compound prevented it being developed further. In order to try achieve binding selectivity in a series structurally distinct from the imidazobenzodiazepines, the group at Merck, Sharp &amp; Dohme commenced studies within the triazolopyridazine series. Although a degree of binding selectivity could be achieved (a maximum of 22-125-fold for 5 versus 1, 2 or 3) this approach was dropped in favour of a strategy to identify compounds with either a combination of selective affinity and selective efficacy or purely selective efficacy. With respect to the former, screening of the Merck chemical collection identified a novel, moderately 5-binding selective thiophene series and further optimization of this series produced MRK-536, which demonstrated a modest 5 binding selectivity (~10-fold) as well as 5-efficacy selectivity. However, the structure-activity relationship within this and the analogous tetralone series proved unpredictable and these series were not pursued further. The success of the selective efficacy approach on the 2/3-selective agonist project led a similar paradigm being adopted for the 5 project. The starting point for this strategy was the triazolopyridazine 3 which, like MRK-536, possessed a degree of both 5 binding- and efficacy-selectivity. By changing the core from a triazolopyridazine to a triazolophthalazine structure, 5 binding selectivity was lost but with subsequent optimization, compounds with the desired profile (low or antagonist efficacy at the 1, 2 and 3 subtypes and marked inverse agonism at 5-containing receptors) could be achieved, allowing the clinical candidate 5IA as well as the structurally-related pharmacological tool compound 5IA-II to be identified. By appending features of the prototypic 2/3-selective triazolopyridazine L-838417 (t-butyl and 1,2,4 triazole) along with the isoxazole of 5IA to a pyrazolotriazine core, an additional clinical candidate, MRK-016, was identified. Finally, a degree of 5 efficacy selectivity was achieved the pyridazine series but metabolic instability within this chemotype limited its further optimization. Overall, these studies demonstrate the feasibility of adopting a selective efficacy approach in the identification of 5 selective GABA(A) receptor inverse agonists.

We have utilized tau-assembled and tau-stabilized microtubules (MTs), in the absence of taxol, to investigate the effects of tau isoforms with three and four MT binding repeats upon kinesin-driven MT gliding. MTs were assembled in the presence of either 3-repeat tau (3R tau) or 4-repeat tau (4R tau) at tau:tubulin dimer molar ratios that approximate those found in neurons. MTs assembled with 3R tau glided at 31.1 m/min versus 25.8 m/min for 4R tau, a statistically significant 17% difference. Importantly, the gliding rates for either isoform did not change over a fourfold range of tau concentrations. Further, tau-assembled MTs underwent minimal dynamic instability behavior while gliding and moved with linear trajectories. In contrast, MTs assembled with taxol in the absence of tau displayed curved gliding trajectories. Interestingly, addition of 4R tau to taxol-stabilized MTs restored linear gliding, while addition of 3R tau did not. The data are consistent with the ideas that (i) 3R and 4R tau-assembled MTs possess at least some isoform-specific features that impact upon kinesin translocation, (ii) tau-assembled MTs possess different structural features than do taxol-assembled MTs, and (iii) some features of tau-assembled MTs can be masked by prior assembly by taxol. The differences in kinesin-driven gliding between 3R and 4R tau suggest important features of tau function related to the normal shift in tau isoform composition that occurs during neural development as well as in neurodegeneration caused by altered expression ratios of otherwise normal tau isoforms.


The inner ear structure of Antimora rostrata and its coupling to the swim bladder were analyzed and compared with the inner ears of several shallow-water species that also have similar coupling. The inner ear of Antimora has a long saccular otolith and sensory epithelium as compared to many other fishes. Some parts of the membranous labyrinth are thick and rigid, while other parts are thinner but attached tightly to the bony capsule. The partially rigid membranous labyrinth, along with its intimate connection to the swim bladder, may help the inner ear follow the sound oscillations from the swim bladder with better precision than would occur in a less rigid inner ear. In addition, the saccular sensory epithelium has an elaborate structure and an anterior enlargement that may be correlated with increased hearing sensitivity. Some of the features in the inner ear of Antimora may reflect the functional specialization of deep-water living and support the hypothesis that there is enhanced inner ear sensitivity in some deep-sea fishes.












Background/Aims: Diagnostic evaluation of dementia for ethnic minority patients may be challenging. This study aimed to evaluate the quality of diagnostic evaluation of dementia for patients from ethnic minorities in Denmark. Methods: The Danish national hospital registers were used to identify patients from the main ethnic minority groups in Denmark, who were diagnosed with dementia in the period 2005-2007. Three raters independently reviewed the patients' medical records. Data were compared to data from a previous similar study in the general Danish population. Results: Fifty-seven medical records were reviewed. An acceptable diagnostic workup was documented in only 23% of the patients. Dementia diagnosis was confirmed in 35%. Significant differences in the quality of the diagnostic evaluation were found between patients from ethnic minorities and the general population. Conclusion: There are significant ethnic disparities in the quality of diagnostic evaluations and outcome of dementia in the secondary healthcare sector.





Vascular dementia (VaD) is a clinical syndrome that encompasses a wide spectrum of cognitive disorders caused by cerebrovascular disease. The subcortical ischemic form of VaD is clinically homogeneous and a major cause of cognitive impairment in the elderly. Vascular lesions contribute to cognitive decline in neurodegenerative dementias, and VaD and Alzheimer's disease often coexist and share clinical features and multiple neurotransmission involvement. These similarities have led several investigators to use transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to enucleate a neurophysiological profile of VaD. TMS studies have identified a pattern of cortical hyperexcitability probably related to the disruption of the integrity of white matter lesions due to cerebrovascular disease. The present review provides a perspective of these TMS techniques by further understanding the role of different neurotransmission pathways and plastic remodeling of neuronal networks in the pathogenesis of VaD.
Adolescence reflects a period of increased rates of anxiety, depression, and suicide. Yet most teens emerge from this period with a healthy, positive outcome. In this article, we identify biological factors that may increase risk for some individuals during this developmental period by: (1) examining changes in neural circuitry underlying core phenotypic features of anxiety as healthy individuals transition into and out of adolescence; (2) examining genetic factors that may enhance the risk for psychopathology in one individual over another using translation from mouse models to human neuroimaging and behavior; and (3) examining the effects of early experiences on core phenotypic features of anxiety using human neuroimaging and behavioral approaches. Each of these approaches alone provides only limited information on genetic and environmental influences on complex human behavior across development. Together, they reflect an emerging field of translational developmental neuroscience in forming important bridges between animal models of neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders.

This study aimed to evaluate comorbidity for MD in a large ED sample and both personality and anger as clinical characteristics of patients with ED and MD. We assessed 838 ED patients with psychiatric evaluations and psychometric questionnaires: Temperament and Character Inventory, Eating Disorder Inventory-2, Beck Depression Inventory, and State-Trait Anger Expression Inventory. 19.5% of ED patients were found to suffer from comorbid MD and 48.7% reported clinically significant depressive symptomatology: patients with Anorexia Binge-Purging and Bulimia Nervosa were more likely to be diagnosed with MD. Irritable mood was found in the 73% of patients with MD. High Harm Avoidance (HA) and low Self-Directedness (SD) predicted MD independently of severity of the ED symptomatology, several clinical variables, and ED diagnosis. Assessing both personality and depressive symptoms could be useful to provide effective treatments. Longitudinal studies are needed to investigate the pathogenetic role of HA and SD for ED and MD.
Antipsychotics are recommended for the treatment of impulsive dyscontrol and cognitive perceptual symptoms of borderline personality disorder (BPD). Three reports supported the efficacy of oral risperidone on BPD psychopathology. Paliperidone ER is the metabolite of risperidone with a similar mechanism of action, and its osmotic release reduces plasmatic fluctuations and antidopaminergic effects. The aim of this study is to evaluate efficacy and safety of paliperidone ER in BPD patients. 18 outpatients with a DSM-IV-TR diagnosis of BPD were treated for 12 weeks with paliperidone ER (3-6mg/day). They were assessed at baseline, week 4, and week 12, using the CGI-Severity item, the BPRS, the HDRS, the HARS, the SOFAS, the BPD Severity Index (BPDSI), and the Barratt Impulsiveness Scale (BIS-11). Adverse events were evaluated with the DOTES. Paliperidone ER was shown to be effective and well tolerated in reducing severity of global symptomatology and specific BPD symptoms, such as impulsive dyscontrol, anger, and cognitive-perceptual disturbances. Results need to be replicated in controlled trials.
The purpose of this study was to test the validity of affective temperaments for predicting psychiatric morbidity and suicide risk, using a two-factor model to explain the relationships between temperament, anxiety, depression, and hopelessness. We investigated 210 high school students, 103 males and 107 females, 18-19 years old, who were administered self-report questionnaires to assess temperament (TEMPS-A), depression (BDI-II), anxiety (STAI) and hopelessness (BHS). The final structural model had a good fit with the data, with two factors significantly correlated, the first labeled unstable cyclothymic temperament including Dysthymic/Cyclothymic/Anxious temperament, Irritable temperament and Depression, and the second labeled Demoralization including Anxiety (State/Trait) and Hopelessness. Depression, anxiety and hopelessness are in a complex relationship partly mediated by temperament.
Depression is one of the most prevalent and debilitating public health concerns. Although no single cause of depression has been identified, it appears that interaction among genetic, epigenetic, biochemical, environmental, and psychosocial factors may explain its etiology. Further, only a fraction of depressed patients show full remission while using current antidepressants. Therefore, identifying common pathways of the disorder and using that knowledge to develop more effective pharmacological treatments are two primary targets of research in this field. Brain-enriched neurotransmitter CART (cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript) has multiple functions related to emotions. It is a potential neurotrophic factor and is involved in the regulation of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and stress response as well as in energy homeostasis. CART is also highly expressed in limbic system, which is considered to have an important role in regulating mood. Notably, adolescents carrying a missense mutation in the CART gene exhibit increased depression and anxiety. Hence, CART peptide may be a novel promising antidepressant agent. In this paper, we summarize recent progress in depression and CART. In particular, we emphasize a new antidepressant function for CART.
Objective. To investigate the effects of bright light treatment for secondary outcome measures and to explore and validate empirically derived subgroups and treatment effects in subgroups. Methods. A descriptive design. A sample of forty-nine persons (mean age of 45.8) with clinically assessed seasonal affective disorder (SAD) or subsyndromal SAD (S-SAD) participated in a two-group clinical trial evaluating the effects of treatment with bright light therapy. A person-oriented cluster analysis was applied to study treatment effects in subgroups. Results. For the merged group, sleepiness (Epworth Sleepiness Scale), fatigue (fatigue questionnaire), and health-related quality of life (SF-36) were improved at posttreatment, and results were maintained at the one-month followup. Three distinct subgroups had a high level of fatigue in common, while the level of excessive daytime sleepiness and depressed mood differed between the subgroups. Over time, all subgroups improved following ten days treatment in a light room. Conclusion. Fatigue, excessive daytime sleepiness, and health-related quality of life improve in a similar way as depressed mood following treatment with bright light. The treatment was effective irrespective of the severity of the disorder, that is, for persons with SAD and subsyndromal SAD.


Maltreatment from the caregiver induces vulnerability to later life psychopathologies, yet attraction and comfort is sometimes provided by cues associated with early life maltreatment. We used a rat model of early life maltreatment with odor-0.5 mA shock conditioning to produce depressive-like behaviors and questioned whether stimuli associated with maltreatment would restore emotional neurobehavioral function to control levels. Pups received daily novel odor-0.5 mA shock conditioning from postnatal day 8 to 12. This procedure produces a new maternal odor that controls pups' attachment behaviors. In adulthood, either with or without the infant odor, animals received a Forced Swim Test, Sucrose Preference Test or assessment of amygdala and olfactory system functioning using field potential signal evoked by olfactory bulb paired-pulse electrical stimulation. Following neonatal odor-shock pairings, but not unpaired controls, adults without the odor present showed increased depression-like behavior in the Forced Swim Test and Sucrose Preference Test and a deficit in paired-pulse inhibition in amygdala and piriform (olfactory) cortex. All effects were brought to control levels when the infant conditioned odor was presented during behavioral and neural tests. The ability of cues associated with early life maltreatment to normalize behavior and amygdala activity suggests these cues provide adaptive value in adulthood.
Filamin proteins cross-link F-actin and form a scaffold for numerous signal transduction systems. In this study, we show that filaminB is apically enriched in avian embryonic epithelium, and colocalizes with cell adhesion molecules and circumferential F-actin. FilaminB knockdown in the neural tube and somites decreases the accumulation of N-cadherin and ZO-1 protein at cell junctions, and promotes disruption of these tissues and the presence of neuronal aggregates within the lumen of the neural tube. This phenotype resembles that of human congenital condition, periventricular heterotopia (PH). FilaminB knockdown in MDCK cells suggests that filaminB is required for the apical accumulation of adhesion molecules in the junctional complex and subsequent epithelium formation. We further suggest that the reduction of structural integrity of the neural epithelium caused by the loss of Filamin function may also result in formation of the neuronal nodules found in PH patients.
Mdga1, encoding a GPI-anchored immunoglobulin superfamily molecule containing an MAM domain, is expressed by a specific subset of neurons, including layer II/III projection neurons, in the mouse neocortex. To investigate the function of Mdga1 in corticogenesis, we generated Mdga1-deficient mice and backcrossed them to obtain a congenic background. Gross anatomy of the Mdga1-deficient brain at postnatal day (P) 14 showed no obvious phenotype. However, the migration of Mdga1-mutant neurons to the superficial cortical plate was clearly delayed. Most Mdga1-mutant neurons reached the lower portion of the upper cortical layer by embryonic day 18.5 and stayed there through P0. By P7, the location of the mutant cells was the same as wild-type. The location of Cux2-expressing upper-layer neurons in the cortical plate was largely unaffected. These observations indicated that Mdga1 is involved in the migration and positioning of a subset of cortical neurons and suggested that the radial migration of upper-layer neurons might be differentially regulated.
Gamma rhythms (30-80 Hz) are a near-ubiquitous feature of neuronal population activity in mammalian cortices. Their dynamic properties permit the synchronization of neuronal responses to sensory input within spatially distributed networks, transient formation of local neuronal &quot;cell assemblies,&quot; and coherent response patterns essential for intercortical regional communication. Each of these phenomena form part of a working hypothesis for cognitive function in cortex. All forms of physiological gamma rhythm are inhibition based, being characterized by rhythmic trains of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in populations of principal neurons. It is these repeating periods of relative enhancement and attenuation of the responsivity of major cell groups in cortex that provides a temporal structure shared across many millions of neurons. However, when considering the origins of these repeating trains of inhibitory events considerable divergence is seen depending on cortical region studied and mode of activation of gamma rhythm generating networks. Here, we review the evidence for involvement of multiple subtypes of interneuron and focus on different modes of activation of these cells. We conclude that most massively parallel brain regions have different mechanisms of gamma rhythm generation, that different mechanisms have distinct functional correlates, and that switching between different local modes of gamma generation may be an effective way to direct cortical communication streams. Finally, we suggest that developmental disruption of the endophenotype for certain subsets of gamma-generating interneuron may underlie cognitive deficit in psychiatric illness.
An understanding of the diversity of cortical GABAergic interneurons is critical to understand the function of the cerebral cortex. Recent data suggest that neurons expressing three markers, the Ca2+-binding protein parvalbumin (PV), the neuropeptide somatostatin (SST), and the ionotropic serotonin receptor 5HT3a (5HT3aR) account for nearly 100% of neocortical interneurons. Interneurons expressing each of these markers have a different embryological origin. Each group includes several types of interneurons that differ in morphological and electrophysiological properties and likely have different functions in the cortical circuit. The PV group accounts for 40% of GABAergic neurons and includes fast spiking basket cells and chandelier cells. The SST group, which represents 30% of GABAergic neurons, includes the Martinotti cells and a set of neurons that specifically target layerIV. The 5HT3aR group, which also accounts for 30% of the total interneuronal population, is heterogeneous and includes all of the neurons that express the neuropeptide VIP, as well as an equally numerous subgroup of neurons that do not express VIP and includes neurogliaform cells. The universal modulation of these neurons by serotonin and acetylcholine via ionotropic receptors suggests that they might be involved in shaping cortical circuits during specific brain states and behavioral contexts.
Cortical interneurons play a crucial role in the functioning of cortical microcircuitry as they provide inhibitory input to projection (pyramidal) neurons. Despite their involvement in various neurological and psychiatric disorders, our knowledge about their development in human cerebral cortex is still incomplete. Here we demonstrate that at the beginning of corticogenesis, at embryonic 5 gestation weeks (gw, Carnegie stage 16) in human, early neurons could be labeled with calretinin, calbindin, and GABA antibodies. These immunolabeled cells show a gradient from the ganglionic eminences (GE) toward the neocortex, suggesting that GE is a well conserved source of early born cortical interneurons from rodents to human. At mid-term (20 gw), however, a subset of calretinin(+) cells proliferates in the cortical subventricular zone (SVZ), suggesting a second set of interneuron progenitors that have neocortical origin. Neuropeptide Y, somatostatin, or parvalbumin cells are sparse in mid-term cerebral cortex. In addition to the early source of cortical interneurons in the GE and later in the neocortical SVZ, other regions, such as the subpial granular layer, may also contribute to the population of human cortical interneurons. In conclusion, our findings from cryosections and previous in vitro results suggest that cortical interneuron progenitor population is more complex in humans relative to rodents. The increased complexity of progenitors is probably evolutionary adaptation necessary for development of the higher brain functions characteristic to humans.

This study was conducted to verify, prospectively, the ability of an anatomical risk index (ARI) constructed from seven anatomical measures of cerebral volume and perisylvian asymmetry to predict reading ability in 43 children aged 9 to 18. We found that negative ARIs (low cerebral volume and symmetry) were associated with poor reading ability only in children with low processing speed. Regression analysis showed that anatomy, speed, and an interaction term predicted 53% of the variance in real word reading (p &lt; .0001). Leftward perisylvian asymmetry and larger cerebral volumes may support cognitive flexibility in children with low processing speed.
Humans share 96% of our 30,000 genes with Chimpanzees. The 1,200 genes that differ appear at first glance insufficient to describe what makes us human and them apes. However, we are now discovering that the mechanisms that regulate how genes are expressed tell a much richer story than our DNA alone. Sections of our DNA are constantly being turned on or off, marked for easy access, or secluded and hidden away, all in response to ongoing cellular activity. In the brain, neurons encode information-in effect memories-at the cellular level. Yet while memories may last a lifetime, neurons are dynamic structures. Every protein in the synapse undergoes some form of turnover, some with half-lives of only hours. How can a memory persist beyond the lifetimes of its constitutive molecular building blocks? Epigenetics-changes in gene expression that do not alter the underlying DNA sequence-may be the answer. In this article, epigenetic mechanisms including DNA methylation and acetylation or methylation of the histone proteins that package DNA are described in the context of animal learning. Through the interaction of these modifications a &quot;histone code&quot; is emerging wherein individual memories leave unique memory traces at the molecular level with distinct time courses. A better understanding of these mechanisms has implications for treatment of memory disorders caused by normal aging or diseases including schizophrenia, Alzheimer's, depression, and drug addiction.

In this study we set out to dissociate the developmental time course of automatic symbolic number processing and cognitive control functions in grade 1-3 British primary school children. Event-related potential (ERP) and behavioral data were collected in a physical size discrimination numerical Stroop task. Task-irrelevant numerical information was processed automatically already in grade 1. Weakening interference and strengthening facilitation indicated the parallel development of general cognitive control and automatic number processing. Relationships among ERP and behavioral effects suggest that control functions play a larger role in younger children and that automaticity of number processing increases from grade 1 to 3.

Patients with psychosis often exhibit abnormalities in basic motor control, but little is known about the neural basis of these deficits. This study examines the neuro-dynamics of movement using magnetoencephalography (MEG) in adolescents with early-onset psychosis and typically developing controls. MEG data were imaged using beamforming then evaluated for task and group effects before, during, and after movement onsets. Primary findings included weaker activation in patients during movement execution in cerebellar cortices. Such aberrations likely contribute to the decreased motor control exhibited by patients with psychosis, and may reflect GABAergic-based inhibitory deficits comparable to those seen in cellular and system-level studies.
Humans' experience of emotion and comprehension of affective cues varies substantially across the lifespan. Work in cognitive and affective neuroscience has begun to characterize behavioral and neural responses to emotional cues that systematically change with age. This review examines work to date characterizing the maturation of facial expression comprehension, and dynamic changes in amygdala recruitment from early childhood through late adulthood while viewing facial expressions of emotion. Recent neuroimaging work has tested amygdala and prefrontal engagement in experimental paradigms mimicking real aspects of social interactions, which we highlight briefly, along with considerations for future research.
The present study examined developmental differences in event-related potentials between second graders and adults in arithmetic. Consistent with previous literature in adults, multiplication for both children and adults produced a greater left anterior negativity from 400 to 900 msec, whereas addition produced a greater right posterior negativity from 400 to 900 msec. Adults showed larger left anterior negativities in the time window suggesting that adults rely more than children on a verbal processing system for solving these problems. Children showed larger right posterior negativities in the time window suggesting that they rely more on quantitative manipulation for solving these problems.


Prenatal stress has been known to induce structural changes in the brain and lead to negative psychological well-being. To further understanding of the mechanisms that underlie these effects, whole genome microarray analysis was used to analyze gene expression changes in the developing brain. Epigenetic changes in the hippocampus and frontal cortex of offspring exposed to stress during gestation were investigated. Biological process ontology and pathway analysis was used to increase understanding of the changes produced in response to prenatal stress. The study identified over 700 genes in the frontal cortex and hippocampus that are differentially expressed following prenatal stress. The epigenetic changes demonstrate sex-dependent and region-specific profiles, exhibiting very little overlap between sexes and brain area. Frontal cortex changes were largely related to neurotransmitter function, whereas hippocampal changes were more prominent in females and concentrated around growth factors. These findings have important implications for generalized intervention strategies using a single methodology for all individuals.
Hyperactivity, hypersensitivity to auditory stimuli, and exaggerated fear are common behavioral abnormalities observed in individuals with fragile X syndrome (FXS), a neurodevelopmental disorder that is the most common genetic cause of autism. Evidence from studies of the Fmr1 knockout (KO) mouse model of FXS supports the notion that impaired GABAergic transmission in different brain regions such as the amygdala, striatum or cerebral cortex is central to FXS behavioral abnormalities. This suggests that the GABAergic system might be an intriguing target to ameliorate some of the phenotypes in FXS. Our recent work revealed that THIP (gaboxadol), a GABA(A) receptor agonist, can restore principal neuron excitability deficits in the Fmr1 KO amygdala, suggesting that THIP may also restore some of the key behavioral abnormalities in Fmr1 KO mice. Here, we reveal that THIP significantly attenuated hyperactivity in Fmr1 KO mice, and reduced prepulse inhibition in a volume-dependent manner. In contrast, THIP did not reverse the deficits in cued fear or startle response. Thus, this study shows that enhancing GABAergic transmission can correct specific behavioral phenotypes of the Fmr1 KO mouse further supporting that targeting the GABAergic system, and specifically tonic inhibition, might be important for correcting or ameliorating some key behaviors in FXS.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by intellectual disability, sensory hypersensitivity, and high incidences of autism spectrum disorders and epilepsy. These phenotypes are suggestive of defects in neural circuit development and imbalances in excitatory glutamatergic and inhibitory GABAergic neurotransmission. While alterations in excitatory synapse function and plasticity are well-established in Fmr1 knockout (KO) mouse models of FXS, a number of recent electrophysiological and molecular studies now identify prominent defects in inhibitory GABAergic transmission in behaviorally relevant forebrain regions such as the amygdala, cortex, and hippocampus. In this review, we summarize evidence for GABAergic system dysfunction in FXS patients and Fmr1 KO mouse models alike. We then discuss some of the known developmental roles of GABAergic signaling, as well as the development and refinement of GABAergic synapses as a framework for understanding potential causes of mature circuit dysfunction. Finally, we highlight the GABAergic system as a relevant target for the treatment of FXS.
Prior studies suggest that non-canonical proteolipid protein (PLP) gene expression occurs during development in non-myelinating neurons as well as myelinating oligodendroglia in mammalian brain. To assess this possibility in neostriatum, a region of uncertain PLP gene expression in neurons, morphological and electrophysiological tools were used to determine phenotypes of cells with activation of a PLP promoter transgene during the early postnatal period in mice. PLP gene expression is evident in both neuronal and oligodendroglial phenotypes in developing neostriatum, a conclusion based on three novel observations: (1) An enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) reporter of PLP promoter activation was localized in two distinct populations of cells, which exhibit collective, developmental differences of morphological and electrophysiological characteristics in accord with neuronal and oligodendroglial phenotypes of neostriatal cells found during the early postnatal period in both transgenic and wild-type mice. (2) The EGFP reporter of PLP promoter activation was appropriately positioned to serve as a regulator of PLP gene expression. It colocalized with native PLP proteins in both neuronal and oligodendroglial phenotypes; however, only soma-restricted PLP protein isoforms were found in the neuronal phenotype, while classic and soma-restricted PLP protein isoforms were found in the oligodendroglial phenotype. (3) As shown by EGFP reporter, PLP promoter activation was placed to regulate PLP gene expression in only one neuronal phenotype among the several that constitute neostriatum. It was localized in medium spiny neurons, but not large aspiny neurons. These outcomes have significant implications for the non-canonical functional roles of PLP gene expression in addition to myelinogenesis in mammalian brain, and are consistent with potentially independent pathologic loci in neurons during the course of human mutational disorders of PLP gene expression.

The prenatal environment, including prenatal stress, has been extensively studied in laboratory animals and humans. However, studies of the prenatal environment usually directly stress pregnant females, but stress may come 'indirectly', through stress to a cage-mate. The current study used indirect prenatal bystander stress and investigated the effects on the gross morphology, pre-weaning behavior, and epigenome of rat offspring. Pregnant Long-Evans rats were housed with another female rat that underwent elevated platform stress from gestational days 12 to 16. We found that ultrasonic vocalizations of female cage-mates were disrupted following the stress procedure. After birth, offspring were tested on two behavioral tasks and sacrificed at postnatal day 21 (p21). Frontal cortex and hippocampal tissue was used to measure global DNA methylation and gene expression changes. At p21, bystander-stressed female offspring exhibited increased body weight. Offspring behavior on the negative geotaxis task was altered by prenatal bystander stress, and locomotor behavior was reduced in female offspring. Global DNA methylation increased in the frontal cortex and hippocampus of bystander-stressed offspring. Microarray analysis revealed significant gene expression level changes in 558 different genes, of which only 10 exhibited overlap between males and females or brain areas. These alterations in gene expression were associated with overrepresentation of 36 biological processes and 34 canonical pathways. Prenatal stress thus does not have to be experienced by the mother herself to influence offspring brain development. Furthermore, this type of 'indirect' prenatal stress alters offspring DNA methylation patterns, gene expression profiles, and behavior.
Fear is a universal response to a threat to one's body or social status. Disruption in the detection and response of the brain's fear system is commonly observed in a variety of neurodevelopmental disorders, including fragile X syndrome (FXS), a brain disorder characterized by variable cognitive impairment and behavioral disturbances such as social avoidance and anxiety. The amygdala is highly involved in mediating fear processing, and increasing evidence supports the idea that inhibitory circuits play a key role in regulating the flow of information associated with fear conditioning in the amygdala. Here, we review the known and potential importance of amygdala fear circuits in FXS, and how developmental studies are critical to understand the formation and function of neuronal circuits that modulate amygdala-based behaviors.
Down syndrome (DS), the most frequent genetic cause of intellectual disability and developmental delay, results from impaired neural stem cell proliferation and differentiation. Impaired neurogenesis in the neocortex, hippocampus and cerebellum is believed to be the underlying cause of learning and behavioral deficits in the Ts65Dn mouse model of DS. Aggressive sensorimotor and cognitive therapies have shown promise in mitigating the cognitive disabilities in DS but these behavioral therapies have not yet been investigated at the cellular level. Here, using the Ts65Dn mouse model of DS, we demonstrate that a combination of environmental enrichment and physical exercise starting in juvenile mice (postnatal day 18) markedly increases cell proliferation, neurogenesis and gliogenesis in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) and the forebrain subventricular zone (SVZ) of both male and female mice. Enrichment and exercise increased the rate of Ts65Dn DG neurogenesis to be comparable to that of the nonenriched euploid group, while the effect on SVZ neurogenesis was reduced and seen only after prolonged exposure. These results clearly indicate that in a comprehensive stimulatory environment, the postnatal DS brain has the intrinsic capability of improving neurogenesis and gliogenesis to the levels of normal matched controls and that this cellular response underlies the cognitive improvement seen following behavioral therapies.
Trace fear conditioning is a well-established test for the assessment of learning deficits in rodents. The aim of this study was to determine whether hypoxia-ischemia (HI) on postnatal day 9 (P9) in mice prevents the acquisition and expression of cued and contextual fear learning in early adulthood. Brain injury was induced in mice on P9 by 30 min of HI. On P49 and P50, animals were tested for: (1) trace fear conditioning with a short delay (2 s) between a shock-paired tone plus light and shock, (2) trace fear conditioning with a longer delay (20 s) between a shock-paired tone and shock, and (3) trace fear conditioning with a 2-second delay between a shock-paired tone and shock with additional visual, olfactory and tactile contextual cues in the fear conditioning apparatus. Outcome was assessed as percent of time spent freezing during a 2-min test. Histological assessment of the hippocampus and amygdala was performed on P51 to determine the extent of HI injury. Both shock-paired tone plus light with a short delay and shock-paired tone with a short delay plus additional contextual cues enhanced tone-induced freezing behavior in a nonhandled control group, but not in the HI group. For trace fear conditioning with a 20-second delay between the tone and the shock, freezing behavior did not differ significantly between nonhandled control and HI animals. Dorsal hippocampal and amygdala volumes were smaller in the ischemic hemispheres of the HI mice that displayed impaired fear memory with shock-paired tone plus light. In summary, we have shown that trace fear conditioning is a sensitive method for detecting memory impairments in adolescent mice following mild HI injury during the neonatal period. Combining a discrete conditioned stimulus (shock-paired tone plus light) with a short trace delay was the most sensitive method for using the fear conditioning paradigm to detect mild HI damage to the hippocampus and amygdala.
The present study investigated the effect of prenatal stress (PS) on juvenile behavior and adult amphetamine (AMPH) sensitization, as well as the effect of the interaction between experience (i.e. PS) and drug (i.e. AMPH) on cortical thickness and neuronal morphology in corticolimbic regions in rats. Juvenile male and female rats, exposed to gestational stress, were tested in behavioral tasks that included open field locomotion, elevated plus maze, novel object recognition, and play fighting behavior. The development and persistence of drug-induced behavioral sensitization in adults were tested by chronic AMPH administration and challenge, respectively. Spine density in corticolimbic regions was examined for structural plasticity. The findings showed that PS produced anxiety-like behavior in males. Furthermore, PS in males resulted in female-like play and enhanced partial rotation defense, whereas in females PS increased the probability of evasion in response to an attack. AMPH administration resulted in gradual increase in behavioral sensitization that persisted at least for 2 weeks; however, PS did not influence AMPH-induced behavioral sensitization in either male or female rats. Moreover, PS increased the spine density in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and decreased it in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) without any alteration in the orbital frontal cortex (OFC). Similarly, AMPH administration increased spine density in the NAc and mPFC, whereas a decrease was observed in the OFC. However, PS prevented the drug-induced alterations in the spine density observed in controls. In sum, PS modulated juvenile behavior and altered brain morphology without influencing AMPH-induced behavioral sensitization substantially.
This investigation was designed to survey and characterize the development of a key link between chemically mediated neurotransmission and neuronal cytoarchitecture in mammalian basal ganglia. Peroxidase immunohistochemical and Golgi impregnation/gold toning methods were combined to doubly label the tachykinin neuromodulator signature and somatodendritic structure of neostriatal neurons in late fetal, postnatal and adult cats. The results supported 3 conclusions of considerable significance. (1) Colocalization of immunohistochemical and Golgi impregnation/gold toning labels is a feasible, rational and productive means to identify and determine the somatodendritic morphogenesis of tachykinin neurons. (2) The application of this method to developing feline neostriatum demonstrates directly that the principal tachykinin cells are medium-sized spiny neurons, which undergo progressive growth and elaboration of cell bodies, dendritic arbors and dendritic spines during the late fetal and postnatal periods. (3) There is a strong but incomplete concordance between tachykinin and medium-sized spiny neuronal phenotypes, because a minor variant of medium-sized spiny neurons and rare subgroups of medium- and large-sized sparse spiny neurons also show the tachykinin neuromodulator signature. Taken together, these results suggest that neostriatal neurons show an early commitment to heterogeneous tachykinin phenotypes, although the full and final expression of their somatodendritic characteristics coincides with synaptogenesis.
Across languages, children with developmental dyslexia have a specific difficulty with the neural representation of the sound structure (phonological structure) of speech. One likely cause of their difficulties with phonology is a perceptual difficulty in auditory temporal processing (Tallal, 1980). Tallal (1980) proposed that basic auditory processing of brief, rapidly successive acoustic changes is compromised in dyslexia, thereby affecting phonetic discrimination (e.g. discriminating /b/ from /d/) via impaired discrimination of formant transitions (rapid acoustic changes in frequency and intensity). However, an alternative auditory temporal hypothesis is that the basic auditory processing of the slower amplitude modulation cues in speech is compromised (Goswami et al., 2002). Here, we contrast children's perception of a synthetic speech contrast (ba/wa) when it is based on the speed of the rate of change of frequency information (formant transition duration) versus the speed of the rate of change of amplitude modulation (rise time). We show that children with dyslexia have excellent phonetic discrimination based on formant transition duration, but poor phonetic discrimination based on envelope cues. The results explain why phonetic discrimination may be allophonic in developmental dyslexia (Serniclaes et al., 2004), and suggest new avenues for the remediation of developmental dyslexia.
During nervous system development, axons generate branches to connect with multiple synaptic targets. As with axon growth and guidance, axon branching is tightly controlled in order to establish functional neural circuits, yet the mechanisms that regulate this important process are less well understood. Here, we review recent advances in the study of several common branching processes in the vertebrate nervous system. By focusing on each step in these processes we illustrate how different types of branching are regulated by extracellular cues and neural activity, and highlight some common principles that underlie the establishment of complex neural circuits in vertebrate development.
Animal models can certainly be useful to find out more about the biological bases of anxiety disorders and develop new, more efficient pharmacological and/or behavioral treatments. However, many of the current &quot;models of anxiety&quot; in animals do not deal with pathology itself, but only with extreme forms of anxiety which are still in the normal, adaptive range. These models have certainly provided a lot of information on brain and behavioral mechanisms which could be involved in the etiology and physiopathology of anxiety disorders, but are usually not satisfactory when confronted directly with clinical syndromes. Further progress in this field will probably depend on the finding of endophenotypes which can be studied in both humans and animals with common methodological approaches. The emphasis should be on individual differences in vulnerability, which have to be included in animal models. Finally, progress will also depend on refining theoretical constructs from an interdisciplinary perspective, including psychiatry, psychology, behavioral sciences, genetics, and other neurosciences.
Panic disorder is a common and disabling illness for which treatments are too frequently ineffective. Greater knowledge of the underlying biology could aid the discovery of better therapies. Although panic attacks occur unpredictably, the ability to provoke them in the laboratory with challenge protocols provides an opportunity for crucial insight into the neurobiology of panic. Two of the most well-studied panic provocation challenges are CO(2) inhalation and lactate infusion. Although it remains unclear how these challenges provoke panic animal models of CO(2) and lactate action are beginning to emerge, and offer unprecedented opportunities to probe the molecules and circuits underlying panic attacks. Both CO(2) and lactate alter pH balance and may generate acidosis that can influence neuron function through a growing list of pH-sensitive receptors. These observations suggest that a key to better understanding of panic disorder may He in more knowledge of brain pH regulation and pH-sensitive receptors.
Based primarily on studies that employ Pavlovian fear conditioning, extinction of conditioned fear has been found to be mediated by N-methyi-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex. This led to the discovery that an NMDA partial agonist, D-cycloserine, could facilitate fear extinction when given systemically or locally into the amygdala. Because many forms of cognitive behavioral therapy depend on fear extinction, this led to the successful use of D-cycloserine as an adjunct to psychotherapy in patients with so-called simple phobias (fear of heights), social phobia, obsessive-compulsive behavior, and panic disorder. Data in support of these conclusions are reviewed, along with some of the possible limitations of D-cycloserine as an adjunct to psychotherapy.
Traumatic brain injury remains a major cause of death and disability; it is estimated that annually 10 million people are affected. Preclinical studies have shown the potential therapeutic value of stem cell therapies. Neuroprotective as well as regenerative properties of stem cells have been suggested to be the mechanism of action in preclinical studies. However, up to now stem cell therapy has not been studied extensively in clinical trials. This article summarizes the current experimental evidence and points out hurdles for clinical application. Focusing on a cell therapy in the acute stage of head injury, the potential of encapsulated cell biodelivery as a novel cell-therapeutic approach will also be discussed.
The classic fight-or-flight response to perceived threat is a reflexive nervous phenomenon thai has obvious survival advantages in evolutionary terms. However, the systems that organize the constellation of reflexive survival behaviors following exposure to perceived threat can under some circumstances become dysregulated in the process. Chronic dysregulation of these systems can lead to functional impairment in certain individuals who become &quot;psychologically traumatized&quot; and suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), A body of data accumulated over several decades has demonstrated neurobiological abnormalities in PTSD patients. Some of these findings offer insight into the pathophysiology of PTSD as well as the biological vulnerability of certain populations to develop PTSD, Several pathological features found in PTSD patients overlap with features found in patients with traumatic brain injury paralleling the shared signs and symptoms of these clinical syndromes.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a worldwide public health problem typically caused by contact and inertial forces acting on the brain. Recent attention has also focused on the mechanisms of injury associated with exposure to blast events or explosions. Advances in the understanding of the neuropathophysiology of TBI suggest that these forces initiate an elaborate and complex array of cellular and subcellular events related to alterations in Ca(++) homeostasis and signaling. Furthermore, there is a fairly predictable profile of brain regions that are impacted by neurotrauma and the related events. This profile of brain damage accurately predicts the acute and chronic sequelae that TBI survivors suffer from, although there is enough variation to suggest that individual differences such as genetic polymorphisms and factors governing resiliency play a role in modulating outcome. This paper reviews our current understanding of the neuropathophysiology of TBI and how this relates to the common clinical presentation of neurobehavioral difficulties seen after an injury.
For nearly two decades now, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has been available as a noninvasive clinical tool to treat patients suffering from major depression. In this period, a bulk of animal and human studies examined TMS parameters to improve clinical outcome. However, the neurobiological mechanisms underlying mood changes remain an important focus of research. In addition to having an effect on neuroendocrinological processes, neurotransmitter systems, and neurotrophic factors, TMS may not only affect the stimulated cortical regions, but also those connected to them. Therefore, we will review current human data on possible neurobiological mechanisms of repetitive (r) TMS implicated in the deregulated neurocircuitry present in unipolar depression. Furthermore, as the rTMS application can be considered as a &quot;top-down&quot; neuronal intervention, we will focus on the neuronal pathways linked with the stimulated area and we will present an integrative model of action.






Synaptic function is critical for the brain to process experiences dictated by the environment requiring change over the lifetime of the organism. Experience-driven adaptation requires that receptors, signal transduction pathways, transcription and translational mechanisms within neurons respond rapidly over its lifetime. Adaptive responses communicated through the rapid firing of neurons are dependent upon the integrity and function of synapses. These rapid responses via adaptation underlie the organism's ability to perceive, learn, remember, calculate and plan. Glutamate, the endogenous neurotransmitter required for physiological excitation in the brain, is critically involved in neuronal adaptive responses and in the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative disorders. Using neuronal experimental systems, we will discuss how compounds with low dose effects mediated via glutamate receptors can result either in a neuroprotective or neurotoxic response. Because the brain has evolved to respond rapidly to environmental cues, exposure of neurons to stressful stimuli can result in a pivotal response toward either synaptic adaptation or dysfunction and neuronal cell death. Understanding how neurons adapt to stressful stimuli will provide important clues toward the development of strategies to protect the brain against neurodegeneration.
This mini-review illustrates that hormesis is not only confined to the areas of biochemistry, radiation biology and toxicology, where it is traditionally known, but illustrates, by citing published scientific literature, that it is found across a wide range of biomedical science and clinical medicine such as neuroscience, cardiology and oncology. The use of techniques and technology, including high through-put screening, micro-dosing or phase 0 studies, pharmacometrics and adaptive trial design in the clinic, are proposed to illustrate how acknowledging the potential impact of hormesis throughout different stages of drug discovery and development, including hurdles related to efficacy and safety, could help the pharmaceutical industry address some of its major and frequently mentioned challenges.
Insomnia is a common clinical condition resulting in significant costs and morbidity. Previous models of insomnia focusing on psychological and behavioral processes are useful clinically, but lack neurobiological specificity. We propose an insomnia model based on basic and clinical neuroscience findings, and hypothesize that insomnia results from persistent activity in wake-promoting neural structures during NREM sleep. The simultaneous occurrence of sleeping and waking neural activity helps to explain clinical phenomenology and treatment effects in insomnia.
Semi-automated high throughput screening for the inhibition of major human cytochrome P450 enzymes (1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 3A4) expressed in Escherichia Coli (Cypex bactosomes) or human lymphoblastoid cells (Gentest cDNA microsomes) using fluorescent probes has been evaluated using 68 marketed drugs. In general lower IC50 values were obtained with Cypex bactosomes compared with Gentest cDNA microsomes. This could be due to use of higherconcentration of protein and also the lower activity of Gentest cDNA microsomes. Notably, when compared with in vivo clinical drug-drug interactions (cDDIs) gathered from clinical studies reported in the scientific literature Cypex bactosome data was better at predicting in vivo cDDI. Consequently, from the data obtained in this comparative study, a fluorescence based assay using Cypex bactosomes is more suitable as a front-line screen for the prediction of potential downstream CYP450 driven cDDIs.
Yoga has historically been viewed as a discipline that increases self-awareness through body based practices, meditation, self-study, and the reading of philosophical texts. In the 21st century the mindfulness techniques of yoga have been adapted as an adjunct to the treatment of individuals with eating disorders. In an effort to understand the conceptualization of yoga as therapy for individuals with eating disorders, this article juxtaposes how mindfulness based yoga is regarded in three disciplines: sociology, neuroscience, and the &quot;spiritual texts&quot; of yoga.
Research on emotion and emotion regulation is expected to improve our understanding of psychopathology. However, achieving this understanding requires overcoming several obstacles, including the paucity of objective markers of specific emotions or psychiatric diagnoses, and the fact that emotion regulation is a concept that can be difficult to operationalize. We review affective neuroscience research that has addressed these issues by focusing on psychological and neural mechanisms implicated in approach and avoidance behaviors, as revealed by studies of fear, anxiety, and reward processing. Dysfunction in these mechanisms may serve as risk markers for psychopathology, while emotion regulation research demonstrates that some of them are susceptible to volitional control. The conclusion acknowledges limitations of affective neuroscience and highlights goals for future work.
Recent studies have shown that antioxidant enzyme expression and activity are drastically reduced in most human skin diseases, leading to propagation of oxidative stress and continuous disease progression. However, antioxidants, an endogenous defense system against reactive oxygen species (ROS), can be induced by exogenous sources, resulting in protective effects against associated oxidative injury. Many studies have shown that the induction of antioxidants is an effective strategy to combat various disease states. In one approach, a SOD mimetic was applied topically to mouse skin in the two-stage skin carcinogenesis model. This method effectively reduced oxidative injury and proliferation without interfering with apoptosis. In another approach, Protandim, a combination of 5 well-studied medicinal plants, was given via dietary administration and significantly decreased tumor incidence and multiplicity by 33% and 57%, respectively. These studies suggest that alterations in antioxidant response may be a novel approach to chemoprevention. This paper focuses on how regulation of antioxidant expression and activity can be modulated in skin disease and the potential clinical implications of antioxidant-based therapies.
Epilepsy is increasingly recognized as a disease that reaches well beyond seizures. Cognitive and psychiatric impairment affect half of all epilepsy patients, and to date there are no specific treatments for these symptoms. It is unclear which of these comorbidities are directly due to seizures and which are due to separable mechanisms that are parallel to those underlying ictal activity. Cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying synaptic modulation are central to both the ictal and nonictal changes in epilepsy. Current diagnostic methods are rapidly advancing to better delineate the nature and extent of ictal activity, and could soon be critical in identifying patterns unique to the cognitive and psychiatric comorbidities.




A missense mutation (R43Q) in the 2 subunit of the -aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptor is associated with generalized (genetic) epilepsy with febrile seizures plus (GEFS+). Heterozygous GABA(A) 2(R43Q) mice displayed a lower temperature threshold for thermal seizures as compared to wild-type littermates. Temperature-dependent internalization of GABA(A) 2(R43Q)-containing receptors has been proposed as a mechanism underlying febrile seizure genesis in patients with this mutation. We tested this idea using the GABA(A) 2(R43Q) knockin mouse model and analyzed GABAergic miniature postsynaptic inhibitory currents (mIPSCs) in acute brain slices after exposure to varying temperatures. Incubation of slices at an elevated temperature increased mIPSC amplitude in neurons from heterozygous mice, with no change seen in wild-type controls. [H]Flumazenil binding measured in whole-brain homogenates from mutant and control mice following elevation of body temperature showed no temperature-dependent differences in 2-containing receptor density. Therefore, in vivo mouse data do not support earlier in vitro observations that proposed temperature-dependent internalization of 2 R43Q containing GABA(A) receptors as the cellular mechanism underlying febrile seizure genesis in patients with the GABA(A) 2(R43Q) mutation.


Clinical Practice Guidelines for depression and anxiety recommend cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) as an equivalent and sometimes more effective treatment than medication. The limited research investigating CBT for anxiety and depression in epilepsy demonstrates mixed results. Described here is a pilot project using an existing group CBT intervention for symptoms of depression and/or anxiety, CBT Basics II, in patients with epilepsy. Eighteen patients with epilepsy, referred by neurologists to address depression and/or anxiety symptoms, completed the 10-week group. Results demonstrated improvements in depression, anxiety, negative automatic thoughts, and cognitive therapy knowledge and skills. The group was generally acceptable to patients as indicated by good attendance rates and only one dropout. This pilot project demonstrates that group CBT is a feasible, acceptable, and promising intervention for patients with epilepsy and comorbid depression and anxiety symptoms.
We describe a patient with adult-onset Rasmussen's encephalitis (RE) responsive to vagus nerve stimulation. This previously healthy woman developed RE in the right hemisphere at the age of 27. Despite antiepileptic drug polytherapy, she continued to experience subcontinuous, simple-partial left-sided motor seizures and slowly progressive cognitive impairment. Resective surgery was not considered owing to the preservation of left motor skills. She was implanted with a vagus nerve stimulator at the age of 41; after 6 months she experienced a greater than 50% reduction in seizure frequency, which persisted over 2 years together with improvement of her neurological and cognitive status.

Autosomal dominant lateral temporal epilepsy (ADTLE) is an inherited epileptic syndrome characterized by ictal auditory symptoms or aphasia, negative MRI findings, and relatively benign evolution. Mutations responsible for ADLTE have been found in the LGI1 gene. The functions of the Lgi1 protein apparently are mediated by interactions with members of the ADAM protein family: it binds the postsynaptic receptor ADAM22 to regulate glutamate-AMPA currents at excitatory synapses and also the ADAM23 receptor to promote neurite outgrowth in vitro and dendritic arborization in vivo. Because alteration of each of these neuronal mechanisms may underlie ADLTE, ADAM22 and ADAM23 are candidate genes for this syndrome. In a previous work, we excluded a major role of ADAM22 in the aetiology of ADLTE. Here, we performed linkage analysis between microsatellite markers within or flanking the ADAM23 gene and ADLTE in 13 Italian families. The results exclude ADAM23 as major causative gene for ADLTE.
The aim of the present work was to systematically review all association studies of inflammation genes with alcohol dependence/alcohol abuse (AD/AA) and to perform a meta-analysis. Odds ratios (ORs) were estimated by contrasting the ratio of counts of the 'high-risk' versus 'low-risk' alleles in AD/AA cases versus controls. Data reported in at least three published studies were available for four genetic polymorphisms [TNF--238 (rs361525, G/A); TNF--308 (rs1800629, G/A); IL-1RA (VNTR [86 bp]n); IL-10-592 (rs1800896, C/A)]. In total, nine meta-analyses were performed. Of these, only the TNF--238 polymorphism showed a significant association with AD/AA (OR=1.36, 95% CI: 1.05-1.76). This risk remained significant and increased slightly when we considered only patients with advanced alcohol-related liver disease (AALD) (OR=1.5, 95% CI: 1.13-1.98) but not when we considered only patients without AALD (OR=1.08, 95% CI: 0.5-2.35). Sensitivity analysis showed that this genetic association is derived from the AALD phenotype rather than from AD. Our approach is limited by our phenotype definition; some studies included chronic heavy drinkers (minimal daily consumption of 80 g for a minimal duration of 10 years) but without a standardized psychiatric assessment.
The prevalence of psychiatric disorders among children with unexplained chronic pain (UCP) is high in unselected populations and pain clinics, yet the clinical relevance of these disorders in children referred for unexplained pain is not known. This study assessed the prevalence of clinically relevant psychiatric disorders and their predictors in children referred to a children's hospital for UCP. Psychiatry morbidity was assessed in 134 children, aged 8-17 years, using the Diagnostic Interview Schedule for Children-parent version (DISC-P) and the Semi-structured Clinical Interview for Children and Adolescents (SCICA). Clinical relevance was determined using a maladjustment criterion of 61 or lower on the Children's Global Assessment Scale (CGAS). Pain parameters were measured with standardized questionnaires. Results were analysed by logistic regression. According to the DISC-P, 21% of the children had clinically relevant psychiatric disorders, predominantly anxiety disorders (18%). According to the SCICA, 28% of the children had clinically relevant psychiatric disorders, consisting of anxiety, affective, and disruptive disorders (12, 19, and 9%, respectively). Headache (compared to musculoskeletal pain) was an independent clinical predictor of psychiatric morbidity (OR = 3.10; 95% CI 1.07-8.92, p = 0.04/adjusted OR 2.99; 95% CI 1.02-8.74, p = 0.04). In conclusion, clinically relevant psychiatric disorders are common among children and adolescents referred for UCP. Adding a child psychiatrist assessment, treatable affective and disruptive disorders become identifiable. Children with an additional risk are those presenting with headache.
Recent studies have shown that the nociceptive withdrawal reflex threshold (NWR-T) and the electrical pain threshold (EP-T) are reliable measures in pain-free populations. However, it is necessary to investigate the reliability of these measures in patients with chronic pain in order to translate these techniques from laboratory to clinic. The aims of this study were to determine the test-retest reliability of the NWR-T and EP-T after single and repeated (temporal summation) electrical stimulation in a group of patients with chronic low back pain, and to investigate the association between the NWR-T and the EP-T. To this end, 25 patients with chronic pain participated in three identical sessions, separated by 1week in average, in which the NWR-T and the EP-T to single and repeated stimulation were measured. Test-retest reliability was assessed using intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC), coefficient of variation (CV), and Bland-Altman analysis. The association between the thresholds was assessed using the coefficient of determination (r (2)). The results showed good-to-excellent reliability for both NWR-T and EP-T in all cases, with average ICC values ranging 0.76-0.90 and average CV values ranging 12.0-17.7%. The association between thresholds was better after repeated stimulation than after single stimulation, with average r (2) values of 0.83 and 0.56, respectively. In conclusion, the NWR-T and the EP-T are reliable assessment tools for assessing the sensitivity of spinal nociceptive pathways in patients with chronic pain.
The placenta contains a large variety of metabolizing enzymes, among them UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT). Several UGT2B isozymes have so far been detected in human placenta, but little is known on placental expression of UGT1A isozymes. The antiepileptic drug lamotrigine (LTG) is a UGT1A4-substrate, and its serum concentration falls by over 50% during pregnancy, leading to impaired seizure control. The placenta may be involved in this. Microsomes from term placentas of 4 LTG-users and 10 healthy control subjects were prepared. Western blot analysis detected UGT1A proteins in all placentas. The presence of UGT1A4 in placenta from LTG users was confirmed with UGT1A4 commercial standard and a specific UGT1A4 primary antibody. Since LTG is primarily metabolized by UGT1A4 and this isozyme is shown to be present in placenta at term, it may be hypothesized that the placenta is involved in the fall of LTG serum concentrations during pregnancy.
Depression is a common and serious disorder that may have developmental origins. Birth-related factors have been related to childhood and adult occurrence of somatic as well as psychiatric disorders, but studies on the relationship between birth-related factors and depression are few and show mixed results. In addition, varying methods have been used to assess depression. Standardized clinical criteria to diagnose depression, combined with birth data collected from midwife records have not been used in most studies. Participants in the Prospective Population Study of Women in Sweden (803 women), born 1914, 1918, 1922 and 1930, provide information on birth factors and depression. Women participated from 1968 at mid-life ages of 38-60years, to 2000, when they were age 78-92years. Original birth records containing birth weight, length, head circumference, and gestational time, as well as social factors were obtained. Lifetime depression was diagnosed via multiple information sources. Symptoms were assessed using the Comprehensive Psychopathological Rating Scale and diagnoses were based on DSM-III-R criteria. Over their lifetime, 44.6% of women in this sample experienced depression. Birth weights3500g [odds ratio (OR), age-adjusted=1.72; 95% CI 1.29-2.28, P&lt;0.001] and shorter gestational time (OR, age-adjusted=1.13; 95% CI 1.04-1.24, P=0.005) were independently associated with a higher odds of lifetime depression in a logistic regression model adjusted for age. Lower than median birth weights and shorter gestational time were related to lifetime depression in women. Both neurodevelopmental and environmental contributions to lifetime depression may be considered.
Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) is the third most common inherited muscular dystrophy with markedly clinical variability and complex genetic cause. Several reports pertaining to the Caucasian population have confirmed that there are 4qA and 4qB variants of the 4qter subtelomere, and FSHD is uniquely associated with the 4qA variant. However, few data relevant to the Chinese population have been published. In present paper, detailed clinical and genetic re-evaluations were performed in members of four special families who had been initially diagnosed as atypical or asymptomatic FSHD based only on the D4Z4 repeat length analysis. The FSHD-sized D4Z4 repeats in the probands from families 1, 2 and 3 were identified as 4qB variants. These patients were further confirmed as limb-girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD2) or myotonic dystrophy (DM1) by molecular analyses. Specifically, we identified a 4qB variant on chromosome 10 in the healthy members of the fourth FSHD family with complex D4Z4 rearrangements of two exchanged repeat arrays. For the first time, we demonstrated in the Chinese population that D4Z4 contractions on the 4qB variant do not cause FSHD and 4qB variant on chromosome 10 might also represent intermediate structures in the transition from 4q to 10q. Furthermore, our results emphasize that D4Z4 repeat length analysis alone is not sufficient for the diagnosis of FSHD, especially when used as an exclusion criterion. This analysis should be accompanied by 4qA/4qB variant determination and integrated chromosome assignments, especially in patients with obscure and unclassified myopathies similar to atypical forms of FSHD.
CHRNA5, encoding the nicotinic 5 subunit, is implicated in multiple disorders, including nicotine addiction and lung cancer. Previous studies demonstrate significant associations between promoter polymorphisms and CHRNA5 mRNA expression, but the responsible sequence variants remain uncertain. To search for cis-regulatory variants, we measured allele-specific mRNA expression of CHRNA5 in human prefrontal cortex autopsy tissues and scanned the CHRNA5 locus for regulatory variants. A cluster of six frequent single-nucleotide polymorphisms (rs1979905, rs1979906, rs1979907, rs880395, rs905740, and rs7164030), in complete linkage disequilibrium (LD), fully account for a &gt;2.5-fold allelic expression difference and a fourfold increase in overall CHRNA5 mRNA expression. This proposed enhancer region resides more than 13 kilobases upstream of the CHRNA5 transcription start site. The same upstream variants failed to affect CHRNA5 mRNA expression in peripheral blood lymphocytes, indicating tissue-specific gene regulation. Other promoter polymorphisms were also correlated with overall CHRNA5 mRNA expression in the brain, but were inconsistent with allelic mRNA expression ratios, a robust and proximate measure of cis-regulatory variants. The enhancer region and the nonsynonymous polymorphism rs16969968 generate three main haplotypes that alter the risk of developing nicotine dependence. Ethnic differences in LD across the CHRNA5 locus require consideration of upstream enhancer variants when testing clinical associations.



The calyx of Held synapse is a giant synapse in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) of the ventral brainstem, which is involved in sound localization. Although it has many release sites, it can show transmission failures and display an increase in synaptic delay during high-frequency signalling. Its apparent lack of reliability and precision raises the question whether this synapse makes a sizeable contribution to tone adaptation, the decline in response to sustained or repetitive auditory stimuli. We observed evidence for the presence of both ipsilateral and contralateral inhibition, but these effects were already present in the inputs to the MNTB, suggesting that synaptic inhibition within the MNTB does not contribute to tone adaptation. During trains of brief tones at variable intervals, there were no clear changes in reliability or precision at tone intervals of 20ms or longer. A progressive decrease in the number of spikes measured in the MNTB was observed at shorter tone intervals, but this decrease largely originated upstream from the MNTB. In addition, for tones with short intervals, during the train a progressive increase in first-spike latencies was observed, but much smaller changes were observed in the delay between excitatory postsynaptic potentials and postsynaptic action potentials within the MNTB. We conclude that despite the failures and variability in synaptic delay that are present at the calyx of Held synapse, their contribution to tone adaptation is relatively small compared with upstream factors.
Motor performance is profoundly influenced by sensory information, yet sensory input can be noisy and uncertain. The basal ganglia and the cerebellum are important in processing sensory uncertainty, as the basal ganglia incorporate the uncertainty of predictive reward cues to reinforce motor programs, and the cerebellum and its connections mitigate the effect of ambiguous sensory input on motor performance through the use of forward models. Although Parkinson's disease (PD) is classically considered a primary disease of the basal ganglia, alterations in cerebellar activation are also observed, which may have consequences for the processing of sensory uncertainty. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of visual uncertainty on motor performance in 15 PD patients and ten age-matched control subjects. Subjects performed a visually guided tracking task, requiring large-amplitude arm movements, by tracking with their index finger a moving target along a smooth trajectory. To induce visual uncertainty, the target position randomly jittered about the desired trajectory with increasing amplitudes. Tracking error was related to target ambiguity to a significantly greater degree in PD subjects off medication compared with control subjects, indicative of susceptibility to visual uncertainty in PD. l-Dopa partially ameliorated this deficit. We interpret our findings as suggesting an inability of PD subjects to create adequate forward models and/or de-weight less informative visual input. As these computations are normally associated with the cerebellum and connections, we suggest that alterations in normal cerebellar functioning may be a significant contributor to altered motor performance in PD.
The serotonin-1A (5-HT1A) receptor functions as a pre-synaptic autoreceptor in serotonin neurons that regulates their activity, and is also widely expressed on non-serotonergic neurons as a post-synaptic heteroreceptor to mediate serotonin action. The 5-HT1A receptor gene is strongly repressed by a dual repressor element (DRE), which is recognized by two proteins: Freud-1/CC2D1A and another unknown protein. Here we identify mouse Freud-2/CC2D1B as the second repressor of the 5-HT1A-DRE. Freud-2 shares 50% amino acid identity with Freud-1, and contains conserved structural domains. Mouse Freud-2 bound specifically to the rat 5-HT1A-DRE adjacent to, and partially overlapping, the Freud-1 binding site. By supershift assay using nuclear extracts from L6 myoblasts, Freud-2-DRE complexes were distinguished from Freud-1-DRE complexes. Freud-2 mRNA and protein were detected throughout mouse brain and peripheral tissues. Freud-2 repressed 5-HT1A promoter-reporter constructs in a DRE-dependent manner in non-neuronal (L6) or 5-HT1A-expressing neuronal (NG108-15, RN46A) cell models. In NG108-15 cells, knockdown of Freud-2 using a specific short-interfering RNA reduced endogenous Freud-2 protein levels and decreased Freud-2 bound to the 5-HT1A-DRE as detected by chromatin immunoprecipitation assay, but increased 5-HT1A promoter activity and 5-HT1A protein levels. Taken together, these data show that Freud-2 is the second component that, with Freud-1, mediates dual repression of the 5-HT1A receptor gene at the DRE.
Learning increases the number of immature neurons that survive and mature in the adult hippocampus. One-week-old cells are more likely to survive in response to learning than cells in animals that are exposed to training but do not learn. Because neurogenesis is an ongoing and overlapping process, it is possible that learning differentially affects new cells as a function of their maturity. To address this issue, we examined the effects of associative learning on the survival of cells at different stages of development. Training did not alter the number of cells that were produced during the training experience. Cells that were 1-2 weeks of age at the time of training survived after learning but cells that were younger or older did not. In contrast, cells that were produced during training were less likely to survive than cells in untrained animals. Additionally, the number of cells that were generated after learning in trained animals was not different from the number in untrained animals. Finally, survival was not increased if the memory was expressed when the cells were about 1-week-old. Together, these results indicate that new neurons are rescued from death by initial acquisition, not the expression or reacquisition, of an associative memory and only during a critical period. Overall, these results suggest the presence of a feedback system, which controls how many new neurons become incorporated into the adult brain in response to learning.
The contextual control of movement requires the transformation of sensory information into appropriate actions, guided by task-appropriate rules. Previous conceptualizations of the sensorimotor transformations underlying anti-saccades (look away from a stimulus) have suggested that stimulus location is first registered and subsequently transformed into its mirror location before being relayed to the motor periphery. Here, by recording neck muscle activity in monkeys performing anti-saccades, we demonstrate that stimulus presentation induces a transient recruitment of the neck muscle synergy used to turn the head in the wrong direction, even though subjects subsequently looked away from the stimulus correctly. Such stimulus-driven aspects of recruitment developed essentially at reflexive latencies (60-70ms after stimulus presentation), and persisted at modest eccentricities regardless of head-restraint. Prior to stimulus presentation, neck muscle activity also reflected whether the animals were preparing for an anti-saccade or a pro-saccade (look toward a stimulus). Neck muscle activity prior to erroneous anti-saccades also resembled that observed prior to pro-saccades. These results emphasize a parallel nature to the sensorimotor transformations underlying the anti-saccade task, suggesting that the top-down and bottom-up processes engaged in this task influence the motor periphery. The bottom-up aspects of neck muscle recruitment also fit within the context of recent results from the limb-movement literature, showing that stimulus-driven activation of muscle synergies may be a generalizing strategy in inertial-laden systems.
We previously found that surprisingly many V2 neurons showed selective responses to particular angles embedded within continuous contours [M. Ito &amp; H. Komatsu (2004)Journal of Neuroscience, 24, 3313-3324]. Here, we addressed whether the selectivity is dependent on the presence of individual constituent components or on the unique combination of these components. To reveal roles of constituent half-lines in response to whole angles, we conducted a quantitative model study after the framework of cascade models. Our linear-non-linear summation model implemented a few subunits selective to particular half-lines and was fitted to neuronal responses for each neuron. The study indicates that the best-fitting models well replicate the selectivity in the majority of V2 neurons and that the angle selectivity is dependent on a linear combination of responses to individual half-line components of the angles. The implication is that optimal angles are given by a combination of two preferred half-line components and the selectivity is sharpened by introducing suppression to non-preferred half-line components, rather than a specific facilitatory interaction between two preferred half-line components. The study indicates the participation of the gain control of responsiveness according to the number of half-line components. We also showed that the selectivity to acute angles depends on a combination of responses to one preferred component and weak responses to another component. Therefore, we concluded that the angle selectivity is dependent on selective responses to individual half-line components of the angles rather than a unique combination between them, whereas neurons could be selective to various angle widths at area V2.
BACE1 and BACE2 are two closely related membrane-bound aspartic proteases. BACE1 is widely recognized as the neuronal -secretase that cleaves the amyloid- precursor protein, thus allowing the production of amyloid-, i.e. the peptide that has been proposed to trigger the neurodegenerative process in Alzheimer's disease. BACE2 has ubiquitous expression and its physiological and pathological role is still unclear. In light of a possible role of glial cells in the accumulation of amyloid- in brain, we have investigated the expression of these two enzymes in primary cultures of astrocytes. We show that astrocytes possess -secretase activity and produce amyloid- because of the activity of BACE2, but not BACE1, the expression of which is blocked at the translational level. Finally, our data demonstrate that changes in the astrocytic phenotype during neuroinflammation can produce both a negative as well as a positive modulation of -secretase activity, also depending on the differential responsivity of the brain regions.
We examined the organization of multisynaptic projections from the basal ganglia (BG) to the dorsal premotor area in macaques. After injection of the rabies virus into the rostral sector of the caudal aspect of the dorsal premotor area (F2r) and the caudal sector of the caudal aspect of the dorsal premotor area (F2c), second-order neuron labeling occurred in the internal segment of the globus pallidus (GPi) and the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr). Labeled GPi neurons were found in the caudoventral portion after F2c injection, and in the dorsal portion at the rostrocaudal middle level after F2r injection. In the SNr, F2c and F2r injections led to labeling in the caudal or rostral part, respectively. Subsequently, third-order neuron labeling was observed in the external segment of the globus pallidus (GPe), the subthalamic nucleus (STN), and the striatum. After F2c injection, labeled neurons were observed over a broad territory in the GPe, whereas after F2r injection, labeled neurons tended to be restricted to the rostral and dorsal portions. In the STN, F2c injection resulted in extensive labeling over the nucleus, whereas F2r injection resulted in labeling in the ventral portion only. After both F2r and F2c injections, labeled neurons in the striatum were widely observed in the striatal cell bridge region and neighboring areas, as well as in the ventral striatum. The present results revealed that the origins of multisynaptic projections to F2c and F2r in the BG are segregated in the output stations of the BG, whereas intermingling rather than segregation is evident with respect to their input station.
There has been considerable recent interest in comparing the circuit and monoamine-based mechanisms of aversive and reward-associative conditioning in a number of vertebrate and invertebrate model systems. The mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis provides a unique opportunity to explore changes in the neural and chemical pathways underlying these two different types of conditioning as its feeding circuitry has been thoroughly characterised. Animals can learn after a single trial to associate the same CS (amyl acetate) either with a punishment (quinine) or reward (sucrose), showing either a reduced or an elevated feeding response, respectively, to the CS. We previously showed that reward conditioning strengthened the direct excitatory pathway from the lips to the feeding central pattern generator in the buccal ganglia through the activation of feeding interneurons in the cerebral ganglia. Now we demonstrate that aversive conditioning enhances the strength of a different inhibitory pathway that suppresses feeding but has no effect on the excitatory pathway. Here we show that consolidation of long-term memory (LTM) in reward conditioning depends on dopamine but not octopamine. In contrast, aversive LTM depends on octopamine but not dopamine. Octopamine is the invertebrate equivalent of noradrenalin, so these results on the monoamine dependence of reward and aversive conditioning in Lymnaea resemble, at the transmitter receptor level, those in mammals but are the opposite of those in another invertebrate group, the insects.



The hand pronation phenomenon due to a pyramidal tract lesion is a sign commonly used for identifying a mild paresis, but the first descriptions of this maneuver seem to have been only partially investigated by the historians of neuroscience. Here we illustrate that this sign was most probably originally described by Adolf Strmpell (1853-1925) in 1901 and subsequently re-proposed by the illustrious French neurologist Joseph Babinski (1857-1932) in 1907, although with a slightly different focus of application. Finally, the Pronationsphaenomen was analyzed in detail in the subsequent work of Nikolaus Gierlich (1865-1944), a less-known German neurologist who tried one of the first detailed reports of the phylogenetic significance of this sign, publishing a paper in 1925. These works are reported here, detailing the existing discrepancies, along with notes on the relevant surrounding historical context. In particular, the undervalued contribution of Gierlich to the history of neuroscience and to the phylogenetic approach to semeiotics is analyzed in more detail and acknowledged.
In 1894, the Polish neurologist Edward Flatau (1868-1932), working in Berlin, published an exquisite photographic atlas of the unfixed human brain, preceding by 2 years Das Menschenhirn, the reference work of Gustaf Retzius (1842-1919) in Stockholm. In his early career as a neuroanatomist and neurologist, Sigmund Freud (1856-1939) wrote a review of Flatau's atlas for the Internationale klinische Rundschau, which has not been included in the 'Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works'. The aim of the present paper is twofold: to document Freud's review, and to revive the largely forgotten atlas of Flatau. The full text of Freud is presented in translation. Further, one element Flatau, Retzius and Freud had in common is discussed: their early role as protagonists and firm supporters of Ramn y Cajal's neuron theory, the cornerstone of modern neuroscience.
Transcriptome analyses were performed in the anterior raphe area of mutant mice deficient in the serotonin transporter (5-HTT KO) or overexpressing this protein (5-HTT TG), which exhibit opposite changes in anxiety-related behavior. Among genes with altered expression, the gene encoding the neuropeptide urocortin 1 was down-regulated in 5-HTT KO and up-regulated in 5-HTT TG mice. Expression of the gene encoding cocaine-and-amphetamine-related-peptide, which colocalizes with urocortin 1, was also increased in 5-HTT TG mutants. Real-time RT-PCR confirmed these data and immunoautoradiographic labeling showed that parallel changes in neuropeptide levels were confined to the non-preganglionic Edinger-Westphal nucleus. Thus, 5-HTT expression correlates with that of urocortin 1, suggesting that this peptide can be involved in the behavioral changes observed in 5-HTT mutant mice.
The serotonergic system has been widely implicated in stress related psychiatric disorders such as depression and anxiety. We investigated the possible association between depression and anxiety scores and SNPs within the HTR1A and HTR1B genes in a population sample (n=1387). There was no direct SNP-phenotype association, but in interaction with recent stressful life events rs6295 G, rs878567 T alleles and rs6296 C alleles were associated with significantly higher symptom scores. A subset of control subjects (n=101) took part in a computerised face emotion processing task. Healthy rs6295 GG carriers did not show an affective bias to perceive more negative emotions but reacted more quickly to fearful faces. Thus we conclude that the serotonin-1A receptor conveys vulnerability to these psychiatric disorders by modulating threat-related information processing. Our results extend previous findings of an interaction between stressful life events and the serotonin transporter gene to two other genes in the serotonergic pathway and emphasise the possible role of increased threat-related information processing as an intermediate phenotype.
Both reduced serotonergic (5-HT) function and negative emotional biases have been associated with vulnerability to depression. In order to investigate whether these might be related we examined 5-HT modulation of affective processing in 14 remitted depressed subjects compared with 12 never depressed controls matched for age and sex. Participants underwent function magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) during a covert face emotion task with and without intravenous citalopram (7.5mg) pretreatment. Compared with viewing neutral faces, and irrespective of group, citalopram enhanced left anterior cingulate blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) response to happy faces, right posterior insula and right lateral orbitofrontal responses to sad faces, and reduced amygdala responses bilaterally to fearful faces. In controls, relative to remitted depressed subjects, citalopram increased bilateral hippocampal responses to happy faces and increased right anterior insula response to sad faces. These findings were not accounted for by changes in BOLD responses to viewing neutral faces. These results are consistent with previous findings showing 5-HT modulation of affective processing; differences found in previously depressed participants compared with controls may contribute to emotional processing biases underlying vulnerability to depressive relapse.
Several preclinical studies have demonstrated neuronal effects of glucocorticoids on the hippocampus (HC), a limbic structure with anterior-posterior anatomical and functional segmentation. We propose a volumetric magnetic resonance imaging analysis of hippocampus head (HH), body (HB) and tail (HT) using Cushing's disease (CD) as model, to investigate whether there is a differential sensitivity to glucocorticoid neuronal damage in these segments. We found a significant difference in the HH bilaterally after 12 months from trans-sphenoidal surgical selective resection of the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-secreting pituitary micro-adenomas. This pre-post surgery difference could contribute to better understand the pathopysiology of CD as an in vivo model for stress-related hypercortisolemic neuropsychiatric disorders.
The management of spinal tuberculosis, especially in children, is controversial. In children, vertebral destruction is more severe than adults because of the cartilaginous nature of their bone. Modern chemotherapy has significantly decreased mortality in spinal tuberculosis, but morbidity remains high. Without early surgery, patients can develop severe kyphosis leading to respiratory insufficiency, painful costopelvic impingement and paraplegia. Lumbar kyphosis results in early degenerative lumbar canal stenosis and is cosmetically unacceptable. We report a paediatric case of atypical spinal tuberculosis demonstrating the need for early surgical intervention to prevent significant spinal instability and neurologic deficit. A 12-year-old girl presented with increasing ambulatory difficulty and double incontinence 4months after initiating treatment for pulmonary tuberculosis. There was no history of traumatic injury. Examination revealed severe lower limb neurologic deficit, with hypotonia, areflexia, marked sensory loss, and grade 0/5 power in both lower limbs. Plain radiographs and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated grade IV posterior listhesis of the L2 vertebral body over L3, cauda equina compression and bilateral psoas abscesses. Erosion of both the body and pedicle of L2 was observed. Both serology and pus drained from the psoas abscesses were negative for microorganisms. The patient underwent an L2 vertebrectomy via a left retroperitoneal approach. A titanium cage packed with autologous bone graft was inserted, and the spine was stabilized by fixation with screw and rods. Histopathology confirmed a diagnosis of tuberculosis. Eighteen months following the procedure, the patient has regained some power in her right leg and has completed her course of anti-tuberculous chemotherapy, but remains wheelchair-bound. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of posterior listhesis secondary to spinal tuberculosis. Here, we discuss the possible management options in such a case, and the indications for surgery. As the global HIV/AIDS epidemic causes a resurgence in tuberculosis, increased awareness among the medical community regarding the atypical presentations of spinal tuberculosis is necessitated; both in the developing world where advanced clinical presentations are common, and in the developed world where spinal tuberculosis is an often-neglected diagnosis.
In a previous paper we reported that electroacupuncture (EA) could suppress opioid withdrawal syndrome and increase the appetite, sleep, and body weight in heroin addicts or morphine dependent animals. Considering that opioids were known to inhibit immune function, the present study was designed to observe whether EA could modulate the immune status of morphine dependent and withdrawal mice. We found that chronic morphine-induced decrease of splenic T lymphocyte proliferation and IL-2 production can be significantly raised by 2Hz EA, and the fluctuation of CD4(+)/CD8(+) ratio was also run to the baseline level by the EA. These findings indicated that chronic morphine exposure-induced immune dysfunction in mice could be normalized by 2Hz EA.
Despite progress in surgical techniques, some patients still face postoperative recurrence of pain. Recently, more attention has been focused on peridural fibrosis (PF), which may be responsible for recurrent pain after laminectomy or discectomy. Honey has been shown to exert anti-inflammatory effects on exposed tissues besides its well-known antibacterial properties. The aim of this study were to investigate the effects of honey on the prevention of postlaminectomy fibrosis formation in a rat model. A controlled blinded study was performed in 45 male adult white Sprague-Dawley rats that underwent laminectomy at the L5-L6 levels. They were divided into 3 groups (A, B, and C) of 15 rats each. Group A (sham) underwent laminectomy and group B was treated with normal saline at the laminectomy site. Rats in group C received 0.1mL honey at the laminectomy site. All rats were killed 4 weeks after laminectomy. PF was found in 5 rats (33%) of control groups A and B, and in 2 rats (10%) in honey-treated laminectomy group C. The difference was not statistically significant. Wound healing was not affected, and there was no cerebrospinal fluid leakage. Although honey appears to be safe, it cannot cause a significant reduction of PF formation after lumbar laminectomy in rats.
Cerebral ischemia is known to produce brain damage and related behavioral deficits including memory. Recently, accumulating lines of evidence showed that dietary enrichment with nutritional antioxidants could reduce brain damage and improve cognitive function. In this study, possible protective effect of Zingiber officinale, a medicinal plant reputed for neuroprotective effect against oxidative stress-related brain damage, on brain damage and memory deficit induced by focal cerebral ischemia was elucidated. Male adult Wistar rats were administrated an alcoholic extract of ginger rhizome orally 14 days before and 21 days after the permanent occlusion of right middle cerebral artery (MCAO). Cognitive function assessment was performed at 7, 14, and 21 days after MCAO using the Morris water maze test. The brain infarct volume and density of neurons in hippocampus were also determined. Furthermore, the level of malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) in cerebral cortex, striatum, and hippocampus was also quantified at the end of experiment. The results showed that cognitive function and neurons density in hippocampus of rats receiving ginger rhizome extract were improved while the brain infarct volume was decreased. The cognitive enhancing effect and neuroprotective effect occurred partly via the antioxidant activity of the extract. In conclusion, our study demonstrated the beneficial effect of ginger rhizome to protect against focal cerebral ischemia.
Shu-Xue-Tong (SXT) is a traditional Chinese drug widely used to ameliorate stagnation of blood flow, such as brain or myocardial infarction. Whether SXT may have therapeutic value for spinal cord injury (SCI), during which ischemia plays an important role in its pathology, remains to be elucidated. We hypothesized that SXT may promote SCI healing by improving spinal cord blood flow (SCBF), and a study was thus designed to explore this possibility. Twenty-five male Sprague-Dawley rats were used. SCI was induced by compression, and SXT was administrated 24h postinjury for 14 successive days. The effects of SXT were assessed by means of laser-Doppler flowmetry, motor functional analysis (open-field walking and footprint analysis), and histological analysis (hematoxylin-eosin and thionin staining and NeuN immunohistochemistry). SXT significantly promoted SCBF of the contused spinal cord and enhanced the recovery of motor function. Histological analysis indicated that the lesion size was reduced, the pathological changes were ameliorated, and more neurons were preserved. Based on these results we conclude that SXT can effectively improve SCI.
Sleep disturbance is considered as an important symptom of acute and protracted opiate withdrawal. Current results suggest that sleep disturbance may be taken as a predictor of relapse. Appropriate sleep enhancement therapy will be in favor of the retention in treatment for opiate addicts. Our previous studies have shown that electroacupuncture (EA) is effective in suppressing morphine withdrawal syndrome. The aim of the present study is to investigate the effect of 2 and 100Hz EA on the sleep disturbance during morphine withdrawal. Rats were made dependent on morphine by repeated morphine injections (escalating doses of 5-80mgkg(-1), subcutaneously, twice a day) for 5 days. EA of 2 or 100Hz was given twice a day for 3 days, starting at 48h after the last morphine injection. Electroencephalogram and electromyogram were monitored at the end of the first and the last EA treatments, respectively. Results showed that non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep, REM sleep and total sleep time decreased dramatically, while the sleep latency prolonged significantly during acute morphine withdrawal. Both 2 and 100Hz EA produced a significant increase in NREM sleep, REM sleep and total sleep time. It was suggested that EA could be a potential treatment for sleep disturbance during morphine withdrawal.
Electroacupuncture (EA) has been used to suppress heroin craving in addicts and the conditioned place preference (CPP) for morphine in the rat. The question remained whether EA by itself will produce some rewarding effect. This was investigated using the CPP procedure in the present study. The results indicated that rats showed a significant preference to the 2Hz EA-paired compartment. This rewarding effect of EA was prevented by pre-treatment with the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone [2mg kg(-1), intraperitoneally (i.p.)], CB1 cannabinoid antagonist AM251 (3g per rat, intracerebroventricularly) or D1 dopamine receptor antagonist SCH23390 (0.1 mg kg(-1), i.p.), respectively. TempspacetempspaceIt is concluded that 2Hz EA is capable of inducing CPP in the rat via the activation of the endogenous opioid-, cannabinoid- and dopamine-systems.
Reach movement planning involves the representation of spatial target information in different reference frames. Neurons at parietal and premotor stages of the cortical sensorimotor system represent target information in eye- or hand-centered reference frames, respectively. How the different neuronal representations affect behavioral parameters of motor planning and control, i.e. which stage of neural representation is relevant for which aspect of behavior, is not obvious from the physiology. Here, we test with a behavioral experiment if different kinematic movement parameters are affected to a different degree by either an eye- or hand-reference frame. We used a generalized anti-reach task to test the influence of stimulus-response compatibility (SRC) in eye- and hand-reference frames on reach reaction times, movement times, and endpoint variability. While in a standard anti-reach task, the SRC is identical in the eye- and hand-reference frames, we could separate SRC for the two reference frames. We found that reaction times were influenced by the SRC in eye- and hand-reference frame. In contrast, movement times were only influenced by the SRC in hand-reference frame, and endpoint variability was only influenced by the SRC in eye-reference frame. Since movement time and endpoint variability are the result of planning and control processes, while reaction times are consequences of only the planning process, we suggest that SRC effects on reaction times are highly suited to investigate reference frames of movement planning, and that eye- and hand-reference frames have distinct effects on different phases of motor action and different kinematic movement parameters.
Training a muscle group in one limb yields strength gains bilaterally-the so-called cross-education effect. However, to date there has been little study of the targeted application of this phenomenon in a manner relevant to clinical rehabilitation. For example, it may be applicable post-stroke, where hemiparesis leads to ankle flexor weakness. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of high-intensity unilateral dorsiflexion resistance training on agonist (tibialis anterior, TA) and antagonist (plantarflexor soleus, SOL) muscular strength and H-reflex excitability in the trained and untrained limbs. Ankle flexor and extensor torque, as well as SOL and TA H-reflexes evoked during low-level contraction, were measured before and after 5 weeks of dorsiflexion training (n = 19). As a result of the intervention, dorsiflexor maximal voluntary isometric contraction force (MVIC) significantly increased (P &lt; 0.05) in both the trained and untrained limbs by 14.7 and 8.4%, respectively. No changes in plantarflexor MVIC force were observed in either limb. Significant changes in H-reflex excitability threshold were also detected: H(@thresh) significantly increased in the trained TA and SOL; and H(@max) decreased in both SOL muscles. These findings reveal that muscular crossed effects can be obtained in the ankle dorsiflexor muscles and provide novel information on agonist and antagonist spinal adaptations that accompany unilateral training. It is possible that the ability to strengthen the ankle dorsiflexors bilaterally could be applied in post-stroke rehabilitation, where ankle flexor weakness could be counteracted via dorsiflexor training in the less-affected limb.
Recent experiments have identified neuromechanical interactions between the arms and legs during human locomotor movement. Previous work reported that during the rhythmic movement of all four limbs, the influence of the arms on reflex expression in the legs was superimposed on the dominant effect of the legs. This evidence was based upon studies using cutaneous and H-reflex modulation as indices of neuronal activity related to locomotion. The earlier H-reflex study was restricted to one phase of movement and to only a fixed H-reflex amplitude. Also, all four limbs were actively engaged in locomotor movement, and this led to the speculation that the effect from the arms could be underestimated by &quot;swamping&quot; of the conditioning during movement of the test limb. Work from the cat suggests that descending locomotor drive may be differentially specified for different motor unit populations in the hindlimb. Accordingly, details of interlimb coordination between the arms and legs in humans require further characterization and an examination of different populations of motor units as can be obtained from H-reflex recruitment curve (RC) parameters. Using modulation of H-reflex amplitudes across the entire ascending limb as neural probes for interlimb coupling, the present study evaluated the separated influences of rhythmic activity of the arms and leg on neuronal excitability of a stationary &quot;test leg&quot;. This three-limb &quot;reduced&quot; locomotion approach was applied using a stepping ergometer during the performance of three rhythmic movement tasks: arms (A); contralateral leg (L); and arms and contralateral leg (AL). Data were sampled at four different phases of the stepping cycle (using the moving leg as reference): start power (SP); end power (EP); start recovery (SR); and end recovery (ER). The main result was a large and significant influence of rhythmic AL activity on RC parameters of the H-reflex at EP and SP phases. However, the parameters (and thus motor unit populations) were differentially affected at each phase and task. For instance, a significant contribution of arms movement was noticed for H (max) (largest motor units) at EP phase (P &lt; 0.05), but no changes was observed for other parameters related to lower reflex amplitude (e.g., H-reflex evoked with an input that elicited 50% of maximum reflex response during static condition; H@50%). On the other hand, at SR phase, the parameter H@50% was significantly affected during AL compared to L. It is suggested that the remote effect from arms rhythmic activity has been differentially manifested across motor unit populations for each phase of movement. These findings provide definitive evidence for interlimb coupling between cervical and lumbar oscillators in gating the excitability of reflex pathways to a leg muscle for different populations of motorneurons within the pool. This further supports the contention of similar functional organization for locomotor networks in the human when compared to other animals. Additionally, these data provide additional confirmation of the significant role of the output of neural control for rhythmic arm movement in modulating reflex excitability of the legs that is specifically adjusted according to the phase and task.
Could task performance be constrained by our ability to fully engage necessary neural processing through effort of will? The StartReact phenomenon suggests that this might be the case, as voluntary reaction times are substantially reduced by loud sounds. Here, we show that loud auditory stimulation can also be associated with an improvement in the force and speed of force development when 18 healthy subjects are repeatedly asked to make a maximal grip as fast and as strongly as possible. Peak grip force was increased by 7.2  1.4% (SEM) (P &lt; 0.0001), and the rate of force development was increased by 17.6  2.0% (P &lt; 0.00001), when imperative visual cues were accompanied by a loud auditory stimulus rather than delivered alone. This implies that loud auditory stimuli may allow motor pathways to be optimised beyond what can be achieved by effort of will alone.
Liprins have been known for years to play an essential role in setting up functional synapses in the nervous system. On the other hand, these proteins had been first identified in non-neuronal cells as multivalent proteins that may affect the integrin-mediated interactions of the cells with extracellular matrix ligands. Although the research on the function of liprins in non-neuronal cells has been quiescent for several years, a number of recent findings are putting them back on stage again as important players also in the regulation of non-neuronal cell motility, and possibly of tumor cell behavior. The aim of this review is to highlight the findings supporting the importance of liprins as central regulators of cell adhesion and motility, making them an interesting family of proteins to be considered for future studies on the mechanisms regulating cell migration.
Neuroglobin (Ngb), a newly identified globin in vertebrate brain, has been suggested to be able to protect against brain hypoxic-ischemic injury. However, owing to its large size, the impermeability of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) to Ngb limits its application in brain injury. Recently, the 11-amino-acid human immunodeficiency virus trans-activator of transcription (TAT) protein transduction domain was shown to successfully deliver macromolecules into the brain. This study explored whether the TAT-Ngb fusion protein can cross the BBB and protect the brain from cerebral ischemia. The TAT-Ngb fusion protein generated from Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) was efficiently delivered into mice brain tissues by intravenous injection as demonstrated by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting. Two groups of mice were treated with filamentous middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) for 30min or 2h followed by reperfusion. Each group was then divided into sub-groups and was injected intravenously with TAT-Ngb, Ngb, or saline respectively before MCAO or immediately after reperfusion. Compared with the Ngb- and saline-treated group, the group with TAT-Ngb treated 2h before MCAO showed significantly less brain infarct volume and had better neurologic outcomes (p&lt;0.05). Furthermore, a TAT-Ngb injection following a 30-min MCAO treatment significantly increased neuronal survival in the striatum (p&lt;0.05). Our results demonstrated that the exogenous Ngb fusion protein containing the TAT protein transduction domain could be efficiently transduced into neurons in the mouse and protect the brain from mild or moderate ischemic injury.
The oscillatory rhythms underlying many physiological and pathological states, including absence seizures, require both the thalamus and cortices for full expression. A co-culture preparation combining cortical and thalamic explants provides a unique model for investigating how such oscillations initiate and spread. Here we investigated the dynamics of synchronized thalamocortical activity by simultaneous measurement of field-potential recordings and rapid imaging of Ca(2+) transients by fluorescence methods. Spontaneous sustained hypersynchronized &quot;seizure-like&quot; oscillations required reciprocal cortico-thalamocortical connections. Isolated cortical explants can independently develop brief discharges, while thalamic explants alone were unable to do so. Rapid imaging of Ca(2+) transients demonstrated deep-layer cortical initiation of oscillatory network activity in both connected and isolated explants. Further, cortical explants derived from a rat model of genetic absence epilepsy showed increased bursting duration consistent with an excitable cortex. We propose that thalamocortical oscillatory network activity initiates in deep layers of the cortex with reciprocal thalamic interconnections enabling sustained hyper-synchronization.
Activation of GluR2-expressing non-calcium-permeable AMPA-type glutamate receptors in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) may play an important role in integrating emotion and memory with goal-directed behaviors involved in opioid addiction. The location of non-calcium-permeable AMPA receptors within distinct neuronal compartments (i.e., soma, dendrite, or axon) is an important functional feature of these proteins; however, their ultrastructural location and subcellular relationship with mu-opioid receptors (OR) in the CeA are unknown. Immunocytochemical electron microscopy was used to characterize the ultrastructural distribution of GluR2 and its association with OR in the mouse CeA. A single-labeling analysis of GluR2 distribution employing immunoperoxidase or immunogold markers revealed that this protein was frequently affiliated with intracellular vesicular organelles, as well as the plasma membrane of CeA neuronal profiles. Among all GluR2-labeled neuronal structures, over 85% were dendrites or somata. Unlabeled axon terminals frequently formed asymmetric excitatory-type synaptic junctions with GluR2-labeled dendritic profiles. Dual-labeling immunocytochemical analysis showed that GluR2 and OR were co-localized in neuronal compartments. Among all dual-labeled structures, approximately 80% were dendritic. Synaptic inputs to these dual-labeled dendrites were frequently from unlabeled axon terminals forming asymmetric excitatory-type synapses. The presence of GluR2 in dendritic profiles receiving asymmetric synapses suggests that activation of the non-calcium-permeable AMPA receptor plays a role in the postsynaptic modulation of excitatory signaling involving CeA neuronal circuits that coordinate sensory, affective, and behavioral processes involved in drug addiction. Given the critical role of non-calcium-permeable AMPA receptor function in neural and behavioral adaptability, their dendritic association with OR in CeA dendrites provides a neuronal substrate for opioid-mediated plasticity.
Spasticity is a common disorder following spinal cord injury that can impair function and quality of life. While a number of mechanisms are thought to play a role in spasticity, the role of motoneuron persistent inward currents (PICs) is emerging as pivotal. The presence of PICs can be evidenced by temporal summation or wind-up of reflex responses to brief afferent inputs. In this study, a combined neurophysiological and novel biomechanical approach was used to assess the effects of passive exercise and modafinil administration on hyper-reflexia and spasticity following complete T-10 transection in the rat. Animals were divided into 3 groups (n=8) and provided daily passive cycling exercise, oral modafinil, or no intervention. After 6weeks, animals were tested for wind-up of the stretch reflex (SR) during repeated dorsiflexion stretches of the ankle. H-reflexes were tested in a subset of animals. Both torque and gastrocnemius electromyography showed evidence of SR wind-up in the transection only group that was significantly different from both treatment groups (p&lt;0.05). H-reflex frequency dependent depression was also restored to normal levels in both treatment groups. The results provide support for the use of passive cycling exercise and modafinil in the treatment of spasticity and provide insight into the possible contribution of PICs.
Recently developed optogenetic technologies offer the promise of high-speed mapping of brain circuitry. Genetically targeted light-gated channels and pumps, such as channelrhodopsins and halorhodopsin, allow optical control of neuronal activity with high spatial and temporal resolution. Optogenetic probes of neuronal activity, such as Clomeleon and Mermaid, allow light to be used to monitor the activity of a genetically defined population of neurons. Combining these two complementary sets of optogenetic probes will make it possible to perform all-optical circuit mapping. Owing to the improved efficiency and higher speed of data acquisition, this hybrid approach should enable high-throughput mapping of brain circuitry.
Over the last 30 years, numerical estimation has been largely studied. Recently, Castronovo and Seron (2007) proposed the bi-directional mapping hypothesis in order to account for the finding that dependent on the type of estimation task (perception vs. production of numerosities), reverse patterns of performance are found (i.e., under- and over-estimation, respectively). Here, we further investigated this hypothesis by submitting adult participants to three types of numerical estimation task: (1) a perception task, in which participants had to estimate the numerosity of a non-symbolic collection; (2) a production task, in which participants had to approximately produce the numerosity of a symbolic numerical input; and (3) a reproduction task, in which participants had to reproduce the numerosity of a non-symbolic numerical input. Our results gave further support to the finding that different patterns of performance are found according to the type of estimation task: (1) under-estimation in the perception task; (2) over-estimation in the production task; and (3) accurate estimation in the reproduction task. Moreover, correlation analyses revealed that the more a participant under-estimated in the perception task, the more he/she over-estimated in the production task. We discussed these empirical data by showing how they can be accounted by the bi-directional mapping hypothesis (Castronovo &amp; Seron, 2007).

Noninvasive brain stimulation (NIBS) techniques are being increasingly investigated as a therapeutic approach for neuropsychiatric disorders. One method is to combine NIBS with pharmacotherapy to enhance the clinical effects or avoid an increase in drug dosages to decrease the incidence of side effects. However, few studies to date have investigated the relative and combined efficacy of NIBS with pharmacotherapy. Based on a literature review of previous studies and meta-analyses for major depression, we identified four randomized, controlled trials that tested the combination of NIBS with a new drug and two trials that directly compared NIBS versus pharmacotherapy. There was no study designed to address the relative efficacy of each intervention against placebo and against combined therapy. We discuss the methods and rationale of NIBS-pharmacotherapy trials, addressing some methodological aspects, including factorial design, recruitment, blinding, blinding assessment, placebo effect and quantitative aspects, such as power analysis, statistics and interaction effects. Our review of the methodology underlying NIBS-drug trials provides insights for the further clinical research development of NIBS in major depression.
Some patients with major depressive disorder remain resistant to antidepressant medication. A randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial demonstrated that a single subanesthetic dose (0.5 mg/kg) of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist ketamine caused a rapid antidepressant effect within hours in treatment-resistant patients with major depressive disorder. However, the precise cellular mechanisms underlying ketamine's rapid antidepressant actions were unclear, although it is proposed that the -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid receptor might be involved in these mechanisms. Recently, Li et al. reported the role of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway, a ubiquitous protein kinase involved in protein synthesis and synaptic plasticity, in ketamine's rapid antidepressant effects. Here, these findings are put into context and their significance is discussed.
Understanding how different kinds of neuron in the brain work together to implement sensations, feelings, thoughts, and movements, and how deficits in specific kinds of neuron result in brain diseases, has long been a priority in basic and clinical neuroscience. &quot;Optogenetic&quot; tools are genetically encoded molecules that, when targeted to specific neurons in the brain, enable their activity to be driven or silenced by light. These molecules are microbial opsins, seven-transmembrane proteins adapted from organisms found throughout the world, which react to light by transporting ions across the lipid membranes of cells in which they are genetically expressed. These tools are enabling the causal assessment of the roles that different sets of neurons play within neural circuits, and are accordingly being used to reveal how different sets of neurons contribute to the emergent computational and behavioral functions of the brain. These tools are also being explored as components of prototype neural control prosthetics capable of correcting neural circuit computations that have gone awry in brain disorders. This review gives an account of the birth of optogenetics and discusses the technology and its applications.
The cerebral cortex is composed of hundreds of different types of neurons, which underlie its ability to perform highly complex neural processes. How this astonishing cell diversity is generated during development constitutes a major challenge in developmental neurosciences, with important implications for neurological diseases. Here we review some recent and exciting advances in this field, from the description of the cellular processes at the origin of cortical neuron diversity, to the dissection of the molecular logic underlying fate selection in cortical neurons.
Technological advances, while providing many benefits, often create circumstances that differ from the conditions in which we evolved. With the wide-spread adoption of electrical lighting during the 20(th) century, humans became exposed to bright and unnatural light at night for the first time in their evolutionary history. Electrical lighting has led to the wide-scale practice of 24-hour shift-work and has meant that what were once just &quot;daytime&quot; activities now run throughout the night; in many ways Western society now functions on a 24-hour schedule. Recent research suggests that this gain in freedom to function throughout the night may also come with significant repercussions. Disruption of our naturally evolved light and dark cycles can result in a wide range of physiological and behavioral changes with potentially serious medical implications. In this article we will discuss several mechanisms through which light at night may exert its effects on cancer, mood, and obesity, as well as potential ways to ameliorate the impact of light at night.
Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative movement disorder characterized by loss of midbrain dopaminergic neurons leading to motor abnormalities and autonomic dysfunctions. Despite intensive research, the etiology of Parkinson's disease remains poorly understood leaving us with no effective therapeutic options. However, the recent identification of genes linked to heritable forms of Parkinson's disease has revolutionized research in the field and has begun to provide new clues to disease pathogenesis. Here we discuss these recent genetic advances and highlight their significance in our quest to better understand common underlying disease mechanisms that will help us identify innovative neuroprotective therapies for Parkinson's disease.
Molecular mechanisms predisposing people to insulin resistance are starting to emerge. Altered insulin signaling for hepatic gluconeogenesis and muscle glucose uptake is thought to play a central role. Development under suboptimal conditions is also known to increase the risk of insulin resistance in adulthood. However, the partial contributions of reduced oxygen vs. nutrient delivery to the fetus, two common adverse conditions in utero, to developmental programming of insulin resistance remain unknown. The aim of this study was to determine the effects of developmental hypoxia or undernutrition on the expression of insulin-signaling proteins in liver and skeletal muscle in adult rat offspring. We show that the expression of hepatic phospho-Akt and muscle Akt2 were significantly reduced in offspring of hypoxic, relative to offspring from normoxic or undernourished, pregnancies. Hepatic Akt-1, Akt-2, and PKC protein expression was reduced in offspring from both hypoxic and undernourished pregnancies. Muscle GLUT4 expression was decreased in undernourished, and further decreased in hypoxic, offspring. These findings link prenatal hypoxia to down-regulation of components of hepatic and muscle Akt expression in adult offspring. Akt may represent a pharmaceutical target for clinical intervention against the developmental programming of metabolic disease resulting from prenatal hypoxia.
CC chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2) is essential to acute skeletal muscle injury repair. We studied the subpopulation of inflammatory cells recruited via CCR2 signaling and their cellular functions with respect to muscle regeneration. Mobilization of monocytes/macrophages (MOs/MPs), but not lymphocytes or neutrophils, was impaired from bone marrow to blood and from blood to injured muscle in Ccr2(-/-) mice. While the Ly-6C(+) but not the Ly-6C(-) subset of MOs/MPs was significantly reduced in blood, both subsets were drastically reduced in injured muscle of Ccr2(-/-) mice. Expression of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-I) was markedly up-regulated in injured muscle of wild-type but not Ccr2(-/-) mice. IGF-I was strongly expressed by macrophages within injured muscle, more prominently by the Ly-6C(-) subset. A single injection of IGF-I, but not PBS, into injured muscle to replace IGF-I remarkably improved muscle regeneration in Ccr2(-/-) mice. CCR2 was not detected in myogenic cells or capillary endothelial cells in injured muscle to suggest its direct involvement in muscle regeneration or angiogenesis. We conclude that CCR2 is essential to acute skeletal muscle injury repair primarily by recruiting Ly-6C(+) MOs/MPs. Within injured muscle, these cells conduct phagocytosis, contribute to accumulation of intramuscular Ly-6C(-) macrophages, and produce a high level of IGF-I to promote muscle regeneration.

Intriguing facts were obtained in the first electrophysiological investigations (1964) that the action potentials (AP) produced by direct depolarization of the cell membrane in different species of mollusks showed specific relations to changes in external ionic composition. In Helix neurons, the generation of AP was well maintained in sodium-free solutions with high calcium or barium content. The amplitude of the spike overshoot in the case was linearly related to the logarithm of calcium concentration. It is interesting that increase in external calcium ions decreased the ionic conductance of the resting membrane (R0) also in linear relation to the logarithm of Ca2+ or Ba2+ concentration. It was found for the first time (1965) that addition of Ba2+ to the external solution produced in the neurons well-developed prolonged (protracted) APs in all cases. However, the excitability of Planorbis and Limnea neurons was rapidly (during 3 min) reversibly depressed in sodium-free solutions. We found that, after injections of horse radish peroxidase (HRP) in the spinal cord of cats, the enzyme was transported retrogradely to brain stem neurons in the bulbar medial reticular formation, the vestibular complex, and the red nucleus. We obtained (1975) intriguing facts in our investigations: we recorded the labeled neurons in the locus coeruleus and subcoeruleus, as well as in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus. The existence of straight pathways from hypothalamus to the spinal cord has not been demonstrated earlier. The next step of our study was to determine the corresponding spinal funiculi where descending fibers (from various brain stem cell groups) are located. Indeed, in our pioneer studies (1977), we found that the fibers from the hypothalamus, which descend throughout the spinal cord, are located mainly in the lateral funiculus, ipsilaterally.


The link between central adiposity and cognition has been established by indirect measures such as body mass index (BMI) or waist-hip ratio. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) quantification of central abdominal fat has been linked to elevated risk of cardiovascular and cerebro-vascular disease. However it is not known how quantification of visceral fat correlates with cognitive performance and measures of brain structure. We filled this gap by characterizing the relationships between MRI measures of abdominal adiposity, brain morphometry, and cognition, in healthy elderly. Methods: A total of 184 healthy community dwelling elderly subjects without cognitive impairment participated in this study. Anthropometric and biochemical markers of cardiovascular risk, neuropsychological measurements as well as MRI of the brain and abdomen fat were obtained. Abdominal images were segmented into subcutaneous adipose tissue and visceral adipose tissue (VAT) adipose tissue compartments. Brain MRI measures were analyzed quantitatively to determine total brain volume, hippocampal volume, ventricular volume, and cortical thickness. Results: VAT showed negative association with verbal memory (r=0.21, p=0.005) and attention (r=0.18, p=0.01). Higher VAT was associated with lower hippocampal volume (F=5.39, p=0.02) and larger ventricular volume (F=6.07, p=0.02). The participants in the upper quartile of VAT had the lowest hippocampal volume even after adjusting for age, gender, hypertension, and BMI (b=-0.28, p=0.005). There was a significant age by VAT interaction for cortical thickness in the left prefrontal region. Conclusion: In healthy older adults, elevated VAT is associated with negative effects on cognition, and brain morphometry.
Synaptic plasticity in the mammalian central nervous system has been the subject of intense investigation for the past four decades. Long-term potentiation (LTP), a major reflection of synaptic plasticity, is an activity-driven long-lasting increase in the efficacy of excitatory synaptic transmission following the delivery of a brief, high-frequency train of electrical stimulation. LTP is regarded as a principal candidate for the cellular mechanisms involved in learning and offers an attractive hypothesis of how memories are constructed. There are a number of exceptional full-length reviews published on LTP; the current review intends to present an overview of the research findings regarding hippocampal LTP with special emphasis on aging, diseases, and psychological insults.
Knowledge of age sensitivity, the capacity of a behavioral test to reliably detect age-related changes, has utility in the design of experiments to elucidate processes of normal aging. We review the application of these tests in studies of normal aging and compare and contrast the age sensitivity of the Barnes maze, eyeblink classical conditioning, fear conditioning, Morris water maze, and rotorod. These tests have all been implemented to assess normal age-related changes in learning and memory in rodents, which generalize in many cases to age-related changes in learning and memory in all mammals, including humans. Behavioral assessments are a valuable means to measure functional outcomes of neuroscientific studies of aging. Highlighted in this review are the attributes and limitations of these measures in mice in the context of age sensitivity and processes of brain aging. Attributes of these tests include reliability and validity as assessments of learning and memory, well-defined neural substrates, and sensitivity to neural and pharmacological manipulations and disruptions. These tests engage the hippocampus and/or the cerebellum, two structures centrally involved in learning and memory that undergo functional and anatomical changes in normal aging. A test that is less well represented in studies of normal aging, the context pre-exposure facilitation effect (CPFE) in fear conditioning, is described as a method to increase sensitivity of contextual fear conditioning to changes in the hippocampus. Recommendations for increasing the age sensitivity of all measures of normal aging in mice are included, as well as a discussion of the potential of the under-studied CPFE to advance understanding of subtle hippocampus-mediated phenomena.
Normal aging is associated with deficits in cognitive flexibility thought to depend on prefrontal regions such as the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC). Here, we used Pavlovian reinforcer devaluation to test whether normal aging might also affect the ability to use outcome expectancies to guide appropriate behavioral responding, which is also known to depend on the OFC. Both young and aged rats were trained to associate a 10-s conditioned stimulus (CS+) with delivery of a sucrose pellet. After training, half of the rats in each age group received the sucrose pellets paired with illness induced by LiCl injections; the remaining rats received sucrose and illness explicitly unpaired. Subsequently, responding to the CS+ was assessed in an extinction probe test. Although aged rats displayed lower responding levels overall, both young and aged rats conditioned to the CS+ and developed a conditioned taste aversion following reinforcer devaluation. Furthermore, during the extinction probe test, both young and aged rats spontaneously attenuated conditioned responding to the cue as a result of reinforcer devaluation. These data show that normal aging does not affect the ability to use expected outcome value to appropriately guide Pavlovian responding. This result indicates that deficits in cognitive flexibility are dissociable from other known functions of prefrontal - and particularly orbitofrontal - cortex.
The role of biomarkers in neurodegenerative diseases has been emphasized by recent research. Future clinical demands for identifying diseases at an early stage may render them essential. The aim of this pilot study was to test the analytical performance of two multiplex assays of cerebral markers on a well-defined clinical material consisting of patients with various neurodegenerative diseases. We measured 10 analytes in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from 60 patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease (AD), vascular dementia, frontotemporal dementia, dementia with Lewy bodies, or mild cognitive impairment, as well as 20 cognitively healthy controls. We used the Randox biochip-based Evidence Investigator system to measure the analytes. We found it possible to measure most analytes in both plasma and CSF, and there were some interesting differences between the diagnostic groups, although with large overlaps. CSF heart-type fatty acid-binding protein was increased in AD. Glial fibrillary acidic protein and neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin in CSF and D-dimer in plasma were elevated in patients with cerebrovascular disease. A multivariate statistical analysis revealed that the pattern of analytes could help to differentiate the conditions, although more studies are required to verify this.
Searching for a visual object is known to be adaptable to context, and it is thought to result from the selection of neural representations distributed on a visual salience map, wherein stimulus-driven and goal-directed signals are combined. Here we investigated the neural basis of this adaptability by recording superior colliculus (SC) neurons while three female rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) searched with saccadic eye movements for a target presented in an array of visual stimuli whose feature composition varied from trial to trial. We found that sensory-motor activity associated with distracters was enhanced or suppressed depending on the search array composition and that it corresponded to the monkey's search strategy, as assessed by the distribution of the occasional errant saccades. This feature-related modulation occurred independently from the saccade goal and facilitated the process of saccade target selection. We also observed feature-related enhancement in the activity associated with distracters that had been the search target during the previous session. Consistent with recurrent processing, both feature-related neuronal modulations occurred more than 60 ms after the onset of the visually evoked responses, and their near coincidence with the time of saccade target selection suggests that they are integral to this process. These results suggest that SC neuronal activity is shaped by the visual context as dictated by both stimulus-driven and goal-directed signals. Given the close proximity of the SC to the motor circuit, our findings suggest a direct link between perception and action and no need for distinct salience and motor maps.
Ultimately associative learning is a function of the temporal features and relationships between experienced stimuli. Nevertheless how time affects the neural circuit underlying this form of learning remains largely unknown. To address this issue, we used single-trial auditory trace fear conditioning and varied the length of the interval between tone and foot-shock. Through temporary inactivation of the amygdala, medial prefrontal-cortex (mPFC), and dorsal-hippocampus in rats, we tested the hypothesis that different temporal intervals between the tone and the shock influence the neuronal structures necessary for learning. With this study we provide the first experimental evidence showing that temporarily inactivating the amygdala before training impairs auditory fear learning when there is a temporal gap between the tone and the shock. Moreover, imposing a short interval (5s) between the two stimuli also relies on the mPFC, while learning the association across a longer interval (40s) becomes additionally dependent on a third structure, the dorsal-hippocampus. Thus, our results suggest that increasing the interval length between tone and shock leads to the involvement of an increasing number of brain areas in order for the association between the two stimuli to be acquired normally. These findings demonstrate that the temporal relationship between events is a key factor in determining the neuronal mechanisms underlying associative fear learning.
Working memory (WM) is a memory system responsible for the temporary storage of information and its utilization in problem solving. The central executive is theorized as the controller of storage functions that support WM. Neurophysiological data suggest that electroencephalographic (EEG) theta and alpha oscillations in frontal and midline regions are involved in neural communication between the central executive and storage functions during WM performance. Emotion is known to modulate several memory systems, including WM, through central and peripheral pathways. However, the physiological effect (EEG; autonomic nervous activity) of emotion over WM are not well described. In this study we aimed to identify physiological responses related to emotional WM performance. EEG (21 channels), heart rate (HR), and galvanic skin response (GSR) recordings were obtained from 54 volunteers while performing delayed matching and non-matching to sample tasks (DMTS/DNMTS). Emotional and neutral pictures from the International Affective Picture System and geometric figures were used as stimuli. As expected, WM performance was accompanied by presence of theta (frontal and midline electrodes) and alpha power (parietal electrodes). Beta and gamma oscillations were concentrated in frontopolar and left temporal regions. The DNMTS task was accompanied by higher increases in beta power, HR, and GSR compared to the DMTS task. Correlation analyses showed a positive tendency for gamma in the Fp2 site, ratio of LF/HF and skin conductance in both tasks. The HR results indicate an inverse reaction related to parasympathetic and sympathetic nervous system during the performance of the tasks. Taken together, our results contribute to elucidate the complex interactions between central and autonomic nervous systems in the modulation of emotional WM tasks.
Ras-GRF1 is a neuronal specific guanine exchange factor that, once activated by both ionotropic and metabotropic neurotransmitter receptors, can stimulate Ras proteins, leading to long-term phosphorylation of downstream signaling. The two available reports on the behavior of two independently generated Ras-GRF1 deficient mouse lines provide contrasting evidence on the role of Ras-GRF1 in spatial memory and contextual fear conditioning. These discrepancies may be due to the distinct alterations introduced in the mouse genome by gene targeting in the two lines that could differentially affect expression of nearby genes located in the imprinted region containing the Ras-grf1 locus. In order to determine the real contribution of Ras-GRF1 to spatial memory we compared in Morris Water Maze learning Brambilla's mice with a third mouse line (GENA53) in which a non-sense mutation was introduced in the Ras-GRF1 coding region without additional changes in the genome and we found that memory in this task is normal. Also, we measured both contextual and cued fear conditioning, which were previously reported to be affected in Brambilla's mice, and we confirmed that contextual learning but not cued conditioning is impaired in both mouse lines. In addition, we also tested both lines for the first time in conditioned place aversion in the Intellicage, an ecological and remotely controlled behavioral test, and we observed normal learning. Finally, based on previous reports of other mutant lines suggesting that Ras-GRF1 may control body weight, we also measured this non-cognitive phenotype and we confirmed that both Ras-GRF1 deficient mutants are smaller than their control littermates. In conclusion, we demonstrate that Ras-GRF1 has no unique role in spatial memory while its function in contextual fear conditioning is likely to be due not only to its involvement in amygdala functions but possibly to some distinct hippocampal connections specific to contextual learning.
The role of Ras-ERK signaling in behavioral plasticity is well established. Inhibition studies using the blood-brain barrier permeable drug SL327 have conclusively demonstrated that this neuronal cell signaling cascade is a crucial component of the synaptic machinery implicated in the formation of various forms of long-term memory, from spatial learning to fear and operant conditioning. However, abnormal Ras-ERK signaling has also been linked to a number of neuropsychiatric conditions, including mental retardation syndromes (&quot;RASopathies&quot;), drug addiction, and l-DOPA induced dyskinesia (LID). The work recently done on these brain disorders has pointed to previously underappreciated roles of Ras-ERK in specific subsets of neurons, like GABAergic interneurons of the hippocampus or the cortex, as well as in the medium spiny neurons of the striatum. Here we will highlight the open questions related to Ras-ERK signaling in these behavioral manifestations and propose crucial experiments for the future.
The extinction of conditioned fear is known to be context-specific and is often considered more contextually bound than the fear memory itself (Bouton, 2004). Yet, recent findings in rodents have challenged the notion that contextual fear retention is initially generalized. The context-specificity of a cued fear memory to the learning context has not been addressed in the human literature largely due to limitations in methodology. Here we adapt a novel technology to test the context-specificity of cued fear conditioning using full immersion 3-D virtual reality (VR). During acquisition training, healthy participants navigated through virtual environments containing dynamic snake and spider conditioned stimuli (CSs), one of which was paired with electrical wrist stimulation. During a 24-h delayed retention test, one group returned to the same context as acquisition training whereas another group experienced the CSs in a novel context. Unconditioned stimulus expectancy ratings were assayed on-line during fear acquisition as an index of contingency awareness. Skin conductance responses time-locked to CS onset were the dependent measure of cued fear, and skin conductance levels during the interstimulus interval were an index of context fear. Findings indicate that early in acquisition training, participants express contingency awareness as well as differential contextual fear, whereas differential cued fear emerged later in acquisition. During the retention test, differential cued fear retention was enhanced in the group who returned to the same context as acquisition training relative to the context shift group. The results extend recent rodent work to illustrate differences in cued and context fear acquisition and the contextual specificity of recent fear memories. Findings support the use of full immersion VR as a novel tool in cognitive neuroscience to bridge rodent models of contextual phenomena underlying human clinical disorders.
Dyskinesia is a serious motor complication caused by prolonged administration of l-DOPA to patients affected by Parkinson's disease. Accumulating evidence indicates that l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) is primarily caused by the development of sensitized dopamine D1 receptor (D1R) transmission in the medium spiny neurons (MSNs) of the striatum. This phenomenon, combined with chronic administration of l-DOPA, leads to persistent and intermittent hyper-activation of the cAMP signaling cascade. Activation of cAMP signaling results in increased activity of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) and of the dopamine- and cAMP-dependent phosphoprotein of 32kDa (DARPP-32), which regulate several downstream effector targets implicated in the control of the excitability of striatal MSNs. Dyskinesia is also accompanied by augmented activity of the extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK) and the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), which are involved in the control of transcriptional and translational efficiency. Pharmacological or genetic interventions aimed at reducing abnormal signal transduction at the level of these various intracellular cascades have been shown to attenuate LID in different animal models. For instance, LID is reduced in mice deficient for DARPP-32, or following inhibition of PKA. Blockade of ERK obtained genetically or using specific inhibitors is also able to attenuate dyskinetic behavior in rodents and non-human primates. Finally, administration of rapamycin, a drug which blocks mTORC1, results in a strong reduction of LID. This review focuses on the abnormalities in signaling affecting the D1R-expressing MSNs and on their potential relevance for the design of novel anti-dyskinetic therapies.
Even a single night of total sleep deprivation (SD) can have dramatic effects on economic decision making. Here we tested the novel hypothesis that SD influences economic decisions by altering the valuation process. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging we identified value signals related to the anticipation and the experience of monetary and social rewards (attractive female faces). We then derived decision value signals that were predictive of each participant's willingness to exchange money for brief views of attractive faces in an independent market task. Strikingly, SD altered decision value signals in ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC) in proportion to the corresponding change in economic preferences. These changes in preference were independent of the effects of SD on attention and vigilance. Our results provide novel evidence that signals in VMPFC track the current state of the individual, and thus reflect not static but constructed preferences.
Stress has deleterious effects on brain, body, and behavior in humans and animals alike. The present work investigated how 30-min acute photic stress exposure impacts on spatial information processing in the main sub-regions of the dorsal hippocampal formation [CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus (DG)], a brain structure prominently implicated in memory and spatial representation. Recordings were performed from spatially tuned hippocampal and DG cells in rats while animals foraged in a square arena for food. The stress procedure induced a decrease in firing frequencies in CA1 and CA3 place cells while sparing locational characteristics. In contrast to the CA1-CA3 network, acute stress failed to induce major changes in the DG neuronal population. These data demonstrate a clear dissociation of the effects of stress on the main hippocampal sub-regions. Our findings further support the notion of decreased hippocampal excitability arising from behavioral stress in areas CA1 and CA3, but not in DG.
The cyclic-adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein (CREB) family of transcription factors has been implicated in numerous forms of behavioral plasticity. We investigated CREB phosphorylation along some nodes of corticostriatal circuitry such as frontal cortex (FC) and dorsal (caudate-putamen, CPu) and ventral (nucleus accumbens, NAC) striatum in response to the contingent or non-contingent performance of the five-choice serial reaction time task (5-CSRTT) used to assess visuospatial attention. Three experimental manipulations were used; an attentional performance group (contingent, &quot;master&quot;), a group trained previously on the task but for whom the instrumental contingency coupling responding with stimulus detection and reward was abolished (non-contingent, &quot;yoked&quot;) and a control group matched for food deprivation and exposure to the test apparatus (untrained). Rats trained on the 5-CSRTT (both master and yoked) had higher levels of CREB protein in the FC, CPu, and NAC compared to untrained controls. Despite the divergent behavior of &quot;master&quot; and &quot;yoked&quot; rats CREB activity in the FC was not substantially different. In rats performing the 5-CSRTT (&quot;master&quot;), CREB activity was completely abolished in the CPu whereas in the NAC it remained unchanged. In contrast, CREB phosphorylation in CPu and NAC increased only when the contingency changed from goal-dependent to goal-independent reinforcement (&quot;yoked&quot;). The present results indicate that up-regulation of CREB protein expression across cortical and striatal regions possibly reflects the extensive instrumental learning and performance whereas increased CREB activity in striatal regions may signal the unexpected change in the relationship between instrumental action and reinforcement.
Memories for emotionally arousing and fearful events are generally well retained. From the evolutionary point of view this is a highly adaptive behavioral response aimed to remember relevant information. However, fearful memories can also be inappropriately and vividly (re)expressed, such as in posttraumatic stress disorder. The memory formation of emotionally arousing events is largely modulated by hormones, peptides, and neurotransmitters which are released during and after exposure to these conditions. One of the core reactions in response to a stressful situation is the rapid activation of the autonomic nervous system, which results in the release of norepinephrine in the brain. In addition, stressful events stimulate the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis which slowly increases the release of glucocorticoid hormones from the adrenal glands. Here we will review how glucocorticoids and norepinephrine regulate the formation of fearful memories in rodents and humans and how these hormones can facilitate the storage of information by regulating excitatory synapses.
Synthetic cannabinoids are functionally similar to delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the psychoactive principle of cannabis, and bind to the same cannabinoid receptors in the brain and peripheral organs. From 2008, synthetic cannabinoids were detected in herbal smoking mixtures sold on websites and in &quot;head shops&quot; under the brand name of Spice Gold, Yucatan Fire, Aroma, and others. Although these products (also known as &quot;Spice drugs&quot; or &quot;legal highs&quot;) do not contain tobacco or cannabis, when smoked they produce effects similar to THC. Intoxication, withdrawal, psychosis, and death have been recently reported after consumption, posing difficult social, political, and health challenges. More than 140 different Spice products have been identified to date. The ability to induce strong cannabis-like psychoactive effects, along with the fact that they are readily available on the Internet, still legal in many countries, marketed as natural safe substances, and undetectable by conventional drug screening tests, has rendered these drugs very popular and particularly appealing to young and drug-nave individuals seeking new experiences. An escalating number of compounds with cannabinoid receptor activity are currently being found as ingredients of Spice, of which almost nothing is known in terms of pharmacology, toxicology, and safety. Since legislation started to control the synthetic cannabinoids identified in these herbal mixtures, many new analogs have appeared on the market. New cannabimimetic compounds are likely to be synthesized in the near future to replace banned synthetic cannabinoids, leading to a &quot;dog chasing its tail&quot; situation. Spice smokers are exposed to drugs that are extremely variable in composition and potency, and are at risk of serious, if not lethal, outcomes. Social and health professionals should maintain a high degree of alertness for Spice use and its possible psychiatric effects in vulnerable people.
This review addresses the issue of sex differences in the response to cannabinoid compounds focusing mainly on behaviors belonging to the cognitive and emotional sphere. Sexual dimorphism exists in the different components of the endocannabinoid system. Males seem to have higher CB1 receptor binding sites than females, but females seem to possess more efficient CB1 receptors. Differences between sexes have been also observed in the metabolic processing of THC, the main psychoactive ingredient of marijuana. The consistent dimorphism in the endocannabinoid system and THC metabolism may justify at least in part the different sensitivity observed between male and female animals in different behavioral paradigms concerning emotion and cognition after treatment with cannabinoid compounds. On the basis of these observations, we would like to emphasize the need of including females in basic research and to analyze results for sex differences in epidemiological studies.
Anxiety disorders represent a common but often debilitating form of psychopathology in both children and adults. While there is a growing understanding of the etiology and maintenance of these disorders across various research domains, only recently have integrative accounts been proposed. While classical attachment history has been a traditional core construct in psychological models of anxiety, contemporary attachment theory has the potential to integrate neurobiological and behavioral findings within a multidisciplinary developmental framework. The current paper proposes a modern attachment theory-based developmental model grounded in relevant literature from multiple disciplines including social neuroscience, genetics, neuroendocrinology, and the study of family factors involved in the development of anxiety disorders. Recent accounts of stress regulation have highlighted the interplay between stress, anxiety, and activation of the attachment system. This interplay directly affects the development of social-cognitive and mentalizing capacities that are acquired in the interpersonal context of early attachment relationships. Early attachment experiences are conceptualized as the key organizer of a complex interplay between genetic, environmental, and epigenetic contributions to the development of anxiety disorders - a multifactorial etiology resulting from dysfunctional co-regulation of fear and stress states. These risk-conferring processes are characterized by hyperactivation strategies in the face of anxiety. The cumulative allostatic load and subsequent &quot;wear and tear&quot; effects associated with hyperactivation strategies converge on the neural pathways of anxiety and stress. Attachment experiences further influence the development of anxiety as potential moderators of risk factors, differentially impacting on genetic vulnerability and relevant neurobiological pathways. Implications for further research and potential treatments are outlined.
Accumulating evidence from clinical studies and pre-clinical animal models supports a role for neuropeptide Y (NPY) in adaptive emotional response following stress. The long-term impact of stress, particularly chronic stress, on availability, and function of resilience factors such as NPY may be critical to understanding the etiology of stress-related psychopathology. In these studies, we examined expression of NPY during recovery from a chronic variable stress (CVS) model of repetitive trauma in rats. Due to the importance of amygdala and prefrontal cortex in regulating emotional responses, we predicted chronic changes in NPY expression could contribute to persistent behavioral deficits seen in this model. Consistent with the hypothesis, ELISA for NPY peptide identified a significant reduction in NPY at the delayed (7days) recovery time-point. Interestingly, a significant increase in prefrontal NPY was observed at the same recovery time-point. The mRNA expression for NPY was not changed in the amygdala or PFC, although there was a modest but not statistically significant increase in NPY mRNA at the delayed recovery time-point in the prefrontal cortex. The observed changes in NPY expression are consistent with maladaptive coping and enhanced emotionality, due to the nature of NPY signaling within these respective regions, and the nature of reciprocal connections between amygdala and prefrontal cortex.
Cannabis has long been known to produce cognitive and emotional effects. Research has shown that cannabinoid drugs produce these effects by driving the brain's endogenous cannabinoid system and that this system plays a modulatory role in many cognitive and emotional processes. This review focuses on the effects of endocannabinoid system modulation in animal models of cognition (learning and memory) and emotion (anxiety and depression). We review studies in which natural or synthetic cannabinoid agonists were administered to directly stimulate cannabinoid receptors or, conversely, where cannabinoid antagonists were administered to inhibit the activity of cannabinoid receptors. In addition, studies are reviewed that involved genetic disruption of cannabinoid receptors or genetic or pharmacological manipulation of the endocannabinoid-degrading enzyme, fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). Endocannabinoids affect the function of many neurotransmitter systems, some of which play opposing roles. The diversity of cannabinoid roles and the complexity of task-dependent activation of neuronal circuits may lead to the effects of endocannabinoid system modulation being strongly dependent on environmental conditions. Recent findings are reviewed that raise the possibility that endocannabinoid signaling may change the impact of environmental influences on emotional and cognitive behavior rather than selectively affecting any specific behavior.
Egr1, a member of the Egr family of transcription factors, and Arc are immediate early genes known to play major roles in synaptic plasticity and memory. Despite evidence that Egr family members can control Arc transcriptional regulation, demonstration of a selective role of Egr1 alone is lacking. We investigated the extent to which activity-dependent Arc expression is dependent on Egr1 by analyzing Arc mRNA expression using fluorescence insitu hybridization in the dorsal dentate gyrus and CA1 of wild-type (WT) and Egr1 knockout mice. Following electroconvulsive shock, we found biphasic expression of Arc in area CA1 in mice, consisting in a rapid (30min) and transient wave followed by a second late-phase of expression (8h), and a single but prolonged wave of expression in the dentate gyrus. Egr1 deficiency abolished the latest, but not the early wave of Arc expression in CA1, and curtailed that of the dentate gyrus. Since the early wave of Arc expression was not affected in Egr1 mutant mice, we next analyzed behaviorally induced Arc expression patterns as an index of neural ensemble activation in the dentate gyrus and area CA1 of WT and Egr1 mutant mice. Spatial exploration of novel or familiar environments induced in mice a single early and transient wave of Arc expression in the dentate gyrus and area CA1, which were not affected in Egr1 mutant mice. Analyses of Arc-expressing cells revealed that exploration recruits similar size dentate gyrus and CA1 neural ensembles in WT and Egr1 knockout mice. These findings suggest that hippocampal neural ensembles are normally activated immediately following spatial exploration in Egr1 knockout mice, indicating normal hippocampal encoding of information. They also provide evidence that in condition of strong activation Egr1 alone can control late-phases of activity-dependent Arc transcription in the dentate gyrus and area CA1 of the hippocampus.

In rodents as well as in humans, efficient reinforcement learning depends on dopamine (DA) released from ventral tegmental area (VTA) neurons. It has been shown that in brain slices of mice, GABA(B)-receptor agonists at low concentrations increase the firing frequency of VTA-DA neurons, while high concentrations reduce the firing frequency. It remains however elusive whether baclofen can modulate reinforcement learning in humans. Here, in a double-blind study in 34 healthy human volunteers, we tested the effects of a low and a high concentration of oral baclofen, a high affinity GABA(B)-receptor agonist, in a gambling task associated with monetary reward. A low (20mg) dose of baclofen increased the efficiency of reward-associated learning but had no effect on the avoidance of monetary loss. A high (50mg) dose of baclofen on the other hand did not affect the learning curve. At the end of the task, subjects who received 20mg baclofen p.o. were more accurate in choosing the symbol linked to the highest probability of earning money compared to the control group (89.551.39 vs. 81.071.55%, p=0.002). Our results support a model where baclofen, at low concentrations, causes a disinhibition of DA neurons, increases DA levels and thus facilitates reinforcement learning.
The endocannabinoid (ECB) system is strongly involved in the regulation of cognitive processing and emotional behavior and evidence indicates that ECB signaling might affect these behavioral abilities by modulations of prefrontal cortical functions. The aim of the present study was to examine the role of the CB1 receptor in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) on cognitive flexibility and emotional behavior. Therefore, the CB1 receptor was overexpressed by adeno-associated virus vector-mediated gene transfer specifically in the mPFC of adult Wistar rats. Animals were then tested in different anxiety-related paradigms for emotional reactivity [e.g., elevated plus maze (EPM), light/dark emergence test (EMT), social interaction] and the attentional set shift task (ASST) - an adaptation of the human Wisconsin card sorting test - for cognitive abilities and behavioral flexibility. A subtle increase in exploratory behavior was found in CB1 receptor overexpressing animals (CB1-R) compared to Empty vector injected controls (Empty) in the EMT and EPM, although general locomotor activity did not differ between the groups. During social interaction testing, social contact behavior toward the unknown conspecific was found to be decreased, whereas social withdrawal was increased in CB1-R animals and they showed an inadequate increase in exploratory behavior compared to control animals. In the ASST, impaired reversal learning abilities were detected in CB1-R animals compared to controls, indicating reduced behavioral flexibility. In conclusion, upregulation of the CB1 receptor specifically in the rat mPFC induces alterations in emotional reactivity, leads to inadequate social behavior, and impairs cognitive flexibility. These findings might be relevant for neuropsychiatric disorders, since higher cortical CB1 receptor expression levels as well as similar behavioral impairments as observed in the present study have been described in schizophrenic patients.
Emotional content/context enhances declarative memory through modulation of encoding and retrieval mechanisms. At encoding, neurophysiological data have consistently demonstrated the subsequent memory effect in theta and gamma oscillations. Yet, the existing studies were focused on the emotional content effect and let the emotional context effect unexplored. We hypothesized that theta and gamma oscillations show higher evoked/induced activity during the encoding of visual stimuli when delivered in an emotionally arousing context. Twenty-five healthy volunteers underwent evoked potentials (EP) recordings using a 21 scalp electrodes montage. They attended to an audiovisual test of emotional declarative memory being randomly assigned to either emotionally arousing or neutral context. Visual stimulus presentation was used as the time-locking event. Grand-averages of the EP and evoked spectral perturbations were calculated for each volunteer. EP showed a higher negative deflection from 80 to 140ms for the emotional condition. Such effect was observed over central, frontal and prefrontal locations bilaterally. Evoked theta power was higher in left parietal, central, frontal, and prefrontal electrodes from -50 to 300ms in the emotional condition. Evoked gamma power was higher in the emotional condition with a spatial distribution that overlapped at some points with the theta topography. The early theta power increase could be related to expectancy induced by auditory information processing that facilitates visual encoding in emotional contexts. Together, our results suggest that declarative memory enhancement for both emotional content and emotional context are supported by similar neural mechanisms at encoding, and offer new evidence about the brain processing of relevant environmental stimuli.
We have studied the influence of pre-training psychological stress on the expression of c-fos mRNA following long-term spatial memory retrieval. Rats were trained to learn the location of a hidden escape platform in the radial-arm water maze, and then their memory for the platform location was assessed 24h later. Rat brains were extracted 30min after the 24-h memory test trial for analysis of c-fos mRNA. Four groups were tested: (1) Rats given standard training (Standard); (2) Rats given cat exposure (Predator Stress) 30min prior to training (Pre-Training Stress); (3) Rats given water exposure only (Water Yoked); and (4) Rats given no water exposure (Home Cage). The Standard trained group exhibited excellent 24h memory which was accompanied by increased c-fos mRNA in the dorsal hippocampus and basolateral amygdala (BLA). The Water Yoked group exhibited no increase in c-fos mRNA in any brain region. Rats in the Pre-Training Stress group were classified into two subgroups: good and bad memory performers. Neither of the two Pre-Training Stress subgroups exhibited a significant change in c-fos mRNA expression in the dorsal hippocampus or BLA. Instead, stressed rats with good memory exhibited significantly greater c-fos mRNA expression in the dorsolateral striatum (DLS) compared to stressed rats with bad memory. This finding suggests that stressed rats with good memory used their DLS to generate a non-spatial (cue-based) strategy to learn and subsequently retrieve the memory of the platform location. Collectively, these findings provide evidence at a molecular level for the involvement of the hippocampus and BLA in the retrieval of spatial memory and contribute novel observations on the influence of pre-training stress in activating the DLS in response to long-term memory retrieval.
Pavlovian auditory fear conditioning involves the integration of information about an acoustic conditioned stimulus (CS) and an aversive unconditioned stimulus in the lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LA). The auditory CS reaches the LA subcortically via a direct connection from the auditory thalamus and also from the auditory association cortex itself. How neural modulators, especially those activated during stress, such as norepinephrine (NE), regulate synaptic transmission and plasticity in this network is poorly understood. Here we show that NE inhibits synaptic transmission in both the subcortical and cortical input pathway but that sensory processing is biased toward the subcortical pathway. In addition binding of NE to -adrenergic receptors further dissociates sensory processing in the LA. These findings suggest a network mechanism that shifts sensory balance toward the faster but more primitive subcortical input.
In animals, emotional memory is classically assessed through pavlovian fear conditioning in which a neutral novel stimulus (conditioned stimulus) is paired with an aversive unconditioned stimulus. After conditioning, the conditioned stimulus elicits a fear response characterized by a wide range of behavioral and physiological responses. Despite the existence of this large repertoire of responses, freezing behavior is often the sole parameter used for quantifying fear response, thus limiting emotional memory appraisal to this unique index. Interestingly, respiratory changes and ultrasonic vocalizations (USV) can occur during fear response, yet very few studies investigated the link between these different parameters and freezing. The aim of the present study was to design an experimental setup allowing the simultaneous recording of respiration, USV, and behavior (RUB cage), and the offline synchronization of the collected data for fine-grain second by second analysis. The setup consisted of a customized plethysmograph for respiration monitoring, equipped with a microphone capturing USV, and with four video cameras for behavior recording. In addition, the bottom of the plethysmograph was equipped with a shock-floor allowing foot-shock delivery, and the top received tubing for odor presentations. Using this experimental setup we first described the characteristics of respiration and USV in different behaviors and emotional states. Then we monitored these parameters during contextual fear conditioning and showed that they bring complementary information about the animal's anxiety state and the strength of aversive memory. The present setup may be valuable in providing a clearer appraisal of the physiological and behavioral changes that occur during acquisition as well as retrieval of emotional memory.
Evidence for reconsolidation in non-human animals has accumulated rapidly in the last decade, providing compelling` demonstration for this phenomenon across species and memory paradigms. In vast contrast, scant evidence exists for human reconsolidation to date. A major reason for this discrepancy is the invasive nature of current techniques used to investigate reconsolidation, which are difficult to apply in humans. Pharmacological blockade of reconsolidation, for example, has been typically used in animals as a proof of concept. However, most compounds used in these studies are toxic for humans, and those compounds that are safe target related, but not direct mechanisms of reconsolidation. Thus, although human reconsolidation has been hypothesized, there is limited evidence it actually exists. The best evidence for human reconsolidation emerges from non-invasive techniques that &quot;update&quot; memory during reconsolidation rather than block it, a technique only rarely used in animal research. Here we discuss the current state of human reconsolidation and the challenges ahead. We review findings on reconsolidation of emotional associative, episodic, and procedural memories, using invasive and non-invasive techniques. We discuss the possible interpretation of these results, attempt to reconcile some inconsistencies, and suggest a conceptual framework for future research.
Deficits in decision-making is a hallmark of several neuropsychiatric pathologies but is also observed in some healthy individuals that could be at risk to develop these pathologies. Poor decision-making can be revealed experimentally in humans using the Iowa gambling task, through the inability to select options that ensure long term gains over larger immediate gratification. We devised an analogous task in the rat, based on uncertainty and conflicting choices, the rat gambling task (RGT). It similarly reveals good and poor performers within a single session. Using this task, we investigated the role of three prefrontal cortical areas, the orbitofrontal, prelimbic, and cingulate cortices on decision-making, taking into account inter-individual variability in behavioral performances. Here, we show that these three distinct subregions are differentially engaged to solve the RGT. Cingulate cortex lesion mainly delayed good decision-making whereas prelimbic and orbitofrontal cortices induced different patterns of inadapted behaviors in the task, indicating varying degree of functional specialization of these three areas. Their contribution largely depended on the level of adaptability demonstrated by each individual to the constraint of the task. The inter-individual differences in the effect of prefrontal cortex area lesions on decision-making revealed in this study open new perspectives in the search for vulnerability markers to develop disorders related to executive dysfunctioning.
It has become clear that the inflammatory immune system is altered during the course of clinical depression. In particular, studies on human patients have found depression to be associated with disturbances in the trafficking of cells of the adaptive immune system, coupled with elevations of innate immune messengers and pro-inflammatory cytokines. Paralleling these findings, stressor-based animal models of depression have implicated several cytokines, most notably interleukin-1 (IL-1), IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor-. Elevations of these cytokines and general inflammatory indicators, such as C-reactive protein, together with reductions of specific immune cells (e.g., T lymphocytes) might serve as useful biomarkers of depression or at least, certain subtypes of the disorder. Recent reports also suggest the possibility that anti-inflammatory agents could have therapeutic value in acting as adjunct treatments with traditional anti-depressants. Along these lines, we presently discuss the evidence for pro-inflammatory cytokine involvement in depression, as well as the possibility that anti-inflammatory agents and trophic cytokines themselves might have important anti-depressant properties.
Benzodiazepines (BDZ) are widely prescribed in the treatment of anxiety disorders associated to aging. Interestingly, whereas a reciprocal interaction between the GABAergic system and HPA axis has been evidenced, there is to our knowledge no direct evaluation of the impact of BDZ on both hippocampus (HPC) corticosterone concentrations and HPC-dependent memory in stressed middle-aged subjects. We showed previously that an acute stress induced in middle-aged mice severe memory impairments in a hippocampus-dependent task, and increased in parallel hippocampus corticosterone concentrations, as compared to non-stressed middle-aged controls (Tronche et al., 2010). Based on these findings, the aims of the present study were to evidence the impact of diazepam (a positive allosteric modulator of the GABA-A receptor) on HPC glucocorticoids concentrations and in parallel on HPC-dependent memory in acutely stressed middle-aged mice. Microdialysis experiments showed an interaction between diazepam doses and corticosterone concentrations into the HPC. From 0.25 to 0.5mg/kg, diazepam dose-dependently reduces intra-HPC corticosterone concentrations and in parallel, dose-dependently increased hippocampal-dependent memory performance. In contrast, the highest (1.0mg/kg) diazepam dose induces a reduction in HPC corticosterone concentration, which was of greater magnitude as compared to the two other diazepam doses, but however decreased the hippocampal-dependent memory performance. In summary, our study provides first evidence that diazepam restores in stressed middle-aged animals the hippocampus-dependent response, in relation with HPC corticosterone concentrations. Overall, our data illustrate how stress and benzodiazepines could modulate cognitive functions depending on hippocampus activity.

It is becoming increasingly clear that the processes of memory formation and storage are exquisitely dynamic. Elucidating the nature and temporal evolution of the biological changes that accompany encoding, storage, and retrieval is key to understand memory formation. For explicit or medial temporal lobe-dependent memories that form after a discrete event and are stored for a long time, the physical changes underlying the encoding and processing of the information (memory trace or engram) remain in a fragile state for some time. However, over time, the new memory becomes increasingly resistant to disruption until it is consolidated. Retrieval or reactivation of an apparently consolidated memory can render the memory labile again, and reconsolidation is the process that occurs to mediate its restabilization. Reconsolidation also evolves with the age of the memory: Young memories are sensitive to post-reactivation disruption, but older memories are more resistant. Why does a memory become labile again if it is retrieved or reactivated? Here I suggest that the main function of reconsolidation is to contribute to the lingering consolidation process and mediate memory strengthening. I also discuss the literature and results regarding the influence of the passage of time on the reconsolidation of memory. These points have important implications for the use of reconsolidation in therapeutic settings.
In its strictest application, the term &quot;reinforcement learning&quot; refers to a computational approach to learning in which an agent (often a machine) interacts with a mutable environment to maximize reward through trial and error. The approach borrows essentials from several fields, most notably Computer Science, Behavioral Neuroscience, and Psychology. At the most basic level, a neural system capable of mediating reinforcement learning must be able to acquire sensory information about the external environment and internal milieu (either directly or through connectivities with other brain regions), must be able to select a behavior to be executed, and must be capable of providing evaluative feedback about the success of that behavior. Given that Psychology informs us that reinforcers, both positive and negative, are stimuli or consequences that increase the probability that the immediately antecedent behavior will be repeated and that reinforcer strength or viability is modulated by the organism's past experience with the reinforcer, its affect, and even the state of its muscles (e.g., eyes open or closed); it is the case that any neural system that supports reinforcement learning must also be sensitive to these same considerations. Once learning is established, such a neural system must finally be able to maintain continued response expression and prevent response drift. In this report, we examine both historical and recent evidence that the cerebellum satisfies all of these requirements. While we report evidence from a variety of learning paradigms, the majority of our discussion will focus on classical conditioning of the rabbit eye blink response as an ideal model system for the study of reinforcement and reinforcement learning.

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a well-established model of multiple sclerosis, is characterised by microglial activation and lymphocytic infiltration. Lymphocytic activation through the antigen presentation process involves three main signals, the first provided by the engagement of major histocompatibility complex molecules (MHC) with the receptor of T-cells (TCR), the second by the binding of co-stimulatory molecules and the third by the secretion or expression of T-cell polarising molecules in specific populations of antigen presenting cells (APC). Microglial cells are considered to be the main APC population in the central nervous system (CNS). Specifically in EAE an increase in MHCs, co-stimulatory molecules and different T-cell polarising factors have been reported in microglia. However, a growing number of evidences suggest that dendritic cells (DCs), the main APC in the peripheral immune system, may also participate in the regulation of T-cell responses within the CNS. In this review we summarize the principal knowledge regarding microglial/macrophage function in EAE and their role in T-cell modulation, as well as the participation of DCs in the immune response associated to this disease.
In the brain, specific signalling pathways localized in highly organized regions called niches, allow the persistence of a pool of stem and progenitor cells that generate new neurons and glial cells in adulthood. Much less is known on the spinal cord central canal niche where a sustained adult neurogenesis is not observed. Here we review our current knowledge of this caudal niche in normal and pathological situations. Far from being a simple layer of homogenous cells, this region is composed of several cell types localized at specific locations, expressing characteristic markers and with different morphologies and functions. We further report on a screen of online gene-expression databases to better define this spinal cord niche. Several genes were found to be preferentially expressed within or around the central canal region (Bmp6, CXCR4, Gdf10, Fzd3, Mdk, Nrtn, Rbp1, Shh, Sox4, Wnt7a) some of which by specific cellular subtypes. In depth characterization of the spinal cord niche constitutes a framework to make the most out of this endogenous cell pool in spinal cord disorders.
Central neural circuits orchestrate a homeostatic repertoire to maintain body temperature during environmental temperature challenges and to alter body temperature during the inflammatory response. This review summarizes the functional organization of the neural pathways through which cutaneous thermal receptors alter thermoregulatory effectors: the cutaneous circulation for heat loss, the brown adipose tissue, skeletal muscle and heart for thermogenesis and species-dependent mechanisms (sweating, panting and saliva spreading) for evaporative heat loss. These effectors are regulated by parallel but distinct, effector-specific neural pathways that share a common peripheral thermal sensory input. The thermal afferent circuits include cutaneous thermal receptors, spinal dorsal horn neurons and lateral parabrachial nucleus neurons projecting to the preoptic area to influence warm-sensitive, inhibitory output neurons which control thermogenesis-promoting neurons in the dorsomedial hypothalamus that project to premotor neurons in the rostral ventromedial medulla, including the raphe pallidus, that descend to provide the excitation necessary to drive thermogenic thermal effectors. A distinct population of warm-sensitive preoptic neurons controls heat loss through an inhibitory input to raphe pallidus neurons controlling cutaneous vasoconstriction.
Quantitative changes in Hsp60 during the development of some tumors suggest that this chaperonin plays a role in carcinogenesis. A description of the specific role(s) of Hsp60 in tumor-cell growth and proliferation is still incomplete, but it is already evident that monitoring its levels and distribution in tissues and fluids has potential for diagnosis and staging, and for assessing prognosis and response to treatment. Although Hsp60 is considered an intramitochondrial protein, it has been demonstrated in the cytosol, cell membrane, vesicles, cell surface, extracellular space, and blood. The knowledge that Hsp60 occurs at all these locations opens new avenues for basic and applied research. It is clear that elucidating the mechanisms by which the chaperonin arrives at these various locations, and characterizing its functions in each of them will provide information useful for understanding carcinogenesis and for developing diagnostic and therapeutic tools for clinical oncology. Some of these issues pertinent to colorectal cancer (CRC) are discussed in this article.
In recent years increasing evidence is pointing toward white matter abnormalities in schizophrenia and other psychiatric disorders. The present paper will provide an overview over the role of myelin in cognition and brain function, and its potential involvement in brain disorders. Furthermore, we will examine one particular experimental model for the study of dysmyelination, created by the administration of the toxin cuprizone. Cuprizone, a copper chelator, causes white matter abnormalities in rodents. The administration of cuprizone during specific developmental periods allows for the targeting of specific brain areas for dysmyelination. Thus, cuprizone can be used to study the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of myelin deficiencies in the central nervous system, and its effect on behaviors relevant to psychiatric disorders.
Mature macroglia and almost all neural progenitor types express -aminobutyric (GABA) A receptors (GABA(A)Rs), whose activation by ambient or synaptic GABA, leads to influx or efflux of chloride (Cl(-)) depending on its electro-chemical gradient (E(Cl)). Since the flux of Cl(-) is indissolubly associated to that of osmotically obliged water, GABA(A)Rs regulate water movements by modulating ion gradients. In addition, since water movements also occur through specialized water channels and transporters, GABA(A)R signaling could affect the movement of water by regulating the function of the channels and transporters involved, thereby affecting not only the direction of the water fluxes but also their dynamics. We will here review recent observations indicating that in neural cells GABA(A)R-mediated osmotic regulation affects the cellular volume thereby activating multiple intracellular signaling mechanisms important for cell proliferation, maturation, and survival. In addition, we will discuss evidence that the osmotic regulation exerted by GABA may contribute to brain water homeostasis in physiological and in pathological conditions causing brain edema, in which the GABAergic transmission is often altered.
The potency of GABA is vitally important for its primary role in activating GABA(A) receptors and acting as an inhibitory neurotransmitter. Although numerous laboratories have presented information, directly or indirectly, on GABA potency, it is often difficult to compare across such studies given the inevitable variations in the methods used, the cell types studied, whether native or recombinant receptors are examined, and their relevance to native synaptic and extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors. In this review, we list the most relevant isoforms of synaptic and extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors that are thought to assemble in surface membranes of neurons in the central nervous system. Using consistent methodology in one cell type, the potencies of the endogenous neurotransmitter GABA are compared across a spectrum of GABA(A) receptors. The highest potency for GABA is measured when activating extrasynaptic-type 6 subunit-containing receptors, whereas synaptic-type 232 and 332 receptors exhibited the lowest potency, and other GABA(A) receptor subtypes that are found both in synaptic and extrasynaptic compartments, showed intermediate sensitivities to GABA. The relatively simple potency relationship between GABA and its target receptors is important as it serves as one of the major determinants of GABA(A) receptor activation, with consequences for the development of inhibition, either by tonic or phasic mechanisms.
Alcohol dependence is a common chronic relapsing disorder. The development of alcohol dependence has been associated with changes in brain GABA(A) channel-mediated neurotransmission and plasticity. We have examined mRNA expression of the GABA(A) channel subunit genes in three brain regions in individuals with or without alcohol dependence using quantitative real-time PCR assay. The levels of selective GABA(A) channel subunit mRNAs were altered in specific brain regions in alcoholic subjects. Significant increase in the 1, 4, 5, 1, and 1 subunit mRNAs in the hippocampal dentate gyrus region, and decrease in the 2 and  subunit mRNAs in the orbitofrontal cortex were identified whereas no changes in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex were detected. The data increase our understanding of the role of GABA(A) channels in the development of alcohol dependence.
We investigated whether cortical glutamatergic and GABAergic release machineries can be differentiated on the basis of the nature and amount of proteins they express, by performing a quantitative analysis of the degree of co-localization of synaptotagmin (SYT) 1 and 2, synaptic vesicle protein 2 (SV2) A and B, and Rab3a and c in VGLUT1+, VGLUT2+, and VGAT+ terminals and synaptic vesicles (SVs) in rat cerebral cortex. Co-localization studies showed that VGLUT1 puncta had high levels of SV2A and B and of Rab3c, intermediate levels of SYT1, and low levels of SYT2 and Rab3c; VGLUT2 puncta exhibited intermediate levels of all presynaptic proteins studied; whereas vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT) puncta had high levels of SV2A and SYT2, intermediate levels of SYT1, Rab3a, and Rab3c, and low levels of SV2B. Since SV2B is reportedly expressed by glutamatergic neurons and we observed SV2B expression in VGAT puncta, we performed electron microscopic studies and found SV2B positive axon terminals forming symmetric synapses. Immunoisolation studies showed that the expression levels of the protein isoforms varied in the three populations of SVs. Expression of SYT1 was highest in VGLUT1-SVs, while SYT2 expression was similar in the three SV groups. Expression of SV2A was similarly high in all three SV populations, except for SV2B levels that were very low in VGAT SVs. Finally, Rab3a levels were similar in the three SV groups, while Rab3c levels were highest in VGLUT1-SVs. These quantitative results extend our previous studies on the differential expression of presynaptic proteins involved in neurotransmitter release in GABAergic and glutamatergic terminals and indicate that heterogeneity of the respective release machineries can be generated by the differential complement of SV proteins involved in distinct stages of the release process.
ATP-gated P2X3 receptors are expressed by nociceptive neurons and participate in transduction of pain. Responsiveness of P2X3 receptors is strongly reduced at low temperatures, suggesting a role for these receptors in analgesic effects of cooling. Since sustained responsiveness depends on receptor trafficking to the plasma membrane, we employed total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF) microscopy to highlight perimembrane pool of DsRed-tagged P2X3 receptors and studied the effects of temperature on perimembrane turnover of P2X3-DsRed. Patch-clamp recordings confirmed membrane expression of functional, rapidly desensitizing P2X3-DsRed receptors. By combining TIRF microscopy with the technique of fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP), we measured the rate of perimembrane turnover of P2X3-DsRed receptors expressed in hippocampal neurons. At room temperature, the P2X3-DsRed perimembrane turnover as measured by TIRF-FRAP had a time constant of 2min. At 29C, receptor turnover was strongly accelerated (0.6min), yielding an extremely high temperature dependence coefficient Q(10) 4.5. In comparison, AMPA receptor turnover measured with TIRF-FRAP was only moderately sensitive to temperature (Q(10) 1.5). The traffic inhibitor Brefeldin A selectively decelerated P2X3-DsRed receptor turnover at 29C, but had no effect at 21C (Q(10) 1.0). This indicates that receptor traffic to plasma membrane is the key temperature-sensitive component of P2X3 turnover. The selective inhibitor of the RhoA kinase Y27632 significantly decreased the temperature dependence of P2X3-DsRed receptor turnover (Q(10) 2.0). In summary, the RhoA kinase-dependent membrane trafficking of P2X3 receptors to plasma membrane has an exceptionally high sensitivity to temperature. These findings suggest an important role of P2X3 receptor turnover in hypothermia-associated analgesia.
Amblyopia is the most common form of impairment of visual function affecting one eye, with a prevalence of about 1-5% of the total world population. This pathology is caused by early abnormal visual experience with a functional imbalance between the two eyes owing to anisometropia, strabismus, or congenital cataract, resulting in a dramatic loss of visual acuity in an apparently healthy eye and various other perceptual abnormalities, including deficits in contrast sensitivity and in stereopsis. It is currently accepted that, due to a lack of sufficient plasticity within the brain, amblyopia is untreatable in adulthood. However, recent results obtained both in clinical trials and in animal models have challenged this traditional view, unmasking a previously unsuspected potential for promoting recovery after the end of the critical period for visual cortex plasticity. These studies point toward the intracortical inhibitory transmission as a crucial brake for therapeutic rehabilitation and recovery from amblyopia in the adult brain.
Activation of astrocytes by neuronal signals plays a central role in the control of neuronal activity-dependent blood flow changes in the normal brain. The cellular pathways that mediate neurovascular coupling in the epileptic brain remain, however, poorly defined. In a cortical slice model of epilepsy, we found that the ictal, seizure-like discharge, and only to a minor extent the interictal discharge, evokes both a Ca(2+) increase in astrocyte endfeet and a vasomotor response. We also observed that rapid ictal discharge-induced arteriole responses were regularly preceded by Ca(2+) elevations in endfeet and were abolished by pharmacological inhibition of Ca(2+) signals in these astrocyte processes. Under these latter conditions, arterioles exhibited after the ictal discharge only slowly developing vasodilations. The poor efficacy of interictal discharges, compared with ictal discharges, to activate endfeet was confirmed also in the intact in vitro isolated guinea pig brain. Although the possibility of a direct contribution of neurons, in particular in the late response of cerebral blood vessels to epileptic discharges, should be taken into account, our study supports the view that astrocytes are central for neurovascular coupling also in the epileptic brain. The massive endfeet Ca(2+) elevations evoked by ictal discharges and the poor response to interictal events represent new information potentially relevant to interpret data from diagnostic brain imaging techniques, such as functional magnetic resonance, utilized in the clinic to localize neural activity and to optimize neurosurgery of untreatable epilepsies.
The time course of synaptic currents is a crucial determinant of rapid signaling between neurons. Traditionally, the mechanisms underlying the shape of synaptic signals are classified as pre- and post-synaptic. Over the last two decades, an extensive body of evidence indicated that synaptic signals are critically shaped by the neurotransmitter time course which encompasses several phenomena including pre- and post-synaptic ones. The agonist transient depends on neurotransmitter release mechanisms, diffusion within the synaptic cleft, spill-over to the extra-synaptic space, uptake, and binding to post-synaptic receptors. Most estimates indicate that the neurotransmitter transient is very brief, lasting between one hundred up to several hundreds of microseconds, implying that post-synaptic activation is characterized by a high degree of non-equilibrium. Moreover, pharmacological studies provide evidence that the kinetics of agonist transient plays a crucial role in setting the susceptibility of synaptic currents to modulation by a variety of compounds of physiological or clinical relevance. More recently, the role of the neurotransmitter time course has been emphasized by studies carried out on brain slice models that revealed a striking, cell-dependent variability of synaptic agonist waveforms ranging from rapid pulses to slow volume transmission. In the present paper we review the advances on studies addressing the impact of synaptic neurotransmitter transient on kinetics and pharmacological modulation of synaptic currents at inhibitory synapses.
The growing use of multi-channel neural recording techniques in behaving animals has produced rich datasets that hold immense potential for advancing our understanding of how the brain mediates behavior. One limitation of these techniques is they do not provide important information about the underlying anatomical connections among the recorded neurons within an ensemble. Inferring these connections is often intractable because the set of possible interactions grows exponentially with ensemble size. This is a fundamental challenge one confronts when interpreting these data. Unfortunately, the combination of expert knowledge and ensemble data is often insufficient for selecting a unique model of these interactions. Our approach shifts away from modeling the network diagram of the ensemble toward analyzing changes in the dynamics of the ensemble as they relate to behavior. Our contribution consists of adapting techniques from signal processing and Bayesian statistics to track the dynamics of ensemble data on time-scales comparable with behavior. We employ a Bayesian estimator to weigh prior information against the available ensemble data, and use an adaptive quantization technique to aggregate poorly estimated regions of the ensemble data space. Importantly, our method is capable of detecting changes in both the magnitude and structure of correlations among neurons missed by firing rate metrics. We show that this method is scalable across a wide range of time-scales and ensemble sizes. Lastly, the performance of this method on both simulated and real ensemble data is used to demonstrate its utility.
The geometry of natural branching systems generally reflects functional optimization. A common property is that their bifurcations are planar and that daughter segments do not turn back in the direction of the parent segment. The present study investigates whether this also applies to bifurcations in 3D dendritic arborizations. This question was earlier addressed in a first study of flatness of 3D dendritic bifurcations by Uylings and Smit (1975), who used the apex angle of the right circular cone as flatness measure. The present study was inspired by recent renewed interest in this measure. Because we encountered ourselves shortcomings of this cone angle measure, the search for an optimal measure for flatness of 3D bifurcation was the second aim of our study. Therefore, a number of measures has been developed in order to quantify flatness and orientation properties of spatial bifurcations. All these measures have been expressed mathematically in terms of the three bifurcation angles between the three pairs of segments in the bifurcation. The flatness measures have been applied and evaluated to bifurcations in rat cortical pyramidal cell basal and apical dendritic trees, and to random spatial bifurcations. Dendritic and random bifurcations show significant different flatness measure distributions, supporting the conclusion that dendritic bifurcations are significantly more flat than random bifurcations. Basal dendritic bifurcations also show the property that their parent segments are generally aligned oppositely to the bisector of the angle between their daughter segments, resulting in &quot;symmetrical&quot; configurations. Such geometries may arise when during neuronal development the segments at a newly formed bifurcation are subjected to elastic tensions, which force the bifurcation into an equilibrium planar shape. Apical bifurcations, however, have parent segments oppositely aligned with one of the daughter segments. These geometries arise in the case of side branching from an existing apical main stem. The aligned &quot;apical&quot; parent and &quot;apical&quot; daughter segment form together with the side branch daughter segment already geometrically a flat configuration. These properties are clearly reflected in the flatness measure distributions. Comparison of the different flatness measures made clear that they all capture flatness properties in a different way. Selection of the most appropriate measure thus depends on the question of research. For our purpose of quantifying flatness and orientation of the segments, the dihedral angle  was found to be the most discriminative and applicable single measure. Alternatively, the parent elevation and azimuth angle formed an orthogonal pair of measures most clearly demonstrating the dendritic bifurcation &quot;symmetry&quot; properties.
The current system of publishing in the biological sciences is notable for its redundancy, inconsistency, sluggishness, and opacity. These problems persist, and grow worse, because the peer review system remains focused on deciding whether or not to publish a paper in a particular journal rather than providing (1) a high-quality evaluation of scientific merit and (2) the information necessary to organize and prioritize the literature. Online access has eliminated the need for journals as distribution channels, so their primary current role is to provide authors with feedback prior to publication and a quick way for other researchers to prioritize the literature based on which journal publishes a paper. However, the feedback provided by reviewers is not focused on scientific merit but on whether to publish in a particular journal, which is generally of little use to authors and an opaque and noisy basis for prioritizing the literature. Further, each submission of a rejected manuscript requires the entire machinery of peer review to creak to life anew. This redundancy incurs delays, inconsistency, and increased burdens on authors, reviewers, and editors. Finally, reviewers have no real incentive to review well or quickly, as their performance is not tracked, let alone rewarded. One of the consistent suggestions for modifying the current peer review system is the introduction of some form of post-publication reception, and the development of a marketplace where the priority of a paper rises and falls based on its reception from the field (see other articles in this special topics). However, the information that accompanies a paper into the marketplace is as important as the marketplace's mechanics. Beyond suggestions concerning the mechanisms of reception, we propose an update to the system of publishing in which publication is guaranteed, but pre-publication peer review still occurs, giving the authors the opportunity to revise their work following a mini pre-reception from the field. This step also provides a consistent set of rankings and reviews to the marketplace, allowing for early prioritization and stabilizing its early dynamics. We further propose to improve the general quality of reviewing by providing tangible rewards to those who do it well.

In the hippocampus and the neocortex, the coupling between local field potential (LFP) oscillations and the spiking of single neurons can be highly precise, across neuronal populations and cell types. Spike phase (i.e., the spike time with respect to a reference oscillation) is known to carry reliable information, both with phase-locking behavior and with more complex phase relationships, such as phase precession. How this precision is achieved by neuronal populations, whose membrane properties and total input may be quite heterogeneous, is nevertheless unknown. In this note, we investigate a simple mechanism for learning precise LFP-to-spike coupling in feed-forward networks - the reliable, periodic modulation of presynaptic firing rates during oscillations, coupled with spike-timing dependent plasticity. When oscillations are within the biological range (2-150Hz), firing rates of the inputs change on a timescale highly relevant to spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP). Through analytic and computational methods, we find points of stable phase-locking for a neuron with plastic input synapses. These points correspond to precise phase-locking behavior in the feed-forward network. The location of these points depends on the oscillation frequency of the inputs, the STDP time constants, and the balance of potentiation and de-potentiation in the STDP rule. For a given input oscillation, the balance of potentiation and de-potentiation in the STDP rule is the critical parameter that determines the phase at which an output neuron will learn to spike. These findings are robust to changes in intrinsic post-synaptic properties. Finally, we discuss implications of this mechanism for stable learning of spike-timing in the hippocampus.
The pattern of connections among cortical excitatory cells with overlapping arbors is non-random. In particular, correlations among connections produce clustering - cells in cliques connect to each other with high probability, but with lower probability to cells in other spatially intertwined cliques. In this study, we model initially randomly connected sparse recurrent networks of spiking neurons with random, overlapping inputs, to investigate what functional and structural synaptic plasticity mechanisms sculpt network connections into the patterns measured in vitro. Our Hebbian implementation of structural plasticity causes a removal of connections between uncorrelated excitatory cells, followed by their random replacement. To model a biconditional discrimination task, we stimulate the network via pairs (A+B, C+D, A+D, and C+B) of four inputs (A, B, C, and D). We find networks that produce neurons most responsive to specific paired inputs - a building block of computation and essential role for cortex - contain the excessive clustering of excitatory synaptic connections observed in cortical slices. The same networks produce the best performance in a behavioral readout of the networks' ability to complete the task. A plasticity mechanism operating on inhibitory connections, long-term potentiation of inhibition, when combined with structural plasticity, indirectly enhances clustering of excitatory cells via excitatory connections. A rate-dependent (triplet) form of spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) between excitatory cells is less effective and basic STDP is detrimental. Clustering also arises in networks stimulated with single stimuli and in networks undergoing raised levels of spontaneous activity when structural plasticity is combined with functional plasticity. In conclusion, spatially intertwined clusters or cliques of connected excitatory cells can arise via a Hebbian form of structural plasticity operating in initially randomly connected networks.
After acquisition, memories underlie a process of consolidation, making them more resistant to interference and brain injury. Memory consolidation involves systems-level interactions, most importantly between the hippocampus and associated structures, which takes part in the initial encoding of memory, and the neocortex, which supports long-term storage. This dichotomy parallels the contrast between episodic memory (tied to the hippocampal formation), collecting an autobiographical stream of experiences, and semantic memory, a repertoire of facts and statistical regularities about the world, involving the neocortex at large. Experimental evidence points to a gradual transformation of memories, following encoding, from an episodic to a semantic character. This may require an exchange of information between different memory modules during inactive periods. We propose a theory for such interactions and for the formation of semantic memory, in which episodic memory is encoded as relational data. Semantic memory is modeled as a modified stochastic grammar, which learns to parse episodic configurations expressed as an association matrix. The grammar produces tree-like representations of episodes, describing the relationships between its main constituents at multiple levels of categorization, based on its current knowledge of world regularities. These regularities are learned by the grammar from episodic memory information, through an expectation-maximization procedure, analogous to the inside-outside algorithm for stochastic context-free grammars. We propose that a Monte-Carlo sampling version of this algorithm can be mapped on the dynamics of &quot;sleep replay&quot; of previously acquired information in the hippocampus and neocortex. We propose that the model can reproduce several properties of semantic memory such as decontextualization, top-down processing, and creation of schemata.

The proper timing of actions is necessary for the survival of animals, whether in hunting prey or escaping predators. Researchers in the field of neuroscience have begun to explore neuronal signals correlated to behavioral interval timing. Here, we attempt to decode the lapse of time from neuronal population signals recorded from the frontal cortex of monkeys performing a multiple-interval timing task. We designed a Bayesian algorithm that deciphers temporal information hidden in noisy signals dispersed within the activity of individual neurons recorded from monkeys trained to determine the passage of time before initiating an action. With this decoder, we succeeded in estimating the elapsed time with a precision of approximately 1s throughout the relevant behavioral period from firing rates of 25 neurons in the pre-supplementary motor area. Further, an extended algorithm makes it possible to determine the total length of the time-interval required to wait in each trial. This enables observers to predict the moment at which the subject will take action from the neuronal activity in the brain. A separate population analysis reveals that the neuronal ensemble represents the lapse of time in a manner scaled relative to the scheduled interval, rather than representing it as the real physical time.
We consider two types of causes leading to information loss when neural activities are passed and processed in the brain. One is responses of upstream neurons to stimuli being imperfectly observed by downstream neurons. The other is upstream neurons non-optimally decoding stimuli information contained in the activities of the downstream neurons. To investigate the importance of neural correlation in information processing in the brain, we specifically consider two situations. One is when neural responses are not simultaneously observed, i.e., neural correlation data is lost. This situation means that stimuli information is decoded without any specific assumption about neural correlations. The other is when stimuli information is decoded by a wrong statistical model where neural responses are assumed to be independent even when they are not. We provide the information geometric interpretation of these two types of information loss and clarify their relationship. We then concretely evaluate these types of information loss in some simple examples. Finally, we discuss use of these evaluations of information loss to elucidate the importance of correlation in neural information processing.
How the brain learns and generates temporal sequences is a fundamental issue in neuroscience. The production of birdsongs, a process which involves complex learned sequences, provides researchers with an excellent biological model for this topic. The Bengalese finch in particular learns a highly complex song with syntactical structure. The nucleus HVC (HVC), a premotor nucleus within the avian song system, plays a key role in generating the temporal structures of their songs. From lesion studies, the nucleus interfacialis (NIf) projecting to the HVC is considered one of the essential regions that contribute to the complexity of their songs. However, the types of interaction between the HVC and the NIf that can produce complex syntactical songs remain unclear. In order to investigate the function of interactions between the HVC and NIf, we have proposed a neural network model based on previous biological evidence. The HVC is modeled by a recurrent neural network (RNN) that learns to generate temporal patterns of songs. The NIf is modeled as a mechanism that provides auditory feedback to the HVC and generates random noise that feeds into the HVC. The model showed that complex syntactical songs can be replicated by simple interactions between deterministic dynamics of the RNN and random noise. In the current study, the plausibility of the model is tested by the comparison between the changes in the songs of actual birds induced by pharmacological inhibition of the NIf and the changes in the songs produced by the model resulting from modification of parameters representing NIf functions. The efficacy of the model demonstrates that the changes of songs induced by pharmacological inhibition of the NIf can be interpreted as a trade-off between the effects of noise and the effects of feedback on the dynamics of the RNN of the HVC. These facts suggest that the current model provides a convincing hypothesis for the functional role of NIf-HVC interaction.
Neuronal network models often assume a fixed probability of connection between neurons. This assumption leads to random networks with binomial in-degree and out-degree distributions which are relatively narrow. Here I study the effect of broad degree distributions on network dynamics by interpolating between a binomial and a truncated power-law distribution for the in-degree and out-degree independently. This is done both for an inhibitory network (I network) as well as for the recurrent excitatory connections in a network of excitatory and inhibitory neurons (EI network). In both cases increasing the width of the in-degree distribution affects the global state of the network by driving transitions between asynchronous behavior and oscillations. This effect is reproduced in a simplified rate model which includes the heterogeneity in neuronal input due to the in-degree of cells. On the other hand, broadening the out-degree distribution is shown to increase the fraction of common inputs to pairs of neurons. This leads to increases in the amplitude of the cross-correlation (CC) of synaptic currents. In the case of the I network, despite strong oscillatory CCs in the currents, CCs of the membrane potential are low due to filtering and reset effects, leading to very weak CCs of the spike-count. In the asynchronous regime of the EI network, broadening the out-degree increases the amplitude of CCs in the recurrent excitatory currents, while CC of the total current is essentially unaffected as are pairwise spiking correlations. This is due to a dynamic balance between excitatory and inhibitory synaptic currents. In the oscillatory regime, changes in the out-degree can have a large effect on spiking correlations and even on the qualitative dynamical state of the network.
Neuronal tuning functions can be expressed by the conditional probability of observing a spike given any combination of explanatory variables. However, accurately determining such probabilistic tuning functions from experimental data poses several challenges such as finding the right combination of explanatory variables and determining their proper neuronal latencies. Here we present a novel approach of estimating and evaluating such probabilistic tuning functions, which offers a solution for these problems. By maximizing the mutual information between the probability distributions of spike occurrence and the variables, their neuronal latency can be estimated, and the dependence of neuronal activity on different combinations of variables can be measured. This method was used to analyze neuronal activity in cortical area MSTd in terms of dependence on signals related to eye and retinal image movement. Comparison with conventional feature detection and regression analysis techniques shows that our method offers distinct advantages, if the dependence does not match the regression model.
Many simulations of networks in computational neuroscience assume completely homogenous random networks of the Erds-Rnyi type, or regular networks, despite it being recognized for some time that anatomical brain networks are more complex in their connectivity and can, for example, exhibit the &quot;scale-free&quot; and &quot;small-world&quot; properties. We review the most well known algorithms for constructing networks with given non-homogeneous statistical properties and provide simple pseudo-code for reproducing such networks in software simulations. We also review some useful mathematical results and approximations associated with the statistics that describe these network models, including degree distribution, average path length, and clustering coefficient. We demonstrate how such results can be used as partial verification and validation of implementations. Finally, we discuss a sometimes overlooked modeling choice that can be crucially important for the properties of simulated networks: that of network directedness. The most well known network algorithms produce undirected networks, and we emphasize this point by highlighting how simple adaptations can instead produce directed networks.
We examine how the representation of space is affected by receptive field (RF) characteristics of the encoding population. Spatial responses were defined by overlapping Gaussian RFs. These responses were analyzed using multidimensional scaling to extract the representation of global space implicit in population activity. Spatial representations were based purely on firing rates, which were not labeled with RF characteristics (tuning curve peak location, for example), differentiating this approach from many other population coding models. Because responses were unlabeled, this model represents space using intrinsic coding, extracting relative positions amongst stimuli, rather than extrinsic coding where known RF characteristics provide a reference frame for extracting absolute positions. Two parameters were particularly important: RF diameter and RF dispersion, where dispersion indicates how broadly RF centers are spread out from the fovea. For large RFs, the model was able to form metrically accurate representations of physical space on low-dimensional manifolds embedded within the high-dimensional neural population response space, suggesting that in some cases the neural representation of space may be dimensionally isomorphic with 3D physical space. Smaller RF sizes degraded and distorted the spatial representation, with the smallest RF sizes (present in early visual areas) being unable to recover even a topologically consistent rendition of space on low-dimensional manifolds. Finally, although positional invariance of stimulus responses has long been associated with large RFs in object recognition models, we found RF dispersion rather than RF diameter to be the critical parameter. In fact, at a population level, the modeling suggests that higher ventral stream areas with highly restricted RF dispersion would be unable to achieve positionally-invariant representations beyond this narrow region around fixation.
Networks of well-known dynamical units but unknown interaction topology arise across various fields of biology, including genetics, ecology, and neuroscience. The collective dynamics of such networks is often sensitive to the presence (or absence) of individual interactions, but there is usually no direct way to probe for their existence. Here we present an explicit method for reconstructing interaction networks of leaky integrate-and-fire neurons from the spike patterns they exhibit in response to external driving. Given the dynamical parameters are known, the approach works well for networks in simple collective states but is also applicable to networks exhibiting complex spatio-temporal spike patterns. In particular, stationarity of spiking time series is not required.
Calcium concentrations as well as time courses have been used to model the signaling cascades leading to changes in the strength of synaptic connections. Previous models consider the dendritic spines as uniform compartments regarding calcium signaling. However, calcium concentrations can vary drastically on distances much smaller than typical spine sizes, and downstream targets of calcium signals are often found exactly in these calcium nanodomains. Even though most downstream targets are activated by calcium via calmodulin, which is a diffusive molecule, the capacity of calmodulin to bind to its targets even when it is not fully loaded with calcium allows its downstream cascade to be highly local. In this study, a model is proposed which uses the heterogeneity of calcium concentrations as a signal for spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP). The model is minimalistic and includes three sources of calcium in spines: NMDA receptors (NMDARs), voltage gated calcium channels (VGCCs) and IP3 receptors (IP3Rs). It is based on the biochemical cascades and assumption of spatial locations of four calcium-dependent enzymes: calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II located near NMDARs, calcineurin located near VGCCs, cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) located near IP3Rs or NMDARs and adenylyl cyclase, located between VDCCs and NMDARs. To quantify the changes in synaptic weights the model also includes a simple description of AMPA receptor insertion in the membrane and docking to the postsynaptic density. Two parameters of the model are tuned such that weight changes produced by either pre or postsynaptic firing alone are minimal. The model reproduces the typical shape of STDP for spike doublets. If PDE is located near IP3Rs, the behavior for spike triplets is consistent with that observed in hippocampal cell culture; if near NMDAR, the behavior is similar to that observed in cortical L2/3 slices.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) remain the best studied class of cell surface receptors and the most tractable family of proteins for novel small molecule drug discovery. Despite this, a considerable number of GPCRs remain poorly characterized and in a significant number of cases, endogenous ligand(s) that activate them remain undefined or are of questionable physiological relevance. GPR35 was initially discovered over a decade ago but has remained an &quot;orphan&quot; receptor. Recent publications have highlighted novel ligands, both endogenously produced and synthetic, which demonstrate significant potency at this receptor. Furthermore, evidence is accumulating which highlights potential roles for GPR35 in disease and therefore, efforts to characterize GPR35 more fully and develop it as a novel therapeutic target in conditions that range from diabetes and hypertension to asthma are increasing. Recently identified ligands have shown marked species selective properties, indicating major challenges for future drug development. As we begin to understand these issues, the continuing efforts to identify novel agonist and antagonist ligands for GPR35 will help to decipher its true physiological relevance; translating multiple assay systems in vitro, to animal disease systems in vivo and finally to man.
This review highlights the role of major endogenous neurosteroids in seizure disorders and the promise of neurosteroid replacement therapy in epilepsy. Neurosteroids are endogenous modulators of seizure susceptibility. Neurosteroids such as allopregnanolone (3-hydroxy-5-pregnane-20-one) and allotetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone (3,21-dihydroxy-5-pregnan-20-one) are positive modulators of GABA-A receptors. Aside from peripheral tissues, neurosteroids are synthesized within the brain, mostly in principal neurons. Neurosteroids potentiate synaptic GABA-A receptor function and also activate -subunit-containing extrasynaptic GABA-A receptors that mediate tonic currents and thus may play an important role in neuronal network excitability and seizure susceptibility. Our studies over the past decade have shown that neurosteroids are broad-spectrum anticonvulsants and confer seizure protection in various animal models. They protect against seizures induced by GABA-A receptor antagonists, 6-Hz model, pilocarpine-induced limbic seizures, and seizures in kindled animals. Unlike benzodiazepines, tolerance does not occur to their actions during chronic administration. Our recent studies provide compelling evidence that neurosteroids may have antiepileptogenic properties. There is emerging evidence that endogenous neurosteroids may play a key role in the pathophysiology of catamenial epilepsy, stress-sensitive seizure conditions, temporal lobe epilepsy, and alcohol-withdrawal seizures. It is suggested that neurosteroid replacement with natural or synthetic neurosteroids may be useful in the treatment of epilepsy. Synthetic analogs of neurosteroids that are devoid of hormonal side effects show promise in the treatment of diverse seizure disorders. Agents that stimulate endogenous production of neurosteroids may also be useful for treatment of epilepsy.
Classically, the modulation of brain function and behavior by steroid hormones was linked exclusively to secretion by peripheral endocrine glands. Subsequently, steroid actions within the brain were shown dependent upon either synthesis and secretion by peripheral organs or by production within the CNS itself using peripheral sources of precursors. Discovery of the estrogen-synthetic enzyme aromatase in brain further bolstered the latter view and served as a catalyst for expanding concepts of neurosteroidogenesis. In parallel research, several steroids, including estradiol, were found to have rapid effects on neuronal excitability, partially explained by novel actions at neuronal membranes. Recent findings from multiple levels of analysis and labs necessitate an updated view on how steroids are delivered to neural circuits. There is now considerable evidence for expression of the aromatase enzyme within synaptic boutons in the vertebrate CNS. Furthermore, additional work now directly couples rapid regulation of neuroestrogen synthesis with neurophysiological and behavioral outcomes. In this review we summarize evidence for targeted and acute synaptic estrogen synthesis and perisynaptic estrogen actions in the CNS of songbirds. We evaluate these findings in the context of criteria associated with classic neuromodulatory signaling. We term this novel form of signaling &quot;synaptocrine,&quot; and discuss its implications.
The nigrostriatal dopaminergic (NSDA) pathway degenerates in Parkinson's disease (PD), which occurs with approximately twice the incidence in men than women. Studies of the influence of systemic estrogens in females suggest sex hormones contribute to these differences. In this review we analyze the evidence revealing great complexity in the response of the healthy and injured NSDA system to hormonal influences, and emphasize the importance of centrally generated estrogens. At physiological levels, circulating estrogen (in females) or estrogen precursors (testosterone in males, aromatized to estrogen centrally) have negligible effects on dopaminergic neuron survival in experimental PD, but can modify striatal dopamine levels via actions on the activity or adaptive responses of surviving cells. However, these effects are sexually dimorphic. In females, estradiol promotes adaptive responses in the partially injured NSDA pathway, preserving striatal dopamine, whereas in males gonadal steroids and exogenous estradiol have a negligible or even suppressive effect, effectively exacerbating dopamine loss. On balance, the different effects of gonadal factors in males and females contribute to sex differences in experimental PD. Fundamental sex differences in brain organization, including the sexually dimorphic networks regulating NSDA activity are likely to underpin these responses. In contrast, estrogen generated locally appears to preserve striatal dopamine in both sexes. The available data therefore highlight the need to understand the biological basis of sex-specific responses of the NSDA system to peripheral hormones, so as to realize the potential for sex-specific, hormone-based therapies in PD. Furthermore, they suggest that targeting central steroid generation could be equally effective in preserving striatal dopamine in both sexes. Clarification of the relative roles of peripheral and central sex steroid hormones is thus an important challenge for future studies.
Ethanol (EtOH) induced impairment of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the rat hippocampus is prevented by the 5-reductase inhibitor finasteride, suggesting that this effect of EtOH is dependent on the increased local release of neurosteroids such as 3,5-THP that promote GABA-mediated transmission. Given that social isolation (SI) in rodents is associated with altered plasma and brain levels of such neurosteroids as well as with an enhanced neurosteroidogenic action of EtOH, we examined whether the inhibitory effect of EtOH on LTP at CA3-CA1 hippocampal excitatory synapses is altered in C57BL/6J mice subjected to SI for 6weeks in comparison with group-housed (GH) animals. Extracellular recording of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) as well as patch-clamp analysis were performed in hippocampal slices prepared from both SI and GH mice. Consistent with previous observations, recording of fEPSPs revealed that the extent of LTP induced in the CA1 region of SI mice was significantly reduced compared with that in GH animals. EtOH (40mM) inhibited LTP in slices from SI mice but not in those from GH mice, and this effect of EtOH was abolished by co-application of 1M finasteride. Current-clamp analysis of CA1 pyramidal neurons revealed a decrease in action potential (AP) frequency and an increase in the intensity of injected current required to evoke the first AP in SI mice compared with GH mice, indicative of a decrease in neuronal excitability associated with SI. Together, our data suggest that SI results in reduced levels of neuronal excitability and synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus. Furthermore, the increased sensitivity to the neurosteroidogenic effect of EtOH associated with SI likely accounts for the greater inhibitory effect of EtOH on LTP in SI mice. The increase in EtOH sensitivity induced by SI may be important for the changes in the effects of EtOH on anxiety and on learning and memory associated with the prolonged stress attributable to SI.
Amyloid- peptide deposition, abnormal hyperphosphorylation of tau, as well as inflammation and vascular damage, are associated with the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Angiotensin II (Ang II) is a peripheral hormone, as well as a neuropeptide, which binds two major receptors, namely the Ang II type 1 receptor (AT1R) and the type 2 receptor (AT2R). Activation of the AT2R counteracts most of the AT1R-mediated actions, promoting vasodilation, decreasing the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, both in the brain and in the cardiovascular system. There is evidence that treatment with AT1R blockers (ARBs) attenuates learning and memory deficits. Studies suggest that the therapeutic effects of ARBs may reflect this unopposed activation of the AT2R in addition to the inhibition of the AT1R. Within the context of AD, modulation of AT2R signaling could improve cognitive performance not only through its action on blood flow/brain microcirculation but also through more specific effects on neurons. This review summarizes the current state of knowledge and potential therapeutic relevance of central actions of this enigmatic receptor. In particular, we highlight the possibility that selective AT2R activation by non-peptide and highly selective agonists, acting on neuronal plasticity, could represent new pharmacological tools that may help improve impaired cognitive performance in AD and other neurological cognitive disorders.
Reproductive status is tightly coupled to metabolic state in females, and ovarian cycling in mammals is halted when energy output exceeds energy input, a metabolic condition known as negative energy balance. This inhibition of reproductive function during negative energy balance occurs due to suppression of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release in the hypothalamus. The GnRH secretagogue kisspeptin is also inhibited during negative energy balance, indicating that inhibition of reproductive neuroendocrine circuits may occur upstream of GnRH itself. Understanding the metabolic signals responsible for the inhibition of reproductive pathways has been a compelling research focus for many years. A predominant theory in the field is that the status of energy balance is conveyed to reproductive neuroendocrine circuits via the adipocyte hormone leptin. Leptin is stimulatory for GnRH release and lower levels of leptin during negative energy balance are believed to result in decreased stimulatory drive for GnRH cells. However, recent evidence found that restoring leptin to physiological levels did not restore GnRH function in three different models of negative energy balance. This suggests that although leptin may be an important permissive signal for reproductive function as indicated by many years of research, factors other than leptin must critically contribute to negative energy balance-induced reproductive inhibition. This review will focus on emerging candidates for the integration of metabolic status and reproductive function during negative energy balance.
Aromatization of testosterone into estradiol in the preoptic area plays a critical role in the activation of male copulation in quail and in many other vertebrate species. Aromatase expression in quail and in other birds is higher than in rodents and other mammals, which has facilitated the study of the controls and functions of this enzyme. Over relatively long time periods (days to months), brain aromatase activity (AA), and transcription are markedly (four- to sixfold) increased by genomic actions of sex steroids. Initial work indicated that the preoptic AA is higher in males than in females and it was hypothesized that this differential production of estrogen could be a critical factor responsible for the lack of behavioral activation in females. Subsequent studies revealed, however, that this enzymatic sex difference might contribute but is not sufficient to explain the sex difference in behavior. Studies of AA, immunoreactivity, and mRNA concentrations revealed that sex differences observed when measuring enzymatic activity are not necessarily observed when one measures mRNA concentrations. Discrepancies potentially reflect post-translational controls of the enzymatic activity. AA in quail brain homogenates is rapidly inhibited by phosphorylation processes. Similar rapid inhibitions occur in hypothalamic explants maintained in vitro and exposed to agents affecting intracellular calcium concentrations or to glutamate agonists. Rapid changes in AA have also been observed in vivo following sexual interactions or exposure to short-term restraint stress and these rapid changes in estrogen production modulate expression of male sexual behaviors. These data suggest that brain estrogens display most if not all characteristics of neuromodulators if not neurotransmitters. Many questions remain however concerning the mechanisms controlling these rapid changes in estrogen production and their behavioral significance.
The evolution of language required elaboration of a number of independent mechanisms in the hominin lineage, including systems involved in signaling, semantics, and syntax. Two perspectives on the evolution of syntax can be contrasted. The &quot;continuist&quot; perspective seeks the evolutionary roots of complex human syntax in simpler combinatory systems used in animal communication systems, such as iteration and sequencing. The &quot;exaptationist&quot; perspective posits evolutionary change of function, so that systems today used for linguistic communication might previously have served quite different functions in earlier hominids. I argue that abundant biological evidence supports an exaptationist perspective, in general, and that it must be taken seriously when considering language evolution. When applied to syntax, this suggests that core computational components used today in language could have originally served non-linguistic functions such as motor control, non-verbal thought, or spatial reasoning. I outline three specific exaptationist hypotheses for spoken language. These three hypotheses each posit a change of functionality in a precursor circuit, and its transformation into a neural circuit or region specifically involved in language today. Hypothesis 1 suggests that the precursor mechanism for intentional vocal control, specifically direct cortical control over the larynx, was manual motor control subserved by the cortico-spinal tract. The second is that the arcuate fasciculus, which today connects syntactic and lexical regions, had its origin in intracortical connections subserving vocal imitation. The third is that the specialized components of Broca's area, specifically BA 45, had their origins in non-linguistic motor control, and specifically hierarchical planning of action. I conclude by illustrating the importance of both homology (studied via primates) and convergence (typically analyzed in birds) for testing such evolutionary hypotheses.
Parental investment can be used as a forecast for the environmental conditions in which offspring will develop to adulthood. In the rat, maternal behavior is transmitted to the next generation through epigenetic modifications such as methylation and histone acetylation, resulting in variations in estrogen receptor alpha expression. Natural variations in maternal care also influence the sexual strategy adult females will adopt later in life. Lower levels of maternal care are associated with early onset of puberty as well as increased motivation to mate and greater receptivity toward males during mating. Lower levels of maternal care are also correlated with greater activity of the hypothalamus-pituitary-gonadal axis, responsible for the expression of these behaviors. Contrary to the transition of maternal care, sexual behavior cannot simply be explained by maternal attention, since adoption studies changed the sexual phenotypes of offspring born to low caring mothers but not those from high caring dams. Indeed, mothers showing higher levels of licking/grooming have embryos that are exposed to high testosterone levels during development, and adoption studies suggest that this androgen exposure may protect their offspring from lower levels of maternal care. We propose that in the rat, maternal care and the in utero environment interact to influence the reproductive strategy female offspring display in adulthood and that this favors the species by allowing it to thrive under different environmental conditions.
Recently there has been a turn toward considerations of embodiment, cognition, and context in sport studies. Many researchers have argued that the traditional focus on clinical psychology and performance enhancement within the discipline is incomplete, and now emphasize the importance of athletes' social and familial contexts in a research paradigm that examines interconnections between movement, cognition, emotion, and the social and cultural context in which movement takes place. While it is important that the sport studies focus is being expanded to consider these interactions, I will argue that this model is still incomplete in that it is missing a fundamental variable - that of our evolutionary neurobiological roots. I will use the work of affective neuroscientists Jaak Panksepp and Stephen Porges to show that because sport so clearly activates neural systems that function at both proximate and ultimate levels of causation, it can be seen to serve fundamental needs for affective balance. A neurobiology of affect shows how the evolution of the mammalian autonomic nervous system has resulted in neurophysiological substrates for affective processes and stress responses, and has wide-ranging implications for sport studies in terms of suggesting what forms of coaching might be the most effective in what context. I propose the term cultural neuropsychology of sport as a descriptor for a model that examines the relationships between neurophysiological substrates and athletes' social and familial contexts in terms of how these variables facilitate or fail to facilitate athletes' neuroceptions of safety, which in turn have a direct impact on their performance. A cultural neuropsychological model of sport might thereby be seen to elaborate a relationship between proximate and ultimate mechanisms in concretely applied ways.
Memes are the fundamental unit of cultural evolution and have been left upon the periphery of cognitive neuroscience due to their inexact definition and the consequent presumption that they are impossible to measure. Here it is argued that although a precise definition of memes is rather difficult it does not preclude highly controlled experiments studying the neural substrates of their initiation and replication. In this paper, memes are termed as either internally or externally represented (i-memes/e-memes) in relation to whether they are represented as a neural substrate within the central nervous system or in some other form within our environment. It is argued that neuroimaging technology is now sufficiently advanced to image the connectivity profiles of i-memes and critically, to measure changes to i-memes over time, i.e., as they evolve. It is argued that it is wrong to simply pass off memes as an alternative term for &quot;stimulus&quot; and &quot;learnt associations&quot; as it does not accurately account for the way in which natural stimuli may dynamically &quot;evolve&quot; as clearly observed in our cultural lives.
Social regulation of the internal milieu is a fundamental behavioral adaptation. Cephalic capability is reflected by anticipatory behaviors to serve systemic physiological regulation. Homeostatic regulation, a dominant perspective, reflects reactive responses; allostatic regulation, the physiology of change, emphasizes longer-term anticipatory, and feedforward systems. Steroids, such as cortisol, and peptides such as corticotrophin releasing hormone are but one example of such anticipatory regulatory systems. The concept of &quot;allostasis&quot; is in part to take account of anticipatory control amidst diverse forms of adaptation underlying this regulatory adaptation that supports social contact and the internal milieu.

Reinforcement learning models of human and animal learning usually concentrate on how we learn the relationship between different stimuli or actions and rewards. However, in real-world situations &quot;stimuli&quot; are ill-defined. On the one hand, our immediate environment is extremely multidimensional. On the other hand, in every decision making scenario only a few aspects of the environment are relevant for obtaining reward, while most are irrelevant. Thus a key question is how do we learn these relevant dimensions, that is, how do we learn what to learn about? We investigated this process of &quot;representation learning&quot; experimentally, using a task in which one stimulus dimension was relevant for determining reward at each point in time. As in real life situations, in our task the relevant dimension can change without warning, adding ever-present uncertainty engendered by a constantly changing environment. We show that human performance on this task is better described by a suboptimal strategy based on selective attention and serial-hypothesis-testing rather than a normative strategy based on probabilistic inference. From this, we conjecture that the problem of inferring relevance in general scenarios is too computationally demanding for the brain to solve optimally. As a result the brain utilizes approximations, employing these even in simplified scenarios in which optimal representation learning is tractable, such as the one in our experiment.
Human adults tend to avoid risk. In behavioral economic studies, risk aversion is manifest as a preference for sure gains over uncertain gains. However, children tend to be less averse to risk than adults. Given that many of the brain regions supporting decision-making under risk do not reach maturity until late adolescence or beyond it is possible that mature risk-averse behavior may emerge from the development of decision-making circuitry. To explore this hypothesis, we tested 5- to 8-year-old children, 14- to 16-year-old adolescents, and young adults in a risky-decision task during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data acquisition. To our knowledge, this is the youngest sample of children in an fMRI decision-making task. We found a number of decision-related brain regions to increase in activation with age during decision-making, including areas associated with contextual memory retrieval and the incorporation of prior outcomes into the current decision-making strategy, e.g., insula, hippocampus, and amygdala. Further, children who were more risk-averse showed increased activation during decision-making in ventromedial prefrontal cortex and ventral striatum. Our findings indicate that the emergence of adult levels of risk aversion co-occurs with the recruitment of regions supporting decision-making under risk, including the integration of prior outcomes into current decision-making behavior. This pattern of results suggests that individual differences in the development of risk aversion may reflect differences in the maturation of these neural processes.
Human perception, and consequently behavior, is driven by attention dynamics. In the special case of rivalry, where attention alternates between competing percepts, such dynamics can be measured and their determinants investigated. A recent study in the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, now shows that the origins of attentional rivalry may be quite ancient. Furthermore, individual variation exists in the rate of attentional rivalry in both humans and flies, and in humans this is under substantial genetic influence. In the pathophysiological realm, slowing of rivalry rate is associated with the heritable psychiatric condition, bipolar disorder. Fly rivalry may therefore prove a powerful model to examine genetic and molecular influences on rivalry rate, and may even shed light on human cognitive and behavioral dysfunction.
Compared to objects, pictures of faces elicit a larger early electromagnetic response at occipito-temporal sites on the human scalp, with an onset of 130ms and a peak at about 170ms. This N170 face effect is larger in the right than the left hemisphere and has been associated with the early categorization of the stimulus as a face. Here we tested whether this effect can be observed in the absence of some of the visual areas showing a preferential response to faces as typically identified in neuroimaging. Event-related potentials were recorded in response to faces, cars, and their phase-scrambled versions in a well-known brain-damaged case of prosopagnosia (PS). Despite the patient's right inferior occipital gyrus lesion encompassing the most posterior cortical area showing preferential response to faces (&quot;occipital face area&quot;), we identified an early face-sensitive component over the right occipito-temporal hemisphere of the patient that was identified as the N170. A second experiment supported this conclusion, showing the typical N170 increase of latency and amplitude in response to inverted faces. In contrast, there was no N170 in the left hemisphere, where PS has a lesion to the middle fusiform gyrus and shows no evidence of face-preferential response in neuroimaging (no left &quot;fusiform face area&quot;). These results were replicated by a magnetoencephalographic investigation of the patient, disclosing a M170 component only in the right hemisphere. These observations indicate that face-preferential activation in the inferior occipital cortex is not necessary to elicit early visual responses associated with face perception (N170/M170) on the human scalp. These results further suggest that when the right inferior occipital cortex is damaged, the integrity of the middle fusiform gyrus and/or the superior temporal sulcus - two areas showing face-preferential responses in the patient's right hemisphere - might be necessary to generate the N170 effect.
An experiment about inattention blindness was conducted within the context of an art exhibition as opposed to a laboratory context in order to investigate the potential of art as a vehicle to study attention and its disorders. The project utilized a flash animation, Stealing Attention, that was modeled after the movie by Simons and Chabris (1999) but with significant experimental differences, involving context and staging, the emotional salience of the objects depicted, and the prior art viewing experience of participants. The study involved two components: observing if viewers watching an animation in a gallery could be distracted from noticing the disappearance of stolen museum antiquities (the targets) by the overlaid flashing images of a card game (the distractors) and then observing whether repetition of the depicted targets throughout the gallery installation could facilitate a re-direction of attention that allowed viewers to perceive the targets not initially noted in the animation. My findings were that, after viewing the entire installation and then re-viewing the animation, 64% of the viewers who did not initially remark on the targets in the animation were then able to see them. The discussion elaborates on these findings and then considers ways in which the implications of inattention blindness paradigms might be more fully rendered by uniting insights from the two disciplines of art and neuroscience than by either alone.
We here analyze the paintings and films of several visual artists, who suffered from a well-defined neuropsychological deficit, visuo-spatial hemineglect, following vascular stroke to the right brain. In our analysis we focus in particular on the oeuvre of Lovis Corinth and Luchino Visconti as both major artists continued to be highly productive over many years after their right brain damage. We analyzed their post-stroke paintings and films, indicate several aspects that differ from their pre-stroke work (omissions, use of color, perseveration, deformation), and propose-although both artists come from different times, countries, genres, and styles-that their post-stroke oeuvre reveals important similarities in style. We argue that these changes may be associated with visuo-spatial hemineglect and the right brain. We discuss future avenues of how the neuropsychological investigation of visual artists with and without neglect may allow us to investigate the relationship between brain and art.
Studies on developmental dyscalculia (DD) have tried to identify a basic numerical deficit that could account for this specific learning disability. The first proposition was that the number magnitude representation of these children was impaired. However, Rousselle and Nol (2007) brought data showing that this was not the case but rather that these children were impaired when processing the magnitude of symbolic numbers only. Since then, incongruent results have been published. In this paper, we will propose a developmental perspective on this issue. We will argue that the first deficit shown in DD regards the building of an exact representation of numerical value, thanks to the learning of symbolic numbers, and that the reduced acuity of the approximate number magnitude system appears only later and is secondary to the first deficit.
PREDICTION MAY BE A FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE OF SENSORY PROCESSING: it has been proposed that the brain continuously generates predictions about forthcoming sensory information. However, little is known about how prediction contributes to the selection of a conscious percept from among competing alternatives. Here, we used binocular rivalry to investigate the effects of prediction on perceptual selection. In binocular rivalry, incompatible images presented to the two eyes result in a perceptual alternation between the images, even though the visual stimuli remain constant. If predictive signals influence the competition between neural representations of rivalrous images, this influence should generate a bias in perceptual selection that depends on predictive context. To manipulate predictive context, we developed a novel binocular rivalry paradigm in which rivalrous test images were immediately preceded by a sequence of context images presented identically to the two eyes. One of the test images was consistent with the preceding image sequence (it was the expected next image in the series), and the other was inconsistent (non-predicted). We found that human observers were more likely to perceive the consistent image at the onset of rivalry, suggesting that predictive context biased selection in favor of the predicted percept. This prediction effect was distinct from the effects of adaptation to stimuli presented before the binocular rivalry test. In addition, perceptual reports were speeded for predicted percepts relative to non-predicted percepts. These results suggest that predictive signals related to visual stimulus history exist at neural sites that can bias conscious perception during binocular rivalry. Our paradigm provides a new way to study how prior information and incoming sensory information combine to generate visual percepts.
Perceptual bistability arises when two conflicting interpretations of an ambiguous stimulus or images in binocular rivalry (BR) compete for perceptual dominance. From a computational point of view, competition models based on cross-inhibition and adaptation have shown that noise is a crucial force for rivalry, and operates in balance with adaptation. In particular, noise-driven transitions and adaptation-driven oscillations define two dynamical regimes and the system explains the observed alternations in perception when it operates near their boundary. In order to gain insights into the microcircuit dynamics mediating spontaneous perceptual alternations, we used a reduced recurrent attractor-based biophysically realistic spiking network, well known for working memory, attention, and decision making, where a spike-frequency adaptation mechanism is implemented to account for perceptual bistability. We thus derived a consistently reduced four-variable population rate model using mean-field techniques, and we tested it on BR data collected from human subjects. Our model accounts for experimental data parameters such as mean time dominance, coefficient of variation, and gamma distribution fit. In addition, we show that our model operates near the bifurcation that separates the noise-driven transitions regime from the adaptation-driven oscillations regime, and agrees with Levelt's second revised and fourth propositions. These results demonstrate for the first time that a consistent reduction of a biophysically realistic spiking network of leaky integrate-and-fire neurons with spike-frequency adaptation could account for BR. Moreover, we demonstrate that BR can be explained only through the dynamics of competing neuronal pools, without taking into account the adaptation of inhibitory interneurons. However, the adaptation of interneurons affects the optimal parametric space of the system by decreasing the overall adaptation necessary for the bifurcation to occur, and introduces oscillations in the spontaneous state.
The expertise of others is a major social influence on our everyday decisions and actions. Many viewers of art, whether expert or nave, are convinced that the full esthetic appreciation of an artwork depends upon the assurance that the work is genuine rather than fake. Rembrandt portraits provide an interesting image set for testing this idea, as there is a large number of them and recent scholarship has determined that quite a few fakes and copies exist. Use of this image set allowed us to separate the brain's response to images of genuine and fake pictures from the brain's response to external advice about the authenticity of the paintings. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, viewing of artworks assigned as &quot;copy,&quot; rather than &quot;authentic,&quot; evoked stronger responses in frontopolar cortex (FPC), and right precuneus, regardless of whether the portrait was actually genuine. Advice about authenticity had no direct effect on the cortical visual areas responsive to the paintings, but there was a significant psycho-physiological interaction between the FPC and the lateral occipital area, which suggests that these visual areas may be modulated by FPC. We propose that the activation of brain networks rather than a single cortical area in this paradigm supports the art scholars' view that esthetic judgments are multi-faceted and multi-dimensional in nature.

Rationale: Paralyzed human volunteers (n=6) participated in several studies the primary one of which required full neuromuscular paralysis while awake. After the primary experiment, while still paralyzed and awake, subjects undertook studies of humor and of attempted eye-movement. The attempted eye-movements tested a central, intentional component to one's internal visual model and are the subject of this report. Methods: Subjects reclined in a supportive chair and were ventilated after paralysis (cisatracurium, 20mg intravenously). In illumination, subjects were requested to focus alternately on the faces of investigators standing on the left and the right within peripheral vision. In darkness, subjects were instructed to look away from a point source of light. Subjects were to report their experiences after reversal of paralysis. Results: During attempted eye-movement in illumination, one subject had an illusion of environmental movement but four subjects perceived faces as clearly as if they were in central vision. In darkness, four subjects reported movement of the target light in the direction of attempted eye-movements and three could control the movement of the light at will. Conclusion: The hypothesis that internal visual models receive intended ocular-movement-information directly from oculomotor centers is strengthened by this evidence.


Illusions developed by magicians are a rich and largely untapped source of insight into perception and cognition. Here we show that curved motion, as employed by the magician in a classic sleight of hand trick, generates stronger misdirection than rectilinear motion, and that this difference can be explained by the differential engagement of the smooth pursuit and the saccadic oculomotor systems. This research exemplifies how the magician's intuitive understanding of the spectator's mindset can surpass that of the cognitive scientist in specific instances, and that observation-based behavioral insights developed by magicians are worthy of quantitative investigation in the neuroscience laboratory.
Background: Social interaction depends on a multitude of signals carrying information about the emotional state of others. But the relative importance of facial and bodily signals is still poorly understood. Past research has focused on the perception of facial expressions while perception of whole body signals has only been studied recently. In order to better understand the relative contribution of affective signals from the face only or from the whole body we performed two experiments using binocular rivalry. This method seems to be perfectly suitable to contrast two classes of stimuli to test our processing sensitivity to either stimulus and to address the question how emotion modulates this sensitivity. Method: In the first experiment we directly contrasted fearful, angry, and neutral bodies and faces. We always presented bodies in one eye and faces in the other simultaneously for 60s and asked participants to report what they perceived. In the second experiment we focused specifically on the role of fearful expressions of faces and bodies. Results: Taken together the two experiments show that there is no clear bias toward either the face or body when the expression of the body and face are neutral or angry. However, the perceptual dominance in favor of either the face of the body is a function of the stimulus class expressing fear.
In a previous functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study, where we investigated the neural correlates of esthetic experience, we found that observing canonical sculptures, relative to sculptures whose proportions had been modified, produced the activation of a network that included the lateral occipital gyrus, precuneus, prefrontal areas, and, most interestingly, the right anterior insula. We interpreted this latter activation as the neural signature underpinning hedonic response during esthetic experience. With the aim of exploring whether this specific hedonic response is also present during the observation of non-art biological stimuli, in the present fMRI study we compared the activations associated with viewing masterpieces of classical sculpture with those produced by the observation of pictures of young athletes. The two stimulus-categories were matched on various factors, including body postures, proportion, and expressed dynamism. The stimuli were presented in two conditions: observation and esthetic judgment. The two stimulus-categories produced a rather similar global activation pattern. Direct comparisons between sculpture and real-body images revealed, however, relevant differences, among which the activation of right antero-dorsal insula during sculptures viewing only. Along with our previous data, this finding suggests that the hedonic state associated with activation of right dorsal anterior insula underpins esthetic experience for artworks.
In 2008, Lesley University Professors Geoffrey Koetsch and Ellen Schn conducted an informal survey of New England artists to ascertain the degree to which recent work in neuroscience had impacted the visual arts. The two curators mounted an exhibition (MINDmatters May-June, 2008) at the Laconia Gallery in Boston in which they showcased the work of artists who had chosen mental processes as their primary subject. These artists were reacting to the new vision of the mind revealed by science; their inquiry was subjective, sensory, and existential, not empirical. They approached consciousness from several vantage points. Some of the artists had had personal experience with pathologies of the brain such as dementia or cancer and were puzzling out the phenomenon consuming the mind of a loved one. They looked to neuroscience for clarity and understanding. Some artists were personally involved with new techniques of cognitive psychotherapy. Others were inspired by the sheer physical beauty of the brain as revealed by new imaging technologies. Two of the artists explored the links between meditation, mindfulness practice and neuroscience. Issues such as the &quot;boundary&quot; and &quot;binding&quot; problems were approached, as well as the challenge of creating visual metaphors for neural processes. One artist visualized the increasing transparency of the body as researchers introduce more and more invasive technologies.
Reduced gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) levels in cerebral cortex are thought to contribute to information processing deficits in patients with schizophrenia (SZ), and we have previously reported lower in vivo GABA levels in the visual cortex of patients with SZ. GABA-mediated inhibition plays a role in sharpening orientation tuning of visual cortical neurons. Therefore, we predicted that tuning for visual stimulus orientation would be wider in SZ. We measured orientation tuning with a psychophysical procedure in which subjects performed a target detection task of a low-contrast oriented grating, following adaptation to a high-contrast grating. Contrast detection thresholds were determined for a range of adapter-target orientation offsets. For both SZ and healthy controls, contrast thresholds decreased as orientation offset increased, suggesting that this tuning curve reflects the selectivity of visual cortical neurons for stimulus orientation. After accounting for generalized deficits in task performance in SZ, there was no difference between patients and controls for detection of target stimuli having either the same orientation as the adapter or orientations far from the adapter. However, patients' thresholds were significantly higher for intermediate adapter-target offsets. In addition, the mean width parameter of a Gaussian fit to the psychophysical orientation tuning curves was significantly larger for the patient group. We also present preliminary data relating visual cortical GABA levels, as measured with magnetic resonance spectroscopy, and orientation tuning width. These results suggest that our finding of broader orientation tuning in SZ may be due to diminished visual cortical GABA levels.
Most amputees experience phantom limbs, or the sensation that their amputated limb is still attached to the body. Phantom limbs can be perceived in the location previously occupied by the intact limb, or they can gradually retract inside the stump, a phenomenon referred to as &quot;telescoping&quot;. Telescoping is relevant from a clinical point of view, as it tends to be related to increased levels of phantom pain. In the current study we demonstrate how a full-body illusion can be used to temporarily revoke telescoping sensations in upper limb amputees. During this illusion participants view the body of a mannequin from a first person perspective while being subjected to synchronized visuo-tactile stimulation through stroking, which makes them experience the mannequin's body as their own. In Experiment 1 we used an intact mannequin, and showed that amputees can experience ownership of an intact body as well as referral of touch from both hands of the mannequin. In Experiment 2 and 3 we used an amputated mannequin, and demonstrated that depending on the spatial location of the strokes applied to the mannequin, participants experienced their phantom hand to either remain telescoped, or to actually be located below the stump. The effects were supported by subjective data from questionnaires, as well as verbal reports of the perceived location of the phantom hand in a visual judgment task. These findings are of particular interest, as they show that the temporary revoking of telescoping sensations does not necessarily have to involve the visualization of an intact hand or illusory movement of the phantom (as in the rubber hand illusion or mirror visual feedback therapy), but that it can also be obtained through mere referral of touch from the stump to the spatial location corresponding to that previously occupied by the intact hand. Moreover, our study also provides preliminary evidence for the fact that these manipulations can have an effect on phantom pain sensations.
The human brain is undoubtedly the most impressive, complex, and intricate organ that has evolved over time. It is also probably the least understood, and for that reason, the one that is currently attracting the most attention. In fact, the number of comparative analyses that focus on the evolution of brain size in Homo sapiens and other species has increased dramatically in recent years. In neuroscience, no other issue has generated so much interest and been the topic of so many heated debates as the difference in brain size between socially defined population groups, both its connotations and implications. For over a century, external measures of cognition have been related to intelligence. However, it is still unclear whether these measures actually correspond to cognitive abilities. In summary, this paper must be reviewed with this premise in mind.
Scenes in the real world carry large amounts of information about color, texture, shading, illumination, and occlusion giving rise to our perception of a rich and detailed environment. In contrast, line drawings have only a sparse subset of scene contours. Nevertheless, they also trigger vivid three-dimensional impressions despite having no equivalent in the natural world. Here, we ask why line drawings work. We see that they exploit the underlying neural codes of vision and they also show that artists' intuitions go well beyond the understanding of vision found in current neurosciences and computer vision.

Episodic memory retrieval involves the coordinated interaction of several cognitive processing stages such as mental search, access to a memory store, associative re-encoding, and post-retrieval monitoring. The neural response during memory retrieval is an integration of signals from multiple regions that may subserve supportive cognitive control, attention, sensory association, encoding, or working memory functions. It is particularly challenging to dissociate contributions of these distinct components to brain responses in regions such as the hippocampus, which lies at the interface between overlapping memory encoding and retrieval, and &quot;default&quot; networks. In the present study, event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and measures of memory performance were used to differentiate brain responses to memory search from subcomponents of episodic memory retrieval associated with successful recall. During the attempted retrieval of both poorly and strongly remembered word pair associates, the hemodynamic response was negatively deflected below baseline in anterior hippocampus and regions of the default network. Activations in anterior hippocampus were functionally distinct from those in posterior hippocampus and negatively correlated with response times. Thus, relative to the pre-stimulus period, the hippocampus shows reduced activity during intensive engagement in episodic memory search. Such deactivation was most salient during trials that engaged only pre-retrieval search processes in the absence of successful recollection or post-retrieval processing. Implications for interpretation of hippocampal fMRI responses during retrieval are discussed. A model is presented to interpret such activations as representing modulation of encoding-related activity, rather than retrieval-related activity. Engagement in intensive mental search may reduce neural and attentional resources that are otherwise tonically devoted to encoding an individual's stream of experience into episodic memory.
Spoken language exists because of a remarkable neural process. Inside a speaker's brain, an intended message gives rise to neural signals activating the muscles of the vocal tract. The process is remarkable because these muscles are activated in just the right way that the vocal tract produces sounds a listener understands as the intended message. What is the best approach to understanding the neural substrate of this crucial motor control process? One of the key recent modeling developments in neuroscience has been the use of state feedback control (SFC) theory to explain the role of the CNS in motor control. SFC postulates that the CNS controls motor output by (1) estimating the current dynamic state of the thing (e.g., arm) being controlled, and (2) generating controls based on this estimated state. SFC has successfully predicted a great range of non-speech motor phenomena, but as yet has not received attention in the speech motor control community. Here, we review some of the key characteristics of speech motor control and what they say about the role of the CNS in the process. We then discuss prior efforts to model the role of CNS in speech motor control, and argue that these models have inherent limitations - limitations that are overcome by an SFC model of speech motor control which we describe. We conclude by discussing a plausible neural substrate of our model.
During binocular rivalry, perception alternates between dissimilar images presented dichoptically. Although perception during rivalry is believed to originate from competition at a local level, different rivalry zones are not independent: rival targets that are spaced apart but have similar features tend to be dominant at the same time. We investigated grouping of spatially separated rival targets presented to the same or to different eyes and presented in the same or in different hemifields. We found eye-of-origin to be the strongest cue for grouping during binocular rivalry. Grouping was additionally affected by orientation: identical orientations were grouped longer than dissimilar orientations, even when presented to different eyes. Our results suggest that eye-based and orientation-based grouping is independent and additive in nature. Grouping effects were further modulated by the distribution of the targets across the visual field. That is, grouping within the same hemifield can be stronger or weaker than between hemifields, depending on the eye-of-origin of the grouped targets. We also quantified the contribution of the previous cues to grouping of two images during binocular rivalry. These quantifications can be successfully used to predict the dominance durations of different studies. Incorporating the relative contribution of different cues to grouping, and the dependency on hemifield, into future models of binocular rivalry will prove useful in our understanding of the functional and anatomical basis of the phenomenon of binocular rivalry.
The study of the brain as a whole system can be accomplished using network theory principles. Research has shown that human functional brain networks during a resting state exhibit small-world properties and high degree nodes, or hubs, localized to brain areas consistent with the default mode network. However, the study of brain networks across different tasks and or cognitive states has been inconclusive. Research in this field is important because the underpinnings of behavioral output are inherently dependent on whether or not brain networks are dynamic. This is the first comprehensive study to evaluate multiple network metrics at a voxel-wise resolution in the human brain at both the whole-brain and regional level under various conditions: resting state, visual stimulation, and multisensory (auditory and visual stimulation). Our results show that despite global network stability, functional brain networks exhibit considerable task-induced changes in connectivity, efficiency, and community structure at the regional level.
This study investigated the relationship between feedback processing and antisocial personality traits measured by the PSSI questionnaire (Kuhl and Kazn, 1997) in a healthy undergraduate sample. While event-related potentials [feedback related negativity (FRN), P300] were recorded, participants encountered expected and unexpected feedback during a gambling task. As recent findings suggest learning problems and deficiencies during feedback processing in clinical populations of antisocial individuals, we performed two experiments with different healthy participants in which feedback about monetary gains or losses consisted either of social-emotional (facial emotion displays) or non-social cues (numerical stimuli). Since the FRN and P300 are both sensitive to different aspects of feedback processing we hypothesized that they might help to differentiate between individuals scoring high and low on an antisocial trait measure. In line with previous evidence FRN amplitudes were enhanced after negative and after unexpected feedback stimuli. Crucially, participants scoring high on antisocial traits displayed larger FRN amplitudes than those scoring low only in response to expected and unexpected negative numerical feedback, but not in response to social-emotional feedback - irrespective of expectancy. P300 amplitudes were not modulated by antisocial traits at all, but by subjective reward probabilities. The present findings indicate that individuals scoring high on antisociality attribute higher motivational salience to monetary compared to emotional-social feedback which is reflected in FRN amplitude enhancement. Contrary to recent findings, however, no processing deficiencies concerning social-emotional feedback stimuli were apparent in those individuals. This indicates that stimulus salience is an important aspect in learning and feedback processes in individuals with antisocial traits which has potential implications for therapeutic interventions in clinical populations.
Plasticity is the mechanism underlying the brain's potential capability to compensate injury. Recently several studies have shown how functional connections among the brain areas are severely altered by brain injury and plasticity leading to a reorganization of the networks. This new approach studies the impact of brain injury by means of alteration of functional interactions. The concept of functional connectivity refers to the statistical interdependencies between physiological time series simultaneously recorded in various areas of the brain and it could be an essential tool for brain functional studies, being its deviation from healthy reference an indicator for damage. In this article, we review studies investigating functional connectivity changes after brain injury and subsequent recovery, providing an accessible introduction to common mathematical methods to infer functional connectivity, exploring their capabilities, future perspectives, and clinical uses in brain injury studies.
The human face is the most studied object category in visual neuroscience. In a quest for markers of face processing, event-related potential (ERP) studies have debated whether two peaks of activity - P1 and N170 - are category-selective. Whilst most studies have used photographs of unaltered images of faces, others have used cropped faces in an attempt to reduce the influence of features surrounding the &quot;face-object&quot; sensu stricto. However, results from studies comparing cropped faces with unaltered objects from other categories are inconsistent with results from studies comparing whole faces and objects. Here, we recorded ERPs elicited by full front views of faces and cars, either unaltered or cropped. We found that cropping artificially enhanced the N170 whereas it did not significantly modulate P1. In a second experiment, we compared faces and butterflies, either unaltered or cropped, matched for size and luminance across conditions, and within a narrow contrast bracket. Results of Experiment 2 replicated the main findings of Experiment 1. We then used face-car morphs in a third experiment to manipulate the perceived face-likeness of stimuli (100% face, 70% face and 30% car, 30% face and 70% car, or 100% car) and the N170 failed to differentiate between faces and cars. Critically, in all three experiments, P1 amplitude was modulated in a face-sensitive fashion independent of cropping or morphing. Therefore, P1 is a reliable event sensitive to face processing as early as 100ms after picture onset.
Fluctuations in perceptual dominance during binocular rivalry exhibit several hallmark characteristics. First, dominance switches are not periodic but, instead, stochastic: perception changes unpredictably. Second, despite being stochastic, average durations of rivalry dominance vary dependent on the strength of the rival stimuli: variations in contrast, luminance, or spatial frequency produce predictable changes in average dominance durations and, hence, in alternation rate. Third, perceptual switches originate locally and spread globally over time, sometimes as traveling waves of dominance: rivalry transitions are spatiotemporal events. This essay (1) reviews recent advances in our understanding of the bases of these three hallmark characteristics of binocular rivalry dynamics and (2) provides an integrated framework to account for those dynamics using cooperative and competitive spatial interactions among local neural circuits distributed over the visual field's retinotopic map. We close with speculations about how that framework might incorporate top-down influences on rivalry dynamics.
In this article I will discuss the intersection between art and neuroscience from the perspective of a practicing artist. I have collaborated on several scientific studies into the effects of art on the brain and behavior, looking in particular at the phenomenon of &quot;visual indeterminacy.&quot; This is a perceptual state in which subjects fail to recognize objects from visual cues. I will look at the background to this phenomenon, and show how various artists have exploited its effect through the history of art. My own attempts to create indeterminate images will be discussed, including some of the technical problems I faced in trying to manipulate the viewer's perceptual state through paintings. Visual indeterminacy is not widely studied in neuroscience, although references to it can be found in the literature on visual agnosia and object recognition. I will briefly review some of this work and show how my attempts to understand the science behind visual indeterminacy led me to collaborate with psychophysicists and neuroscientists. After reviewing this work, I will discuss the conclusions I have drawn from its findings and consider the problem of how best to integrate neuroscientific methods with artistic knowledge to create truly interdisciplinary approach.
Incompatible images presented to the two eyes lead to perceptual oscillations in which one image at a time is visible. Early models portrayed this binocular rivalry as involving reciprocal inhibition between monocular representations of images, occurring at an early visual stage prior to binocular mixing. However, psychophysical experiments found conditions where rivalry could also occur at a higher, more abstract level of representation. In those cases, the rivalry was between image representations dissociated from eye-of-origin information, rather than between monocular representations from the two eyes. Moreover, neurophysiological recordings found the strongest rivalry correlate in inferotemporal cortex, a high-level, predominantly binocular visual area involved in object recognition, rather than early visual structures. An unresolved issue is how can the separate identities of the two images be maintained after binocular mixing in order for rivalry to be possible at higher levels? Here we demonstrate that after the two images are mixed, they can be unmixed at any subsequent stage using a physiologically plausible non-linear signal-processing algorithm, non-negative matrix factorization, previously proposed for parsing object parts during object recognition. The possibility that unmixed left and right images can be regenerated at late stages within the visual system provides a mechanism for creating various binocular representations and interactions de novo in different cortical areas for different purposes, rather than inheriting then from early areas. This is a clear example how non-linear algorithms can lead to highly non-intuitive behavior in neural information processing.
Understanding autism's ever-expanding array of behaviors, from sensation to cognition, is a major challenge. We posit that autistic and typically developing brains implement different algorithms that are better suited to learn, represent, and process different tasks; consequently, they develop different interests and behaviors. Computationally, a continuum of algorithms exists, from lookup table (LUT) learning, which aims to store experiences precisely, to interpolation (INT) learning, which focuses on extracting underlying statistical structure (regularities) from experiences. We hypothesize that autistic and typical brains, respectively, are biased toward LUT and INT learning, in low- and high-dimensional feature spaces, possibly because of their narrow and broad tuning functions. The LUT style is good at learning relationships that are local, precise, rigid, and contain little regularity for generalization (e.g., the name-number association in a phonebook). However, it is poor at learning relationships that are context dependent, noisy, flexible, and do contain regularities for generalization (e.g., associations between gaze direction and intention, language and meaning, sensory input and interpretation, motor-control signal and movement, and social situation and proper response). The LUT style poorly compresses information, resulting in inefficiency, sensory overload (overwhelm), restricted interests, and resistance to change. It also leads to poor prediction and anticipation, frequent surprises and over-reaction (hyper-sensitivity), impaired attentional selection and switching, concreteness, strong local focus, weak adaptation, and superior and inferior performances on simple and complex tasks. The spectrum nature of autism can be explained by different degrees of LUT learning among different individuals, and in different systems of the same individual. Our theory suggests that therapy should focus on training autistic LUT algorithm to learn regularities.
Abnormal brain activity dynamics, in the sense of a thalamocortical dysrhythmia (TCD), has been proposed as the underlying mechanism for a subset of disorders that bridge the traditional delineations of neurology and neuropsychiatry. In order to test this proposal from a psychiatric perspective, a study using magnetoencephalography (MEG) was implemented in subjects with schizophrenic spectrum disorder (n=14), obsessive-compulsive disorder (n=10), or depressive disorder (n=5) and in control individuals (n=18). Detailed CNS electrophysiological analysis of these patients, using MEG, revealed the presence of abnormal theta range spectral power with typical TCD characteristics, in all cases. The use of independent component analysis and minimum-norm-based methods localized such TCD to ventromedial prefrontal and temporal cortices. The observed mode of oscillation was spectrally equivalent but spatially distinct from that of TCD observed in other related disorders, including Parkinson's disease, central tinnitus, neuropathic pain, and autism. The present results indicate that the functional basis for much of these pathologies may relate most fundamentally to the category of calcium channelopathies and serve as a model for the cellular substrate for low-frequency oscillations present in these psychiatric disorders, providing a basis for therapeutic strategies.
Neural bases of human olfactory memory are poorly understood. Very few studies have examined neural substrates associated with correct odor recognition, and none has tackled neural networks associated with incorrect odor recognition. We investigated the neural basis of task performance during a yes-no odor recognition memory paradigm in young and elderly subjects using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging. We explored four response categories: correct (Hit) and incorrect false alarm (FA) recognition, as well as correct (CR) and incorrect (Miss) rejection, and we characterized corresponding brain responses using multivariate analysis and linear regression analysis. We hypothesized that areas of the medial temporal lobe were differentially involved depending on the accuracy of odor recognition. In young adults, we found that significant activity in the hippocampus and the parahippocampal gyrus was associated with correct (true) recognition of odors, whereas the perirhinal cortex was associated with FAs and Misses. These findings are consistent with literature regarding hypothetical functional organization for memory processing. We also found that for correct recognition and rejection responses, the involvement of the hippocampus decreased when memory performances improved. In contrast to young individuals, elderly subjects were more prone to false memories and exhibited less specific activation patterns for the four response categories. Activation in the hippocampus and the parahippocampal gyrus was positively correlated with response bias scores for true and false recognition, demonstrating that conservative subjects produced an additional search effort leading to more activation of these two medial temporal lobe regions. These findings demonstrate that correct and incorrect recognition and rejection induce distinct neural signatures.
Human intentional communication is marked by its flexibility and context sensitivity. Hypothesized brain mechanisms can provide convincing and complete explanations of the human capacity for intentional communication only insofar as they can match the computational power required for displaying that capacity. It is thus of importance for cognitive neuroscience to know how computationally complex intentional communication actually is. Though the subject of considerable debate, the computational complexity of communication remains so far unknown. In this paper we defend the position that the computational complexity of communication is not a constant, as some views of communication seem to hold, but rather a function of situational factors. We present a methodology for studying and characterizing the computational complexity of communication under different situational constraints. We illustrate our methodology for a model of the problems solved by receivers and senders during a communicative exchange. This approach opens the way to a principled identification of putative model parameters that control cognitive processes supporting intentional communication.
Mind-wandering (MW) is among the most robust and permanent expressions of human conscious awareness, classically regarded by philosophers, clinicians, and scientists as a core element of an intact sense of self. Nevertheless, the scientific exploration of MW poses unique challenges; MW is by nature a spontaneous, off task, internal mental process which is often unaware and usually difficult to control, document or replicate. Consequently, there is a lack of accepted modus operandi for exploring MW in a laboratory setup, leading to a relatively small amount of studies regarding the neural basis of MW. In order to facilitate scientific examination of MW the current review categorizes recent literature into five suggested strategies. Each strategy represents a different methodology of MW research within functional neuroimaging paradigms. Particular attention is paid to resting-state brain activity and to the &quot;default-mode&quot; network. Since the default network is known to exert high activity levels during off-task conditions, it stands out as a compelling candidate for a neuro-biological account of mind-wandering, in itself a rest-based phenomenon. By summarizing the results within and across strategies we suggest further insights into the neural basis and adaptive value of MW, a truly intriguing and unique human experience.
Much of the work on face-selective neural activity has focused on posterior, ventral areas of the human and non-human primate brain. However, electrophysiological and fMRI studies have identified face responses in the prefrontal cortex. Here we used fMRI to characterize these responses in the human prefrontal cortex compared with face selectivity in posterior ventral region. We examined a region at the junction of the right inferior frontal sulcus and the precentral sulcus (right inferior frontal junction or rIFJ) that responds more to faces than to several other object categories. We find that the rIFJ and the right fusiform face area (rFFA) are broadly similar in their responses to whole faces, headless bodies, tools, and scenes. Strikingly, however, while the rFFA preferentially responds to the whole face, the rIFJ response to faces appears to be driven primarily by the eyes. This dissociation provides clues to the functional role of the rIFJ face response. We speculate on this role with reference to emotion perception, gaze perception, and to behavioral relevance more generally.
In the study of prosopagnosia, several issues (such as the specific or non-specific manifestations of prosopagnosia, the unitary or non-unitary nature of this syndrome and the mechanisms underlying face recognition disorders) are still controversial. Two main sources of variance partially accounting for these controversies could be the qualitative differences between the face recognition disorders observed in patients with prevalent lesions of the right or left hemisphere and in those with lesions encroaching upon the temporo-occipital (TO) or the (right) anterior temporal cortex. Results of our review seem to confirm these suggestions. Indeed, they show that (a) the most specific forms of prosopagnosia are due to lesions of a right posterior network including the occipital face area and the fusiform face area, whereas (b) the face identification defects observed in patients with left TO lesions seem due to a semantic defect impeding access to person-specific semantic information from the visual modality. Furthermore, face recognition defects resulting from right anterior temporal lesions can usually be considered as part of a multimodal people recognition disorder. The implications of our review are, therefore, the following: (1) to consider the components of visual agnosia often observed in prosopagnosic patients with bilateral TO lesions as part of a semantic defect, resulting from left-sided lesions (and not from prosopagnosia proper); (2) to systematically investigate voice recognition disorders in patients with right anterior temporal lesions to determine whether the face recognition defect should be considered a form of &quot;associative prosopagnosia&quot; or a form of the &quot;multimodal people recognition disorder.&quot;
Emulations, defined as ongoing internal representations of potential actions and the futures those actions are expected to produce, play a critical role in directing human bodily activities. Studies of gross motor behavior, perception, allocation of attention, response to errors, interoception, and homeostatic activities, and higher cognitive reasoning suggest that the proper execution of all these functions relies on emulations. Further evidence supports the notion that reinforcement learning in humans is aimed at updating emulations, and that action selection occurs via the advancement of preferred emulations toward realization of their action and environmental prediction. Emulations are hypothesized to exist as distributed active networks of neurons in cortical and sub-cortical structures. This manuscript ties together previously unrelated theories of the role of prediction in different aspects of human information processing to create an integrated framework for cognition.

Phantom limbs refer to the sensation that an amputated or missing limb is still attached to the body. Phantom limbs may be perceived as continuous with the stump so as to resemble a normal limb, or as &quot;telescoped&quot; with the more distal portion of the phantom being perceived as having withdrawn within the stump. Telescoping tends to be related to increased levels of phantom pain, making it a clinically relevant phenomenon to investigate. In the current study we show that a full-body illusion can be used to induce the sensation of a telescoped limb in healthy individuals. For the induction of the full-body illusion, participants saw the body of a mannequin from a first person perspective while being subjected to synchronized visuo-tactile stimulation through stroking. Crucially, the mannequin was missing its left hand so as to resemble an amputee. By manipulating the positioning of the strokes applied to the mannequin's stump with respect to the participants' hand we were able to evoke the sensation of the participants' hand being located either below the stump or, more crucially, &quot;inside&quot; the stump, i.e., telescoped. In three separate experiments these effects were supported by complementary subjective data from questionnaires, verbally reported perceived location of the hand, and manual pointing movements indicating hand position (proprioceptive drift). Taken together our results show that healthy individuals can experience the body of an upper limb amputee as their own, and that this can be associated with telescoping sensations. This is a theoretically important observation as it shows that ownership of an entire body can be evoked in the context of gross anatomical incongruence for a single limb, and that telescoping sensations occur as a consequence of the body representation system trying to reduce this incongruence. Furthermore, the present study might provide a new platform for future studies of the relationship between telescoping and phantom pain in amputees.
We investigated the effect of bromocriptine, a dopamine agonist, on individual differences in behavior as well as frontal-striatal connectivity during a working memory task. After dopaminergic augmentation, frontal-striatal connectivity in low working memory capacity individuals increases, corresponding with behavioral improvement whereas decreases in connectivity in high working memory capacity individuals are associated with poorer behavioral performance. These findings corroborate an inverted U-shape response of dopamine function in behavioral performance and provide insight on the corresponding neural mechanisms.
Cerebral language lateralization can be assessed in several ways. In healthy subjects, functional MRI (fMRI) during performance of a language task has evolved to be the most frequently applied method. Functional transcranial Doppler (fTCD) may provide a valid alternative, but has been used rarely. Both techniques have their own strengths and weaknesses and as a result may be applied in different fields of research. Until now, only one relatively small study (n=13) investigated the correlation between lateralization indices (LIs) measured by fTCD and fMRI and showed a remarkably high correlation. To further evaluate the correlation between LIs measured with fTCD and fMRI, we compared LIs of 22 healthy subjects (12 left- and 10 right-handed) using the same word generation paradigm for the fTCD as for the fMRI experiment. LIs measured with fTCD were highly but imperfectly correlated with LIs measured with fMRI (Spearman's rho=0.75, p&lt;0.001). The imperfectness of the correlation can partially be explained by methodological restrictions of fMRI as well as fTCD. Our results suggest that fTCD can be a valid alternative for fMRI to measure lateralization, particularly when costs or mobility are important factors in the study design.
Goal-directed behavior requires the flexible transformation of sensory evidence about our environment into motor actions. Studies of perceptual decision-making have shown that this transformation is distributed across several widely separated brain regions. Yet, little is known about how decision-making emerges from the dynamic interactions among these regions. Here, we review a series of studies, in which we characterized the cortical network interactions underlying a perceptual decision process in the human brain. We used magnetoencephalography to measure the large-scale cortical population dynamics underlying each of the sub-processes involved in this decision: the encoding of sensory evidence and action plan, the mapping between the two, and the attentional selection of task-relevant evidence. We found that these sub-processes are mediated by neuronal oscillations within specific frequency ranges. Localized gamma-band oscillations in sensory and motor cortices reflect the encoding of the sensory evidence and motor plan. Large-scale oscillations across widespread cortical networks mediate the integrative processes connecting these local networks: Gamma- and beta-band oscillations across frontal, parietal, and sensory cortices serve the selection of relevant sensory evidence and its flexible mapping onto action plans. In sum, our results suggest that perceptual decisions are mediated by oscillatory interactions within overlapping local and large-scale cortical networks.
In the last few years a new line of research has appeared in the literature. This line of research, which may be referred to as experimental semiotics (ES; Galantucci, 2009; Galantucci and Garrod, 2010), focuses on the experimental investigation of novel forms of human communication. In this review we will (a) situate ES in its conceptual context, (b) illustrate the main varieties of studies thus far conducted by experimental semioticians, (c) illustrate three main themes of investigation which have emerged within this line of research, and (d) consider implications of this work for cognitive neuroscience.

Recent advances in theoretical neuroscience suggest that motor control can be considered as a continuous decision-making process in which uncertainty plays a key role. Decision-makers can be risk-sensitive with respect to this uncertainty in that they may not only consider the average payoff of an outcome, but also consider the variability of the payoffs. Although such risk-sensitivity is a well-established phenomenon in psychology and economics, it has been much less studied in motor control. In fact, leading theories of motor control, such as optimal feedback control, assume that motor behaviors can be explained as the optimization of a given expected payoff or cost. Here we review evidence that humans exhibit risk-sensitivity in their motor behaviors, thereby demonstrating sensitivity to the variability of &quot;motor costs.&quot; Furthermore, we discuss how risk-sensitivity can be incorporated into optimal feedback control models of motor control. We conclude that risk-sensitivity is an important concept in understanding individual motor behavior under uncertainty.
The purpose of this review/opinion paper is to argue that human cognitive neuroscience has focused too little attention on how the brain may use time and time-based coding schemes to represent, process, and transfer information within and across brain regions. Instead, the majority of cognitive neuroscience studies rest on the assumption of functional localization. Although the functional localization approach has brought us a long way toward a basic characterization of brain functional organization, there are methodological and theoretical limitations of this approach. Further advances in our understanding of neurocognitive function may come from examining how the brain performs computations and forms transient functional neural networks using the rich multi-dimensional information available in time. This approach rests on the assumption that information is coded precisely in time but distributed in space; therefore, measures of rapid neuroelectrophysiological dynamics may provide insights into brain function that cannot be revealed using localization-based approaches and assumptions. Space is not an irrelevant dimension for brain organization; rather, a more complete understanding of how brain dynamics lead to behavior dynamics must incorporate how the brain uses time-based coding and processing schemes.
Disappointment, the emotion experienced when faced to reward prediction errors (RPEs), considerably impacts decision making (DM). Individuals tend to modify their behavior in an often unpredictable way just to avoid experiencing negative emotions. Despite its importance, disappointment remains much less studied than regret and its impact on upcoming decisions largely unexplored. Here, we adapted the Trust Game to effectively elicit, quantify, and isolate disappointment by relying on the formal definition provided by Bell's in economics. We evaluated the effects of experienced disappointment and elation on future cooperation and trust as well as the rationality and utility of the different behavioral and neural mechanisms used to cope with disappointment. All participants in our game trusted less and particularly expected less from unknown opponents as a result of disappointing outcomes in the previous trial but not necessarily after elation indicating that behavioral consequences of positive and negative RPEs are not the same. A large variance in the tolerance to disappointment was observed across subjects, with some participants needing only a small disappointment to impulsively bias their subsequent decisions. As revealed by high-density EEG recordings the most tolerant individuals - who thought twice before making a decision and earned more money - relied on different neural generators to contend with neutral and unexpected outcomes. This study thus provides some support to the idea that different neural systems underlie reflexive and reflective decisions within the same individuals as predicted by the dual-system theory of social judgment and DM.



Two decades of functional imaging studies have demonstrated pain-related activations of primary somatic sensory cortex (S1), parasylvian cortical structures (PS), and medial frontal cortical structures (MF), which are often described as modules in a &quot;pain network.&quot; The directionality and temporal dynamics of interactions between and within the cortical and thalamic modules are uncertain. We now describe our studies of these interactions based upon recordings of local field potentials (LFPs) carried out in an epilepsy monitoring unit over the one week period between the implantation and removal of cortical electrodes during the surgical treatment of epilepsy. These recordings have unprecedented clarity and resolution for the study of LFPs related to the experimental pain induced by cutaneous application of a Thulium YAG laser. We also used attention and distraction as behavioral probes to study the psychophysics and neuroscience of the cortical &quot;pain network.&quot; In these studies, electrical activation of cortex was measured by event-related desynchronization (ERD), over SI, PS, and MF modules, and was more widespread and intense while attending to painful stimuli than while being distracted from them. This difference was particularly prominent over PS. In addition, greater perceived intensity of painful stimuli was associated with more widespread and intense ERD. Connectivity of these modules was then examined for dynamic causal interactions within and between modules by using the Granger causality (GRC). Prior to the laser stimuli, a task involving attention to the painful stimulus consistently increased the number of event-related causality (ERC) pairs both within the SI cortex, and from SI upon PS (SI &gt; PS). After the laser stimulus, attention to a painful stimulus increased the number of ERC pairs from SI &gt; PS, and SI &gt; MF, and within the SI module. LFP at some electrode sites (critical sites) exerted ERC influences upon signals at multiple widespread electrodes, both in other cortical modules and within the module where the critical site was located. In summary, critical sites and SI modules may bind the cortical modules together into a &quot;pain network,&quot; and disruption of that network by stimulation might be used to treat pain. These results in humans may be uniquely useful to design and optimize anatomically based pain therapies, such as stimulation of the S1 or critical sites through transcutaneous magnetic fields or implanted electrodes.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a devastating, fatal, autosomal dominant condition in which the abnormal gene codes for a mutant form of huntingtin that causes widespread neuronal dysfunction and death. This leads to a clinical presentation, typically in midlife, with a combination of motor, psychiatric, cognitive, metabolic, and sleep abnormalities, for which there are some effective symptomatic therapies that can produce some transient benefits. The disease, though, runs a progressive course over a 20-year period ultimately leading to death, and there are currently no proven disease modifying therapies. However whilst the neuronal dysfunction and loss affects much of the central nervous system, the striatum is affected early on in the disease and is one of the areas most affected by the pathogenic process. As a result the prospect of treating HD using neural transplants of striatal tissue has been explored and to date the clinical data is inconclusive. In this review we discuss the rationale for treating HD using this approach, before discussing the clinical trial data and what we have learnt to date using this therapeutic strategy.
The ability to estimate duration is essential to human behavior, yet people vary greatly in their ability to estimate time and the brain structures mediating this inter-individual variability remain poorly understood. Here, we showed that inter-individual variability in duration estimation was highly correlated across visual and auditory modalities but depended on the scale of temporal duration. We further examined whether this inter-individual variability in estimating durations of different supra-second time scales (2 or 12s) was reflected in variability in human brain anatomy. We found that the gray matter volume in both the right posterior lateral sulcus encompassing primary auditory and secondary somatosensory cortex, plus parahippocampal gyrus strongly predicted an individual's ability to discriminate longer durations of 12s (but not shorter ones of 2s) regardless of whether they were presented in auditory or visual modalities. Our findings suggest that these brain areas may play a common role in modality-independent time discrimination. We propose that an individual's ability to discriminate longer durations is linked to self-initiated rhythm maintenance mechanisms relying on the neural structure of these modality-specific sensory and parahippocampal cortices.
The rodent whisker system is widely used as a model system for investigating sensorimotor integration, neural mechanisms of complex cognitive tasks, neural development, and robotics. The whisker pathways to the barrel cortex have received considerable attention. However, many subcortical structures are paramount to the whisker system. They contribute to important processes, like filtering out salient features, integration with other senses, and adaptation of the whisker system to the general behavioral state of the animal. We present here an overview of the brain regions and their connections involved in the whisker system. We do not only describe the anatomy and functional roles of the cerebral cortex, but also those of subcortical structures like the striatum, superior colliculus, cerebellum, pontomedullary reticular formation, zona incerta, and anterior pretectal nucleus as well as those of level setting systems like the cholinergic, histaminergic, serotonergic, and noradrenergic pathways. We conclude by discussing how these brain regions may affect each other and how they together may control the precise timing of whisker movements and coordinate whisker perception.

Disorders involving dysfunctional sensory processing are characterized by an inability to filter sensory information, particularly simultaneously arriving multimodal inputs. We examined the effects of prenatal exposure to valproic acid (VPA), a teratogen linked to sensory dysfunction, on the behavior of juvenile and adult rats, and on the anatomy of the superior colliculus, a critical multisensory integration center in the brain. VPA-exposed rats showed deficits in colliculus-dependent behaviors including startle response, prepulse inhibition, and nociceptive responses. Some deficits reversed with age. Stereological analyses revealed that colliculi of VPA-treated rats had significantly fewer parvalbumin-positive neurons, a subset of GABAergic cells. These results suggest that prenatal VPA treatment affects the development of the superior colliculus and leads to persistent anatomical changes evidenced by aberrant behavior in tasks that require sensory processing.
It has been suggested that perception and action can be understood as evolving in temporal epochs or sequential processing units. Successive events are fused into units forming a unitary experience or &quot;psychological present.&quot; Studies have identified several temporal integration levels on different time scales which are fundamental for our understanding of behavior and subjective experience. In recent literature concerning the philosophy and neuroscience of consciousness these separate temporal processing levels are not always precisely distinguished. Therefore, empirical evidence from psychophysics and neuropsychology on these distinct temporal processing levels is presented and discussed within philosophical conceptualizations of time experience. On an elementary level, one can identify a functional moment, a basic temporal building block of perception in the range of milliseconds that defines simultaneity and succession. Below a certain threshold temporal order is not perceived, individual events are processed as co-temporal. On a second level, an experienced moment, which is based on temporal integration of up to a few seconds, has been reported in many qualitatively different experiments in perception and action. It has been suggested that this segmental processing mechanism creates temporal windows that provide a logistical basis for conscious representation and the experience of nowness. On a third level of integration, continuity of experience is enabled by working memory in the range of multiple seconds allowing the maintenance of cognitive operations and emotional feelings, leading to mental presence, a temporal window of an individual's experienced presence.

Theoretical, computational, and experimental studies have converged to a model of decision-making in which sensory evidence is stochastically integrated to a threshold, implementing a shift from an analog to a discrete form of computation. Understanding how this process can be chained and sequenced - as virtually all real-life tasks involve a sequence of decisions - remains an open question in neuroscience. We reasoned that incorporating a virtual continuum of possible behavioral outcomes in a simple decision task - a fundamental ingredient of real-life decision-making - should result in a progressive sequential approximation to the correct response. We used real-time tracking of motor action in a decision task, as a measure of cognitive states reflecting an internal decision process. We found that response trajectories were spontaneously segmented into a discrete sequence of explorations separated by brief stops (about 200ms) - which remained unconscious to the participants. The characteristics of these stops were indicative of a decision process - a &quot;moment of thought&quot;: their duration correlated with the difficulty of the decision and with the efficiency of the subsequent exploration. Our findings suggest that simple navigation in an abstract space involves a discrete sequence of explorations and stops and, moreover, that these stops reveal a fingerprint of moments of thought.






The motor layers of the superior colliculus (SC) are thought to specify saccade amplitude and direction, independent of initial eye position. However, recent evidence suggests that eye position can modulate the level of activity of SC motor neurons. In this study, we tested whether initial eye position has an effect on microstimulation-evoked saccade amplitude. High (&gt;300Hz) and low (&lt;300Hz) frequency microstimulation was applied to 30 sites in the rostral part of the SC of two monkeys while they fixated one of six different locations. We found that the amplitude of the evoked saccades decreased with more contralateral initial eye positions. This effect was more pronounced in low frequency- compared to high frequency-evoked saccades, although it was present for both. Replication of these findings in head-free experiments showed that the effect of initial eye position was not due to physical constraints imposed by the oculomotor range. In addition to the effect of eye position on saccade amplitude, we also observed an increase in saccade latency and a decrease in the probability that microstimulation would evoke a saccade for low frequency stimulation at more contralateral eye positions. These findings suggest that an eye position signal can contribute to the read-out of the SC. Models of the saccadic pulse-step generator may need revision to incorporate an eye position modulation at the input stage.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are characterized by deficits in social reciprocity and communication, as well as by repetitive behaviors and restricted interests. Unusual responses to sensory input and disruptions in the processing of both unisensory and multisensory stimuli also have been reported frequently. However, the specific aspects of sensory processing that are disrupted in ASD have yet to be fully elucidated. Recent published work has shown that children with ASD can integrate low-level audiovisual stimuli, but do so over an extended range of time when compared with typically developing (TD) children. However, the possible contributions of altered unisensory temporal processes to the demonstrated changes in multisensory function are yet unknown. In the current study, unisensory temporal acuity was measured by determining individual thresholds on visual and auditory temporal order judgment (TOJ) tasks, and multisensory temporal function was assessed through a cross-modal version of the TOJ task. Whereas no differences in thresholds for the visual TOJ task were seen between children with ASD and TD, thresholds were higher in ASD on the auditory TOJ task, providing preliminary evidence for impairment in auditory temporal processing. On the multisensory TOJ task, children with ASD showed performance improvements over a wider range of temporal intervals than TD children, reinforcing prior work showing an extended temporal window of multisensory integration in ASD. These findings contribute to a better understanding of basic sensory processing differences, which may be critical for understanding more complex social and cognitive deficits in ASD, and ultimately may contribute to more effective diagnostic and interventional strategies.

Adult peripheral neurons, in contrast to adult central neurons, are capable of regeneration after axonal damage. Much attention has focused on the changes that accompany this regeneration in two places, the distal nerve segment (where phagocytosis of axonal debris, changes in the surface properties of Schwann cells, and induction of growth factors and cytokines occur) and the neuronal cell body (where dramatic changes in cell morphology and gene expression occur). The changes in the axotomized cell body are often referred to as the &quot;cell body response.&quot; The focus of the current review is a family of cytokines, the glycoprotein 130 (gp130) cytokines, which produce their actions through a common gp130 signaling receptor and which function as injury signals for axotomized peripheral neurons, triggering changes in gene expression and in neurite outgrowth. These cytokines play important roles in the responses of sympathetic, sensory, and motor neurons to injury. The best studied of these cytokines in this context are leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and interleukin (IL)-6, but experiments with conditional gp130 knockout animals suggest that other members of this family, not yet determined, are also involved. The primary gp130 signaling pathway shown to be involved is the activation of Janus kinase (JAK) and the transcription factors Signal Transducers and Activators of Transcription (STAT), though other downstream pathways such as mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) may also play a role. gp130 signaling may involve paracrine, retrograde, and autocrine actions of these cytokines. Recent studies suggest that manipulation of this cytokine system can also stimulate regeneration by injured central neurons.

Peripheral nervous system (PNS) neurons survive and regenerate after nerve injury, whereas central nervous system (CNS) neurons lack the capacity to do so. The inability of the CNS to regenerate presumably results from a lack of intrinsic growth activity and a permissive environment. To achieve CNS regeneration, we can learn from successful nerve regeneration in the PNS. Neurons in the PNS elicit dynamic changes in gene expression in response to permissive environmental cues following nerve injury. To switch gene expression on and off in injured neurons, transcription factors and their networks should be carefully orchestrated according to the regeneration program. This is the so-called &quot;intrinsic power of axonal growth.&quot; There is an increasing repertoire of candidate transcription factors induced by nerve injury. Some of them potentiate the survival and axonal regeneration of damaged neurons in vivo; however, our knowledge of transcriptional events in injured neurons is still limited. How do these transcription factors communicate with each other? How does the transcriptional machinery regulate the wide variety of regeneration-associated genes (RAGs) in the properly coordinated manner? In this review, we describe our current understanding of the injury-inducible transcriptional factors that enhance the intrinsic growth capacity, and propose a potential role for specificity protein 1 (Sp1), which provides a platform to recruit injury-inducible transcription factors, in simultaneous gene regulation. Finally, we discuss an additional mechanism that is involved in epigenetic modifications in damaged neurons. A comprehensive understanding of the nuclear events in injured neurons will provide clues to clinical interventions for successful nerve regeneration.
Unraveling the complexities of learning and the formation of memory requires identification of the cellular and molecular processes through which neural plasticity arises as well as recognition of the conditions or factors through which those processes are modulated. With its relatively simple nervous system, the marine mollusk Aplysia californica has proven an outstanding model system for studies of memory formation and identification of the molecular mechanisms underlying learned behaviors, including classical and operant associative learning paradigms and non-associative behaviors. In vivo behavioral studies in Aplysia have significantly furthered our understanding of how the endogenous circadian clock modulates memory formation. Sensitization of the tail-siphon withdrawal reflex represents a defensive non-associative learned behavior for which the circadian clock strongly modulates intermediate and long-term memory formation. Likewise, Aplysia exhibit circadian rhythms in long-term memory, but not short-term memory, for an operant associative learning paradigm. This review focuses on circadian modulation of intermediate and long-term memory and the putative mechanisms through which this modulation occurs. Additionally, potential functions and the adaptive advantages of time of day pressure on memory formation are considered. The influence of the circadian clock on learning and memory crosses distant phylogeny highlighting the evolutionary importance of the circadian clock on metabolic, physiological, and behavioral processes. Thus, studies in a simple invertebrate model system have and will continue to provide critical mechanistic insights to complementary processes in higher organisms.
Information processing, memory formation, or functional recovery after nervous system damage depend on the ability of neurons to modify their functional properties or their connections. At the cellular/molecular level, structural modifications of neural circuits are finely regulated by intrinsic neuronal properties and growth-regulatory cues in the extracellular milieu. Recently, it has become clear that stimuli coming from the external world, which comprise sensory inflow, motor activity, cognitive elaboration, or social interaction, not only provide the involved neurons with instructive information needed to shape connection patterns to sustain adaptive function, but also exert a powerful influence on intrinsic and extrinsic growth-related mechanisms, so to create permissive conditions for neuritic remodeling. Here, we present an overview of recent findings concerning the effects of experience on molecular mechanisms underlying CNS structural plasticity, both in physiological conditions and after damage, with particular focus on activity-dependent modulation of growth-regulatory genes and epigenetic modifications.
The regenerative capacity of injured neurons in the central nervous system is limited due to the absence of a robust neuron-intrinsic injury-induced gene response that supports axon regeneration. In peripheral neurons axotomy induces a large cohort of regeneration-associated genes (RAGs). The forced expression of some of these RAGs in injured neurons has some beneficial effect on axon regeneration, but the reported effects are rather small. Transcription factors (TFs) provide a promising class of RAGs. TFs are hubs in the regeneration-associated gene network, and potentially control the coordinate expression of many RAGs simultaneously. Here we discuss the use of combined experimental and computational methods to identify novel regeneration-associated TFs with a key role in initiating and maintaining the RAG-response in injured neurons. We propose that a relatively small number of hub TFs with multiple functional connections in the RAG network might provide attractive new targets for gene-based and/or pharmacological approaches to promote axon regeneration in the central nervous system.
Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) is central to multiple intracellular pathways including those activated by Wnt/-catenin, Sonic Hedgehog, Notch, growth factor/RTK, and G protein-coupled receptor signals. All of these signals importantly contribute to neural development. Early attention on GSK-3 signaling in neural development centered on the regulation of neuronal polarity using in vitro paradigms. However, recent creation of appropriate genetic models has demonstrated the importance of GSK-3 to multiple aspects of neural development including neural progenitor self-renewal, neurogenesis, neuronal migration, neural differentiation, and synaptic development.
Brain dopamine receptors have been preferred targets for numerous pharmacological compounds developed for the treatment of various neuropsychiatric disorders. Recent discovery that D2 dopamine receptors, in addition to cAMP pathways, can engage also in Akt/GSK3 signaling cascade provided a new framework to understand intracellular signaling mechanisms involved in dopamine-related behaviors and pathologies. Here we review a recent progress in understanding the role of Akt, GSK3, and related signaling molecules in dopamine receptor signaling and functions. Particularly, we focus on the molecular mechanisms involved, interacting partners, role of these signaling events in the action of antipsychotics, psychostimulants, and antidepressants as well as involvement in pathophysiology of schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and Parkinson's disease. Further understanding of the role of Akt/GSK3 signaling in dopamine receptor functions could provide novel targets for pharmacological interventions in dopamine-related disorders.
This mini-review focuses on a knockdown technology called deoxyribozymes, which has rarely been utilized in the field of neurobiology/neuroscience. Deoxyribozymes are catalytic DNA molecules, which are also entitled DNA enzyme or DNAzyme. This mini-review presents a description of their development, structure, function, and therapeutic application. In addition, information on siRNA, ribozymes, and antisense are given. Further information on two deoxyribozymes against c-Jun and xylosyltransferase (XT) mRNA are summarized of which the first is important to influence many neurological disorders and the last potentially treats spinal cord injuries (SCIs). In particular, insults to the central nervous system (CNS) such as SCI generate an inhibitory environment (lesion scar) at the injury site that prevents the endogenous and therapy-induced axonal regeneration and thereby limits repair strategies. Presently, there are no treatments available. Hence, deoxyribozymes provide an opportunity for new therapeutics that alter the inhibitory nature of the lesion scar and thus promote axonal growth in the injured spinal cord. When used cautiously and within the limits of its ability the deoxyribozyme technology holds promise to become a major contributing factor in repair strategies of the CNS.
Annually, more than a million persons experience traumatic brain injury (TBI) in the US and a substantial proportion of this population develop debilitating neurological disorders, such as, paralysis, cognitive deficits, and epilepsy. Despite the long-standing knowledge of the risks associated with TBI, no effective biomarkers or interventions exist. Recent evidence suggests a role for inflammatory modulators in TBI-induced neurological impairments. Current technological advances allow for the simultaneous analysis of the precise spatial and temporal expression patterns of numerous proteins in single samples which ultimately can lead to the development of novel treatments. Thus, the present study examined 23 different cytokines, including chemokines, in the ipsi and contralateral cerebral cortex of rats at 24h after a fluid percussion injury (FPI). Furthermore, the estimation of cytokines were performed in a newly developed multiplex assay instrument, MAGPIX (Luminex Corp), and compared with an established instrument, Bio-Plex (Bio-Rad), in order to validate the newly developed instrument. The results show numerous inflammatory changes in the ipsi and contralateral side after FPI that were consistently reported by both technologies.
A limiting factor in brain research still is the difficulty to evaluate in vivo the role of the increasing number of proteins implicated in neuronal processes. We discuss here the potential of antisense-mediated RNA targeting approaches. We mainly focus on those that manipulate splicing (exon skipping and exon inclusion), but will also briefly discuss mRNA targeting. Classic knockdown of expression by mRNA targeting is only one possible application of antisense oligonucleotides (AON) in the control of gene function. Exon skipping and inclusion are based on the interference of AONs with splicing of pre-mRNAs. These are powerful, specific and particularly versatile techniques, which can be used to circumvent pathogenic mutations, shift splice variant expression, knock down proteins, or to create molecular models using in-frame deletions. Pre-mRNA targeting is currently used both as a research tool, e.g., in models for motor neuron disease, and in clinical trials for Duchenne muscular dystrophy and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. AONs are particularly promising in relation to brain research, as the modified AONs are taken up extremely fast in neurons and glial cells with a long residence, and without the need for viral vectors or other delivery tools, once inside the blood brain barrier. In this review we cover (1). The principles of antisense-mediated techniques, chemistry, and efficacy. (2) The pros and cons of AON approaches in the brain compared to other techniques of interfering with gene function, such as transgenesis and short hairpin RNAs, in terms of specificity of the manipulation, spatial, and temporal control over gene expression, toxicity, and delivery issues. (3) The potential applications for Neuroscience. We conclude that there is good evidence from animal studies that the central nervous system can be successfully targeted, but the potential of the diverse AON-based approaches appears to be under-recognized.
Biological networks are constructed of repeated simplified patterns, or modules, called network motifs. Network motifs can be found in a variety of organisms including bacteria, plants, and animals, as well as intracellular transcription networks for gene expression and signal transduction processes in neuronal circuits. Standard models of signal transduction events for synaptic plasticity and learning often fail to capture the complexity and cooperativity of the molecular interactions underlying these processes. Here, we apply network motifs to a model for signal transduction during an in vitro form of eyeblink classical conditioning that reveals an underlying organization of these molecular pathways. Experimental evidence suggests there are two stages of synaptic AMPA receptor (AMPAR) trafficking during conditioning. Synaptic incorporation of GluR1-containing AMPARs occurs early to activate silent synapses conveying the auditory conditioned stimulus and this initial step is followed by delivery of GluR4 subunits that supports acquisition of learned conditioned responses (CRs). Overall, the network design of the two stages of synaptic AMPAR delivery during conditioning describes a coherent feed-forward loop (C1-FFL) with AND logic. The combined inputs of GluR1 synaptic delivery AND the sustained activation of 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein-kinase-1 (PDK-1) results in synaptic incorporation of GluR4-containing AMPARs and the gradual acquisition of CRs. The network architecture described here for conditioning is postulated to act generally as a sign-sensitive delay element that is consistent with the non-linearity of the conditioning process. Interestingly, this FFL structure also performs coincidence detection. A motif-based approach to modeling signal transduction can be used as a new tool for understanding molecular mechanisms underlying synaptic plasticity and learning and for comparing findings across forms of learning and model systems.
We introduce a molecular toolbox for manipulation of neuronal gene expression in vivo. The toolbox includes promoters, ion channels, optogenetic tools, fluorescent proteins, and intronic artificial microRNAs. The components are easily assembled into adeno-associated virus (AAV) or lentivirus vectors using recombination cloning. We demonstrate assembly of toolbox components into lentivirus and AAV vectors and use these vectors for in vivo expression of inwardly rectifying potassium channels (Kir2.1, Kir3.1, and Kir3.2) and an artificial microRNA targeted against the ion channel HCN1 (HCN1 miRNA). We show that AAV assembled to express HCN1 miRNA produces efficacious and specific in vivo knockdown of HCN1 channels. Comparison of in vivo viral transduction using HCN1 miRNA with mice containing a germ line deletion of HCN1 reveals similar physiological phenotypes in cerebellar Purkinje cells. The easy assembly and re-usability of the toolbox components, together with the ability to up- or down-regulate neuronal gene expression in vivo, may be useful for applications in many areas of neuroscience.
Relating the functional properties of neurons in an intact organism with their cellular and synaptic characteristics is necessary for a mechanistic understanding of brain function. However, while the functional properties of cortical neurons (e.g., tuning to sensory stimuli) are necessarily determined in vivo, detailed cellular and synaptic analysis relies on in vitro techniques. Here we describe an approach that combines in vivo calcium imaging (for functional characterization) with photo-activation of fluorescent proteins (for neuron labeling), thereby allowing targeted in vitro recording of multiple neurons with known functional properties. We expressed photo-activatable GFP rendered non-diffusible through fusion with a histone protein (H2B-PAGFP) in the mouse visual cortex to rapidly photo-label constellations of neurons in vivo at cellular and sub-cellular resolution using two-photon excitation. This photo-labeling method was compatible with two-photon calcium imaging of neuronal responses to visual stimuli, allowing us to label constellations of neurons with specific functional properties. Photo-labeled neurons were easily identified in vitro in acute brain slices and could be targeted for whole-cell recording. We also demonstrate that in vitro and in vivo image stacks of the same photo-labeled neurons could be registered to one another, allowing the exact in vivo response properties of individual neurons recorded in vitro to be known. The ability to perform in vitro recordings from neurons with known functional properties opens up exciting new possibilities for dissecting the cellular, synaptic, and circuit mechanisms that underlie neuronal function in vivo.
Propagation of suprathreshold spiking activity through neuronal populations is important for the function of the central nervous system. Neural correlations have an impact on cortical function particularly on the signaling of information and propagation of spiking activity. Therefore we measured the change in correlations as suprathreshold spiking activity propagated between recurrent neuronal networks of the mammalian cerebral cortex. Using optical methods we recorded spiking activity from large samples of neurons from two neural populations simultaneously. The results indicate that correlations decreased as spiking activity propagated from layer 4 to layer 2/3 in the rodent barrel cortex.
The receptive field of a neuron reflects its function. For example, for parallel fiber (PF) inputs in C3 zone the cerebellar cortex, the excitatory and inhibitory receptive fields of a Purkinje cell (PC) have different locations, and each location has a specific relationship to the location of the climbing fiber (CF) receptive field of the PC. Previous studies have shown that this pattern of input connectivity to the PC and its afferent inhibitory interneurons can be fundamentally disrupted by applying direct electrical stimulation to the PFs, paired or unpaired with CF activation, with protocols that induce plasticity in these synapses. However, afferent fiber stimulation, which is typically used in experimental studies of plasticity, set up highly artificial input patterns at the level of the recipient cells, raising the issue that these forms of plasticity potentially may not occur under more natural input patterns. Here we used skin stimulation to set up spatiotemporally more realistic afferent input patterns in the PFs to investigate whether these input patterns are also capable of inducing synaptic plasticity using similar protocols that have previously been described for direct PF stimulation. We find that receptive field components can be added to and removed from PCs and interneurons following brief periods of skin stimulation. Following these protocols, the receptive fields of mossy fibers were unchanged. These findings confirm that previously described plasticity protocols may have a functional role also for more normal patterns of afferent input.
In various species and areas of the cerebral cortex, apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons form clusters which extend through several layers of the cortex also known as dendritic bundles. Previously, it has been shown that 5-HT(3A) receptor knockout mice show hypercomplex apical dendrites of cortical layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons, together with a reduction in reelin levels, a glycoprotein involved in cortical development. Other studies showed that in the mouse presubicular cortex, reelin is involved in the formation of modular structures. Here, we compare apical dendrite bundling in the somatosensory cortex of wildtype and 5-HT(3A) receptor knockout mice. Using a microtubule associated protein-2 immunostaining to visualize apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons, we compared dendritic bundle properties of wildtype and 5-HT(3A) receptor knockout mice in tangential sections of the somatosensory cortex. A Voronoi tessellation was performed on immunostained tangential sections to determine the spatial organization of dendrites and to define dendritic bundles. In 5-HT(3A) receptor knockout mice, dendritic bundle surface was larger compared to wildtype mice, while the number and distribution of reelin-secreting Cajal-Retzius cells was similar for both groups. Together with previously observed differences in dendritic complexity of cortical layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons and cortical reelin levels, these results suggest an important role for the 5-HT(3) receptor in determining the spatial organization of cortical connectivity in the mouse somatosensory cortex.
Precise wiring of cortical circuits during development depends upon axon extension, guidance, and branching to appropriate targets. Motile growth cones at axon tips navigate through the nervous system by responding to molecular cues, which modulate signaling pathways within axonal growth cones. Intracellular calcium signaling has emerged as a major transducer of guidance cues but exactly how calcium signaling pathways modify the actin and microtubule cytoskeleton to evoke growth cone behaviors and axon branching is still mysterious. Axons must often pause their extension in tracts while their branches extend into targets. Some evidence suggests a competition between growth of axons and branches but the mechanisms are poorly understood. Since it is difficult to study growing axons deep within the mammalian brain, much of what we know about signaling pathways and cytoskeletal dynamics of growth cones comes from tissue culture studies, in many cases, of non-mammalian species. Consequently it is not well understood how guidance cues relevant to mammalian neural development in vivo signal to the growth cone cytoskeleton during axon outgrowth and guidance. In this review we describe our recent work in dissociated cultures of developing rodent sensorimotor cortex in the context of the current literature on molecular guidance cues, calcium signaling pathways, and cytoskeletal dynamics that regulate growth cone behaviors. A major challenge is to relate findings in tissue culture to mechanisms of cortical development in vivo. Toward this goal, we describe our recent work in cortical slices, which preserve the complex cellular and molecular environment of the mammalian brain but allow direct visualization of growth cone behaviors and calcium signaling. Findings from this work suggest that mechanisms regulating axon growth and guidance in dissociated culture neurons also underlie development of cortical connectivity in vivo.

Multifunctional scaffolding protein beta-arrestins (Arr) and the G protein-receptor kinases are involved in the desensitization of several G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR). However, arrestins can also contribute to GPCR signaling independently from G proteins. In this review, we focus on the role of Arr in the regulation of dopamine receptor functions in the striatum. First, we present in vivo evidence supporting a role for these proteins in the regulation of dopamine receptor desensitization. Second, we provide an overview of the roles of Arr2 in the regulation of extracellular-signal-regulated kinases/MAP kinases and Akt/GSK3 signaling pathways downstream of the D1 and D2 dopamine receptors. Thereafter, we examine the possible involvement of Arr-mediated signaling in the action of dopaminergic drugs used for the treatment of mental disorders. Finally, we focus on different potential cellular proteins regulated by Arr-mediated signaling which could contribute to the regulation of behavioral responses to dopamine. Overall, the identification of a cell signaling function for Arr downstream of dopamine receptors underscores the intricate complexity of the intertwined mechanisms regulating and mediating cell signaling in the basal ganglia. Understanding these mechanisms may lead to a better comprehension of the several roles played by these structures in the regulation of mood and to the development of new psychoactive drugs having better therapeutic efficacy.

Pyramidal cells grow and mature at different rates among different cortical areas in the macaque monkey. In particular, differences across the areas have been reported in both the timing and magnitude of growth, branching, spinogenesis, and pruning in the basal dendritic trees of cells in layer III. Presently available data suggest that these different growth profiles reflect the type of functions performed by these cells in the adult brain. However, to date, studies have focused on only a relatively few cortical areas. In the present investigation we quantified the growth of the dendritic trees of layer III pyramidal cells in the anterior ventral portion of cytoarchitectonic area TE (TEav) to better comprehend developmental trends in the cerebral cortex. We quantified the growth and branching of the dendrities, and spinogenesis and pruning of spines, from post-natal day 2 (PND2) to four and a half years of age. We found that the dendritic trees increase in size from PND2 to 7months of age and thereafter became smaller. The dendritic trees became increasingly more branched from PND2 into adulthood. There was a two-fold increase in the number of spines in the basal dendritic trees of pyramidal cells from PND2 to 3.5months of age and then a 10% net decrease in spine number into adulthood. Thus, the growth profile of layer III pyramidal cells in the anterior ventral portion of the inferotemporal cortex differs to that in other cortical areas associated with visual processing.
The striatum plays a key role in mediating the acute and chronic effects of addictive drugs, with drugs of abuse causing long-lasting molecular and cellular alterations in both dorsal striatum and nucleus accumbens (ventral striatum). Despite the wealth of research on the biological actions of abused drugs in striatum, until recently, the distinct roles of the striatum's two major subtypes of medium spiny neurons (MSNs) in drug addiction remained elusive. Recent advances in cell-type-specific technologies, including fluorescent reporter mice, transgenic, or knockout mice, and viral-mediated gene transfer, have advanced the field toward a more comprehensive understanding of the two MSN subtypes in the long-term actions of drugs of abuse. Here we review progress in defining the distinct molecular and functional contributions of the two MSN subtypes in mediating addiction.
The current model of basal ganglia (BG) was introduced two decades ago and has settled most of our current understanding of BG function and dysfunction. Extensive research efforts have been carried out in recent years leading to further refinement and understanding of the normal and diseased BG. Several questions, however, are yet to be resolved. This short review provides a synopsis of the evolution of thought regarding the pathophysiological model of the BG and summarizes the main recent findings and additions to this field of research. We have also tried to identify major challenges that need to be addressed and resolved in the near future. Detailed accounts and state-of-the-art developments concerning research on the BG are provided in the articles that make up this Special Issue.
The basal ganglia are affected by several neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative diseases, many of which are treated with drugs acting on the dopamine system. For instance, the loss of dopaminergic input to the striatum, which is the main pathological feature of Parkinson's disease, is counteracted by administering the dopamine precursor, L-DOPA. Furthermore, psychotic disorders, including schizophrenia, are treated with drugs that act as antagonists at the D2-type of dopamine receptor (D2R). The use of L-DOPA and typical antipsychotic drugs, such as haloperidol, is limited by the emergence of motor side-effects, particularly after prolonged use. Striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs) represent an ideal tool to investigate the molecular changes implicated in these conditions. MSNs receive a large glutamatergic innervation from cortex, thalamus, and limbic structures, and are controlled by dopaminergic projections originating in the midbrain. There are two large populations of striatal MSNs, which differ based on their connectivity to the output nuclei of the basal ganglia and on their ability to express dopamine D1 receptors (D1Rs) or D2Rs. Administration of L-DOPA promotes cAMP signaling and activates the dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32kDa (DARPP-32) in the D1R-expressing MSNs, which form the striatonigral, or direct pathway. Conversely, haloperidol activates the cAMP/DARPP-32 cascade in D2R-expressing MSNs, which form the striatopallidal, or indirect pathway. This review describes the effects produced on downstream effector proteins by stimulation of cAMP/DARPP-32 signaling in these two groups of MSNs. Particular emphasis is given to the regulation of the GluR1 subunit of the -amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate glutamate receptor, the extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases 1 and 2, focusing on functional role and potential pathological relevance.
According to His (1891, 1893) the brainstem consists of two longitudinal zones, the dorsal alar plate (sensory in nature) and the ventral basal plate (motor in nature). Johnston and Herrick indicated that both plates can be subdivided into separate somatic and visceral zones, distinguishing somatosensory and viscerosensory zones within the alar plate, and visceromotor and somatomotor zones within the basal plate. To test the validity of this &quot;four-functional-zones&quot; concept, I developed a topological procedure, surveying the spatial relationships of the various cell masses in the brainstem in a single figure. Brainstems of 16 different anamniote species were analyzed, and revealed that the brainstems are clearly divisible into four morphological zones, which correspond largely with the functional zones of Johnston and Herrick. Exceptions include (1) the magnocellular vestibular nucleus situated in the viscerosensory zone; (2) the basal plate containing a number of evidently non-motor centers (superior and inferior olives). Nevertheless the &quot;functional zonal model&quot; has explanatory value. Thus, it is possible to interpret certain brain specializations related to particular behavioral profiles, as &quot;local hypertrophies&quot; of one or two functional columns. Recent developmental molecular studies on brains of birds and mammals confirmed the presence of longitudinal zones, and also showed molecularly defined transverse bands or neuromeres throughout development. The intersecting boundaries of the longitudinal zones and the transverse bands appeared to delimit radially arranged histogenetic domains. Because neuromeres have been observed in embryonic and larval stages of numerous anamniote species, it may be hypothesized that the brainstems of all vertebrates share a basic organizational plan, in which intersecting longitudinal and transverse zones form fundamental histogenetic and genoarchitectonic units.
Recent advances in high-throughput technology facilitate massive data collection and sharing, enabling neuroscientists to explore the brain across a large range of spatial scales. One such form of high-throughput data collection is the construction of large-scale mosaic volumes using light microscopy (Chow et al., 2006; Price et al., 2006). With this technology, researchers can collect and analyze high-resolution digitized volumes of whole brain sections down to 0.2m. However, until recently, scientists lacked the tools to easily handle these large high-resolution datasets. Furthermore, artifacts resulting from specimen preparation limited volume reconstruction using this technique to only a single tissue section. In this paper, we carefully describe the steps we used to digitally reconstruct a series of consecutive mouse brain sections labeled with three stains, a stain for blood vessels (DiI), a nuclear stain (TO-PRO-3), and a myelin stain (FluoroMyelin). These stains label important neuroanatomical landmarks that are used for stacking the serial sections during reconstruction. In addition, we show that the use of two software applications, ir-Tweak and Mogrifier, in conjunction with a volume flattening procedure enable scientists to adeptly work with digitized volumes despite tears and thickness variations within tissue sections. These applications make processing large-scale brain mosaics more efficient. When used in combination with new database resources, these brain maps should allow researchers to extend the lifetime of their specimens indefinitely by preserving them in digital form, making them available for future analyses as our knowledge in the field of neuroscience continues to expand.
This review summarizes vertebrate rhombic lip and early cerebellar development covering classic approaches up to modern developmental genetics which identifies the relevant differential gene expression domains and their progeny. Most of this information is derived from amniotes. However, progress in anamniotes, particularly in the zebrafish, has recently been made. The current picture suggests that rhombic lip and cerebellar development in jawed vertebrates (gnathostomes) share many characteristics. Regarding cerebellar development, these include a ptf1a expressing ventral cerebellar proliferation (VCP) giving rise to Purkinje cells and other inhibitory cerebellar cell types, and an atoh1 expressing upper rhombic lip giving rise to an external granular layer (EGL, i.e., excitatory granule cells) and an early ventral migration into the anterior rhombencephalon (cholinergic nuclei). As for the lower rhombic lip (LRL), gnathostome commonalities likely include the formation of precerebellar nuclei (mossy fiber origins) and partially primary auditory nuclei (likely convergently evolved) from the atoh1 expressing dorsal zone. The fate of the ptf1a expressing ventral LRL zone which gives rise to (excitatory cells of) the inferior olive (climbing fiber origin) and (inhibitory cells of ) cochlear nuclei in amniotes, has not been determined in anamniotes. Special for the zebrafish in comparison to amniotes is the predominant origin of anamniote excitatory deep cerebellar nuclei homologs (i.e., eurydendroid cells) from ptf1a expressing VCP cells, the sequential activity of various atoh1 paralogs and the incomplete coverage of the subpial cerebellar plate with proliferative EGL cells. Nevertheless, the conclusion that a rhombic lip and its major derivatives evolved with gnathostome vertebrates only and are thus not an ancestral craniate character complex is supported by the absence of a cerebellum (and likely absence of its afferent and efferent nuclei) in jawless fishes.
Fine neuronal morphology, such as dendritic spines, classically has been studied using the Golgi technique; however, Golgi staining is difficult to combine with other histological techniques. With the increasing popularity of fluorescent imaging, a number of fluorescent dyes have been developed that enable the coupling of multiple fluorescent labels in a single preparation. These fluorescent dyes include the lipophilic dialkylcarbocyanine, DiI; traditionally used for anterograde and retrograde neuronal tracing. More recently, DiI labeling has been used in combination with the Gene Gun for &quot;DiOlistic&quot; labeling of neurons in slice preparations. DiI sequesters itself within and diffuses laterally along the neuronal membrane, however once the cell is permeabilized, the DiI begins to leak from the cell membrane. A DiI derivative, Cell Tracker CM-DiI, increases dye stability and labeling half-life in permeabilized tissue, however at much greater expense. Here, the DiI and CM-DiI DiOlistic labeling techniques were tested in side-by-side experiments evaluating dye stability within dendritic architecture in medium spiny neurons of the dorsal stratum in both non-permeabilized and permeabilized tissue sections. In tissue sections that were not permeabilized, spine density in DiI labeled sections was higher than in CM-DiI labeling. In contrast, tissue sections that were permeabilized had higher spine densities in CM-DiI labeled neurons. These results suggest that for experiments involving non-permeabilized tissue, traditional DiI will suffice, however for experiments involving permeabilized tissue CM-DiI provides more consistent data. These experiments provide the first quantitative analyses of the impact of methodological permutations on neuronal labeling with DiI.
The superior paraolivary nucleus (SPON), a prominent GABAergic center of the mammalian auditory brainstem, projects to the ipsilateral inferior colliculus (IC) and sends axons through the commissure of the IC (CoIC). Herein we demonstrate that the SPON is reciprocally connected with the recently discovered tectal longitudinal column (TLC). The TLC is a long and narrow structure that spans nearly the entire midbrain tectum longitudinally, immediately above the periaqueductal gray matter (PAG) and very close to the midline. Unilateral injections of biotinylated dextran into the SPON of the rat label abundant terminal fibers in the TLC of both sides, with an ipsilateral predominance. The SPON provides a dense innervation of the entire rostrocaudal extent of the ipsilateral TLC, and a relatively sparser innervation of the caudal and rostral portions of the contralateral TLC. SPON fibers reach the TLC by two routes: as collaterals of axons of the CoIC, and as axons that circumvent the ipsilateral IC before traveling in the deep layers of the superior colliculus (SC). The density of these projections identifies SPON as a significant source of input to the TLC. Other targets of the SPON discovered in this study include the deep layers of the SC and the PAG. The same experiments reveal numerous labeled cell bodies in the TLC, interspersed among the labeled SPON fibers. This observation suggests that the SPON is a significant target of TLC projections. The discovery of novel reciprocal connections between the SPON and the TLC opens unexpected avenues for investigation of sound processing in mammalian brainstem circuits.
The most ubiquitous neuron in the cerebral cortex, the pyramidal cell, is characterized by markedly different dendritic structure among different cortical areas. The complex pyramidal cell phenotype in granular prefrontal cortex (gPFC) of higher primates endows specific biophysical properties and patterns of connectivity, which differ from those in other cortical regions. However, within the gPFC, data have been sampled from only a select few cortical areas. The gPFC of species such as human and macaque monkey includes more than 10 cortical areas. It remains unknown as to what degree pyramidal cell structure may vary among these cortical areas. Here we undertook a survey of pyramidal cells in the dorsolateral, medial, and orbital gPFC of cercopithecid primates. We found marked heterogeneity in pyramidal cell structure within and between these regions. Moreover, trends for gradients in neuronal complexity varied among species. As the structure of neurons determines their computational abilities, memory storage capacity and connectivity, we propose that these specializations in the pyramidal cell phenotype are an important determinant of species-specific executive cortical functions in primates.
We used light and electron microscopic immunocytochemical techniques to analyze the distribution, cellular and synaptic localization of EAAT2, the main glutamate transporter, in normal human neocortex. EAAT2a-immunoreactivity (ir) was in all layers and consisted of small neuropilar puncta and rare cells. In white matter EAAT2a+ cells were numerous. Electron microscopic studies showed that in gray matter 77% of immunoreactive elements were astrocytic processes, 14% axon terminals, 2.8% dendrites, whereas 5% were unidentifiable. In white matter, 81% were astrocytic processes, 17% were myelinated axons, and 2.0% were unidentified. EAAT2a-ir was never in microglial cells and oligodendrocytes. Pre-embedding electron microscopy showed that 67% of EAAT2a expressed at (or in the vicinity of) asymmetric synapses was in astrocytes, 17% in axon terminals, while 13% was both in astrocytes and in axons. Post-embedding electron microscopy studies showed that in astrocytic processes contacting asymmetric synapses and in axon terminals, gold particle density was 25.1 and 2.8 particles/m(2), respectively, and was concentrated in a membrane region extending for 300nm from the active zone edge. Besides representing the first detailed description of EAAT2a in human cerebral cortex, these findings may contribute to understanding its role in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric diseases.
Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signaling is pivotal to the formation of numerous central regions. Increasing evidence suggests FGF signaling also directs the development of the neuroendocrine hypothalamus, a collection of neuroendocrine neurons originating primarily within the nose and the ventricular zone of the diencephalon. This review outlines evidence for a role of FGF signaling in the prenatal and postnatal development of several hypothalamic neuroendocrine systems. The emphasis is placed on the nasally derived gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons, which depend on neurotrophic cues from FGF signaling throughout the neurons' lifetime. Although less is known about neuroendocrine neurons derived from the diencephalon, recent studies suggest they also exhibit variable levels of dependence on FGF signaling. Overall, FGF signaling provides a broad spectrum of cues that ranges from genesis, cell survival/death, migration, morphological changes, to hormone synthesis in the neuroendocrine hypothalamus. Abnormal FGF signaling will deleteriously impact multiple hypothalamic neuroendocrine systems, resulting in the disruption of diverse physiological functions.
The formation of enduring relationships between adult mates (i.e., pair bonds) is an integral aspect of human social behavior and has been implicated in both physical and psychological health. However, due to the inherent complexity of these bonds and the relative rarity with which they are formed in other mammalian species, we know surprisingly little about their underlying neurobiology. Over the past few decades, the prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster) has emerged as an animal model of pair bonding. Research in this socially monogamous rodent has provided valuable insight into the neurobiological mechanisms that regulate pair bonding behaviors. Here, we review these studies and discuss the neural regulation of three behaviors inherent to pair bonding: the formation of partner preferences, the subsequent development of selective aggression toward unfamiliar conspecifics, and the bi-parental care of young. We focus on the role of vasopressin, oxytocin, and dopamine in the regulation of these behaviors, but also discuss the involvement of other neuropeptides, neurotransmitters, and hormones. These studies may not only contribute to the understanding of pair bonding in our own species, but may also offer insight into the underlying causes of social deficits noted in several mental health disorders.
Flickering light dilates retinal arterioles and increases retinal blood flow, a response termed functional hyperemia. This response is diminished in diabetic patients even before the appearance of overt clinical retinopathy. The loss of functional hyperemia could deprive retinal neurons of oxygen and nutrients, possibly exacerbating the development of diabetic retinopathy. We have tested whether inhibiting inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) reverses the loss of functional hyperemia in diabetic rat retinas in vivo. Changes in retinal arteriole diameter were measured following diffuse flickering light stimulation in control rats, streptozotocin-induced type 1 diabetic rats and diabetic rats treated with aminoguanidine (AG; an iNOS inhibitor), either acutely via IV injection or chronically in drinking water. Flickering light-evoked large arteriole dilations (10.81.1%) in control rats. This response was diminished by 61% in diabetic animals (4.20.3%). Both acute and chronic treatment with AG restored flicker-induced arteriole dilations in diabetic rats (8.80.9 and 9.51.3%, respectively). The amplitude of the corneal electroretinogram b-wave was similar in control and diabetic animals. These findings demonstrate that inhibiting iNOS with AG is effective in preventing the loss of, and restoring, normal functional hyperemia in the diabetic rat retina. Previous work has demonstrated the efficacy of iNOS inhibitors in slowing the progression of diabetic retinopathy. This effect could be due, in part, to a restoration of functional hyperemia.
The honeybee Apis mellifera has a remarkable ability to detect and locate food sources during foraging, and to associate odor cues with food rewards. In the honeybee's olfactory system, sensory input is first processed in the antennal lobe (AL) network. Uniglomerular projection neurons (PNs) convey the sensory code from the AL to higher brain regions via two parallel but anatomically distinct pathways, the lateral and the medial antenno-cerebral tract (l- and m-ACT). Neurons innervating either tract show characteristic differences in odor selectivity, concentration dependence, and representation of mixtures. It is still unknown how this differential stimulus representation is achieved within the AL network. In this contribution, we use a computational network model to demonstrate that the experimentally observed features of odor coding in PNs can be reproduced by varying lateral inhibition and gain control in an otherwise unchanged AL network. We show that odor coding in the l-ACT supports detection and accurate identification of weak odor traces at the expense of concentration sensitivity, while odor coding in the m-ACT provides the basis for the computation and following of concentration gradients but provides weaker discrimination power. Both coding strategies are mutually exclusive, which creates a tradeoff between detection accuracy and sensitivity. The development of two parallel systems may thus reflect an evolutionary solution to this problem that enables honeybees to achieve both tasks during bee foraging in their natural environment, and which could inspire the development of artificial chemosensory devices for odor-guided navigation in robots.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an effective therapy for medically refractory movement disorders like Parkinson's disease. The electrodes, implanted in the target area within the human brain, generate an electric field which activates nerve fibers and cell bodies in the vicinity. Even though the different target nuclei display considerable differences in their anatomical structure, only few types of electrodes are currently commercially available. It is desirable to adjust the electric field and in particular the volume of tissue activated around the electrode with respect to the corresponding target nucleus in a such way that side effects can be reduced. Furthermore, a more selective and partial activation of the target structure is desirable for an optimal application of novel stimulation strategies, e.g., coordinated reset neuromodulation. Hence we designed a DBS electrode with a segmented design allowing a more selective activation of the target structure. We created a finite element model (FEM) of the electrode and analyzed the volume of tissue activated for this electrode design. The segmented electrode activated an area in a targeted manner, of which the dimension and position relative to the electrode could be controlled by adjusting the stimulation parameters for each electrode contact. According to our computational analysis, this directed stimulation might be superior with respect to the occurrence of side effects and it enables the application of coordinated reset neuromodulation under optimal conditions.
The electrical stimulation of neuronal structures is used as a treatment for many neurological disorders, e.g., for the treatment of Parkinson's disease via deep brain stimulation (DBS). To reduce side effects, to avoid tissue or electrode damage, and to increase battery lifetimes, an effective but gentle electrical stimulation is of prime importance. We studied different modified pulse shapes for application in DBS with respect to their efficiency to initiate neuronal activity. Numerical simulations of two mathematical neuron models were performed to investigate the effectiveness of different modified pulse shapes. According to our results, the pulse shapes considered showed a considerably increased efficiency in terms of both activation and entrainment of neural activity. We found that the introduction of a gap with a specific and optimized duration in a biphasic pulse and the reversal of the standard pulse phase order yielded stimulation protocols that could increase the efficiency and therefore reduce the energy consumption of stimulation. The improvements were achieved by simple modifications of existing stimulation techniques. The modification of the pulse shapes resulted in an improvement of up to 50% for both the activation of resting neurons and the entrainment of bursting neurons.
Neuron-glia cultures serve as a valuable model system for exploring the bio-molecular activity of single cells. Since neurons in culture can be conveniently recorded with great fidelity from many sites simultaneously, it has long been suggested that uniform cultured neurons may also be used to investigate network-level mechanisms pertinent to information processing, activity propagation, memory, and learning. But how much of the functionality of neural circuits can be retained in vitro remains an open question. Recent studies utilizing patterned networks suggest that they provide a most useful platform to address fundamental questions in neuroscience. Here we review recent efforts in the realm of patterned networks' activity investigations. We give a brief overview of the patterning methods and experimental approaches commonly employed in the field, and summarize the main results reported in the literature. The general picture that emerges from these reports indicates that patterned networks with uniform connectivity do not exhibit unique activity patterns. Rather, their activity is very similar to that of unpatterned uniform networks. However, by breaking the connectivity homogeneity, using a modular architecture, it is possible to introduce pronounced topology-related gating and delay effects. These findings suggest that patterned cultured networks may serve as a new platform for studying the role of modularity in neuronal circuits.
Over the last decade, several papers have focused on the construction of highly detailed mouse high field magnetic resonance image (MRI) templates via non-linear registration to unbiased reference spaces, allowing for a variety of neuroimaging applications such as robust morphometric analyses. However, work in rats has only provided medium field MRI averages based on linear registration to biased spaces with the sole purpose of approximate functional MRI (fMRI) localization. This precludes any morphometric analysis in spite of the need of exploring in detail the neuroanatomical substrates of diseases in a recent advent of rat models. In this paper we present a new in vivo rat T2 MRI template set, comprising average images of both intensity and shape, obtained via non-linear registration. Also, unlike previous rat template sets, we include white and gray matter probabilistic segmentations, expanding its use to those applications demanding prior-based tissue segmentation, e.g., statistical parametric mapping (SPM) voxel-based morphometry. We also provide a preliminary digitalization of latest Paxinos and Watson atlas for anatomical and functional interpretations within the cerebral cortex. We confirmed that, like with previous templates, forepaw and hindpaw fMRI activations can be correctly localized in the expected atlas structure. To exemplify the use of our new MRI template set, were reported the volumes of brain tissues and cortical structures and probed their relationships with ontogenetic development. Other in vivo applications in the near future can be tensor-, deformation-, or voxel-based morphometry, morphological connectivity, and diffusion tensor-based anatomical connectivity. Our template set, freely available through the SPM extension website, could be an important tool for future longitudinal and/or functional extensive preclinical studies.
Functional interactions between different brain regions require connecting fiber tracts, the structural basis of the human connectome. To assemble a comprehensive structural understanding of neural network elements from the microscopic to the macroscopic dimensions, a multimodal and multiscale approach has to be envisaged. However, the integration of results from complementary neuroimaging techniques poses a particular challenge. In this paper, we describe a steadily evolving neuroimaging technique referred to as three-dimensional polarized light imaging (3D-PLI). It is based on the birefringence of the myelin sheaths surrounding axons, and enables the high-resolution analysis of myelinated axons constituting the fiber tracts. 3D-PLI provides the mapping of spatial fiber architecture in the postmortem human brain at a sub-millimeter resolution, i.e., at the mesoscale. The fundamental data structure gained by 3D-PLI is a comprehensive 3D vector field description of fibers and fiber tract orientations - the basis for subsequent tractography. To demonstrate how 3D-PLI can contribute to unravel and assemble the human connectome, a multiscale approach with the same technology was pursued. Two complementary state-of-the-art polarimeters providing different sampling grids (pixel sizes of 100 and 1.6m) were used. To exemplarily highlight the potential of this approach, fiber orientation maps and 3D fiber models were reconstructed in selected regions of the brain (e.g., Corpus callosum, Internal capsule, Pons). The results demonstrate that 3D-PLI is an ideal tool to serve as an interface between the microscopic and macroscopic levels of organization of the human connectome.
We have developed a spiking neural network simulator, which is both easy to use and computationally efficient, for the generation of large-scale computational neuroscience models. The simulator implements current or conductance based Izhikevich neuron networks, having spike-timing dependent plasticity and short-term plasticity. It uses a standard network construction interface. The simulator allows for execution on either GPUs or CPUs. The simulator, which is written in C/C++, allows for both fine grain and coarse grain specificity of a host of parameters. We demonstrate the ease of use and computational efficiency of this model by implementing a large-scale model of cortical areas V1, V4, and area MT. The complete model, which has 138,240 neurons and approximately 30 million synapses, runs in real-time on an off-the-shelf GPU. The simulator source code, as well as the source code for the cortical model examples is publicly available.
In this paper we develop a computational model of the anatomy of a spinal cord. We address a long-standing ambition of neuroscience to understand the structure-function problem by modeling the complete spinal cord connectome map in the 2-day old hatchling Xenopus tadpole. Our approach to modeling neuronal connectivity is based on developmental processes of axon growth. A simple mathematical model of axon growth allows us to reconstruct a biologically realistic connectome of the tadpole spinal cord based on neurobiological data. In our model we distribute neuron cell bodies and dendrites on both sides of the body based on experimental measurements. If growing axons cross the dendrite of another neuron, they make a synaptic contact with a defined probability. The total neuronal network contains 1,500 neurons of six cell-types with a total of 120,000 connections. The anatomical model contains random components so each repetition of the connectome reconstruction procedure generates a different neuronal network, though all share consistent features such as distributions of cell bodies, dendrites, and axon lengths. Our study reveals a complex structure for the connectome with many interesting specific features including contrasting distributions of connection length distributions. The connectome also shows some similarities to connectivity graphs for other animals such as the global neuronal network of C. elegans. In addition to the interesting intrinsic properties of the connectome, we expect the ability to grow and analyze a biologically realistic spinal cord connectome will provide valuable insights into the properties of the real neuronal networks underlying simple behavior.
Metadata providing information about the stimulus, data acquisition, and experimental conditions are indispensable for the analysis and management of experimental data within a lab. However, only rarely are metadata available in a structured, comprehensive, and machine-readable form. This poses a severe problem for finding and retrieving data, both in the laboratory and on the various emerging public data bases. Here, we propose a simple format, the &quot;open metaData Markup Language&quot; (odML), for collecting and exchanging metadata in an automated, computer-based fashion. In odML arbitrary metadata information is stored as extended key-value pairs in a hierarchical structure. Central to odML is a clear separation of format and content, i.e., neither keys nor values are defined by the format. This makes odML flexible enough for storing all available metadata instantly without the necessity to submit new keys to an ontology or controlled terminology. Common standard keys can be defined in odML-terminologies for guaranteeing interoperability. We started to define such terminologies for neurophysiological data, but aim at a community driven extension and refinement of the proposed definitions. By customized terminologies that map to these standard terminologies, metadata can be named and organized as required or preferred without softening the standard. Together with the respective libraries provided for common programming languages, the odML format can be integrated into the laboratory workflow, facilitating automated collection of metadata information where it becomes available. The flexibility of odML also encourages a community driven collection and definition of terms used for annotating data in the neurosciences.
Cognitive neuroscience aims to map mental processes onto brain function, which begs the question of what &quot;mental processes&quot; exist and how they relate to the tasks that are used to manipulate and measure them. This topic has been addressed informally in prior work, but we propose that cumulative progress in cognitive neuroscience requires a more systematic approach to representing the mental entities that are being mapped to brain function and the tasks used to manipulate and measure mental processes. We describe a new open collaborative project that aims to provide a knowledge base for cognitive neuroscience, called the Cognitive Atlas (accessible online at http://www.cognitiveatlas.org), and outline how this project has the potential to drive novel discoveries about both mind and brain.
Current neuroimaging software offer users an incredible opportunity to analyze their data in different ways, with different underlying assumptions. Several sophisticated software packages (e.g., AFNI, BrainVoyager, FSL, FreeSurfer, Nipy, R, SPM) are used to process and analyze large and often diverse (highly multi-dimensional) data. However, this heterogeneous collection of specialized applications creates several issues that hinder replicable, efficient, and optimal use of neuroimaging analysis approaches: (1) No uniform access to neuroimaging analysis software and usage information; (2) No framework for comparative algorithm development and dissemination; (3) Personnel turnover in laboratories often limits methodological continuity and training new personnel takes time; (4) Neuroimaging software packages do not address computational efficiency; and (5) Methods sections in journal articles are inadequate for reproducing results. To address these issues, we present Nipype (Neuroimaging in Python: Pipelines and Interfaces; http://nipy.org/nipype), an open-source, community-developed, software package, and scriptable library. Nipype solves the issues by providing Interfaces to existing neuroimaging software with uniform usage semantics and by facilitating interaction between these packages using Workflows. Nipype provides an environment that encourages interactive exploration of algorithms, eases the design of Workflows within and between packages, allows rapid comparative development of algorithms and reduces the learning curve necessary to use different packages. Nipype supports both local and remote execution on multi-core machines and clusters, without additional scripting. Nipype is Berkeley Software Distribution licensed, allowing anyone unrestricted usage. An open, community-driven development philosophy allows the software to quickly adapt and address the varied needs of the evolving neuroimaging community, especially in the context of increasing demand for reproducible research.
A connectome is an indispensable tool for brain researchers, since it quickly provides comprehensive knowledge of the brain's anatomical connections. Such knowledge lies at the basis of understanding network functions. Our first comprehensive and interactive account of brain connections comprised the rat hippocampal-parahippocampal network. We have now added all anatomical connections with the retrosplenial cortex (RSC) as well as the intrinsic connections of this region, because of the interesting functional overlap between these brain regions. The RSC is involved in a variety of cognitive tasks including memory, navigation, and prospective thinking, yet the exact role of the RSC and the functional differences between its subdivisions remain elusive. The connectome presented here may help to define this role by providing an unprecedented interactive and searchable overview of all connections within and between the rat RSC, parahippocampal region and hippocampal formation.
We describe General Network (GenNet), a software plugin for the real time experimental interface (RTXI) dynamic clamp system that allows for straightforward and flexible implementation of hybrid network experiments. This extension to RTXI allows for hybrid networks that contain an arbitrary number of simulated and real neurons, significantly improving upon previous solutions that were limited, particularly by the number of cells supported. The benefits of this system include the ability to rapidly and easily set up and perform scalable experiments with hybrid networks and the ability to scan through ranges of parameters. We present instructions for installing, running and using GenNet for hybrid network experiments and provide several example uses of the system.

The Human Connectome Project (HCP) is a major endeavor that will acquire and analyze connectivity data plus other neuroimaging, behavioral, and genetic data from 1,200 healthy adults. It will serve as a key resource for the neuroscience research community, enabling discoveries of how the brain is wired and how it functions in different individuals. To fulfill its potential, the HCP consortium is developing an informatics platform that will handle: (1) storage of primary and processed data, (2) systematic processing and analysis of the data, (3) open-access data-sharing, and (4) mining and exploration of the data. This informatics platform will include two primary components. ConnectomeDB will provide database services for storing and distributing the data, as well as data analysis pipelines. Connectome Workbench will provide visualization and exploration capabilities. The platform will be based on standard data formats and provide an open set of application programming interfaces (APIs) that will facilitate broad utilization of the data and integration of HCP services into a variety of external applications. Primary and processed data generated by the HCP will be openly shared with the scientific community, and the informatics platform will be available under an open source license. This paper describes the HCP informatics platform as currently envisioned and places it into the context of the overall HCP vision and agenda.
The rat hippocampal region is frequently studied in relation to learning and memory processes and brain diseases. The region is complex, consisting of multiple subdivisions that are challenging to delineate anatomically. Published atlases of the rat brain typically lack the underlying histological criteria necessary to identify boundaries, and textbooks descriptions of the region are often inadequately illustrated and thus difficult to relate to experimental data. An overview of both anatomical features and criteria used to delineate boundaries is required to assign location to experimental material from the hippocampal region. To address this issue, we have developed a web-based atlas application in which images of histological sections are integrated with new and up-to-date criteria for subdividing the rat hippocampus formation, fasciola, and associated parahippocampal regions. The atlas application consists of an interactive image viewer with high-resolution images of an extensive series of sections stained for NeuN, calbindin, and parvalbumin, and an index of structures with detailed descriptions of the criteria used to define the boundaries. Images can be inspected with a graphical overlay of selected subregions. Bi-directional links between images and the index of structures are provided. In summary, we provide a novel content-rich digital atlas resource facilitating identification of morphological features relevant for delineating the anatomical subdivisions of the rat hippocampal region. The atlas application is available at http://www.rbwb.org.
While computer-aided planning of human neurosurgeries is becoming more and more common, animal researchers still largely rely on paper atlases for planning their approach before implanting recording chambers to perform invasive recordings of neural activity, which makes this planning process tedious and error-prone. Here we present SPLASh (Stereotactic PLAnning Software), an interactive software tool for the stereotactic planning of recording chamber placement and electrode trajectories. SPLASh has been developed for monkey cortical recordings and relies on a combination of structural MRIs and electronic brain atlases. Since SPLASh is based on the neuroanatomy software Caret, it should also be possible to use it for other parts of the brain or other species for which Caret atlases are available. The tool allows the user to interactively evaluate different possible placements of recording chambers and to simulate electrode trajectories.
Cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD) has received little attention to date and as such, there are currently very few treatment options available. The aim of the present study was to determine whether cognitive training might alleviate these cognitive symptoms and if so, whether such changes might be correlated with altered brain patterns. The performance of 10 PD patients and 10 paired healthy controls was assessed in a modified version of the Stroop task performed in association with functional magnetic resonance imaging, and half of the PD patients were given 6months of cognitive daily training based on Sudoku exercises. Results showed that the training program improved the cognitive performance in the Stroop test of the trained Parkinson's patients during MRI, specifically in terms of reaction time, and of correct and missing answers. Moreover, training provoked reduced cortical activation patterns with respect to untrained patients that were comparable to the patterns of activation observed in controls. Based on these findings, we propose that cognitive training can contribute significantly to save brain resources in PD patients, maybe by readdressing the imbalance caused by the alterations to inhibitory circuitry. Furthermore, these data strongly support the development and use of standardized cognitive training programs in PD patients.
The Karolinska Institutet 200-year anniversary symposium on injuries to the spinal cord and peripheral nervous system gathered expertise in the spinal cord, spinal nerve, and peripheral nerve injury field spanning from molecular prerequisites for nerve regeneration to clinical methods in nerve repair and rehabilitation. The topics presented at the meeting covered findings on adult neural stem cells that when transplanted to the hypoglossal nucleus in the rat could integrate with its host and promote neuron survival. Studies on vascularization after intraspinal replantation of ventral nerve roots and microarray studies in ventral root replantation as a tool for mapping of biological patterns typical for neuronal regeneration were discussed. Different immune molecules in neurons and glia and their very specific roles in synapse plasticity after injury were presented. Novel strategies in repair of injured peripheral nerves with ethyl-cyanoacrylate adhesive showed functional recovery comparable to that of conventional epineural sutures. Various aspects on surgical techniques which are available to improve function of the limb, once the nerve regeneration after brachial plexus lesions and repair has reached its limit were presented. Moreover, neurogenic pain after amputation and its treatment with mirror therapy were shown to be followed by dramatic decrease in phantom limb pain. Finally clinical experiences on surgical techniques to repair avulsed spinal nerve root and the motoric as well as sensoric regain of function were presented.
Activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3) is induced in various tissues in response to stress. In this experiment, ATF3 expression was studied in adult rats subjected either to a dorsal or ventral root avulsion (VRA; L4-6), or sciatic nerve transection (SNT). Post-operative survival times varied between 1.5h and 3weeks. In additional experiments an avulsed ventral root was directly replanted to the spinal cord. Dorsal root ganglias (DRGs) from humans exposed to traumatic dorsal root avulsions were also examined. After SNT ATF3 immunoreactivity (ATF3 IR) was detected in a few DRG neurons already 6h after the lesion. After 24h the number had clearly increased and still at 3weeks DRG neurons remained labeled. In the ventral horn, ATF3 IR in motoneurons (MN) was first detected 24h after the SNT, and still 3weeks post-operatively lesioned MN showed ATF3 labeling. After a VRA many spinal MN showed ATF3 IR already after 3h, and after 6h all MN were labeled. At 3weeks a majority of the lesioned MN had died, but all the remaining ones were labeled. When an avulsed ventral root was directly replanted, MN survived and were still labeled at 5weeks. In DRG, a few neurons were labeled already at 1.5h after a dorsal root avulsion. At 24h the number had increased but still only a minority of the neurons were labeled. At 3days the number of labeled neurons was reduced, and a further reduction was at hand at 7days and 3weeks. In parallel, in humans, 3days after a traumatic dorsal root avulsion, only a few DRG neurons showed ATF3 IR. At 6weeks no labeled neurons could be detected. These facts imply that ATF3 response to axotomy involves a distance-dependent mechanism. ATF3 also appears to be a useful and reliable neuronal marker of nerve lesions even in humans. In addition, ATF3 up-regulation in both motor and sensory neurons seems to be linked to regenerative competence.
Narcolepsy is a chronic neurodegenerative disease caused by a deficiency of orexin-producing neurons in the lateral hypothalamus. It is clinically characterized by excessive daytime sleepiness and by intrusions into wakefulness of physiological aspects of rapid eye movement sleep such as cataplexy, sleep paralysis, and hypnagogic hallucinations. The major pathophysiology of narcolepsy has been recently described on the bases of the discovery of the neuropeptides named orexins (hypocretins) in 1998; considerable evidence, summarized below, demonstrates that narcolepsy is the result of alterations in the genes involved in the pathology of the orexin ligand or its receptor. Deficient orexin transmission is sufficient to produce narcolepsy, as we describe here, animal models with dysregulated orexin signaling exhibit a narcolepsy-like phenotype. Remarkably, these narcoleptic models have different alterations of the orexinergic circuit, this diversity provide us with the means for making comparison, and have a better understanding of orexin-cell physiology. It is of particular interest that the most remarkable findings regarding this sleep disorder were fortuitous and due to keen observations. Sleep is a highly intricate and regulated state, and narcolepsy is a disorder that still remains as one of the unsolved mysteries in science. Nevertheless, advances and development of technology in neuroscience will provide us with the necessary tools to unravel the narcolepsy puzzle in the near future. Through an evaluation of the scientific literature we traced an updated picture of narcolepsy and orexins in order to provide insight into the means by which neurobiological knowledge is constructed.
The P13 potential is the rodent equivalent of the P50 potential, which is an evoked response recorded at the vertex (Vx) 50ms following an auditory stimulus in humans. Both the P13 and P50 potentials are only present during waking and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, and are considered to be measures of level of arousal. The source of the P13 and P50 potentials appears to be the pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN), a brainstem nucleus with indirect ascending projections to the cortex through the intralaminar thalamus, mediating arousal, and descending inhibitory projections to the caudal pontine reticular formation (CPRF), which mediates the auditory startle response (SR). We tested the hypothesis that intracranial microinjection (ICM) of glutamate (GLU) or GLU receptor agonists will increase the activity of PPN neurons, resulting in an increased P13 potential response, and decreased SR due to inhibitory projections from the PPN to the CPRF, in freely moving animals. Cannulae were inserted into the PPN to inject neuroactive agents, screws were inserted into the Vx in order to record the P13 potential, and electrodes inserted into the dorsal nuchal muscle to record electromyograms and SR amplitude. Our results showed that ICM of GLU into the PPN dose-dependently increased the amplitude of the P13 potential and decreased the amplitude of the SR. Similarly, ICM of N-methyl-d-aspartic acid or kainate into the PPN increased the amplitude of the P13 potential. These findings indicate that glutamatergic input to the PPN plays a role in arousal control in vivo, and changes in glutamatergic input, or excitability of PPN neurons, could be implicated in a number of neuropsychiatric disorders with the common symptoms of hyperarousal and REM sleep dysregulation.
Unpleasant visual symptoms including oscillopsia and dizziness may occur when there is unexpected motion of the visual world across the subject's retina (&quot;retinal slip&quot;) as in an acute spontaneous nystagmus or on head movement with an acute ophthalmoplegia. In contrast, subjects with chronic ocular dysmotility, e.g., congenital nystagmus or chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia, are typically symptom free. The adaptive processes that render chronic patients asymptomatic are obscure but may include a suppression of oscillopsia perception as well as an increased tolerance to perceived oscillopsia. Such chronic asymptomatic patients display an attenuation of vestibular-mediated angular velocity perception, implying a possible contributory role in the adaptive process. In order to assess causality between symptoms, signs (i.e., eye movements), and vestibular-perceptual function, we prospectively assessed symptom ratings and ocular-motor and perceptual vestibular function, in a patient with acute but transient ophthalmoplegia due to Miller Fisher Syndrome (as a model of visuo-vestibular adaptation). The data show that perceptual measures of vestibular function display a significant attenuation as compared to ocular-motor measures during the acute, symptomatic period. Perhaps significantly, both symptomatic recovery and normalization of vestibular-perceptual function were delayed and then occurred in a parallel fashion. This is the first report showing that symptomatic recovery of visuo-vestibular symptoms is better paralleled by vestibular-perceptual testing than vestibular-ocular reflex (VOR) measures. The findings may have implications for the understanding of patients with chronic vestibular symptoms where VOR testing is often unhelpful.
Replantation of avulsed spinal ventral roots has been show to enable significant and useful regrowth of motor axons in both experimental animals and in human clinical cases, making up an interesting exception to the rule of unsuccessful neuronal regeneration in central nervous system. Compared to avulsion without repair, ventral root replantation seems to rescue lesioned motoneurons from death. In this study we have analyzed the acute response to ventral root avulsion and replantation in adult rats with gene arrays combined with cluster analysis of gene ontology search terms. The data show significant differences between rats subjected to ventral replantation compared to avulsion only. Even though number of genes related to cell death is similar in the two models after 24h, we observed a significantly larger number of genes related to neurite growth and development in the rats treated with ventral root replantation, possibly reflecting the neuroregenerative capacity in the replantation model. In addition, an acute inflammatory response was observed after avulsion, while effects on genes related to synaptic transmission were much more pronounced after replantation than after avulsion alone. These data indicate that the axonal regenerative response from replantation is initiated at an earlier stage than the possible differences in terms of neuron survival. We conclude that this type of analysis may facilitate the comparison of the acute response in two types of injury.
The Middle Ages saw the development of numerous universities in the different provinces that later became the kingdom of France. In 1794, Napoleon I established 3 medical schools in Paris, Montpellier and Strasbourg, which were transformed into medical faculties in 1808. France had always been a highly centralized country, but during the 19th century, this trend started to change with the creation of medical faculties in Nancy (1872), Lille (1877), Lyon (1878), Bordeaux (1879), Toulouse (1891), Algiers (1910) and Marseille (1930). Following the creation of the 12 foundation courses, specialized chairs were progressively established in Paris, but for a long time this remained restricted to the French capital. However, with the emergence of medicine as an academic discipline in several towns outside Paris, came the development of neurology. This was greatly influenced by former students of Jean-Martin Charcot, local personalities, and the interactions between the two. Leading figures included Albert Pitres in Bordeaux, Lon Ingelrans in Lille, Eugne Devic and Jules Froment in Lyon, Lucien Cornil in Marseille, Joseph Grasset in Montpellier, and Marcel Riser in Toulouse. The interaction between French and Germanic medical communities also developed at this turbulent time under the influence of several great physicians such as Wilhelm Waldeyer, Adolf Kussmaul, and later Jean Alexandre Barr in Strasbourg, and Hippolyte Bernheim in Nancy. There are a number of other university towns outside Paris in which the development of neurology was probably influenced by the same interactions with psychiatry. It would be worth carrying out a thorough analysis of these towns in order to present an exhaustive overview of the development of neurology in France.
Jules Bernard Luys (1828-1897) is a relatively unknown figure in 19th century French neuropsychiatry. Although greatly influenced by Jean-Martin Charcot (1825-1893), Luys worked in the shadow of the 'master of La Salptrire' for about a quarter of a century. When he arrived at this institution in 1862, he used microscopy and photomicrography to identify pathological lesions underlying locomotor ataxia and progressive muscular atrophy. He later made substantial contributions to our knowledge of normal human brain anatomy, including the elucidation of thalamic organization and the discovery of the subthalamic nucleus. Luys's name has long been attached to the latter structure (corps de Luys), which is at the center of our current thinking about the functional organization of basal ganglia and the physiopathology of Parkinson's disease. As head of the Maison de sant d'Ivry, Luys developed a highly original view of the functional organization of the normal human brain, while improving our understanding of the neuropathological and clinical aspects of mental illnesses. In 1886, Luys left La Salptrire and became chief physician at La Charit hospital. Following Charcot, whom he considered as the father of scientific hypnotism, Luys devoted the last part of his career to hysteria and hypnosis. However, Luys ventured too deeply into the minefield of hysteria. He initiated experiments as unconventional as the distant action of medication, and became one of the most highly caricatured examples of the fascination that hysteria exerted upon neurologists as well as laypersons at the end of the 19th century.
Computational models of neuromotor control require forward models of limb movement that can replicate the natural relationships between muscle activation and joint dynamics without the burdens of excessive anatomical detail. We present a model of a three-link biomechanical limb that emphasizes the dynamics of limb movement within a simplified two-dimensional framework. Muscle co-contraction effects were incorporated into the model by flanking each joint with a pair of antagonist muscles that may be activated independently. Muscle co-contraction is known to alter the damping and stiffness of limb joints without altering net joint torque. Idealized muscle actuators were implemented using the Voigt muscle model which incorporates the parallel elasticity of muscle and tendon but omits series elasticity. The natural force-length-velocity relationships of contractile muscle tissue were incorporated into the actuators using ideal mathematical forms. Numerical stability analysis confirmed that co-contraction of these simplified actuators increased damping in the biomechanical limb consistent with observations of human motor control. Dynamic changes in joint stiffness were excluded by the omission of series elasticity. The analysis also revealed the unexpected finding that distinct stable (bistable) equilibrium positions can co-exist under identical levels of muscle co-contraction. We map the conditions under which bistability arises and prove analytically that monostability (equifinality) is guaranteed when the antagonist muscles are identical. Lastly we verify these analytic findings in the full biomechanical limb model.
IN THE LAST YEARS, OPTIMAL CONTROL THEORY (OCT) HAS EMERGED AS THE LEADING APPROACH FOR INVESTIGATING NEURAL CONTROL OF MOVEMENT AND MOTOR COGNITION FOR TWO COMPLEMENTARY RESEARCH LINES: behavioral neuroscience and humanoid robotics. In both cases, there are general problems that need to be addressed, such as the &quot;degrees of freedom (DoFs) problem,&quot; the common core of production, observation, reasoning, and learning of &quot;actions.&quot; OCT, directly derived from engineering design techniques of control systems quantifies task goals as &quot;cost functions&quot; and uses the sophisticated formal tools of optimal control to obtain desired behavior (and predictions). We propose an alternative &quot;softer&quot; approach passive motion paradigm (PMP) that we believe is closer to the biomechanics and cybernetics of action. The basic idea is that actions (overt as well as covert) are the consequences of an internal simulation process that &quot;animates&quot; the body schema with the attractor dynamics of force fields induced by the goal and task-specific constraints. This internal simulation offers the brain a way to dynamically link motor redundancy with task-oriented constraints &quot;at runtime,&quot; hence solving the &quot;DoFs problem&quot; without explicit kinematic inversion and cost function computation. We argue that the function of such computational machinery is not only restricted to shaping motor output during action execution but also to provide the self with information on the feasibility, consequence, understanding and meaning of &quot;potential actions.&quot; In this sense, taking into account recent developments in neuroscience (motor imagery, simulation theory of covert actions, mirror neuron system) and in embodied robotics, PMP offers a novel framework for understanding motor cognition that goes beyond the engineering control paradigm provided by OCT. Therefore, the paper is at the same time a review of the PMP rationale, as a computational theory, and a perspective presentation of how to develop it for designing better cognitive architectures.
A number of factors influence an animal's economic decisions. Two most commonly studied are the magnitude of and delay to reward. To investigate how these factors are represented in the firing rates of single neurons, we devised a behavioral task that independently manipulated the expected delay to and size of reward. Rats perceived the differently delayed and sized rewards as having different values and were more motivated under short delay and big-reward conditions than under long delay and small reward conditions as measured by percent choice, accuracy, and reaction time. Since the creation of this task, we have recorded from several different brain areas including, orbitofrontal cortex, striatum, amygdala, substantia nigra pars reticulata, and midbrain dopamine neurons. Here, we review and compare those data with a substantial focus on those areas that have been shown to be critical for performance on classic time discounting procedures and provide a potential mechanism by which they might interact when animals are deciding between differently delayed rewards. We found that most brain areas in the cortico-limbic circuit encode both the magnitude and delay to reward delivery in one form or another, but only a few encode them together at the single neuron level.
Impaired decision-making in aging can directly impact factors (financial security, health care) that are critical to maintaining quality of life and independence at advanced ages. Naturalistic rodent models mimic human aging in other cognitive domains, and afford the opportunity to parse the effects of age on discrete aspects of decision-making in a manner relatively uncontaminated by experiential factors. Young adult (5-7months) and aged (23-25months) male F344 rats were trained on a probability discounting task in which they made discrete-trial choices between a small certain reward (one food pellet) and a large but uncertain reward (two food pellets with varying probabilities of delivery ranging from 100 to 0%). Young rats chose the large reward when it was associated with a high probability of delivery and shifted to the small but certain reward as probability of the large reward decreased. As a group, aged rats performed comparably to young, but there was significantly greater variance among aged rats. One subgroup of aged rats showed strong preference for the small certain reward. This preference was maintained under conditions in which large reward delivery was also certain, suggesting decreased sensitivity to reward magnitude. In contrast, another subgroup of aged rats showed strong preference for the large reward at low probabilities of delivery. Interestingly, this subgroup also showed elevated preference for probabilistic rewards when reward magnitudes were equalized. Previous findings using this same aged study population described strongly attenuated discounting of delayed rewards with age, together suggesting that a subgroup of aged rats may have deficits associated with accounting for reward costs (i.e., delay or probability). These deficits in cost-accounting were dissociable from the age-related differences in sensitivity to reward magnitude, suggesting that aging influences multiple, distinct mechanisms that can impact cost-benefit decision-making.
Decision neuroscience offers the potential for decomposing differences in behavior across individuals into components of valuation intimately tied to brain function. One application of this approach lies in novel conceptualizations of behavioral attributes that are aberrant in psychiatric disorders. We investigated the relationship between social anxiety and behavior in a novel socially determined risk task. Behaviorally, higher scores on a social phobia inventory (SPIN) among healthy participants were associated with an increase in risky responses. Furthermore, activity in a region of the dorsal anterior insula (dAI) scaled in proportion to SPIN score in risky versus non-risky choices. This region of the insula was functionally connected to areas in the intraparietal sulcus and anterior cingulate cortex that were related to decision-making across all participants. Overall, social anxiety was associated with decreased risk aversion in our task, consistent with previous results investigating risk taking in many everyday behaviors. Moreover, this difference was linked to the anterior insula, a region commonly implicated in risk attitudes and socio-emotional processes.
The granule cell layer of the cerebellum functions in spatio-temporal encoding of information. Granule cells (GCs) are tonically inhibited by spillover of GABA released from Golgi cells and this tonic inhibition is facilitated by acute ethanol. Recently, it was demonstrated that a specialized Ca(2+)-activated anion-channel, bestrophin1 (Best1), found on glial cells, can release GABA that contributes up to 50-75% of the tonic GABAergic current. However, it is unknown if ethanol has any actions on Best1 function. Using whole-cell electrophysiology, we found that recombinant Best1 channels expressed in HEK-293 cells were insensitive to 40 and 80mM ethanol. We attempted to measure the Best1-mediated component of the tonic current in slices using 5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino)benzoic acid (NPPB). We confirmed that this agent blocks recombinant Best1 channels. Unexpectedly, we found that NPPB significantly potentiated the tonic current and the area and decay of GABA(A)-mediated spontaneous inhibitory post-synaptic currents (IPSCs) in GCs in rodent slices under two different recording conditions. To better isolate the Best1-dependent tonic current component, we blocked the Golgi cell component of the tonic current with tetrodotoxin and found that NPPB similarly and significantly potentiated the tonic current amplitude and decay time of miniature IPSCs. Two other Cl(-)-channel blockers were also tested: 4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid disodium salt hydrate (DIDS) showed no effect on GABAergic transmission, while niflumic acid (NFA) significantly suppressed the tonic current noise, as well as the mIPSC frequency, amplitude, and area. These data suggest that acute ethanol exposure does not modulate Best1 channels and these findings serve to challenge recent data indicating that these channels participate in the generation of tonic GABAergic currents in cerebellar GCs.
Habenula is an epithalamic nucleus connecting the forebrain with the ventral midbrain and hindbrain that plays a pivotal role in decision making by regulating dopaminergic and serotonergic activities. Intriguingly, habenula has also attracted interest as a model for brain asymmetry, since many vertebrates show left-right differences in habenula size and neural circuitry. Despite the functional significance of this nucleus, few studies have addressed the molecular mechanisms underlying habenular development. Mammalian habenula consists of the medial and lateral habenulae, which have distinct neural connectivity. The habenula shows phylogenetic conservation from fish to human, and studies using genetically accessible model animals have provided molecular insights into the developmental mechanisms of the habenula. The results suggest that development of the habenular asymmetry is mediated by differential regulation of the neurogenetic period for generating specific neuronal subtypes. Since the orientation and size ratio of the medial and lateral habenulae differ across species, the evolution of those subregions within the habenula may also reflect changes in neurogenesis duration for each habenular subdivision according to the evolutionary process.
From neurulation to postnatal processes, the requirements for FGF signaling in many aspects of neural precursor cell biology have been well documented. However, identifying a requirement for FGFs in a particular neurogenic process provides only an initial and superficial understanding of what FGF signaling is doing. How FGFs specify cell types in one instance, yet promote cell survival, proliferation, migration, or differentiation in other instances remains largely unknown and is key to understanding how they function. This review describes what we have learned primarily from in vivo vertebrate studies about the roles of FGF signaling in neurulation, anterior-posterior patterning of the neural plate, brain patterning from local signaling centers, and finally neocortex development as an example of continued roles for FGFs within the same brain area. The potential explanations for the diverse functions of FGFs through differential interactions with cell intrinsic and extrinsic factors is then discussed with an emphasis on how little we know about the modulation of FGF signaling in vivo. A clearer picture of the mechanisms involved is nevertheless essential to understand the behavior of neural precursor cells and to potentially guide their fates for therapeutic purposes.
Since the pioneering discovery of the rapid CNS depressant actions of steroids by the &quot;father of stress,&quot; Hans Seyle 70years ago, brain-derived &quot;neurosteroids&quot; have emerged as powerful endogenous modulators of neuronal excitability. The majority of the intervening research has focused on a class of naturally occurring steroids that are metabolites of progesterone and deoxycorticosterone, which act in a non-genomic manner to selectively augment signals mediated by the main inhibitory receptor in the CNS, the GABA(A) receptor. Abnormal levels of such neurosteroids associate with a variety of neurological and psychiatric disorders, suggesting that they serve important physiological and pathophysiological roles. A compelling case can be made to implicate neurosteroids in stress-related disturbances. Here we will critically appraise how brain-derived neurosteroids may impact on the stress response to acute and chronic challenges, both pre- and postnatally through to adulthood. The pathological implications of such actions in the development of psychiatric disturbances will be discussed, with an emphasis on the therapeutic potential of neurosteroids for the treatment of stress-associated disorders.
The frontal cortex is crucial to sound decision-making, and the activity of frontal neurons correlates with many aspects of a choice, including the reward value of options and outcomes. However, rewards are of high motivational significance and have widespread effects on neural activity. As such, many neural signals not directly involved in the decision process can correlate with reward value. With correlative techniques such as electrophysiological recording or functional neuroimaging, it can be challenging to distinguish neural signals underlying value-based decision-making from other perceptual, cognitive, and motor processes. In the first part of the paper, we examine how different value-related computations can potentially be confused. In particular, error-related signals in the anterior cingulate cortex, generated when one discovers the consequences of an action, might actually represent violations of outcome expectation, rather than errors per se. Also, signals generated at the time of choice are typically interpreted as reflecting predictions regarding the outcomes associated with the different choice alternatives. However, these signals could instead reflect comparisons between the presented choice options and previously presented choice alternatives. In the second part of the paper, we examine how value signals have been successfully dissociated from saliency-related signals, such as attention, arousal, and motor preparation in studies employing outcomes with both positive and negative valence. We hope that highlighting these issues will prove useful for future studies aimed at disambiguating the contribution of different neuronal populations to choice behavior.
Choosing the option with the highest expected value (EV; reward probabilityreward magnitude) maximizes the intake of reward under conditions of uncertainty. However, human economic choices indicate that our value calculation has a subjective component whereby probability and reward magnitude are not linearly weighted. Using a similar economic framework, our goal was to characterize how subjective value influences the generation of simple motor actions. Specifically, we hypothesized that attributes of saccadic eye movements could provide insight into how rhesus monkeys, a well-studied animal model in cognitive neuroscience, subjectively value potential visual targets. In the first experiment, monkeys were free to choose by directing a saccade toward one of two simultaneously displayed targets, each of which had an uncertain outcome. In this task, choices were more likely to be allocated toward the higher valued target. In the second experiment, only one of the two possible targets appeared on each trial. In this task, saccadic reaction times (SRTs) decreased toward the higher valued target. Reward magnitude had a much stronger influence on both choices and SRTs than probability, whose effect was observed only when reward magnitude was similar for both targets. Across EV blocks, a strong relationship was observed between choice preferences and SRTs. However, choices tended to maximize at skewed values whereas SRTs varied more continuously. Lastly, SRTs were unchanged when all reward magnitudes were 1, 1.5, and 2 their normal amount, indicating that saccade preparation was influenced by the relative value of the targets rather than the absolute value of any single-target. We conclude that value is not only an important factor()for deliberative decision making in primates, but also for the selection and preparation of simple motor actions, such as saccadic eye movements. More precisely, our results indicate that, under conditions of uncertainty, saccade choices and reaction times are influenced by the relative expected subjective value of potential movements.
Impaired decision-making is a core problem in several psychiatric disorders including attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, schizophrenia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, mania, drug addiction, eating disorders, and substance abuse as well as in chronic pain. To ensure progress in the understanding of the neuropathophysiology of these disorders, animal models with good construct and predictive validity are indispensable. Many human studies aimed at measuring decision-making capacities use the Iowa gambling task (IGT), a task designed to model everyday life choices through a conflict between immediate gratification and long-term outcomes. Recently, new rodent models based on the same principle have been developed to investigate the neurobiological mechanisms underlying IGT-like decision-making on behavioral, neural, and pharmacological levels. The comparative strengths, as well as the similarities and differences between these paradigms are discussed. The contribution of these models to elucidate the neurobehavioral factors that lead to poor decision-making and to the development of better treatments for psychiatric illness is considered, along with important future directions and potential limitations.
In both humans and rats high levels of anxiety impair decision-making in the Iowa gambling task (IGT) in male subjects. Expression of the immediate early gene c-fos as marker of neural activity in rat studies indicated a role of the medial prefrontal cortex (prelimbic and infralimbic region; mPFC) in mediating the relationship between anxiety and decision-making. To delineate this relationship further and assess the underlying neurobiology in more detail, we inactivated in the present study the mPFC in male rats using a mixture of the GABA-receptor agonists muscimol and baclofen. Rats were exposed to the elevated plus maze (EPM) to measure effects on anxiety and to the rodent version of the IGT (r-IGT). Inactivation led to increased levels of anxiety on the EPM, while not affecting general activity. The effect in the r-IGT (trials 61-120) was dependent on levels of performance prior to inactivation (trial 41-60): inactivation of the mPFC hampered task performance in rats, which already showed a preference for the advantageous option, but not in rats which were still choosing in a random manner. These data suggest that the mPFC becomes more strongly involved as rats have learned task-contingencies, i.e., choose for the best long-term option. Furthermore they suggest, along with the data of our earlier study, that both anxiety and decision-making in rats are mediated through a neural circuitry including at least the mPFC. The data are discussed in relation to recent data of rodent studies on the neural circuitry underlying decision-making.
The structure of gene coexpression networks reflects the activation and interaction of multiple cellular systems. Since the pathology of neuropsychiatric disorders is influenced by diverse cellular systems and pathways, we investigated gene coexpression networks in major depression, and searched for putative unifying themes in network connectivity across neuropsychiatric disorders. Specifically, based on the prevalence of the lethalitycentrality relationship in disease-related networks, we hypothesized that network changes between control and major depression-related networks would be centered around coexpression hubs, and secondly, that differentially expressed (DE) genes would have a characteristic position and connectivity level in those networks. Mathematically, the first hypothesis tests the relationship of differential coexpression to network connectivity, while the second hybrid expression-and-network hypothesis tests the relationship of differential expression to network connectivity. To answer these questions about the potential interaction of coexpression network structure with differential expression, we utilized all available human post-mortem depression-related datasets appropriate for coexpression analysis, which spanned different microarray platforms, cohorts, and brain regions. Similar studies were also performed in an animal model of depression and in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder microarray datasets. We now provide results which consistently support (1) that genes assemble into small-world and scale-free networks in control subjects, (2) that this efficient network topology is largely resilient to changes in depressed subjects, and (3) that DE genes are positioned on the periphery of coexpression networks. Similar results were observed in a mouse model of depression, and in selected bipolar- and schizophrenia-related networks. Finally, we show that baseline expression variability contributes to the propensity of genes to be network hubs and/or to be DE in disease. In summary, our results suggest that the small-world and scale-free properties of gene networks are resilient to pathological changes in major depression, and that the network structure may constrain the extent to which a gene may be DE in the illness, hence informing further gene-network-based mechanistic studies of neuropsychiatric disorders.
Recent technological advances have made the simultaneous recording of the activity of many neurons common. However, estimating the amount of information conveyed by the discharge of a neural population remains a significant challenge. Here we describe our recently published analysis method that assists in such estimates. We describe the key concepts and assumptions on which the method is based, illustrate its use with data from both simulated and real neurons recorded from the lateral geniculate nucleus of a monkey, and show how it can be used to calculate redundancy and synergy among neuronal groups.
Parkinson's disease, an age-related neurodegenerative disorder, is characterized by the loss of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra, the accumulation of -synuclein in Lewy bodies and neurites, and neuroinflammation. While the exact etiology of sporadic Parkinson's disease remains elusive, a growing body of evidence suggests that misfolded -synuclein promotes inflammation and oxidative stress resulting in neurodegeneration. -Synuclein has been directly linked to microglial activation in vitro and increased numbers of activated microglia have been reported in an -synuclein overexpressing mouse model prior to neuronal loss. However, the mechanism by which -synuclein incites microglial activation has not been fully described. Microglial activation is governed in part, by pattern recognition receptors that detect foreign material and additionally recognize changes in homeostatic cellular conditions. Upon proinflammatory pathway initiation, activated microglia contribute to oxidative stress through release of cytokines, nitric oxide, and other reactive oxygen species, which may adversely impact adjacent neurons. Here we show that microglia are directly activated by -synuclein in a classical activation pathway that includes alterations in the expression of toll-like receptors. These data suggest that -synuclein can act as a danger-associated molecular pattern.
The intrinsic relationship between the architecture of the brain and the range of sensory and behavioral phenomena it produces is a relevant question in neuroscience. Here, we review recent knowledge gained on the architecture of the anatomical connectivity by means of complex network analysis. It has been found that cortico-cortical networks display a few prominent characteristics: (i) modular organization, (ii) abundant alternative processing paths, and (iii) the presence of highly connected hubs. Additionally, we present a novel classification of cortical areas of the cat according to the role they play in multisensory connectivity. All these properties represent an ideal anatomical substrate supporting rich dynamical behaviors, facilitating the capacity of the brain to process sensory information of different modalities segregated and to integrate them toward a comprehensive perception of the real world. The results here exposed are mainly based on anatomical data of cats' brain, but further observations suggest that, from worms to humans, the nervous system of all animals might share these fundamental principles of organization.
The application of statistical machine learning techniques to neuroimaging data has allowed researchers to decode the cognitive and disease states of participants. The majority of studies using these techniques have focused on pattern classification to decode the type of object a participant is viewing, the type of cognitive task a participant is completing, or the disease state of a participant's brain. However, an emerging body of literature is extending these classification studies to the decoding of values of continuous variables (such as age, cognitive characteristics, or neuropsychological state) using high-dimensional regression methods. This review details the methods used in such analyses and describes recent results. We provide specific examples of studies which have used this approach to answer novel questions about age and cognitive and disease states. We conclude that while there is still much to learn about these methods, they provide useful information about the relationship between neural activity and age, cognitive state, and disease state, which could not have been obtained using traditional univariate analytical methods.
First generation retinal prostheses containing 50-60 electrodes are currently in clinical trials. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the theoretical upper limit (best possible) reading performance attainable with a state-of-the-art 60-channel retinal implant and to find the optimum viewing conditions for the task. Four normal volunteers performed full-page text reading tasks with a low-resolution, 60-pixel viewing window that was stabilized in the central visual field. Two parameters were systematically varied: (1) spatial resolution (image magnification) and (2) the orientation of the rectangular viewing window. Performance was measured in terms of reading accuracy (% of correctly read words) and reading rates (words/min). Maximum reading performances were reached at spatial resolutions between 3.6 and 6 pixels/char. Performance declined outside this range for all subjects. In optimum viewing conditions (4.5 pixels/char), subjects achieved almost perfect reading accuracy and mean reading rates of 26 words/min for the vertical viewing window and of 34 words/min for the horizontal viewing window. These results suggest that, theoretically, some reading abilities can be restored with actual state-of-the-art retinal implant prototypes if &quot;image magnification&quot; is within an &quot;optimum range.&quot; Future retinal implants providing higher pixel resolutions, thus allowing for a wider visual span might allow faster reading rates.
Associative olfactory learning increased survival of adult born granule interneurons in the olfactory bulb (OB) at regions which are specific to the learned odorant. However, the mechanism shaping this odor-specific distribution of newborn neurons and its temporal relationship with the learning process are unknown. In the present study, using Bromodeoxyuridine or activated-caspase3 labeling, newborn and apoptotic cells respectively were mapped in the granule cell layer (GCL) of the OB, just before, during, and at the end of odor conditioning or pseudo-conditioning in adult mice. Results indicate that before and during training, when the task is not yet acquired, conditioned and pseudo-conditioned animals displayed the same density of newborn neurons. However, at the end of the conditioning, when the animals mastered the task, the density of newborn cells remained elevated in conditioned animals while it decreased in pseudo-conditioned animals suggesting newborn cell death in that group. Indeed, using Activated-Caspase3/BrdU co-labeling, we found that the proportion of newborn cells among dying cells was reduced in conditioned animals mastering the task compared to non-expert conditioned or pseudo-conditioned animals. The overall level of cell death did not change across training and was similar in conditioned and pseudo-conditioned groups, indicating that BrdU-positive cells were spared to the detriment of non-labeled cells. In addition, a fine analysis of cell distribution showed an uneven distribution of apoptotic cells, with lower densities in the medial part of the GCL where the density of newborn cells is high in conditioned animals. We conclude that acquisition of the task triggered the rescue of newborn neurons by a targeted regulation of cell death.
Despite its phylogenetic antiquity and clinical importance, the posterior cingulate cortex (CGp) remains an enigmatic nexus of attention, memory, motivation, and decision making. Here we show that CGp neurons track decision salience - the degree to which an option differs from a standard - but not the subjective value of a decision. To do this, we recorded the spiking activity of CGp neurons in monkeys choosing between options varying in reward-related risk, delay to reward, and social outcomes, each of which varied in level of decision salience. Firing rates were higher when monkeys chose the risky option, consistent with their risk-seeking preferences, but were also higher when monkeys chose the delayed and social options, contradicting their preferences. Thus, across decision contexts, neuronal activity was uncorrelated with how much monkeys valued a given option, as inferred from choice. Instead, neuronal activity signaled the deviation of the chosen option from the standard, independently of how it differed. The observed decision salience signals suggest a role for CGp in the flexible allocation of neural resources to motivationally significant information, akin to the role of attention in selective processing of sensory inputs.
The brain-machine interface (BMI) or brain-computer interface is a new interface technology that uses neurophysiological signals from the brain to control external machines or computers. This technology is expected to support daily activities, especially for persons with disabilities. To expand the range of activities enabled by this type of interface, here, we added augmented reality (AR) to a P300-based BMI. In this new system, we used a see-through head-mount display (HMD) to create control panels with flicker visual stimuli to support the user in areas close to controllable devices. When the attached camera detects an AR marker, the position and orientation of the marker are calculated, and the control panel for the pre-assigned appliance is created by the AR system and superimposed on the HMD. The participants were required to control system-compatible devices, and they successfully operated them without significant training. Online performance with the HMD was not different from that using an LCD monitor. Posterior and lateral (right or left) channel selections contributed to operation of the AR-BMI with both the HMD and LCD monitor. Our results indicate that AR-BMI systems operated with a see-through HMD may be useful in building advanced intelligent environments.
Recent evidence demonstrates that humans are not the only species to respond negatively to inequitable outcomes which are to their disadvantage. Several species respond negatively if they subsequently receive a less good reward than a social partner for completing the same task. While these studies suggest that the negative response to inequity is not a uniquely human behavior, they do not provide a functional explanation for the emergence of these responses due to similar characteristics among these species. However, emerging data support the hypothesis that an aversion to inequity is a mechanism to promote successful long-term cooperative relationships amongst non-kin. In this paper, I discuss several converging lines of evidence which illustrate the need to further evaluate this relationship. First, cooperation can survive modest inequity; in explicitly cooperative interactions, individuals are willing to continue to cooperate despite inequitable outcomes as long as the partner's overall behavior is equitable. Second, the context of inequity affects reactions to it in ways which support the idea that joint efforts lead to an expectation of joint payoffs. Finally, comparative studies indicate a link between the degree and extent of cooperation between unrelated individuals in a species and that species' response to inequitable outcomes. This latter line of evidence indicates that this behavior evolved in conjunction with cooperation and may represent an adaptation to increase the payoffs associated with cooperative interactions. Together these data inform a testable working hypothesis for understanding decision-making in the context of inequity and provide a new, comparative framework for evaluating decision-making behavior.
What happens to others profoundly influences our own behavior. Such other-regarding outcomes can drive observational learning, as well as motivate cooperation, charity, empathy, and even spite. Vicarious reinforcement may serve as one of the critical mechanisms mediating the influence of other-regarding outcomes on behavior and decision-making in groups. Here we show that rhesus macaques spontaneously derive vicarious reinforcement from observing rewards given to another monkey, and that this reinforcement can motivate them to subsequently deliver or withhold rewards from the other animal. We exploited Pavlovian and instrumental conditioning to associate rewards to self (M1) and/or rewards to another monkey (M2) with visual cues. M1s made more errors in the instrumental trials when cues predicted reward to M2 compared to when cues predicted reward to M1, but made even more errors when cues predicted reward to no one. In subsequent preference tests between pairs of conditioned cues, M1s preferred cues paired with reward to M2 over cues paired with reward to no one. By contrast, M1s preferred cues paired with reward to self over cues paired with reward to both monkeys simultaneously. Rates of attention to M2 strongly predicted the strength and valence of vicarious reinforcement. These patterns of behavior, which were absent in non-social control trials, are consistent with vicarious reinforcement based upon sensitivity to observed, or counterfactual, outcomes with respect to another individual. Vicarious reward may play a critical role in shaping cooperation and competition, as well as motivating observational learning and group coordination in rhesus macaques, much as it does in humans. We propose that vicarious reinforcement signals mediate these behaviors via homologous neural circuits involved in reinforcement learning and decision-making.
In this paper we present a very exciting overlap between emergent nanotechnology and neuroscience, which has been discovered by neuromorphic engineers. Specifically, we are linking one type of memristor nanotechnology devices to the biological synaptic update rule known as spike-time-dependent-plasticity (STDP) found in real biological synapses. Understanding this link allows neuromorphic engineers to develop circuit architectures that use this type of memristors to artificially emulate parts of the visual cortex. We focus on the type of memristors referred to as voltage or flux driven memristors and focus our discussions on a behavioral macro-model for such devices. The implementations result in fully asynchronous architectures with neurons sending their action potentials not only forward but also backward. One critical aspect is to use neurons that generate spikes of specific shapes. We will see how by changing the shapes of the neuron action potential spikes we can tune and manipulate the STDP learning rules for both excitatory and inhibitory synapses. We will see how neurons and memristors can be interconnected to achieve large scale spiking learning systems, that follow a type of multiplicative STDP learning rule. We will briefly extend the architectures to use three-terminal transistors with similar memristive behavior. We will illustrate how a V1 visual cortex layer can assembled and how it is capable of learning to extract orientations from visual data coming from a real artificial CMOS spiking retina observing real life scenes. Finally, we will discuss limitations of currently available memristors. The results presented are based on behavioral simulations and do not take into account non-idealities of devices and interconnects. The aim of this paper is to present, in a tutorial manner, an initial framework for the possible development of fully asynchronous STDP learning neuromorphic architectures exploiting two or three-terminal memristive type devices. All files used for the simulations are made available through the journal web site.
Can decisions be predicted from brain activity? It is frequently difficult in neuroimaging studies to determine this, because it is not easy to establish when the decision has been taken. In a rigorous approach to this issue, we show that in a neurally plausible integrate-and-fire attractor-based model of decision-making, the noise generated by the randomness in the spiking times of neurons can be used to predict a decision for 0.5s or more before the decision cues are applied. The ongoing noise at the time the decision cues are applied influences which decision will be taken. It is possible to predict on a single trial to more than 68% correct which of two decisions will be taken. The prediction is made from the spontaneous firing before the decision cues are applied in the two populations of neurons that represent the decisions. Thus decisions can be partly predicted even before the decision cues are applied, due to noise in the decision-making process. This analysis has interesting implications for decision-making and free will, for it shows that random neuronal firing times can influence a decision before the evidence for the decision has been provided.
Hippocampal neurogenesis in the adult mammalian brain is modulated by various signals like growth factors, hormones, neuropeptides, and neurotransmitters. All of these factors can (but not necessarily do) converge on the activation of the G protein Ras. We used a transgenic mouse model (synRas mice) expressing constitutively activated G12V-Harvey Ras selectively in differentiated neurons to investigate the possible effects onto neurogenesis. H-Ras activation in neurons attenuates hippocampal precursor cell generation at an early stage of the proliferative cascade before neuronal lineage determination occurs. Therefore it is unlikely that the transgenically activated H-Ras in neurons mediates this effect by a direct, intracellular signaling mechanism. Voluntary exercise restores neurogenesis up to wild type level presumably mediated by brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Reduced neurogenesis is linked to impairments in spatial short-term memory and object recognition, the latter can be rescued by voluntary exercise, as well. These data support the view that new cells significantly increase complexity that can be processed by the hippocampal network when experience requires high demands to associate stimuli over time and/or space.
Computational modeling is increasingly used to understand the function of neural circuits in systems neuroscience. These studies require models of individual neurons with realistic input-output properties. Recently, it was found that spiking models can accurately predict the precisely timed spike trains produced by cortical neurons in response to somatically injected currents, if properly fitted. This requires fitting techniques that are efficient and flexible enough to easily test different candidate models. We present a generic solution, based on the Brian simulator (a neural network simulator in Python), which allows the user to define and fit arbitrary neuron models to electrophysiological recordings. It relies on vectorization and parallel computing techniques to achieve efficiency. We demonstrate its use on neural recordings in the barrel cortex and in the auditory brainstem, and confirm that simple adaptive spiking models can accurately predict the response of cortical neurons. Finally, we show how a complex multicompartmental model can be reduced to a simple effective spiking model.
Neuronal production persists during adulthood in the dentate gyrus and the olfactory bulb, where substantial numbers of immature neurons can be found. These cells can also be found in the paleocortex layer II of adult rodents, but in this case most of them have been generated during embryogenesis. Recent reports have described the presence of similar cells, with a wider distribution, in the cerebral cortex of adult cats and primates and have suggested that they may develop into interneurons. The objective of this study is to verify this hypothesis and to explore the origin of these immature neurons in adult cats. We have analyzed their distribution using immunohistochemical analysis of the polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) and their phenotype using markers of mature neurons and different interneuronal populations. Additionally, we have explored the origin of these cells administering 5'bromodeoxyuridine (5'BrdU) during adulthood. Immature neurons were widely dispersed in the cerebral cortex layers II and upper III, being specially abundant in the piriform and entorhinal cortices, in the ventral portions of the frontal and temporoparietal lobes, but relatively scarce in dorsal regions, such as the primary visual areas. Only a small fraction of PSA-NCAM expressing cells in layer II expressed the mature neuronal marker NeuN and virtually none of them expressed calcium binding proteins or neuropeptides. By contrast, most, if not all of these cells expressed the transcription factor Tbr-1, specifically expressed by pallium-derived principal neurons, but not CAMKII, a marker of mature excitatory neurons. Absence of PSA-NCAM/5'BrdU colocalization suggests that, as in rats, these cells were not generated during adulthood. Together, these results indicate that immature neurons in the adult cat cerebral cortex layer II are not recently generated and that they may differentiate into principal neurons.

Reconstructing stimuli from the spike trains of neurons is an important approach for understanding the neural code. One of the difficulties associated with this task is that signals which are varying continuously in time are encoded into sequences of discrete events or spikes. An important problem is to determine how much information about the continuously varying stimulus can be extracted from the time-points at which spikes were observed, especially if these time-points are subject to some sort of randomness. For the special case of spike trains generated by leaky integrate and fire neurons, noise can be introduced by allowing variations in the threshold every time a spike is released. A simple decoding algorithm previously derived for the noiseless case can be extended to the stochastic case, but turns out to be biased. Here, we review a solution to this problem, by presenting a simple yet efficient algorithm which greatly reduces the bias, and therefore leads to better decoding performance in the stochastic case.

Post-weaning social isolation (SI) is a model of prolonged mild stress characterized by behavioral and neurochemical alterations. We used SI in C57BL/6J mice to investigate the effects of ethanol (EtOH) in the free-choice drinking paradigm on gene expression and function of -aminobutyric acid type A receptors (GABA(A)Rs) and the role of neuroactive steroids in the actions of EtOH in the hippocampus. SI stress induced a marked reduction in hippocampal 3-hydroxy-5-pregnan-20-one (3,5-TH PROG) and was associated with molecular and functional changes of the GABA(A)R. The gene expression of the (4) and  subunits was increased in the hippocampus of SI C57BL/6J mice; the expression of the (2) subunit was decreased whereas that of the (1) did not change. Patch-clamp recordings in dentate gyrus (DG) granule cells obtained from SI C57BL/6J mice revealed a greater enhancement of tonic currents induced by -(4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo[5,4-c] pyridin-3-ol (THIP) compared to that in control C57BL/6J mice. These neurochemical, molecular and functional changes observed in SI C57BL/6J mice were associated with an increased EtOH intake and EtOH preference. Nevertheless, the increase in EtOH consumption did not restore the reduction in hippocampal 3,5-TH PROG induced by SI. EtOH self-administration blocked the changes in gene expression of the (4) subunit but not those of the  and (2) subunits induced by SI. In addition, EtOH self-administration did not block the SI-induced changes in GABA(A)R-mediated tonic inhibition in hippocampal granule cells but increased the frequency of basal GABAergic sIPSCs in DG granule cells. We conclude that self-administration of EtOH selectively abolishes the increase of (4) subunit but not other neurochemical, molecular, and functional modifications induced by SI prolonged mild stress.
Cognitive disorders such as postoperative cognitive dysfunction, confusion, and delirium, are common following anesthesia in the elderly, with symptoms persisting for months or years in some patients. Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients appear to be particularly at risk of cognitive deterioration following anesthesia, and some studies suggest that exposure to anesthetics may increase the risk of AD. Here, we review the literature linking anesthesia to AD, with a focus on the biochemical consequences of anesthetic exposure on AD pathogenic pathways.
We previously reported that neuronal numbers within adult nodose ganglia (NG) were restored to normal levels 60 days following the capsaicin-induced destruction of nearly half of the neuronal population. However, the nature of this neuronal replacement is not known. Therefore, we aimed to characterize neural proliferation, neurochemical phenotypes, and functional recovery within adult rat NG neurons following capsaicin-induced damage. Sprague-Dawley rats received intraperitoneal injections of capsaicin or vehicle solution, followed by 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) injections to reveal cellular proliferation. NG were collected at multiple times post-treatment (up to 300 days) and processed for immunofluorescence, RT-PCR, and dispersed cell cultures. Capsaicin-induced cellular proliferation, indicated by BrdU/Ki-67-labeled cells, suggests that lost neurons were replaced through cell division. NG cells expressed the stem cell marker, nestin, indicating that these ganglia have the capacity to generate new neurons. BrdU-incorporation within -III tubulin-positive neuronal profiles following capsaicin suggests that proliferating cells matured to become neurons. NG neurons displayed decreased NMDAR expression up to 180-days post-capsaicin. However, both NMDAR expression within the NG and synaptophysin expression within the central target of NG neurons, the NTS, were restored to pre-injury levels by 300 days. NG cultures from capsaicin-treated rats contained bipolar neurons, normally found only during development. To test the functional recovery of NG neurons, we injected the satiety molecule, CCK. The effect of CCK on food intake was restored by 300-days post-capsaicin. This restoration may be due to the regeneration of damaged NG neurons or generation of functional neurons that replaced lost connections.
G protein-coupled inward rectifier K(+) (GIRK) channels represent novel targets for the development of new therapeutic agents. GIRK channels are activated by a large number of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) and regulate the electrical activity of neurons, cardiac myocytes, and -pancreatic cells. Abnormalities in GIRK channel function have been implicated in the patho-physiology of neuropathic pain, drug addiction, cardiac arrhythmias, and other disorders. However, the pharmacology of these channels remains largely unexplored. In this paper we describe the development of a screening assay for identifying new modulators of neuronal and cardiac GIRK channels. Pituitary (AtT20) and cardiac (HL-1) cell lines expressing GIRK channels were cultured in 96-well plates, loaded with oxonol membrane potential-sensitive dyes and measured using a fluorescent imaging plate reader. Activation of the endogenous GPCRs in the cells caused a rapid, time-dependent decrease in the fluorescent signal; indicative of K(+) efflux through the GIRK channels (GPCR stimulation versus control, Z'-factor=0.5-0.7). As expected this signal was inhibited by addition of Ba(2+) and the GIRK channel toxin tertiapin-Q. To test the utility of the assay for screening GIRK channel blockers, cells were incubated for 5min with a compound library of Na(+) and K(+) channel modulators. Ion transporter inhibitors such as 5-(N,N-hexamethylene)-amiloride and SCH-28080 were identified as blockers of the GIRK channel at sub-micromolar concentrations. Thus, the screening assay will be useful for expanding the limited pharmacology of the GIRK channel and in developing new agents for the treatment of GIRK channelopathies.
Chronic and neuropathic pain constitute significant health problems affecting millions of individuals each year. Pain sensations typically originate in sensory neurons of the peripheral nervous system which relay information to the central nervous system (CNS). Pathological pain sensations can arise as result of changes in excitability of these peripheral sensory neurons. Voltage-gated sodium channels are key determinants regulating action potential generation and propagation; thus, changes in sodium channel function can have profound effects on neuronal excitability and pain signaling. At present, most of the clinically available sodium channel blockers used to treat pain are non-selective across sodium channel isoforms and can contribute to cardio-toxicity, motor impairments, and CNS side effects. Numerous strides have been made over the last decade in an effort to develop more selective and efficacious sodium channel blockers to treat pain. The purpose of this review is to highlight some of the more recent developments put forth by research universities and pharmaceutical companies alike in the pursuit of developing more targeted sodium channel therapies for the treatment of a variety of neuropathic pain conditions.
The pacemaker and pattern generator that underlies the cyclical generation of spontaneous colonic migrating motor complexes (CMMCs) has recently been identified to lie within the myenteric plexus and/or muscularis externa. Neither the mucosa, nor the release of substances from the mucosa were found to be required for the spontaneous generation of CMMCs. However, it is known that stretch applied to the colonic wall can also evoke CMMCs and since stretch of the gut wall is known to stimulate the mucosa, it is not clear whether release of substances from the mucosa and/or submucosal plexus are required for stretch-evoked CMMCs. Therefore, the aim of this study was to determine whether circumferential stretch-evoked CMMCs require the presence of the mucosa and/or submucosal plexus in isolated mouse colon. Spontaneous CMMCs were recorded from full length sheet preparations of colon in vitro. Graded circumferential stretch (at a rate of 100m/s) applied to a 15-mm segment of mid-distal colon reliably evoked a CMMC, which propagated to the oral recording site. Sharp dissection to remove the mucosa and submucosal plexus from the entire colon did not prevent spontaneous CMMCs and circumferential stretch-evoked CMMCs were still reliably evoked by circumferential stretch, even at significantly lower thresholds. In contrast, in intact preparations, direct stimulation of the mucosa (without accompanying stretch) proved highly inconsistent and rarely evoked a CMMC. These observations lead to the inescapable conclusion that the sensory neurons activated by colonic stretch to initiate CMMCs lie in the myenteric plexus, while the mechanoreceptors activated by stretch, lie in the myenteric ganglia and/or muscularis externa. Stretch activation of these mechanoreceptors does not require release of any substance(s) from the mucosa, or neural inputs arising from submucosal ganglia.
American psychologist and philosopher William James devoted the entirety of his career to exploring the nature of volition, as expressed by such phenomena as will, attention, and belief. As part of that endeavor, James's unorthodox scientific pursuits, from his experiments with nitrous oxide and hallucinogenic drugs to his investigation of spiritualist mediums, represent his attempt to address the &quot;hard problems&quot; of consciousness for which his training in brain physiology and experimental psychology could not entirely account. As a student, James's reading in chemistry and physics had sparked his interest in the concepts of energy and force, terms that he later deployed in his writing about consciousness and in his arguments against philosophical monism and scientific materialism, as he developed his &quot;radically empiricist&quot; ideas privileging discontinuity and plurality. Despite James's long campaign against scientific materialism, he was, however, convinced of the existence of a naturalistic explanation for the more &quot;wayward and fitful&quot; aspects of mind, including transcendent experiences associated with hysteria, genius, and religious ecstasy. In this paper, I examine aspects of James's thought that are still important for contemporary debates in psychology and neuroscience: his &quot;transmission theory&quot; of consciousness, his ideas on the &quot;knowing of things together,&quot; and, finally, the related concept of &quot;the compounding of consciousness,&quot; which postulates the theoretical possibility for individual entities within a conscious system of thought to &quot;know&quot; the thoughts of others within the system. Taken together, these ideas suggest that James, in spite of, or perhaps because of, his forays into metaphysics, was working toward a naturalistic understanding of consciousness, what I will term a &quot;distributive model,&quot; based on his understanding of consciousness as an &quot;awareness&quot; that interacts dynamically within, and in relation to, its environment.
Metaphors of Computation and Information tended to detract attention from the intrinsic modes of neural system functions, uncontaminated by the observer's role in collection, and interpretation of experimental data. Recognizing the self-referential mode of function, and the propensity for self-organization to critical states requires a fundamentally new orientation, based on Complex System Dynamics as non-ergodic, non-stationary processes with inverse-power-law statistical distributions. Accordingly, local cooperative processes, intrinsic to neural structures, and of fractal nature, call for applying Fractional Calculus and models of Random Walks with long-term memory in Theoretical Neuroscience studies.
Epidemiological studies reveal that individuals who engage in regular aerobic exercise are less likely to use and abuse illicit drugs. Until recently, very few studies had examined the causal influences that mediate this relationship, and it was not clear whether exercise was effective at reducing substance use and abuse. In the past few years, several preclinical studies have revealed that exercise reduces drug self-administration in laboratory animals. These studies have revealed that exercise produces protective effects in procedures designed to model different transitional phases that occur during the development of, and recover from, a substance use disorder (e.g., acquisition, maintenance, escalation, and relapse/reinstatement of drug use). Moreover, recent studies have revealed several behavioral and neurobiological consequences of exercise that may be responsible for its protective effects in these assays. Collectively, these studies have provided convincing evidence to support the development of exercise-based interventions to reduce compulsive patterns of drug intake in clinical and at-risk populations.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia. As an incurable, progressive, and neurodegenerative disease, it causes cognitive and memory deficits. However, the biological mechanisms underlying the disease are not thoroughly understood. In recent years, non-invasive neuroimaging and neurophysiological techniques [e.g., structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), diffusion MRI, functional MRI, and EEG/MEG] and graph theory based network analysis have provided a new perspective on structural and functional connectivity patterns of the human brain (i.e., the human connectome) in health and disease. Using these powerful approaches, several recent studies of patients with AD exhibited abnormal topological organization in both global and regional properties of neuronal networks, indicating that AD not only affects specific brain regions, but also alters the structural and functional associations between distinct brain regions. Specifically, disruptive organization in the whole-brain networks in AD is involved in the loss of small-world characters and the re-organization of hub distributions. These aberrant neuronal connectivity patterns were associated with cognitive deficits in patients with AD, even with genetic factors in healthy aging. These studies provide empirical evidence to support the existence of an aberrant connectome of AD. In this review we will summarize recent advances discovered in large-scale brain network studies of AD, mainly focusing on graph theoretical analysis of brain connectivity abnormalities. These studies provide novel insights into the pathophysiological mechanisms of AD and could be helpful in developing imaging biomarkers for disease diagnosis and monitoring.
Recent studies demonstrated that activation of the GABA(B) receptor, either by means of orthosteric agonists or positive allosteric modulators (PAMs), inhibited different nicotine-related behaviors, including intravenous self-administration and conditioned place preference, in rodents. The present study investigated whether the anti-nicotine effects of the GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen, and GABA(B) PAMs, CGP7930, and GS39783, extend to nicotine stimulant effects. To this end, CD1 mice were initially treated with baclofen (0, 1.25, and 2.5mg/kg, i.p.), CGP7930 (0, 25, and 50mg/kg, i.g.), or GS39783 (0, 25, and 50mg/kg, i.g.), then treated with nicotine (0 and 0.05mg/kg, s.c.), and finally exposed to an automated apparatus for recording of locomotor activity. Pretreatment with doses of baclofen, CGP7930, or GS39783 that did not alter locomotor activity when given with nicotine vehicle fully prevented hyperlocomotion induced by 0.05mg/kg nicotine. These data extend to nicotine stimulant effects the capacity of baclofen and GABA(B) PAMs to block the reinforcing, motivational, and rewarding properties of nicotine. These data strengthen the hypothesis that activation of the GABA(B) receptor may represent a potentially useful, anti-smoking therapeutic strategy.
The long-standing notion of schizophrenia as a disorder of connectivity is supported by emerging evidence from recent neuroimaging studies, suggesting impairments of both structural and functional connectivity in schizophrenia. However, investigations are generally restricted to supratentorial brain regions, thereby excluding the cerebellum. As increasing evidence suggests that the cerebellum contributes to cognitive and affective processing, aberrant connectivity in schizophrenia may include cerebellar dysconnectivity. Moreover, as schizophrenia is highly heritable, unaffected family members of schizophrenia patients may exhibit similar connectivity profiles. The present study applies resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging to determine cerebellar functional connectivity profiles, and the familial component of cerebellar connectivity profiles, in 62 schizophrenia patients and 67 siblings of schizophrenia patients. Compared to healthy control subjects, schizophrenia patients showed impaired functional connectivity between the cerebellum and several left-sided cerebral regions, including the hippocampus, thalamus, middle cingulate gyrus, triangular part of the inferior frontal gyrus, supplementary motor area, and lingual gyrus (all p&lt;0.0025, whole-brain significant). Importantly, siblings of schizophrenia patients showed several similarities to patients in cerebellar functional connectivity, suggesting that cerebellar dysconnectivity in schizophrenia might be related to familial factors. In conclusion, our findings suggest that dysconnectivity in schizophrenia involves the cerebellum and that this defect may be related to the risk to develop the illness.
Dopamine (DA) transmission is deeply affected by drugs of abuse, and alterations in DA function are involved in the various phases of drug addiction and potentially exploitable therapeutically. In particular, basic studies have documented a reduction in the electrophysiological activity of DA neurons in alcohol, opiate, cannabinoid, and other drug-dependent rats. Further, DA release in the Nucleus accumbens (Nacc) is decreased in virtually all drug-dependent rodents. In parallel, these studies are supported by increments in intracranial self stimulation (ICSS) thresholds during withdrawal from alcohol, nicotine, opiates, and other drugs of abuse, thereby suggesting a hypofunction of the neural substrate of ICSS. Accordingly, morphological evaluations fed into realistic computational analysis of the medium spiny neuron of the Nacc, post-synaptic counterpart of DA terminals, show profound changes in structure and function of the entire mesolimbic system. In line with these findings, human imaging studies have shown a reduction of dopamine receptors accompanied by a lesser release of endogenous DA in the ventral striatum of cocaine, heroin, and alcohol-dependent subjects, thereby offering visual proof of the &quot;dopamine-impoverished&quot; addicted human brain. The lasting reduction in physiological activity of the DA system leads to the idea that an increment in its activity, to restore pre-drug levels, may yield significant clinical improvements (reduction of craving, relapse, and drug-seeking/taking). In theory, it may be achieved pharmacologically and/or with novel interventions such as transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Its anatomo-physiological rationale as a possible therapeutic aid in alcoholics and other addicts will be described and proposed as a theoretical framework to be subjected to experimental testing in human addicts.
Recent studies have shown that immunotherapy clears amyloid beta (A) plaques and reduces A levels in mouse models of Alzheimer's disease (AD), as well as in AD patients. Tangle pathology is also relevant for the neurodegeneration in AD, and our studies have shown that active immunization with an AD related phospho-tau peptide reduces aggregated tau within the brain and slows the progression of tauopathy-induced behavioral impairments. Thus, clearance of neurofibrillary tangles and/or their precursors may reduce synaptic and neuronal loss associated with AD and other tauopathies. So far the mechanisms involved in antibody-mediated clearance of tau pathology are yet to be elucidated. In this study we have used a mouse brain slice model to examine the uptake and localization of FITC labeled anti-tau antibodies. Confocal microscopy analysis showed that the FITC labeled anti-tau antibody co-stained with phosphorylated tau, had a perinuclear appearance and co-localized with markers of the endosomal/lysosomal pathway. Additionally, tau and FITC-IgG were found together in an enriched lysosome fraction. In summary, antibody-mediated clearance of intracellular tau aggregates appears to occur via the lysosomal pathway.
The use of structural magnetic resonance imaging (sMRI) and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) in animal models of neuropathology is of increasing interest to the neuroscience community. In this work, we present our approach to create optimal translational studies that include both animal and human neuroimaging data within the frameworks of a study of post-natal neuro-development in intra-uterine cocaine-exposure. We propose the use of non-invasive neuroimaging to study developmental brain structural and white matter pathway abnormalities via sMRI and DTI, as advanced MR imaging technology is readily available and automated image analysis methodology have recently been transferred from the human to animal imaging setting. For this purpose, we developed a synergistic, parallel approach to imaging and image analysis for the human and the rodent branch of our study. We propose an equivalent design in both the selection of the developmental assessment stage and the neuroimaging setup. This approach brings significant advantages to study neurobiological features of early brain development that are common to animals and humans but also preserve analysis capabilities only possible in animal research. This paper presents the main framework and individual methods for the proposed cross-species study design, as well as preliminary DTI cross-species comparative results in the intra-uterine cocaine-exposure study.
Childhood maltreatment represents a significant risk factor for psychopathology. Recent research has begun to examine both the functional and structural neurobiological correlates of adverse care-giving experiences, including maltreatment, and how these might impact on a child's psychological and emotional development. The relationship between such experiences and risk for psychopathology has been shown to vary as a function of genetic factors. In this review we begin by providing a brief overview of neuroendocrine findings, which indicate an association between maltreatment and atypical development of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis stress response, which may predispose to psychiatric vulnerability in adulthood. We then selectively review the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies that have investigated possible structural and functional brain differences in children and adults who have experienced childhood maltreatment. Differences in the corpus callosum identified by structural MRI have now been reliably reported in children who have experienced abuse, while differences in the hippocampus have been reported in adults with childhood histories of maltreatment. In addition, there is preliminary evidence from functional MRI studies of adults who have experienced childhood maltreatment of amygdala hyperactivity and atypical activation of frontal regions. These functional differences can be partly understood in the context of the information biases observed in event-related potential and behavioral studies of physically abused children. Finally we consider research that has indicated that the effect of environmental adversity may be moderated by genotype, reviewing pertinent studies pointing to gene by environment interactions. We conclude by exploring the extent to which the growing evidence base in relation to neurobiological and genetic research may be relevant to clinical practice and intervention.
Schizophrenia is a disorder with a large number of clinical, neurobiological, and cognitive manifestations, none of which is invariably present. However it appears to be a single nosological entity. This article considers the likely characteristics of a pathology capable of such diverse consequences. It is argued that both deficit and psychotic symptoms can be manifestations of a single pathology. A general model of psychosis is proposed in which the informational sensitivity or responsivity of a network (&quot;hodological resonance&quot;) becomes so high that it activates spontaneously, to produce a hallucination, if it is in sensory cortex, or another psychotic symptom if it is elsewhere. It is argued that this can come about because of high levels of modulation such as those assumed present in affective psychosis, or because of high levels of baseline resonance, such as those expected in deafferentation syndromes associated with hallucinations, for example, Charles Bonnet. It is further proposed that schizophrenia results from a process (probably neurodevelopmental) causing widespread increases of variance in baseline resonance; consequently some networks possess high baseline resonance and become susceptible to spontaneous activation. Deficit symptoms might result from the presence of networks with increased activation thresholds. This hodological variance model is explored in terms of schizo-affective disorder, transient psychotic symptoms, diathesis-stress models, mechanisms of antipsychotic pharmacotherapy and persistence of genes predisposing to schizophrenia. Predictions and implications of the model are discussed. In particular it suggests a need for more research into psychotic states and for more single case-based studies in schizophrenia.

Functional neuroimaging studies in rodents have the potential to provide insight into neurodevelopmental and psychiatric conditions. The strength of the technique lies in its non-invasive nature that can permit longitudinal functional studies in the same animal over its adult life. The relatively good spatial and temporal resolution and the ever-growing database on the biological and biophysical basis of the blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signal make it a unique technique in preclinical neuroscience research. Our laboratory has used imaging to investigate brain activation in awake rats following cocaine administration and during the presentation of lactation-associated sensory stimuli. Factors that deserve attention when planning functional magnetic resonance imaging studies in rats include technical issues, animal physiology and interpretability of the resulting data. The present review discusses the pros and cons of animal imaging with a particular focus on the technical aspects of studies with awake rats. Overall, the benefits of the technique outweigh its limitations and the rapidly evolving methods will open the way for more laboratories to employ the technique in neuroscience research.
One clue regarding the basis of cocaine-induced deficits in attentional processing is provided by the clinical findings of changes in the infants' startle response; observations buttressed by neurophysiological evidence of alterations in brainstem transmission time. Using the IV route of administration and doses that mimic the peak arterial levels of cocaine use in humans, the present study examined the effects of prenatal cocaine on auditory information processing via tests of the auditory startle response (ASR), habituation, and prepulse inhibition (PPI) in the offspring. Nulliparous Long-Evans female rats, implanted with an IV access port prior to breeding, were administered saline, 0.5, 1.0, or 3.0mg/kg/injection of cocaine HCL (COC) from gestation day (GD) 8-20 (1/day-GD8-14, 2/day-GD15-20). COC had no significant effects on maternal/litter parameters or growth of the offspring. At 18-20days of age, one male and one female, randomly selected from each litter displayed an increased ASR (&gt;30% for males at 1.0mg/kg and &gt;30% for females at 3.0mg/kg). When reassessed in adulthood (D90-100), a linear dose-response increase was noted on response amplitude. At both test ages, within-session habituation was retarded by prenatal cocaine treatment. Testing the females in diestrus vs. estrus did not alter the results. Prenatal cocaine altered the PPI response function across interstimulus interval and induced significant sex-dependent changes in response latency. Idazoxan, an (2)-adrenergic receptor antagonist, significantly enhanced the ASR, but less enhancement was noted with increasing doses of prenatal cocaine. Thus, in utero exposure to cocaine, when delivered via a protocol designed to capture prominent features of recreational usage, causes persistent, if not permanent, alterations in auditory information processing, and suggests dysfunction of the central noradrenergic circuitry modulating, if not mediating, these responses.

Comprehensive clinical studies show that adverse conditions in early life can severely impact the developing brain and increase vulnerability to mood disorders later in life. During early postnatal life the brain exhibits high plasticity which allows environmental signals to alter the trajectories of rapidly developing circuits. Adversity in early life is able to shape the experience-dependent maturation of stress-regulating pathways underlying emotional functions and endocrine responses to stress, such as the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) system, leading to long-lasting altered stress responsivity during adulthood. To date, the study of gene-environment interactions in the human population has been dominated by epidemiology. However, recent research in the neuroscience field is now advancing clinical studies by addressing specifically the mechanisms by which gene-environment interactions can predispose individuals toward psychopathology. To this end, appropriate animal models are being developed in which early environmental factors can be manipulated in a controlled manner. Here we will review recent studies performed with the common aim of understanding the effects of the early environment in shaping brain development and discuss the newly developing role of epigenetic mechanisms in translating early life conditions into long-lasting changes in gene expression underpinning brain functions. Particularly, we argue that epigenetic mechanisms can mediate the gene-environment dialog in early life and give rise to persistent epigenetic programming of adult physiology and dysfunction eventually resulting in disease. Understanding how early life experiences can give rise to lasting epigenetic marks conferring increased risk for mental disorders, how they are maintained and how they could be reversed, is increasingly becoming a focus of modern psychiatry and should pave new guidelines for timely therapeutic interventions.
NMDA receptor (NMDAR) antagonists, such as phencyclidine, ketamine, or dizocilpine (MK-801) are commonly used in psychiatric drug discovery in order to model several symptoms of schizophrenia, including psychosis and impairments in working memory. In spite of the widespread use of NMDAR antagonists in preclinical and clinical studies, our understanding of the mode of action of these drugs on brain circuits and neuronal networks is still limited. In the present study spontaneous local field potential (LFP), multi- (MUA) and single-unit activity, and evoked potential, including paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) in response to electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral subiculum were carried out in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in urethane anesthetized rats. Systemic administration of MK-801 (0.05mg/kg, i.v.) decreased overall MUA, with a diverse effect on single-unit activity, including increased, decreased, or unchanged firing, and in line with our previous findings shifted delta-frequency power of the LFP and disrupted PPF (Kiss et al., 2011). In order to provide further insight to the mechanisms of action of NMDAR antagonists, MK-801 was administered intracranially into the mPFC and mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus (MD). Microinjections of MK-801, but not physiological saline, localized into the MD evoked changes in both LFP parameters and PPF similar to the effects of systemically administered MK-801. Local microinjection of MK-801 into the mPFC was without effect on these parameters. Our findings indicate that the primary site of the action of systemic administration of NMDAR antagonists is unlikely to be the cortex. We presume that multiple neuronal networks, involving thalamic nuclei contribute to disrupted behavior and cognition following NMDAR blockade.
Accumbal glycine modulates basal and ethanol-induced dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens (nAc) as well as voluntary ethanol consumption. Also, systemic administration of the glycine transporter-1 inhibitor Org25935 elevates dopamine levels in nAc, prevents a further ethanol-induced dopamine elevation and robustly and dose-dependently decreases ethanol consumption in rats. Here we investigated whether Org25935 applied locally in nAc modulates dopamine release, and whether accumbal glycine receptors or NMDA receptors are involved in this tentative effect. We also addressed whether Org25935 and ethanol applied locally in nAc interact with dopamine levels, as seen after systemic administration. We used in vivo microdialysis coupled to HPLC-ED in freely moving male Wistar rats to monitor dopamine output in nAc after local perfusion of Org25935 alone, with ethanol, or Org25935-perfusion after pre-treatment with the glycine receptor antagonist strychnine or the NMDA receptor glycine site antagonist L-701.324. Local Org25935 increased extracellular dopamine levels in a subpopulation of rats. Local strychnine, but not systemic L-701.324, antagonized the dopamine-activating effect of Org25935. Ethanol failed to induce a dopamine overflow in the subpopulation responding to Org25935 with a dopamine elevation. The study supports a role for accumbal glycine receptors rather than NMDA receptor signaling in the dopamine-activating effect of Org25935. The results further indicate that the previously reported systemic Org25935-ethanol interaction with regard to accumbal dopamine is localized to the nAc. This adds to the growing evidence for the glycine receptor as an important player in the dopamine reward circuitry and in ethanol's effects within this system.
Although there is clear evidence that low verbal ability is a risk factor for conduct disorder (CD), some researchers have questioned whether this association is due to the common comorbidity between attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and CD. The present study examined the association among verbal ability, ADHD, and CD in a genetically informative sample in order to examine the role of genes and/or environmental influences shared in common with ADHD on the covariation between verbal ability and CD. Participants were 2744 adolescents from the Center for Antisocial Drug Dependence (CADD), and included 360 monozygotic (MZ) female twin pairs, 221 dizygotic (DZ) female twin pairs, 297 MZ male twin pairs, 220 DZ male twin pairs, and 274 opposite-sex DZ twin pairs. The Diagnostic Interview Schedule for Children (DISC-IV) was used to assess lifetime symptoms of ADHD and CD. Verbal ability was assessed via the Vocabulary subtest of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale III (WAIS-III) for individuals over the age of 16 and the Vocabulary subtest of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children III (WISC-III) for individuals under the age of 16. There was a small but significant negative covariance between verbal ability and CD and between verbal ability and ADHD. Results also suggest that the covariation between verbal ability and CD is due to influences shared in common with ADHD.
Motor inhibition is among the most commonly studied executive functions in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Imaging studies using probes of motor inhibition such as the stop signal task (SST) consistently demonstrate ADHD-related dysfunction within a right-hemisphere fronto-striatal network that includes inferior frontal gyrus and pre-supplementary motor area. Beyond findings of focal hypo- or hyper-function, emerging models of ADHD psychopathology highlight disease-related changes in functional interactions between network components. Resting state fMRI (R-fMRI) approaches have emerged as powerful tools for mapping such interactions (i.e., resting state functional connectivity, RSFC), and for relating behavioral and diagnostic variables to network properties. We used R-fMRI data collected from 17 typically developing controls (TDC) and 17 age-matched children with ADHD (aged 8-13years) to identify neural correlates of SST performance measured outside the scanner. We examined two related inhibition indices: stop signal reaction time (SSRT), indexing inhibitory speed, and stop signal delay (SSD), indexing inhibitory success. Using 11 fronto-striatal seed regions-of-interest, we queried the brain for relationships between RSFC and each performance index, as well as for interactions with diagnostic status. Both SSRT and SSD exhibited connectivity-behavior relationships independent of diagnosis. At the same time, we found differential connectivity-behavior relationships in children with ADHD relative to TDC. Our results demonstrate the utility of RSFC approaches for assessing brain/behavior relationships, and for identifying pathology-related differences in the contributions of neural circuits to cognition and behavior.
We describe a theoretical model of the neurocognitive mechanisms underlying conscious presence and its disturbances. The model is based on interoceptive prediction error and is informed by predictive models of agency, general models of hierarchical predictive coding and dopaminergic signaling in cortex, the role of the anterior insular cortex (AIC) in interoception and emotion, and cognitive neuroscience evidence from studies of virtual reality and of psychiatric disorders of presence, specifically depersonalization/derealization disorder. The model associates presence with successful suppression by top-down predictions of informative interoceptive signals evoked by autonomic control signals and, indirectly, by visceral responses to afferent sensory signals. The model connects presence to agency by allowing that predicted interoceptive signals will depend on whether afferent sensory signals are determined, by a parallel predictive-coding mechanism, to be self-generated or externally caused. Anatomically, we identify the AIC as the likely locus of key neural comparator mechanisms. Our model integrates a broad range of previously disparate evidence, makes predictions for conjoint manipulations of agency and presence, offers a new view of emotion as interoceptive inference, and represents a step toward a mechanistic account of a fundamental phenomenological property of consciousness.
The process of learning symbolic Arabic digits in early childhood requires that magnitude and spatial information integrates with the concept of symbolic digits. Previous research has separately investigated the development of automatic access to magnitude and spatial information from symbolic digits. However, developmental trajectories of symbolic number knowledge cannot be fully understood when considering components in isolation. In view of this, we have synthesized the existing lines of research and tested the use of both magnitude and spatial information with the same sample of British children in Years 1, 2, and 3 (6-8years of age). The physical judgment task of the numerical Stroop paradigm demonstrated that automatic access to magnitude was present from Year 1 and the distance effect signaled that a refined processing of numerical information had developed. Additionally, a parity judgment task showed that the onset of the spatial-numerical association of response codes effect occurs in Year 2. These findings uncover the developmental timeline of how magnitude and spatial representations integrate with symbolic number knowledge during early learning of Arabic digits and resolve inconsistencies between previous developmental and experimental research lines.
We investigated how conceptually informative (referent preview) and conceptually uninformative (pointer to referent's location) visual cues affect structural choice during production of English transitive sentences. Cueing the Agent or the Patient prior to presenting the target-event reliably predicted the likelihood of selecting this referent as the sentential Subject, triggering, correspondingly, the choice between active and passive voice. Importantly, there was no difference in the magnitude of the general Cueing effect between the informative and uninformative cueing conditions, suggesting that attentionally driven structural selection relies on a direct automatic mapping mechanism from attentional focus to the Subject's position in a sentence. This mechanism is, therefore, independent of accessing conceptual, and possibly lexical, information about the cued referent provided by referent preview.
The last decade has witnessed an explosion of research into the neural mechanisms underlying emotion processing on the one hand, and cognitive control and executive function on the other hand. More recently, studies have begun to directly examine how concurrent emotion processing influences cognitive control performance but many questions remain currently unresolved. Interestingly, parallel to investigations in healthy adults, research in developmental cognitive neuroscience and developmental affective disorders has provided some intriguing findings that complement the adult literature. This review provides an overview of current research on cognitive control and emotion interactions. It integrates parallel lines of research in adulthood and development and will draw on several lines of evidence ranging from behavioral, neurophysiological, and neuroimaging work in healthy adults and extend these to work in pediatric development and patients with affective disorders. Particular emphasis is given to studies that provide information on the neurobiological underpinnings of emotional and cognitive control processes using functional magnetic resonance imaging. The findings are then summarized and discussed in relation to neurochemical processes and the dopamine hypothesis of prefrontal cortical function. Finally, open areas of research for future study are identified and discussed within the context of cognitive control emotion interactions.
Scientific investigations on the nature of the self have so far focused on high-level mechanisms. Recent evidence, however, suggests that low-level bottom-up mechanisms of multi-sensory integration play a fundamental role in encoding specific components of bodily self-consciousness, such as self-location and first-person perspective (Blanke and Metzinger, 2009). Self-location and first-person perspective are abnormal in neurological patients suffering from out-of-body experiences (Blanke et al., 2004), and can be manipulated experimentally in healthy subjects by imposing multi-sensory conflicts (Lenggenhager et al., 2009). Activity of the temporo-parietal junction (TPJ) reflects experimentally induced changes in self-location and first-person perspective (Ionta et al., 2011), and dysfunctions in TPJ are causally associated with out-of-body experiences (Blanke et al., 2002). We argue that TPJ is one of the key areas for multi-sensory integration of bodily self-consciousness, that its levels of activity reflect the experience of the conscious &quot;I&quot; as embodied and localized within bodily space, and that these mechanisms can be systematically investigated using state of the art technologies such as robotics, virtual reality, and non-invasive neuroimaging.
The temporal dynamics and anatomical correlates underlying human visual cognition are traditionally assessed as a function of stimulus properties and task demands. Any non-stimulus related activity is commonly dismissed as noise and eliminated to extract an evoked signal that is only a small fraction of the magnitude of the measured signal. We review studies that challenge this view by showing that non-stimulus related activity is not mere noise but that it has a well-structured organization which can largely determine the processing of upcoming stimuli. We review recent evidence from human electrophysiology that shows how different aspects of pre-stimulus activity such as pre-stimulus EEG frequency power and phase and pre-stimulus EEG microstates can determine qualitative and quantitative properties of both lower and higher-level visual processing. These studies show that low-level sensory processes depend on the momentary excitability of sensory cortices whereas perceptual processes leading to stimulus awareness depend on momentary pre-stimulus activity in higher-level non-visual brain areas. Also speed and accuracy of stimulus identification have likewise been shown to be modulated by pre-stimulus brain states.
Consciousness has been proposed to play a key role in shaping flexible learning and as such is thought to confer an evolutionary advantage. Attention and awareness are the perhaps most important underlying processes, yet their precise relationship is presently unclear. Both of these processes must, however, serve the evolutionary imperatives of survival and procreation. They are thus intimately bound by reward and emotion to help to prioritize efficient brain resource allocation in order to predict and optimize behavior. Here we show how this process is served by a paralimbic network consisting primarily of regions located on the midline of the human brain. Using many different techniques, experiments have demonstrated that this network is effective and specific for self-awareness and contributes to the sense of unity of consciousness by acting as a common neural path for a wide variety of conscious experiences. Interestingly, hemodynamic activity in the network decreases with focusing on external stimuli, which has led to the idea of a default mode network. This network is one of many networks that wax and vane as resources are allocated to accommodate the different cyclical needs of the organism primarily related to the fundamental pleasures afforded by evolution: food, sex, and conspecifics. Here we hypothesize, however, that the paralimbic network serves a crucial role in balancing and regulating brain resource allocation, and discuss how it can be thought of as a link between current theories of so-called &quot;default mode,&quot; &quot;resting state networks,&quot; and &quot;global workspace.&quot; We show how major developmental disorders of self-awareness and self-control can arise from problems in the paralimbic network as demonstrated here by the example of Asperger syndrome. We conclude that attention, awareness, and emotion are integrated by a paralimbic network that helps to efficiently allocate brain resources to optimize behavior and help survival.
To test whether atypical number development may affect other types of quantity processing, we investigated temporal discrimination in adults with developmental dyscalculia (DD). This also allowed us to test whether number and time may be sub-served by a common quantity system or decision mechanisms: if they do, both should be impaired in dyscalculia, but if number and time are distinct they should dissociate. Participants judged which of two successively presented horizontal lines was longer in duration, the first line being preceded by either a small or a large number prime (&quot;1&quot; or &quot;9&quot;) or by a neutral symbol (&quot;#&quot;), or in a third task participants decided which of two Arabic numbers (either &quot;1,&quot; &quot;5,&quot; &quot;9&quot;) lasted longer. Results showed that (i) DD's temporal discriminability was normal as long as numbers were not part of the experimental design, even as task-irrelevant stimuli; however (ii) task-irrelevant numbers dramatically disrupted DD's temporal discriminability the more their salience increased, though the actual magnitude of the numbers had no effect; in contrast (iii) controls' time perception was robust to the presence of numbers but modulated by numerical quantity: therefore small number primes or numerical stimuli seemed to make durations appear shorter than veridical, but longer for larger numerical prime or numerical stimuli. This study is the first to show spared temporal discrimination - a dimension of continuous quantity - in a population with a congenital number impairment. Our data reinforce the idea of a partially shared quantity system across numerical and temporal dimensions, which supports both dissociations and interactions among dimensions; however, they suggest that impaired number in DD is unlikely to originate from systems initially dedicated to continuous quantity processing like time.
While the influence of orthographic knowledge on lexical and postlexical speech processing tasks has been consistently observed, it is not the case in tasks that can be performed at the prelexical level. The present study re-examined the orthographic consistency effect in such a task, namely in shadowing. Comparing the situation where the acoustic signal was clearly presented to the situation where it was embedded in noise, we observed that the orthographic effect was restricted to the latter situation and only to high-frequency words. This finding supports the lexical account of the orthographic effects in speech recognition tasks and illustrates the ability of the cognitive system to adjust itself as a function of task difficulty by resorting to the appropriate processing mechanism and information in order to maintain a good level of performance.
Young children often perseverate, engaging in previously correct, but no longer appropriate behaviors. One account posits that such perseveration results from the use of stimulus-specific representations of a situation, which are distinct from abstract, generalizable representations that support flexible behavior. Previous findings supported this account, demonstrating that only children who flexibly switch between rules could generalize their behavior to novel stimuli. However, this link between flexibility and generalization might reflect general cognitive abilities, or depend upon similarities across the measures or their temporal order. The current work examined these issues by testing the specificity and generality of this link. In two experiments with 3-year-old children, flexibility was measured in terms of switching between rules in a card-sorting task, while abstraction was measured in terms of selecting which stimulus did not belong in an odd-one-out task. The link between flexibility and abstraction was general across (1) abstraction dimensions similar to or different from those in the card-sorting task and (2) abstraction tasks that preceded or followed the switching task. Good performance on abstraction and flexibility measures did not extend to all cognitive tasks, including an IQ measure, and dissociated from children's ability to gaze at the correct stimulus in the odd-one-out task, suggesting that the link between flexibility and abstraction is specific to such measures, rather than reflecting general abilities that affect all tasks. We interpret these results in terms of the role that developing prefrontal cortical regions play in processes such as working memory, which can support both flexibility and abstraction.
Dreaming is still a mystery of human cognition, although it has been studied experimentally for more than a century. Experimental psychology first investigated dream content and frequency. The neuroscientific approach to dreaming arose at the end of the 1950s and soon proposed a physiological substrate of dreaming: rapid eye movement sleep. Fifty years later, this hypothesis was challenged because it could not explain all of the characteristics of dream reports. Therefore, the neurophysiological correlates of dreaming are still unclear, and many questions remain unresolved. Do the representations that constitute the dream emerge randomly from the brain, or do they surface according to certain parameters? Is the organization of the dream's representations chaotic or is it determined by rules? Does dreaming have a meaning? What is/are the function(s) of dreaming? Psychoanalysis provides hypotheses to address these questions. Until now, these hypotheses have received minimal attention in cognitive neuroscience, but the recent development of neuropsychoanalysis brings new hopes of interaction between the two fields. Considering the psychoanalytical perspective in cognitive neuroscience would provide new directions and leads for dream research and would help to achieve a comprehensive understanding of dreaming. Notably, several subjective issues at the core of the psychoanalytic approach, such as the concept of personal meaning, the concept of unconscious episodic memory and the subject's history, are not addressed or considered in cognitive neuroscience. This paper argues that the focus on singularity and personal meaning in psychoanalysis is needed to successfully address these issues in cognitive neuroscience and to progress in the understanding of dreaming and the psyche.
This manuscript presents two experiments designed to explore the effects of attention on perceived exertion and time to failure in a fatiguing athletic task. There were two major motivating factors for these experiments. First, there are few studies evaluating attentional focus effects in endurance tasks and, second, there is a lack of integration between studies of attentional focus as external/internal (e.g., Wulf, 2007a) compared to associative/dissociative (e.g., Stevinson and Biddle, 1998). In Experiment 1, we used a fatiguing wall-sit posture (essentially a complex, isometric task) to compare two different types of external attention with an internal focus on the position of the legs. An external focus (regardless of type) increased the time taken to failure and reduced perceived exertion. In Experiment 2, we manipulated subjects' expectancy of fatigue to test the interaction of attention and expectancy (both top-down factors) in this highly fatiguing task. Previous theories of attention during endurance tasks have suggested that as fatigue/pain increase, bottom-up factors begin to dominate subjects' attention. While this may be true, Experiment 2 showed that even in a highly fatiguing task, attentional strategies, and expectancies affected the time to failure and perceived exertion.
Attention and language are among the most intensively researched abilities in the cognitive neurosciences, but the relation between these abilities has largely been neglected. There is increasing evidence, however, that linguistic processes, such as those underlying the planning of words, cannot proceed without paying some form of attention. Here, we review evidence that word planning requires some but not full attention. The evidence comes from chronometric studies of word planning in picture naming and word reading under divided attention conditions. It is generally assumed that the central attention demands of a process are indexed by the extent that the process delays the performance of a concurrent unrelated task. The studies measured the speed and accuracy of linguistic and non-linguistic responding as well as eye gaze durations reflecting the allocation of attention. First, empirical evidence indicates that in several task situations, processes up to and including phonological encoding in word planning delay, or are delayed by, the performance of concurrent unrelated non-linguistic tasks. These findings suggest that word planning requires central attention. Second, empirical evidence indicates that conflicts in word planning may be resolved while concurrently performing an unrelated non-linguistic task, making a task decision, or making a go/no-go decision. These findings suggest that word planning does not require full central attention. We outline a computationally implemented theory of attention and word planning, and describe at various points the outcomes of computer simulations that demonstrate the utility of the theory in accounting for the key findings. Finally, we indicate how attention deficits may contribute to impaired language performance, such as in individuals with specific language impairment.

Humans have a remarkable capacity to learn and adapt, but surprisingly little research has demonstrated generalized learning in which new skills and strategies can be used flexibly across a range of tasks and contexts. In the present work we examined whether generalized learning could result from visual-motor training under stroboscopic visual conditions. Individuals were assigned to either an experimental condition that trained with stroboscopic eyewear or to a control condition that underwent identical training with non-stroboscopic eyewear. The training consisted of multiple sessions of athletic activities during which participants performed simple drills such as throwing and catching. To determine if training led to generalized benefits, we used computerized measures to assess perceptual and cognitive abilities on a variety of tasks before and after training. Computer-based assessments included measures of visual sensitivity (central and peripheral motion coherence thresholds), transient spatial attention (a useful field of view - dual task paradigm), and sustained attention (multiple-object tracking). Results revealed that stroboscopic training led to significantly greater re-test improvement in central visual field motion sensitivity and transient attention abilities. No training benefits were observed for peripheral motion sensitivity or peripheral transient attention abilities, nor were benefits seen for sustained attention during multiple-object tracking. These findings suggest that stroboscopic training can effectively improve some, but not all aspects of visual perception and attention.
Although EEG alpha (; 8-13Hz) rhythms are often considered to reflect an &quot;idling&quot; brain state, numerous studies indicate that they are also related to many aspects of perception. Recently, we outlined a potential cellular substrate by which such aspects of perception might be linked to basic  rhythm mechanisms. This scheme relies on a specialized subset of rhythmically bursting thalamocortical (TC) neurons (high-threshold bursting cells) in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) which are interconnected by gap junctions (GJs). By engaging GABAergic interneurons, that in turn inhibit conventional relay-mode TC neurons, these cells can lead to an effective temporal framing of thalamic relay-mode output. Although the role of GJs is pivotal in this scheme, evidence for their involvement in thalamic  rhythms has thus far mainly derived from experiments in in vitro slice preparations. In addition, direct anatomical evidence of neuronal GJs in the LGN is currently lacking. To address the first of these issues we tested the effects of the GJ inhibitors, carbenoxolone (CBX), and 18-glycyrrhetinic acid (18-GA), given directly to the LGN via reverse microdialysis, on spontaneous LGN and EEG  rhythms in behaving cats. We also examined the effect of CBX on  rhythm-related LGN unit activity. Indicative of a role for thalamic GJs in these activities, 18-GA and CBX reversibly suppressed both LGN and EEG  rhythms, with CBX also decreasing neuronal synchrony. To address the second point, we used electron microscopy to obtain definitive ultrastructural evidence for the presence of GJs between neurons in the cat LGN. As interneurons show no phenotypic evidence of GJ coupling (i.e., dye-coupling and spikelets) we conclude that these GJs must belong to TC neurons. The potential significance of these findings for relating macroscopic changes in  rhythms to basic cellular processes is discussed.

Given that the core issues of attention research have been recognized for millenia, we do not know as much about attention as we should. I argue that the reasons for this failure are (1) we create spurious dichotomies, (2) we reify attention, treating it as a cause, when it is an effect, and (3) we equate a collection of facts with a theory. In order to correct these errors, we need a new technical vocabulary that allows for attentional effects to be continuously distributed, rather than merely present or absent, and that provides a basis for quantitative behavioral predictions that map onto neural substrates. The terminology of the Bayesian decision process has already proved useful for structuring conceptual discussions in other psychological domains, such as perception and decision making under uncertainty, and it had demonstrated early success in the domain of attention. By rejecting a reified, causal conception of attention, in favor of theories that produce attentional effects as consequences, psychologists will be able to conduct more definitive experiments. Such conceptual advances will then enhance the productivity of neuroscientists by allowing them to concentrate their data collection efforts on the richest soil.
Numerous theories posit that affectively salient stimuli are privileged in their capacity to capture attention and disrupt ongoing cognition. Two underlying assumptions in this theoretical position are that the potency of affective stimuli transcends task boundaries (i.e., emotional distracters do not have to belong to a current task-set to disrupt processing) and that there is an asymmetry between emotional and cognitive processing (i.e., emotional distracters disrupt cognitive processing, but not vice versa). These assumptions have remained largely untested, as common experimental probes of emotion-cognition interaction rarely manipulate task-relevance and only examine one side of the presumed asymmetry of interference. To test these propositions directly, a face-word Stroop protocol was adapted to independently manipulate (a) the congruency between target and distracter stimulus features, (b) the affective salience of distracter features, and (c) the task-relevance of emotional compared to non-emotional target features. A three-way interaction revealed interdependent effects of distracter relevance, congruence, and affective salience. Compared to task-irrelevant distracters, task-relevant congruent distracters facilitated performance and task-relevant incongruent distracters impaired performance, but the latter effect depended on the nature of the target feature and task. Specifically, task-irrelevant emotional distracters resulted in equivalent performance costs as task-relevant non-emotional distracters, whereas task-irrelevant non-emotional distracters did not produce performance costs comparable to those generated by task-relevant emotional distracters. These results document asymmetric cross-task interference effects for affectively salient stimuli, supporting the notion of affective prioritization in human information processing.
Reappraisal has been defined as a conscious, deliberate change in the way an emotional stimulus is interpreted, initiated in order to change its emotion-eliciting character (Gross, 2002). Reappraisal can be used to down-regulate negative emotions, including anxiety (reviewed in Kalisch, 2009). There is currently a strong interest in identifying the cognitive processes and neural substrates that mediate reappraisal. We have recently proposed a model (termed implementation-maintenance model or IMMO) that conceptualizes reappraisal as a temporally extended, dynamic, and multi-componential process (Kalisch, 2009). A key tenet of IMMO is that reappraisal episodes are marked by an early phase of implementation that may comprise strategy selection and retrieval of reappraisal material into working memory, and a later phase of maintenance that may comprise working memory and performance monitoring processes. These should be supported by dissociable neural networks. We here show, using a detachment-from-threat paradigm and concurrent functional magnetic resonance imaging, that reappraisal-related brain activity shifts from left posterior to right anterior parts of the lateral frontal cortex during the course of a reappraisal episode. Our data provide first empirical evidence for the existence of two separable reappraisal stages. Implications for further model development are discussed.
Alpha-frequency band (8-14Hz) oscillations are among the most salient phenomena in human electroencephalography (EEG) recordings and yet their functional roles have remained unclear. Much of research on alpha oscillations in human EEG has focused on peri-stimulus amplitude dynamics, which phenomenologically support an idea of alpha oscillations being negatively correlated with local cortical excitability and having a role in the suppression of task-irrelevant neuronal processing. This kind of an inhibitory role for alpha oscillations is also supported by several functional magnetic resonance imaging and trans-cranial magnetic stimulation studies. Nevertheless, investigations of local and inter-areal alpha phase dynamics suggest that the alpha-frequency band rhythmicity may play a role also in active task-relevant neuronal processing. These data imply that inter-areal alpha phase synchronization could support attentional, executive, and contextual functions. In this review, we outline evidence supporting different views on the roles of alpha oscillations in cortical networks and unresolved issues that should be addressed to resolve or reconcile these apparently contrasting hypotheses.
Speech production long avoided electrophysiological experiments due to the suspicion that potential artifacts caused by muscle activity of overt speech may lead to a bad signal-to-noise ratio in the measurements. Therefore, researchers have sought to assess speech production by using indirect speech production tasks, such as tacit or implicit naming, delayed naming, or meta-linguistic tasks, such as phoneme-monitoring. Covert speech may, however, involve different processes than overt speech production. Recently, overt speech has been investigated using electroencephalography (EEG). As the number of papers published is rising steadily, this clearly indicates the increasing interest and demand for overt speech research within the field of cognitive neuroscience of language. Our main goal here is to review all currently available results of overt speech production involving EEG measurements, such as picture naming, Stroop naming, and reading aloud. We conclude that overt speech production can be successfully studied using electrophysiological measures, for instance, event-related brain potentials (ERPs). We will discuss possible relevant components in the ERP waveform of speech production and aim to address the issue of how to interpret the results of ERP research using overt speech, and whether the ERP components in language production are comparable to results from other fields.

Whole body expressions are among the main visual stimulus categories that are naturally associated with faces and the neuroscientific investigation of how body expressions are processed has entered the research agenda this last decade. Here we describe the stimulus set of whole body expressions termed bodily expressive action stimulus test (BEAST), and we provide validation data for use of these materials by the community of emotion researchers. The database was composed of 254 whole body expressions from 46 actors expressing 4 emotions (anger, fear, happiness, and sadness). In all pictures the face of the actor was blurred and participants were asked to categorize the emotions expressed in the stimuli in a four alternative-forced-choice task. The results show that all emotions are well recognized, with sadness being the easiest, followed by fear, whereas happiness was the most difficult. The BEAST appears a valuable addition to currently available tools for assessing recognition of affective signals. It can be used in explicit recognition tasks as well as in matching tasks and in implicit tasks, combined either with facial expressions, with affective prosody, or presented with affective pictures as context in healthy subjects as well as in clinical populations.
Native tone language experience has been linked with alterations in the production and perception of pitch in language, as well as with the brain response to linguistic and non-linguistic tones. Here we use two experiments to address whether these changes apply to the discrimination of simple pitch changes and pitch intervals. Event related potentials (ERPs) were recorded from native Mandarin speakers and a control group during a same/different task with pairs of pure tones differing only in pitch height, and with pure tone pairs differing only in interval distance. Behaviorally, Mandarin speakers were more accurate than controls at detecting both pitch and interval changes, showing a sensitivity to small pitch changes and interval distances that was absent in the control group. Converging evidence from ERPs obtained during the same tasks revealed an earlier response to change relative to no-change trials in Mandarin speakers, as well as earlier differentiation of trials by change direction relative to controls. These findings illustrate the cross-domain influence of language experience on the perception of pitch, suggesting that the native use of tonal pitch contours in language leads to a general enhancement in the acuity of pitch representations.
We studied how task constraints modulate the relationship between single-trial event-related potentials (ERPs) and image noise. Thirteen subjects performed two interleaved tasks: on different blocks, they saw the same stimuli, but they discriminated either between two faces or between two colors. Stimuli were two pictures of red or green faces that contained from 10 to 80% of phase noise, with 10% increments. Behavioral accuracy followed a noise dependent sigmoid in the identity task but was high and independent of noise level in the color task. EEG data recorded concurrently were analyzed using a single-trial ANCOVA: we assessed how changes in task constraints modulated ERP noise sensitivity while regressing out the main ERP differences due to identity, color, and task. Single-trial ERP sensitivity to image phase noise started at about 95-110ms post-stimulus onset. Group analyses showed a significant reduction in noise sensitivity in the color task compared to the identity task from about 140ms to 300ms post-stimulus onset. However, statistical analyses in every subject revealed different results: significant task modulation occurred in 8/13 subjects, one showing an increase and seven showing a decrease in noise sensitivity in the color task. Onsets and durations of effects also differed between group and single-trial analyses: at any time point only a maximum of four subjects (31%) showed results consistent with group analyses. We provide detailed results for all 13 subjects, including a shift function analysis that revealed asymmetric task modulations of single-trial ERP distributions. We conclude that, during face processing, bottom-up sensitivity to phase noise can be modulated by top-down task constraints, in a broad window around the P2, at least in some subjects.
Our ability to perceive visual motion is critically dependent on the human motion complex (hMT+) in the dorsal visual stream. Extensive electrophysiological research in the monkey equivalent of this region has demonstrated how neuronal populations code for properties such as speed and direction, and that neurometric functions relate to psychometric functions within the individual monkey. In humans, the physiological correlates of inter-individual perceptual differences are still largely unknown. To address this question, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while participants viewed translational motion in different directions, and we measured thresholds for direction discrimination of moving stimuli in a separate psychophysics experiment. After determining hMT+ in each participant with a functional localizer, we were able to decode the different directions of visual motion from it using pattern classification (PC). We also characterized the variability of fMRI signal in hMT+ during stimulus and rest periods with a generative model. Relating perceptual performance to physiology, individual direction discrimination thresholds were significantly correlated with the variability measure in hMT+, but not with PC accuracies. Individual differences in PC accuracy were driven by non-physiological sources of noise, such as head-movement, which makes this method a poor tool to investigate inter-individual differences. In contrast, variability analysis of the fMRI signal was robust to non-physiological noise, and variability characteristics in hMT+ correlated with psychophysical thresholds in the individual participants. Higher levels of fMRI signal variability compared to rest correlated with lower discrimination thresholds. This result is in line with theories on stochastic resonance in the context of neuronal populations, which suggest that endogenous or exogenous noise can increase the sensitivity of neuronal populations to incoming signals.
We used perceptual aftereffects induced by adaptation with anti-voice stimuli to investigate voice identity representations. Participants learned a set of voices then were tested on a voice identification task with vowel stimuli morphed between identities, after different conditions of adaptation. In Experiment 1, participants chose the identity opposite to the adapting anti-voice significantly more often than the other two identities (e.g., after being adapted to anti-A, they identified the average voice as A). In Experiment 2, participants showed a bias for identities opposite to the adaptor specifically for anti-voice, but not for non-anti-voice adaptors. These results are strikingly similar to adaptation aftereffects observed for facial identity. They are compatible with a representation of individual voice identities in a multidimensional perceptual voice space referenced on a voice prototype.
If it is well known that knowledge facilitates higher cognitive functions, such as visual and auditory word recognition, little is known about the influence of knowledge on detection, particularly in the auditory modality. Our study tested the influence of phonological and lexical knowledge on auditory detection. Words, pseudo-words, and complex non-phonological sounds, energetically matched as closely as possible, were presented at a range of presentation levels from sub-threshold to clearly audible. The participants performed a detection task (Experiments 1 and 2) that was followed by a two alternative forced-choice recognition task in Experiment 2. The results of this second task in Experiment 2 suggest a correct recognition of words in the absence of detection with a subjective threshold approach. In the detection task of both experiments, phonological stimuli (words and pseudo-words) were better detected than non-phonological stimuli (complex sounds), presented close to the auditory threshold. This finding suggests an advantage of speech for signal detection. An additional advantage of words over pseudo-words was observed in Experiment 2, suggesting that lexical knowledge could also improve auditory detection when listeners had to recognize the stimulus in a subsequent task. Two simulations of detection performance performed on the sound signals confirmed that the advantage of speech over non-speech processing could not be attributed to energetic differences in the stimuli.
Causal reasoning is a ubiquitous feature of human cognition. We continuously seek to understand, at least implicitly and often explicitly, the causal scenarios in which we live, so that we may anticipate what will come next, plan a potential response and envision its outcome, decide among possible courses of action in light of their probable outcomes, make midstream adjustments in our goal-related activities as our situation changes, and so on. A considerable body of research shows that the lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) is crucial for causal reasoning, but also that there are significant differences in the manner in which ventrolateral PFC, dorsolateral PFC, and anterolateral PFC support causal reasoning. We propose, on the basis of research on the evolution, architecture, and functional organization of the lateral PFC, a general framework for understanding its roles in the many and varied sorts of causal reasoning carried out by human beings. Specifically, the ventrolateral PFC supports the generation of basic causal explanations and inferences; dorsolateral PFC supports the evaluation of these scenarios in light of some given normative standard (e.g., of plausibility or correctness in light of real or imagined causal interventions); and anterolateral PFC supports explanation and inference at an even higher level of complexity, coordinating the processes of generation and evaluation with further cognitive processes, and especially with computations of hedonic value and emotional implications of possible behavioral scenarios - considerations that are often critical both for understanding situations causally and for deciding about our own courses of action.
The notion of driving brain oscillations by directly stimulating neuronal elements with rhythmic stimulation protocols has become increasingly popular in research on brain rhythms. Induction of brain oscillations in a controlled and functionally meaningful way would likely prove highly beneficial for the study of brain oscillations, and their therapeutic control. We here review conventional and new non-invasive brain stimulation protocols as to their suitability for controlled intervention into human brain oscillations. We focus on one such type of intervention, the direct entrainment of brain oscillations by a periodic external drive. We review highlights of the literature on entraining brain rhythms linked to perception and attention, and point out controversies. Behaviourally, such entrainment seems to alter specific aspects of perception depending on the frequency of stimulation, informing models on the functional role of oscillatory activity. This indicates that human brain oscillations and function may be promoted in a controlled way by focal entrainment, with great potential for probing into brain oscillations and their causal role.
An essential aspect of infant language development involves the extraction of meaningful information from a continuous stream of auditory input. Studies have identified early abilities to differentiate auditory input along various dimensions, including the presence or absence of structural regularities. In newborn infants, frontal and temporal regions were found to respond differentially to these regularities (Gervain et al., 2008), and in order to examine the development of this abstract rule learning we presented 7- and 9-month-old infants with syllables containing an ABB pattern (e.g., &quot;balolo&quot;) or an ABC pattern (e.g., &quot;baloti&quot;) and measured activity in left and right lateral brain regions using near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). While prior newborn work found increases in oxyhemoglobin (oxyHb) activity in response to ABB blocks as compared to ABC blocks in anterior regions, 7- and 9-month-olds showed no differentiation between grammars in oxyHb. However, changes in deoxyhemoglobin (deoxyHb) pointed to a developmental shift, whereby 7-month-olds showed deoxyHb responding significantly different from zero for ABB blocks, but not ABC blocks, and 9-month-olds showed the opposite pattern, with deoxyHb responding significantly different from zero for the ABC blocks but not the ABB blocks. DeoxyHb responses were more pronounced over anterior regions. A grammar by time interaction also illustrated that during the early blocks, deoxyHb was significantly greater to ABC than in later blocks, but there was no change in ABB activation over time. The shift from stronger activation to ABB in newborns (Gervain et al., 2008) and 7-month-olds in the present study to stronger activation to ABC by 9-month-olds here is discussed in terms of changes in stimulus salience and novelty preference over the first year of life. The present discussion also highlights the importance of future work exploring the coupling between oxyHb and deoxyHb activation in infant NIRS studies.
Adults and infants can use the statistical properties of syllable sequences to extract words from continuous speech. Here we present a review of a series of electrophysiological studies investigating (1) Speech segmentation resulting from exposure to spoken and sung sequences (2) The extraction of linguistic versus musical information from a sung sequence (3) Differences between musicians and non-musicians in both linguistic and musical dimensions. The results show that segmentation is better after exposure to sung compared to spoken material and moreover, that linguistic structure is better learned than the musical structure when using sung material. In addition, musical expertise facilitates the learning of both linguistic and musical structures. Finally, an electrophysiological approach, which directly measures brain activity, appears to be more sensitive than a behavioral one.
Singing is as natural as speaking for the majority of people. Yet some individuals (i.e., 10-15%) are poor singers, typically performing or imitating pitches and melodies inaccurately. This condition, commonly referred to as &quot;tone deafness,&quot; has been observed both in the presence and absence of deficient pitch perception. In this article we review the existing literature concerning normal singing, poor-pitch singing, and, briefly, the sources of this condition. Considering that pitch plays a prominent role in the structure of both music and speech we also focus on the possibility that speech production (or imitation) is similarly impaired in poor-pitch singers. Preliminary evidence from our laboratory suggests that pitch imitation may be selectively inaccurate in the music domain without being affected in speech. This finding points to separability of mechanisms subserving pitch production in music and language.
Brain dopamine has long been known to be implicated in the domains of appetitive motivation and cognition. Recent work indicates that dopamine also plays a role in the interaction between appetitive motivation and cognition. Here we review this work. Animal work has revealed an arrangement of spiraling connections between the midbrain and the striatum that subserves a mechanism by which dopamine can direct information flow from ventromedial to more dorsal regions in the striatum. In line with current knowledge about dopamine's effects on cognition, we hypothesize that these striato-nigro-striatal connections provide the basis for functionally specific effects of appetitive motivation on cognition. One implication of this hypothesis is that appetitive motivation can induce cognitive improvement or impairment depending on task demands.
Evidence has amassed from both animal intracranial recordings and human electrophysiology that neural oscillatory mechanisms play a critical role in a number of cognitive functions such as learning, memory, feature binding and sensory gating. The wide availability of high-density electrical and magnetic recordings (64-256 channels) over the past two decades has allowed for renewed efforts in the characterization and localization of these rhythms. A variety of cognitive effects that are associated with specific brain oscillations have been reported, which range in spectral, temporal, and spatial characteristics depending on the context. Our laboratory has focused on investigating the role of alpha-band oscillatory activity (8-14Hz) as a potential attentional suppression mechanism, and this particular oscillatory attention mechanism will be the focus of the current review. We discuss findings in the context of intersensory selective attention as well as intrasensory spatial and feature-based attention in the visual, auditory, and tactile domains. The weight of evidence suggests that alpha-band oscillations can be actively invoked within cortical regions across multiple sensory systems, particularly when these regions are involved in processing irrelevant or distracting information. That is, a central role for alpha seems to be as an attentional suppression mechanism when objects or features need to be specifically ignored or selected against.
Hundreds of studies have investigated the early ERPs to faces and objects using scalp and intracranial recordings. The vast majority of these studies have used uncontrolled stimuli, inappropriate designs, peak measurements, poor figures, and poor inferential and descriptive group statistics. These problems, together with a tendency to discuss any effect p&lt;0.05 rather than to report effect sizes, have led to a research field very much qualitative in nature, despite its quantitative inspirations, and in which predictions do not go beyond condition A&gt;condition B. Here we describe the main limitations of face and object ERP research and suggest alternative strategies to move forward. The problems plague intracranial and surface ERP studies, but also studies using more advanced techniques - e.g., source space analyses and measurements of network dynamics, as well as many behavioral, fMRI, TMS, and LFP studies. In essence, it is time to stop amassing binary results and start using single-trial analyses to build models of visual perception.
Mounting evidence suggests that musical training benefits the neural encoding of speech. This paper offers a hypothesis specifying why such benefits occur. The &quot;OPERA&quot; hypothesis proposes that such benefits are driven by adaptive plasticity in speech-processing networks, and that this plasticity occurs when five conditions are met. These are: (1) Overlap: there is anatomical overlap in the brain networks that process an acoustic feature used in both music and speech (e.g., waveform periodicity, amplitude envelope), (2) Precision: music places higher demands on these shared networks than does speech, in terms of the precision of processing, (3) Emotion: the musical activities that engage this network elicit strong positive emotion, (4) Repetition: the musical activities that engage this network are frequently repeated, and (5) Attention: the musical activities that engage this network are associated with focused attention. According to the OPERA hypothesis, when these conditions are met neural plasticity drives the networks in question to function with higher precision than needed for ordinary speech communication. Yet since speech shares these networks with music, speech processing benefits. The OPERA hypothesis is used to account for the observed superior subcortical encoding of speech in musically trained individuals, and to suggest mechanisms by which musical training might improve linguistic reading abilities.
After a brief historical perspective of the relationship between language and music, we review our work on transfer of training from music to speech that aimed at testing the general hypothesis that musicians should be more sensitive than non-musicians to speech sounds. In light of recent results in the literature, we argue that when long-term experience in one domain influences acoustic processing in the other domain, results can be interpreted as common acoustic processing. But when long-term experience in one domain influences the building-up of abstract and specific percepts in another domain, results are taken as evidence for transfer of training effects. Moreover, we also discuss the influence of attention and working memory on transfer effects and we highlight the usefulness of the event-related potentials method to disentangle the different processes that unfold in the course of music and speech perception. Finally, we give an overview of an on-going longitudinal project with children aimed at testing transfer effects from music to different levels and aspects of speech processing.
In the 1980s, the terms &quot;cognitive unconscious&quot; were invented to denominate a perspective on unconscious mental processes independent from the psychoanalytical views. For several reasons, the two approaches to unconscious are generally conceived as irreducible. Nowadays, we are witnessing a certain convergence between both fields. The aim of this paper consists in examining the four basic postulates of Freudian unconscious at the light of neurocognitive sciences. They posit: (1) that some psychological processes are unconsciously performed and causally determine conscious processes, (2) that they are governed by their own cognitive rules, (3) that they set out their own intentions, (4) and that they lead to a conflicting organization of psyche. We show that each of these postulates is the subject of empirical and theoretical works. If the two fields refer to more or less similar mechanisms, we propose that their opposition rests on an epistemological misunderstanding. As a conclusion, we promote a conservative reunification of the two perspectives.
Congenital amusia is a neurogenetic disorder that affects music processing and that is ascribed to a deficit in pitch processing. We investigated whether this deficit extended to pitch processing in speech, notably the pitch changes used to contrast lexical tones in tonal languages. Congenital amusics and matched controls, all non-tonal language speakers, were tested for lexical tone discrimination in Mandarin Chinese (Experiment 1) and in Thai (Experiment 2). Tones were presented in pairs and participants were required to make same/different judgments. Experiment 2 additionally included musical analogs of Thai tones for comparison. Performance of congenital amusics was inferior to that of controls for all materials, suggesting a domain-general pitch-processing deficit. The pitch deficit of amusia is thus not limited to music, but may compromise the ability to process and learn tonal languages. Combined with acoustic analyses of the tone material, the present findings provide new insights into the nature of the pitch-processing deficit exhibited by amusics.
Most of current knowledge about the mechanisms of multisensory integration of environmental stimuli by the human brain derives from neuroimaging experiments. However, neuroimaging studies do not always provide conclusive evidence about the causal role of a given area for multisensory interactions, since these techniques can mainly derive correlations between brain activations and behavior. Conversely, techniques of non-invasive brain stimulation (NIBS) represent a unique and powerful approach to inform models of causal relations between specific brain regions and individual cognitive and perceptual functions. Although NIBS has been widely used in cognitive neuroscience, its use in the study of multisensory processing in the human brain appears a quite novel field of research. In this paper, we review and discuss recent studies that have used two techniques of NIBS, namely transcranial magnetic stimulation and transcranial direct current stimulation, for investigating the causal involvement of unisensory and heteromodal cortical areas in multisensory processing, the effects of multisensory cues on cortical excitability in unisensory areas, and the putative functional connections among different cortical areas subserving multisensory interactions. The emerging view is that NIBS is an essential tool available to neuroscientists seeking for causal relationships between a given area or network and multisensory processes. With its already large and fast increasing usage, future work using NIBS in isolation, as well as in conjunction with different neuroimaging techniques, could substantially improve our understanding of multisensory processing in the human brain.
Even in the quietest of rooms, our senses are perpetually inundated by a barrage of sounds, requiring the auditory system to adapt to a variety of listening conditions in order to extract signals of interest (e.g., one speaker's voice amidst others). Brain networks that promote selective attention are thought to sharpen the neural encoding of a target signal, suppressing competing sounds and enhancing perceptual performance. Here, we ask: does musical training benefit cortical mechanisms that underlie selective attention to speech? To answer this question, we assessed the impact of selective auditory attention on cortical auditory-evoked response variability in musicians and non-musicians. Outcomes indicate strengthened brain networks for selective auditory attention in musicians in that musicians but not non-musicians demonstrate decreased prefrontal response variability with auditory attention. Results are interpreted in the context of previous work documenting perceptual and subcortical advantages in musicians for the hearing and neural encoding of speech in background noise. Musicians' neural proficiency for selectively engaging and sustaining auditory attention to language indicates a potential benefit of music for auditory training. Given the importance of auditory attention for the development and maintenance of language-related skills, musical training may aid in the prevention, habilitation, and remediation of individuals with a wide range of attention-based language, listening and learning impairments.
Emotion discrimination, emotion regulation, and cognitive control are three related, yet separable processes that emerge over the course of development. The current study tested 100 children, adolescents, and adults on an Emotional Go/Nogo task, illustrating the ability of this paradigm to identify the unique developmental patterns for each of these three processes in the context of both positive (happy) and negative emotions (fear, sad, and anger), across three different age groups. Consistent with previous literature, our findings show that emotion discrimination and regulatory abilities (both cognitive control and emotion regulation) improve steadily for each age group, with each age group showing unique patterns of performance. The findings suggest that emotion regulation is constructed from basic cognition control and emotion discrimination skills. The patterns of behavior from the Emotional Go/Nogo task provide normative benchmark data across a wide range of emotions that can be used for future behavioral and neuroimaging studies that examine the developmental construction of emotion regulatory processes.
Recent years have seen huge advancements in the methods available and used in neuroscience employing EEG or MEG. However, the standard approach is to average a large number of trials for experimentally defined conditions in order to reduce intertrial-variability, i.e., treating it as a source of &quot;noise.&quot; Yet it is now more and more accepted that trial-to-trial fluctuations bear functional significance, reflecting fluctuations of &quot;brain states&quot; that predispose perception and action. Such effects are often revealed in a pre-stimulus period, when comparing response variability to an invariant stimulus. However such offline analyses are disadvantageous as they are correlational by drawing conclusions in a post hoc-manner and stimulus presentation is random with respect to the feature of interest. A more direct test is to trigger stimulus presentation when the relevant feature is present. The current paper introduces Constance System for Online EEG (ConSole), a software package capable of analyzing ongoing EEG/MEG in real-time and presenting auditory and visual stimuli via internal routines. Stimulation via external devices (e.g., transcranial magnetic stimulation) or third-party software (e.g., PsyScope X) is possible by sending TTL-triggers. With ConSole it is thus possible to target the stimulation at specific brain states. In contrast to many available applications, ConSole is open-source. Its modular design enhances the power of the software as it can be easily adapted to new challenges and writing new experiments is an easy task. ConSole is already pre-equipped with modules performing standard signal processing steps. The software is also independent from the EEG/MEG system, as long as a driver can be written (currently two EEG systems are supported). Besides a general introduction, we present benchmark data regarding performance and validity of the calculations used, as well as three example applications of ConSole in different settings. ConSole can be downloaded at: http://console-kn.sf.net.
Scene segmentation depends on interaction between geometrical and photometric factors. It has been shown that reversals in contrast polarity at points of highest orientation discontinuity along closed contours significantly impair shape discrimination performance, while changes in contrast polarity at straight(er) contour segments do not have such deleterious effects (Spehar, 2002). Here we employ (semi) high resolution fMRI (1.5mm1.5mm1.5mm) to investigate the neuronal substrate underlying these perception effects. Stimuli consisted of simple elements (a) squares with contrast reversals along straight segments; (b) squares with contrast reversals in the corner (highest orientation discontinuity); (c) L-Junctions with contrast reversals along the straight ends; (d) L-Junctions with contrast reversals in the corner. Element with contrast polarity reversals are easy to distinguish though appear geometrically equivalent. For squares with contrast polarity reversals only along straight lines we find significantly lower BOLD modulation compared to any of the control conditions, which show similar responses to each other. In the light of previous psychophysical work (Elder and Zucker, 1993; Spehar, 2002) we speculate that this effect is due to closure perception. We observe this across a wide range of areas on occipital cortex.
This paper compares the cognitive-behavioral and psychoanalytical approaches with respect to the way in which each of them conceives of representation and deals with the issues that this involves. In both of them conscious and latent (unconscious) representations play a crucial role. Highlighting similarities and differences facilitate communication on a theoretical level but also prove helpful to the clinical practitioners involved. We try to put forward an attempt at comparison, with the idea of going beyond the - obviously important - differences in vocabulary. In this attempt at comparison, we have successively compared the definitions of representation and the respective therapeutic interventions proposed by each approach. There are no doubt many overlapping elements in the way in which the workings of the mind are conceived of in these approaches, particularly as regards their links with affects. We next developed the implications of representation deficits in pathology, suggesting the important role played by elements that are avoided, suppressed from memory or repressed, and with respect to the need to treat such material in a specific manner so as to ensure some progress as to the symptoms presented. We finally summarized common and distinct aspects of the two perspectives. The very fact that two approaches that follow very distinct methodologies reach the same conclusion concerning the importance of distortions and failures of representation in generating mental distress strengthens, in our view, the epistemological reliability of the role of representation in psychopathology.
In most cognitive neuroscience experiments there are many behavioral and experimental dynamics, and many indices of brain activity, that vary from trial to trial. For example, in studies of response conflict, conflict is usually treated as a binary variable (i.e., response conflict exists or does not in any given trial), whereas some evidence and intuition suggests that conflict may vary in intensity from trial to trial. Here we demonstrate that single-trial multiple regression of time-frequency electrophysiological activity reveals neural mechanisms of cognitive control that are not apparent in cross-trial averages. We also introduce a novel extension to oscillation phase coherence and synchronization analyses, based on &quot;weighted&quot; phase modulation, that has advantages over standard coherence measures in terms of linking electrophysiological dynamics to trial-varying behavior and experimental variables. After replicating previous response conflict findings using trial-averaged data, we extend these findings using single-trial analytic methods to provide novel evidence for the role of medial frontal-lateral prefrontal theta-band synchronization in conflict-induced response time dynamics, including a role for lateral prefrontal theta-band activity in biasing response times according to perceptual conflict. Given that these methods shed new light on the prefrontal mechanisms of response conflict, they are also likely to be useful for investigating other neurocognitive processes.
In the search for a neural substrate of cognitive processes, a frequently utilized method is the scrutiny of post-traumatic symptoms exhibited by individuals suffering focal injury to the brain. For instance, the presence or absence of conscious awareness within a particular domain may, combined with knowledge of which regions of the brain have been injured, provide important data in the search for neural correlates of consciousness. Like all studies addressing the consequences of brain injury, however, such research has to face the fact that in most cases, post-traumatic impairments are accompanied by a &quot;functional recovery&quot; during which symptoms are reduced or eliminated. The apparent contradiction between localization and recovery, respectively, of functions constitutes a problem to almost all aspects of cognitive neuroscience. Several lines of investigation indicate that although the brain remains highly plastic throughout life, the post-traumatic plasticity does not recreate a copy of the neural mechanisms lost to injury. Instead, the uninjured parts of the brain are functionally reorganized in a manner which - in spite of not recreating the basic information processing lost to injury - is able to allow a more or less complete return of the surface phenomena (including manifestations of consciousness) originally impaired by the trauma. A novel model [the Reorganization of Elementary Functions-model] of these processes is presented - and some of its implications discussed relative to studies of the neural substrates of cognition and consciousness.
Oscillatory neuronal activities are commonly observed in response to sensory stimulation. However, their functional roles are still the subject of debate. One-way to probe the roles of oscillatory neural activities is to deliver alternating current to the cortex at biologically relevant frequencies and examine whether such stimulation influences perception and cognition. In this study, we tested whether transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS) over the primary somatosensory cortex (SI) could elicit tactile sensations in humans in a frequency-dependent manner. We tested the effectiveness of tACS over SI at frequency bands ranging from 2 to 70 Hz. Our results show that stimulation in alpha (10-14 Hz) and high gamma (52-70 Hz) frequency range produces a tactile sensation in the contralateral hand. A weaker effect was also observed for beta (16-20 Hz) stimulation. These findings highlight the frequency dependency of effective tACS over SI with the effective frequencies corresponding to those observed in previous electroencephalography/magnetoencephalography studies of tactile perception. Our present study suggests that tACS could be used as a powerful online stimulation technique to reveal the causal roles of oscillatory brain activities.
Vision plays a central role in how we represent and interact with the world around us. The primacy of vision is structurally imbedded in cortical organization as about one-third of the cortical surface in primates is involved in visual processes. Consequently, the loss of vision, either at birth or later in life, affects brain organization and the way the world is perceived and acted upon. In this paper, we address a number of issues on the nature of consciousness in people deprived of vision. Do brains from sighted and blind individuals differ, and how? How does the brain of someone who has never had any visual perception form an image of the external world? What is the subjective correlate of activity in the visual cortex of a subject who has never seen in life? More in general, what can we learn about the functional development of the human brain in physiological conditions by studying blindness? We discuss findings from animal research as well from recent psychophysical and functional brain imaging studies in sighted and blind individuals that shed some new light on the answers to these questions.
Gender differences are an important factor regulating our daily interactions. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging we show that brain areas involved in processing social signals are activated differently by threatening signals send from male and female facial and bodily expressions and that their activation patterns are different for male and female observers. Male participants pay more attention to the female face as shown by increased amygdala activity. But a host of other areas show selective sensitivity for male observers attending to male threatening bodily expressions (extrastriate body area, superior temporal sulcus, fusiform gyrus, pre-supplementary motor area, and premotor cortex). This is the first study investigating gender differences in processing dynamic female and male facial and bodily expressions and it illustrates the importance of gender differences in affective communication.
The Dynamic Core and Global Workspace hypotheses were independently put forward to provide mechanistic and biologically plausible accounts of how brains generate conscious mental content. The Dynamic Core proposes that reentrant neural activity in the thalamocortical system gives rise to conscious experience. Global Workspace reconciles the limited capacity of momentary conscious content with the vast repertoire of long-term memory. In this paper we show the close relationship between the two hypotheses. This relationship allows for a strictly biological account of phenomenal experience and subjectivity that is consistent with mounting experimental evidence. We examine the constraints on causal analyses of consciousness and suggest that there is now sufficient evidence to consider the design and construction of a conscious artifact.
Recent research has suggested that music and language processing share neural resources, leading to new hypotheses about interference in the simultaneous processing of these two structures. The present study investigated the effect of a musical chord's tonal function on syntactic processing (Experiment 1) and semantic processing (Experiment 2) using a cross-modal paradigm and controlling for acoustic differences. Participants read sentences and performed a lexical decision task on the last word, which was, syntactically or semantically, expected or unexpected. The simultaneously presented (task-irrelevant) musical sequences ended on either an expected tonic or a less-expected subdominant chord. Experiment 1 revealed interactive effects between music-syntactic and linguistic-syntactic processing. Experiment 2 showed only main effects of both music-syntactic and linguistic-semantic expectations. An additional analysis over the two experiments revealed that linguistic violations interacted with musical violations, though not differently as a function of the type of linguistic violations. The present findings were discussed in light of currently available data on the processing of music as well as of syntax and semantics in language, leading to the hypothesis that resources might be shared for structural integration processes and sequencing.
We investigated numerical discrimination and numerical rule-learning in ring-tailed lemurs (Lemur catta). Two ring-tailed lemurs were trained to respond to two visual arrays, each of which contained between one and four elements, in numerically ascending order. In Experiment 1, lemurs were trained with 36 exemplars of each of the numerosities 1-4 and then showed positive transfer to trial-unique novel exemplars of the values 1-4. In Experiments 2A and 2B, lemurs were tested on their ability to transfer an ascending numerical rule from the values 1-4 to novel values 5-9. Both lemurs successfully ordered the novel values with above chance accuracy. Accuracy was modulated by the ratio between the two numerical values suggesting that lemurs accessed the approximate number system when performing the task.
Large efforts are currently being made to develop and improve online analysis of brain activity which can be used, e.g., for brain-computer interfacing (BCI). A BCI allows a subject to control a device by willfully changing his/her own brain activity. BCI therefore holds the promise as a tool for aiding the disabled and for augmenting human performance. While technical developments obviously are important, we will here argue that new insight gained from cognitive neuroscience can be used to identify signatures of neural activation which reliably can be modulated by the subject at will. This review will focus mainly on oscillatory activity in the alpha band which is strongly modulated by changes in covert attention. Besides developing BCIs for their traditional purpose, they might also be used as a research tool for cognitive neuroscience. There is currently a strong interest in how brain-state fluctuations impact cognition. These state fluctuations are partly reflected by ongoing oscillatory activity. The functional role of the brain state can be investigated by introducing stimuli in real-time to subjects depending on the actual state of the brain. This principle of brain-state dependent stimulation may also be used as a practical tool for augmenting human behavior. In conclusion, new approaches based on online analysis of ongoing brain activity are currently in rapid development. These approaches are amongst others informed by new insight gained from electroencephalography/magnetoencephalography studies in cognitive neuroscience and hold the promise of providing new ways for investigating the brain at work.
The study of crossmodal extinction has brought a considerable contribution to our understanding of how the integration of stimuli perceived in multiple sensory modalities is used by the nervous system to build coherent representations of the space that directly surrounds us. Indeed, by revealing interferences between stimuli in a disturbed system, extinction provides an invaluable opportunity to investigate the interactions that normally exist between those stimuli in an intact system. Here, we first review studies on pathological crossmodal extinction, from the original demonstration of its existence, to its role in the exploration of the multisensory neural representation of space and the current theoretical accounts proposed to explain the mechanisms involved in extinction and multisensory competition. Then, in the second part of this paper, we report recent findings showing that physiological multisensory competition phenomena resembling clinical crossmodal extinction exist in the healthy brain. We propose that the development of a physiological model of sensory competition is fundamental to deepen our understanding of the cerebral mechanisms of multisensory perception and integration. In addition, a similar approach to develop a model of physiological sensory competition in non-human primates should allow combining functional neuroimaging with more invasive techniques, such as transient focal lesions, in order to bridge the gap between works done in the two species and at different levels of analysis.

In multi-word utterances, target words need to be selected in the context of other target words. In the present study, three hypotheses were tested that differed in their assumptions about whether the lexical selection mechanism considers the activation levels of the other target lexical representations, and whether it takes into account their grammatical class properties. Participants produced adjective + noun and noun + noun utterances in response to colored word and picture + word stimulus displays. In both types of utterances, the frequency of the first and second response was manipulated. The results revealed an effect of the frequency of the second response that did not depend on the utterance type, and additive effects for the frequency of the first and the second response in both utterance types. These results are interpreted in terms of a model of lexical selection that assumes that selection is non-competitive.
We previously showed that working memory (WM) performance of subclinical checkers can be affected if they are presented with irrelevant but misleading information during the retention period (Harkin and Kessler, 2009, 2011). The present study differed from our previous research in the three crucial aspects. Firstly, we employed ecologically valid stimuli in form of electrical kitchen appliances on a kitchen countertop in order to address previous criticism of our research with letters in locations as these may not have tapped into the primary concerns of checkers. Secondly, we tested whether these ecological stimuli would allow us to employ a simpler (un-blocked) design while obtaining similarly robust results. Thirdly, in Experiment 2 we improved the measure of confidence as a metacognitive variable by using a quantitative scale (0-100), which indeed revealed more robust effects that were quantitatively related to accuracy of performance. The task in the present study was to memorize four appliances, including their states (on/off), and their locations on the kitchen countertop. Memory accuracy was tested for the states of appliances in Experiment 1, and for their locations in Experiment 2. Intermediate probes were identical in both experiments and were administered during retention on 66.7% of the trials with 50% resolvable and 50% irresolvable/misleading probes. Experiment 1 revealed the efficacy of the employed stimuli by revealing a general impairment of high- compared to low checkers, which confirmed the ecological validity of our stimuli. In Experiment 2 we observed the expected, more differentiated pattern: High checkers were not generally affected in their WM performance (i.e., no general capacity issue); instead they showed a particular impairment in the misleading distractor-probe condition. Also, high checkers' confidence ratings were indicative of a general impairment in metacognitive functioning. We discuss how specific executive dysfunction and general metacognitive impairment may affect memory traces in the short- and in the long-term.
Adolescents often make risky and impulsive decisions. Such behavior has led to the common assumption that a dysfunction in risk-related decision-making peaks during this age. Differences in how risk has been defined across studies, however, make it difficult to draw conclusions about developmental changes in risky decision-making. Here, we developed a non-symbolic economic decision-making task that can be used across a wide age span and that uses coefficient of variation (CV) in reward as an index of risk. We found that young children showed the strongest preference for risky compared to sure bet options of equal expected value, adolescents were intermediate in their risk preference, and young adults showed the strongest risk aversion. Furthermore, children's preference for the risky option increased for larger CVs, while adolescents and young adults showed the opposite pattern, favoring the sure bet more often as CV increased. Finally, when faced with two gambles in a risk-return tradeoff, all three age groups exhibited a greater preference for the option with the lower risk and return as the disparity in risk between the two options increased. These findings demonstrate clear age-related differences in economic risk preferences that vary with choice set and risk. Importantly, adolescence appears to represent an intermediate decision-making phenotype along the transition from childhood to adulthood, rather than an age of heightened preference for economic risk.
The measurement of newborns' brain hemodynamic activity has improved our understanding of early cognitive processes, in particular of language acquisition. In this paper, we describe two experimental protocols adapted to study neonates' speech-processing capacities using functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS): the block design and the familiarization-recognition design. We review some of their benefits and disadvantages, and refer to research issues that can be explored by means of these protocols. We also illustrate the use of the two experimental designs through representative fNIRS studies that reveal specific patterns of activation of the newborn brain during speech perception, learning of repetition structures, and word recognition.
Cognitive neuroscience typically develops hypotheses to explain phenomena that are localized in space and time. Specific regions of the brain execute characteristic functions, whose causes and effects are prompt; determining these functions in spatial and temporal isolation is generally regarded as the first step toward understanding the coherent operation of the whole brain over time. In other words, if the task of cognitive neuroscience is to interpret the neural code, then the first step has been semantic, searching for the meanings (functions) of localized elements, prior to exploring neural syntax, the mutual constraints among elements synchronically and diachronically. While neuroscience has made great strides in discovering the functions of regions of the brain, less is known about the dynamic patterns of brain activity over time, in particular, whether regions activate in sequences that could be characterized syntactically. Researchers generally assume that neural semantics is a precondition for determining neural syntax. Furthermore, it is often assumed that the syntax of the brain is too complex for our present technology and understanding. A corollary of this view holds that functional MRI (fMRI) lacks the spatial and temporal resolution needed to identify the dynamic syntax of neural computation. This paper examines these assumptions with a novel analysis of fMRI image series, resting on the conjecture that any computational code will exhibit aggregate features that can be detected even if the meaning of the code is unknown. Specifically, computational codes will be sparse or dense in different degrees. A sparse code is one that uses only a few of the many possible patterns of activity (in the brain) or symbols (in a human-made code). Considering sparseness at different scales and as measured by different techniques, this approach clearly distinguishes two conventional coding systems, namely, language and music. Based on an analysis of 99 subjects in three different fMRI protocols, in comparison with 194 musical examples and 700 language passages, it is observed that fMRI activity is more similar to music than it is to language, as measured over single symbols, as well as symbol combinations in pairs and triples. Tools from cognitive musicology may therefore be useful in characterizing the brain as a dynamical system.
Recent advances in experimental science have made it possible to investigate the perceptual processes involved in generating a sense of owning an entire body. This is achieved by full-body ownership illusions which make use of specific patterns of visual and somatic stimuli integration. Here we investigate the fundamental question of the reference frames used in the process of attributing an entire body to the self. We quantified the strength of the body-swap illusion in conditions where the participants were observing this artificial body from the perspective of the first or third person. Consistent results from subjective reports and physiological recordings show that the first person visual perspective is critical for the induction of this full-body ownership illusion. This demonstrates that the multisensory integration processes producing the sense of corporeal self operates in an ego-centric reference frame.
Consciousness is typically construed as being explainable purely in terms of either private, raw feels or higher-order, reflective representations. In contrast to this false dichotomy, we propose a new view of consciousness as an interactive, plastic phenomenon open to sociocultural influence. We take up our account of consciousness from the observation of radical cortical neuroplasticity in human development. Accordingly, we draw upon recent research on macroscopic neural networks, including the &quot;default mode,&quot; to illustrate cases in which an individual's particular &quot;connectome&quot; is shaped by encultured social practices that depend upon and influence phenomenal and reflective consciousness. On our account, the dynamically interacting connectivity of these networks bring about important individual differences in conscious experience and determine what is &quot;present&quot; in consciousness. Further, we argue that the organization of the brain into discrete anti-correlated networks supports the phenomenological distinction of prereflective and reflective consciousness, but we emphasize that this finding must be interpreted in light of the dynamic, category-resistant nature of consciousness. Our account motivates philosophical and empirical hypotheses regarding the appropriate time-scale and function of neuroplastic adaptation, the relation of high and low-frequency neural activity to consciousness and cognitive plasticity, and the role of ritual social practices in neural development and cognitive function.
How learning and memory is achieved in the brain is a central question in neuroscience. Key to today's research into information storage in the brain is the concept of synaptic plasticity, a notion that has been heavily influenced by Hebb's (1949) postulate. Hebb conjectured that repeatedly and persistently co-active cells should increase connective strength among populations of interconnected neurons as a means of storing a memory trace, also known as an engram. Hebb certainly was not the first to make such a conjecture, as we show in this history. Nevertheless, literally thousands of studies into the classical frequency-dependent paradigm of cellular learning rules were directly inspired by the Hebbian postulate. But in more recent years, a novel concept in cellular learning has emerged, where temporal order instead of frequency is emphasized. This new learning paradigm - known as spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) - has rapidly gained tremendous interest, perhaps because of its combination of elegant simplicity, biological plausibility, and computational power. But what are the roots of today's STDP concept? Here, we discuss several centuries of diverse thinking, beginning with philosophers such as Aristotle, Locke, and Ribot, traversing, e.g., Lugaro's plasticit and Rosenblatt's perceptron, and culminating with the discovery of STDP. We highlight interactions between theoretical and experimental fields, showing how discoveries sometimes occurred in parallel, seemingly without much knowledge of the other field, and sometimes via concrete back-and-forth communication. We point out where the future directions may lie, which includes interneuron STDP, the functional impact of STDP, its mechanisms and its neuromodulatory regulation, and the linking of STDP to the developmental formation and continuous plasticity of neuronal networks.
Extracellular glutamate of glial origin modulates glial and neuronal glutamate release and synaptic plasticity. Estimates of the tonic basal concentration of extracellular glutamate range over three orders of magnitude (0.02-20M) depending on the technology employed to make the measurement. Based upon binding constants for glutamate receptors and transporters, this range of concentrations translates into distinct physiological and pathophysiological roles for extracellular glutamate. Here we speculate that the difference in glutamate measurements can be explained if there is patterned membrane surface expression of glutamate release and transporter sites creating extracellular subcompartments that vary in glutamate concentration and are preferentially sampled by different technologies.
Understanding how the nervous system recognizes salient stimuli in the environment and selects and executes the appropriate behavioral responses is a fundamental question in systems neuroscience. To facilitate the neuroethological study of visually guided behavior in larval zebrafish, we developed &quot;virtual reality&quot; assays in which precisely controlled visual cues can be presented to larvae whilst their behavior is automatically monitored using machine vision algorithms. Freely swimming larvae responded to moving stimuli in a size-dependent manner: they directed multiple low amplitude orienting turns (20) toward small moving spots (1) but reacted to larger spots (10) with high-amplitude aversive turns (60). The tracking of small spots led us to examine how larvae respond to prey during hunting routines. By analyzing movie sequences of larvae hunting paramecia, we discovered that all prey capture routines commence with eye convergence and larvae maintain their eyes in a highly converged position for the duration of the prey-tracking and capture swim phases. We adapted our virtual reality assay to deliver artificial visual cues to partially restrained larvae and found that small moving spots evoked convergent eye movements and J-turns of the tail, which are defining features of natural hunting. We propose that eye convergence represents the engagement of a predatory mode of behavior in larval fish and serves to increase the region of binocular visual space to enable stereoscopic targeting of prey.
Taste aversion learning exhibits advantages for research on memory brain systems and its reorganization throughout life. A review of the effects of aging on taste memory abilities offers a complex picture showing preserved, impaired, and enhanced functions. Some of the age-related changes in taste memory seem to be associated with an altered temporal processing. Longer taste-illness delays can be introduced for acquisition of conditioned taste aversions and the modulation of taste learning by the temporal context is absent in nave old rats. It is suggested that an altered hippocampal function is involved in the peculiar performance of these rats. Evidence is also presented which suggests that hippocampal-dependent taste memory can be reactivated by previous learning experiences in old rats. Results obtained after reversible inactivation of the dorsal Hippocampus by tetrodotoxin (TTX) in old rats support such a view. Therefore, the interaction between the previous experience and acute brain interventions should be taken into account when studying the effect of aging on taste memory.
The flow of cortical information through the basal ganglia is a complex spatiotemporal pattern of increased and decreased firing. The striatum is the biggest input nucleus to the basal ganglia and the aim of this study was to assess the role of inhibitory GABA(A) and glycine receptors in regulating synaptic activity in the dorsolateral striatum (DLS) and ventral striatum (nucleus accumbens, nAc). Local field potential recordings from coronal brain slices of juvenile and adult Wistar rats showed that GABA(A) receptors and strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors are tonically activated and inhibit excitatory input to the DLS and to the nAc. Strychnine-induced disinhibition of glutamatergic transmission was insensitive to the muscarinic receptor inhibitor scopolamine (10M), inhibited by the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist mecamylamine (10M) and blocked by GABA(A) receptor inhibitors, suggesting that tonically activated glycine receptors depress excitatory input to the striatum through modulation of cholinergic and GABAergic neurotransmission. As an end-product example of striatal GABAergic output in vivo we measured dopamine release in the DLS and nAc by microdialysis in the awake and freely moving rat. Reversed dialysis of bicuculline (50M in perfusate) only increased extrasynaptic dopamine levels in the nAc, while strychnine administered locally (200M in perfusate) decreased dopamine output by 60% in both the DLS and nAc. Our data suggest that GABA(A) and glycine receptors are tonically activated and modulate striatal transmission in a partially subregion-specific manner.
Although metaphorical and conceptual connections between the human brain and the financial markets have often been drawn, rigorous physical or mathematical underpinnings of this analogy remain largely unexplored. Here, we apply a statistical and graph theoretic approach to the study of two datasets - the time series of 90 stocks from the New York stock exchange over a 3-year period, and the fMRI-derived time series acquired from 90 brain regions over the course of a 10-min-long functional MRI scan of resting brain function in healthy volunteers. Despite the many obvious substantive differences between these two datasets, graphical analysis demonstrated striking commonalities in terms of global network topological properties. Both the human brain and the market networks were non-random, small-world, modular, hierarchical systems with fat-tailed degree distributions indicating the presence of highly connected hubs. These properties could not be trivially explained by the univariate time series statistics of stock price returns. This degree of topological isomorphism suggests that brains and markets can be regarded broadly as members of the same family of networks. The two systems, however, were not topologically identical. The financial market was more efficient and more modular - more highly optimized for information processing - than the brain networks; but also less robust to systemic disintegration as a result of hub deletion. We conclude that the conceptual connections between brains and markets are not merely metaphorical; rather these two information processing systems can be rigorously compared in the same mathematical language and turn out often to share important topological properties in common to some degree. There will be interesting scientific arbitrage opportunities in further work at the graph-theoretically mediated interface between systems neuroscience and the statistical physics of financial markets.
Taste is a primary reinforcer. Olfactory-taste and visual-taste association learning takes place in the primate including human orbitofrontal cortex to build representations of flavor. Rapid reversal of this learning can occur using a rule-based learning system that can be reset when an expected taste or flavor reward is not obtained, that is by negative reward prediction error, to which a population of neurons in the orbitofrontal cortex responds. The representation in the orbitofrontal cortex but not the primary taste or olfactory cortex is of the reward value of the visual/olfactory/taste input as shown by devaluation experiments in which food is fed to satiety, and by correlations of the activations with subjective pleasantness ratings in humans. Sensory-specific satiety for taste, olfactory, visual, and oral somatosensory inputs produced by feeding a particular food to satiety is implemented it is proposed by medium-term synaptic adaptation in the orbitofrontal cortex. Cognitive factors, including word-level descriptions, modulate the representation of the reward value of food in the orbitofrontal cortex, and this effect is learned it is proposed by associative modification of top-down synapses onto neurons activated by bottom-up taste and olfactory inputs when both are active in the orbitofrontal cortex. A similar associative synaptic learning process is proposed to be part of the mechanism for the top-down attentional control to the reward value vs. the sensory properties such as intensity of taste and olfactory inputs in the orbitofrontal cortex, as part of a biased activation theory of selective attention.
We analyze the responses of human observers to an ensemble of monomolecular odorants. Each odorant is characterized by a set of 146 perceptual descriptors obtained from a database of odor character profiles. Each odorant is therefore represented by a point in a highly multidimensional sensory space. In this work we study the arrangement of odorants in this perceptual space. We argue that odorants densely sample a two-dimensional curved surface embedded in the multidimensional sensory space. This surface can account for more than half of the variance of the perceptual data. We also show that only 12% of experimental variance cannot be explained by curved surfaces of substantially small dimensionality (&lt;10). We suggest that these curved manifolds represent the relevant spaces sampled by the human olfactory system, thereby providing surrogates for olfactory sensory space. For the case of 2D approximation, we relate the two parameters on the curved surface to the physico-chemical parameters of odorant molecules. We show that one of the dimensions is related to eigenvalues of molecules' connectivity matrix, while the other is correlated with measures of molecules' polarity. We discuss the behavioral significance of these findings.
Local field potentials (LFPs) capture the electrical activity produced by principal cells during integration of converging synaptic inputs from multiple neuronal populations. However, since synaptic currents mix in the extracellular volume, LFPs have complex spatiotemporal structure, making them hard to exploit. Here we propose a biophysical framework to identify and separate LFP-generators. First we use a computational multineuronal model that scales up single cell electrogenesis driven by several synaptic inputs to realistic aggregate LFPs. This approach relies on the fixed but distinct locations of synaptic inputs from different presynaptic populations targeting a laminated brain structure. Thus the LFPs are contributed by several pathway-specific LFP-generators, whose electrical activity is defined by the spatial distribution of synaptic terminals and the time course of synaptic currents initiated in target cells by the corresponding presynaptic population. Then we explore the efficacy of independent component analysis to blindly separate converging sources and reconstruct pathway-specific LFP-generators. This approach can optimally locate synaptic inputs with subcellular accuracy while the reconstructed time course of pathway-specific LFP-generators is reliable in the millisecond scale. We also describe few cases where the non-linear intracellular interaction of strongly overlapping LFP-generators may lead to a significant cross-contamination and the appearance of derivative generators. We show that the approach reliably disentangle ongoing LFPs in the hippocampus into contribution of several LFP-generators. We were able to readout in parallel the pathway-specific presynaptic activity of projection cells in the entorhinal cortex and pyramidal cells in the ipsilateral and contralateral CA3. Thus we provide formal mathematical and experimental support for parallel readout of the activity of converging presynaptic populations in working neuronal circuits from common LFPs.
The current paper briefly outlines the historical development of the concept of habit learning and discusses its relationship to the basal ganglia. Habit learning has been studied in many different fields of neuroscience using different species, tasks, and methodologies, and as a result it has taken on a wide range of definitions from these various perspectives. We identify five common but not universal, definitional features of habit learning: that it is inflexible, slow or incremental, unconscious, automatic, and insensitive to reinforcer devaluation. We critically evaluate for each of these how it has been defined, its utility for research in both humans and non-human animals, and the evidence that it serves as an accurate description of basal ganglia function. In conclusion, we propose a multi-faceted approach to habit learning and its relationship to the basal ganglia, emphasizing the need for formal definitions that will provide directions for future research.
GABA transporter type 1 and 3 (GAT-1 and GAT-3, respectively) are the two main subtypes of GATs responsible for the regulation of extracellular GABA levels in the central nervous system. These transporters are widely expressed in neuronal (mainly GAT-1) and glial (mainly GAT-3) elements throughout the brain, but most data obtained so far relate to their role in the regulation of GABA(A) receptor-mediated postsynaptic tonic and phasic inhibition in the hippocampus, cerebral cortex and cerebellum. Taking into consideration the key role of GABAergic transmission within basal ganglia networks, and the importance for these systems to be properly balanced to mediate normal basal ganglia function, we analyzed in detail the localization and function of GAT-1 and GAT-3 in the globus pallidus of normal and Parkinsonian animals, in order to further understand the substrate and possible mechanisms by which GABA transporters may regulate basal ganglia outflow, and may become relevant targets for new therapeutic approaches for the treatment of basal ganglia-related disorders. In this review, we describe the general features of GATs in the basal ganglia, and give a detailed account of recent evidence that GAT-1 and GAT-3 regulation can have a major impact on the firing rate and pattern of basal ganglia neurons through pre- and post-synaptic GABA(A)- and GABA(B)-receptor-mediated effects.
Huntington's disease (HD) is characterized by numerous alterations within the corticostriatal circuitry. The striatum is innervated by a dense array of dopaminergic (DA) terminals and these DA synapses are critical to the proper execution of motor functions. As motor disturbances are prevalent in HD we examined DA neurotransmission in the striatum in transgenic (tg) murine models of HD. We used in vivo microdialysis to compare extracellular concentrations of striatal DA in both a fragment (R6/2) model, which displays a rapid and severe phenotype, and a full-length (YAC128) model that expresses a more progressive phenotype. Extracellular striatal DA concentrations were significantly reduced in R6/2 mice and decreased concomitantly with age-dependent increasing motor impairments on the rotarod task (7, 9, and 11weeks). In a sample of 11-week-old R6/2 mice, we also measured tissue concentrations of striatal DA and found that total levels of DA were significantly depleted. However, the loss of total DA content (&lt;50%) was insufficient to account for the full extent of DA depletion in the extracellular fluid (ECF; 75%). We also observed a significant reduction in extracellular DA concentrations in the striatum of 7-month-old YAC128 mice. In a separate set of experiments, we applied d-amphetamine (AMPH; 10m) locally into the striatum to stimulate the release of intracellular DA into the ECF. The AMPH-induced increase in extracellular DA levels was significantly blunted in 9-week-old R6/2 mice. There also was a decrease in AMPH-stimulated DA efflux in 7-month-old YAC128 mice in comparison to WT controls, although the effect was milder. In the same cohort of 7-month-old YAC128 mice we observed a significant reduction in the total locomotor activity in response to systemic AMPH (2mg/kg). Our data demonstrate that extracellular DA release is attenuated in both a fragment and full-length tg mouse model of HD and support the concept of DA involvement in aspects of the syndrome.
Exposure to psychostimulants increases brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA and protein levels in the cerebral cortex and subcortical structures. Because BDNF is co-localized with dopamine and glutamate in afferents to the striatum of rats, it may be co-released with those neurotransmitters upon stimulation. Further, there may be an interaction between the intracellular signaling cascades activated by dopamine, glutamate, and TrkB receptors in medium spiny striatal neurons. In the present study, the effect of acute amphetamine administration on TrkB phosphorylation, as an indirect indicator of activation, and striatal gene expression, was evaluated. In Experiment 1, 15min or 2h after a single saline or amphetamine (2.5mg/kg, i.p.) injection, the caudate-putamen (CPu), nucleus accumbens (NAc), and dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (dmPFC) were extracted and processed for phospho (p)-TrkB immunoreactivity. Immunoprecipitation analyses indicated that neither the tyrosine phosphorylation (p-Tyr) or autophosphorylation sites of TrkB (706) were changed in NAc, CPu, or dmPFC 15min after amphetamine administration. In contrast, p-Tyr and the PLC phosphorylation site of TrkB (816) were increased in the NAc and CPu 2h after amphetamine. In Experiment 2, intra-striatal infusion of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor, K252a, increased amphetamine-induced vertical activity but not total distance traveled. In addition, K252a inhibited amphetamine-induced preprodynorphin, but not preproenkephalin, mRNA expression in the striatum. These data indicate that acute amphetamine administration induces p-TrkB activation and signaling in a time- and brain region-dependent manner and that TrkB/BDNF signaling plays an important role in amphetamine-induced behavior and striatal gene expression.
Technologies for silencing the electrical activity of genetically targeted neurons in the brain are important for assessing the contribution of specific cell types and pathways toward behaviors and pathologies. Recently we found that archaerhodopsin-3 from Halorubrum sodomense (Arch), a light-driven outward proton pump, when genetically expressed in neurons, enables them to be powerfully, transiently, and repeatedly silenced in response to pulses of light. Because of the impressive characteristics of Arch, we explored the optogenetic utility of opsins with high sequence homology to Arch, from archaea of the Halorubrum genus. We found that the archaerhodopsin from Halorubrum strain TP009, which we named ArchT, could mediate photocurrents of similar maximum amplitude to those of Arch (900pA in vitro), but with a &gt;3-fold improvement in light sensitivity over Arch, most notably in the optogenetic range of 1-10 mW/mm(2), equating to &gt;2 increase in brain tissue volume addressed by a typical single optical fiber. Upon expression in mouse or rhesus macaque cortical neurons, ArchT expressed well on neuronal membranes, including excellent trafficking for long distances down neuronal axons. The high light sensitivity prompted us to explore ArchT use in the cortex of the rhesus macaque. Optical perturbation of ArchT-expressing neurons in the brain of an awake rhesus macaque resulted in a rapid and complete (100%) silencing of most recorded cells, with suppressed cells achieving a median firing rate of 0 spikes/s upon illumination. A small population of neurons showed increased firing rates at long latencies following the onset of light stimulation, suggesting the existence of a mechanism of network-level neural activity balancing. The powerful net suppression of activity suggests that ArchT silencing technology might be of great use not only in the causal analysis of neural circuits, but may have therapeutic applications.
In the striatal microcircuit, fast-spiking (FS) interneurons have an important role in mediating inhibition onto neighboring medium spiny (MS) projection neurons. In this study, we combined computational modeling with in vitro and in vivo electrophysiological measurements to investigate FS cells in terms of their discharge properties and their synaptic efficacies onto MS neurons. In vivo firing of striatal FS interneurons is characterized by a high firing variability. It is not known, however, if this variability results from the input that FS cells receive, or if it is promoted by the stuttering spike behavior of these neurons. Both our model and measurements in vitro show that FS neurons that exhibit random stuttering discharge in response to steady depolarization do not show the typical stuttering behavior when they receive fluctuating input. Importantly, our model predicts that electrically coupled FS cells show substantial spike synchronization only when they are in the stuttering regime. Therefore, together with the lack of synchronized firing of striatal FS interneurons that has been reported in vivo, these results suggest that neighboring FS neurons are not in the stuttering regime simultaneously and that in vivo FS firing variability is more likely determined by the input fluctuations. Furthermore, the variability in FS firing is translated to variability in the postsynaptic amplitudes in MS neurons due to the strong synaptic depression of the FS-to-MS synapse. Our results support the idea that these synapses operate over a wide range from strongly depressed to almost fully recovered. The strong inhibitory effects that FS cells can impose on their postsynaptic targets, and the fact that the FS-to-MS synapse model showed substantial depression over extended periods of time might indicate the importance of cooperative effects of multiple presynaptic FS interneurons and the precise orchestration of their activity.
Tremor is a cardinal symptom of parkinsonism, occurring early on in the disease course and affecting more than 70% of patients. Parkinsonian resting tremor occurs in a frequency range of 3-7Hz and can be resistant to available pharmacotherapy. Despite its prevalence, and the significant decrease in quality of life associated with it, the pathophysiology of parkinsonian tremor is poorly understood. The tremulous jaw movement (TJM) model is an extensively validated rodent model of tremor. TJMs are induced by conditions that also lead to parkinsonism in humans (i.e., striatal DA depletion, DA antagonism, and cholinomimetic activity) and reversed by several antiparkinsonian drugs (i.e., DA precursors, DA agonists, anticholinergics, and adenosine A(2A) antagonists). TJMs occur in the same 3-7Hz frequency range seen in parkinsonian resting tremor, a range distinct from that of dyskinesia (1-2Hz), and postural tremor (8-14Hz). Overall, these drug-induced TJMs share many characteristics with human parkinsonian tremor, but do not closely resemble tardive dyskinesia. The current review discusses recent advances in the validation of the TJM model, and illustrates how this model is being used to develop novel therapeutic strategies, both surgical and pharmacological, for the treatment of parkinsonian resting tremor.
Striatal nitric oxide (NO)-producing interneurons play an important role in the regulation of corticostriatal synaptic transmission and motor behavior. Striatal NO synthesis is driven by concurrent activation of NMDA and dopamine (DA) D1 receptors. NO diffuses into the dendrites of medium-sized spiny neurons which contain high levels of NO receptors called soluble guanylyl cyclases (sGC). NO-mediated activation of sGC leads to the synthesis of the second messenger cGMP. In the intact striatum, transient elevations in intracellular cGMP primarily act to increase neuronal excitability and to facilitate glutamatergic corticostriatal transmission. NO-cGMP signaling also functionally opposes the inhibitory effects of DA D2 receptor activation on corticostriatal transmission. Not surprisingly, abnormal striatal NO-sGC-cGMP signaling becomes apparent following striatal DA depletion, an alteration thought to contribute to pathophysiological changes observed in basal ganglia circuits in Parkinson's disease (PD). Here, we discuss recent developments in the field which have shed light on the role of NO-sGC-cGMP signaling pathways in basal ganglia dysfunction and motor symptoms associated with PD and l-DOPA-induced dyskinesias.
Striatal fast-spiking interneurons (FSIs) have a major influence over behavioral output, and a deficit in these cells has been observed in dystonia and Tourette syndrome. FSIs receive cortical input, are coupled together by gap junctions, and make perisomatic GABAergic synapses onto many nearby projection neurons. Despite being critical components of striatal microcircuits, until recently little was known about FSI activity in behaving animals. Striatal FSIs are near-continuously active in awake rodents, but even neighboring FSIs show uncorrelated activity most of the time. A coordinated &quot;pulse&quot; of increased FSI firing occurs throughout striatum when rats initiate one chosen action while suppressing a highly trained alternative. This pulse coincides with a drop in globus pallidus population activity, suggesting that pallidostriatal disinhibition may have a important role in timing or coordinating action execution. In addition to changes in firing rate, FSIs show behavior-linked modulation of spike timing. The variability of inter-spike intervals decreases markedly following instruction cues, and FSIs also participate in fast striatal oscillations that are linked to rewarding events and dopaminergic drugs. These studies have revealed novel and unexpected properties of FSIs, that should help inform new models of striatal information processing in both normal and aberrant conditions.
5-HT plays a regulatory role in voluntary movements of the basal ganglia and has a major impact on disorders of the basal ganglia such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Clinical studies have suggested that 5-HT(2) receptor antagonists may be useful in the treatment of the motor symptoms of PD. We hypothesized that 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonists may restore motor function by regulating glutamatergic activity in the striatum. Mice treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) exhibited decreased performance on the beam-walking apparatus. Peripheral administration of the 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist M100907 improved performance of MPTP-treated mice on the beam-walking apparatus. In vivo microdialysis revealed an increase in striatal extracellular glutamate in MPTP-treated mice and local perfusion of M100907 into the dorsal striatum significantly decreased extracellular glutamate levels in saline and MPTP-treated mice. Our studies suggest that blockade of 5-HT(2A) receptors may represent a novel therapeutic target for the motor symptoms of PD.
Midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) exhibit somatodendritic release of DA. Previous studies indicate a difference between the Ca(2+) dependence of somatodendritic DA release in the SNc and that of axonal DA release in dorsal striatum. Here, we evaluated the Ca(2+) dependence of DA release in the VTA and nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell for comparison with that in the SNc and dorsal striatum. Release of DA was elicited by single-pulse stimulation in guinea-pig brain slices and monitored with subsecond resolution using carbon-fiber microelectrodes and fast-scan cyclic voltammetry. In dorsal striatum and NAc, DA release was not detectable at extracellular Ca(2+) concentrations ([Ca(2+)](o)) below 1mM; however, a progressive increase in evoked extracellular DA concentration ([DA](o)) was seen with [Ca(2+)](o)1.5mM. By contrast, in SNc and VTA, robust increases in [DA](o) could be elicited in 0.25mM [Ca(2+)](o) that were 60% of those seen in 1.5mM [Ca(2+)](o). In SNc, a plateau in single-pulse evoked [DA](o) was seen at [Ca(2+)](o)1.5mM, mirroring the release plateau reported previously for pulse-train stimulation in SNc. In VTA, however, evoked [DA](o) increased progressively throughout the range of [Ca(2+)](o) tested (up to 3.0mM). These functional data are consistent with the microanatomy of the VTA, which includes DA axon collaterals as well as DA somata and dendrites. Differences between axonal and somatodendritic release data were quantified using Hill analysis, which showed that the Ca(2+) dependence of axonal DA release is low affinity with high Ca(2+) cooperativity, whereas somatodendritic release is high affinity with low cooperativity. Moreover, this analysis revealed the dual nature of DA release in the VTA, with both somatodendritic and axonal contributions.
The development of BAC transgenic mice expressing promoter-specific fluorescent reporter proteins has been a great asset for neuroscience by enabling detection of neuronal subsets in live tissue. For the study of basal ganglia physiology, reporters driven by type 1 and 2 dopamine receptors have been particularly useful for distinguishing the two classes of striatal projection neurons - striatonigral and striatopallidal. However, emerging evidence suggests that some of the transgenic reporter lines may have suboptimal features. The ideal transgenic reporter line should (1) express a reporter with high sensitivity and specificity for detecting the cellular subset of interest and that does not otherwise alter the biology of the cells in which it is expressed, and (2) involve a genetic manipulation that does not cause any additional genetic effects other than expression of the reporter. Here we introduce a new BAC transgenic reporter line, Drd1a-tdTomato line 6, with features that approximate these ideals, offering substantial benefits over existing lines. In this study, we investigate the integrity of dopamine-sensitive behaviors and test the sensitivity and specificity of tdTomato fluorescence for identifying striatonigral projection neurons in mice. Behaviorally, hemizygous Drd1a-tdTomato line 6 mice are similar to littermate controls; while hemizygous Drd2-EGFP mice are not. In characterizing the sensitivity and specificity of line 6 mice, we find that both are high. The results of this characterization indicate that line 6 Drd1a-tdTomato+/- mice offer a useful alternative approach to identify both striatonigral and striatopallidal neurons in a single transgenic line with a high degree of accuracy.
We have recently shown in vitro that striatal tyrosine hydroxylase-expressing interneurons identified in transgenic mice by expression of enhanced green fluorescent protein (TH-eGFP) display electrophysiological profiles that are distinct from those of other striatal interneurons. Furthermore, striatal TH-eGFP interneurons show marked diversity in their electrophysiological properties and have been divided into four distinct subtypes. One question that arises from these observations is whether striatal TH-eGFP interneurons are distributed randomly, or obey some sort of organizational plan as has been shown to be the case with other striatal interneurons. An understanding of the striatal TH-eGFP interneuronal patterning is a vital step in understanding the role of these neurons in striatal functioning. Therefore, in the present set of studies the location of electrophysiologically identified striatal TH-eGFP interneurons was mapped. In addition, the distribution of TH-eGFP interneurons with respect to the striatal striosome-matrix compartmental organization was determined using -opioid receptor (MOR) immunofluorescence or intrinsic TH-eGFP fluorescence to delineate striosome and matrix compartments. Overall, the distribution of the different TH-eGFP interneuronal subtypes did not differ in dorsal versus ventral striatum. However, striatal TH-eGFP interneurons were found to be mostly in the matrix in the dorsal striatum whereas a significantly higher proportion of these neurons was located in MOR-enriched domains of the ventral striatum. Further, the majority of striatal TH-eGFP interneurons was found to be located within 100m of a striosome-matrix boundary. Taken together, the current results suggest that TH-eGFP interneurons obey different organizational principles in dorsal versus ventral striatum, and may play a role in communication between striatal striosome and matrix compartments.
Inhibitors of neuronal and endothelial nitric oxide synthase decrease l-3,4-dihidroxifenilalanine (l-DOPA)-induced dyskinesias in rodents. The mechanism of nitric oxide inhibitor action is unknown. The aims of the present study were to investigate the decrease of l-DOPA-induced abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats by nitric oxide inhibitors following either acute or chronic treatment. The primary findings of this study were that NG-nitro-l-Arginine, an inhibitor of endothelial and neuronal nitric oxide synthase, attenuated AIMs induced by chronic and acute l-DOPA. In contrast, rotational behavior was attenuated only after chronic l-DOPA. The 6-OHDA lesion and the l-DOPA treatment induced a bilateral increase (1.5 times) in the neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) protein and nNOS mRNA in the striatum and in the frontal cortex. There was a parallel increase, bilaterally, of the FosB/FosB, primarily in the ipsilateral striatum. The exception was in the contralateral striatum and the ipsilateral frontal cortex, where chronic l-DOPA treatment induced an increase of approximately 10 times the nNOS mRNA. Our results provided further evidence of an anti-dyskinetic effect of NOS inhibitor. The effect appeared under l-DOPA acute and chronic treatment. The l-DOPA treatment also revealed an over-expression of the neuronal NOS in the frontal cortex and striatum. Our results corroborated findings that l-DOPA-induced rotation differs between acute and chronic treatment. The effect of the NOS inhibitor conceivably relied on the l-DOPA structural modifications in the Parkinsonian brain. Taken together, these data provided a rationale for further evaluation of NOS inhibitors in the treatment of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
Electrocorticography (ECoG), multichannel brain-surface recording and stimulation with probe electrode arrays, has become a potent methodology not only for clinical neurosurgery but also for basic neuroscience using animal models. The highly evolved primate's brain has deep cerebral sulci, and both gyral and intrasulcal cortical regions have been implicated in important functional processes. However, direct experimental access is typically limited to gyral regions, since placing probes into sulci is difficult without damaging the surrounding tissues. Here we describe a novel methodology for intrasulcal ECoG in macaque monkeys. We designed and fabricated ultra-thin flexible probes for macaques with micro-electro-mechanical systems technology. We developed minimally invasive operative protocols to implant the probes by introducing cutting-edge devices for human neurosurgery. To evaluate the feasibility of intrasulcal ECoG, we conducted electrophysiological recording and stimulation experiments. First, we inserted parts of the Parylene-C-based probe into the superior temporal sulcus to compare visually evoked ECoG responses from the ventral bank of the sulcus with those from the surface of the inferior temporal cortex. Analyses of power spectral density and signal-to-noise ratio revealed that the quality of the ECoG signal was comparable inside and outside of the sulcus. Histological examination revealed no obvious physical damage in the implanted areas. Second, we placed a modified silicone ECoG probe into the central sulcus and also on the surface of the precentral gyrus for stimulation. Thresholds for muscle twitching were significantly lower during intrasulcal stimulation compared to gyral stimulation. These results demonstrate the feasibility of intrasulcal ECoG in macaques. The novel methodology proposed here opens up a new frontier in neuroscience research, enabling the direct measurement and manipulation of electrical activity in the whole brain.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder that targets the corticostriatal system and results in progressive deterioration of cognitive, emotional, and motor skills. Although cortical and striatal neurons are widely studied in animal models of HD, there is little information on neuronal function during expression of the HD behavioral phenotype. To address this knowledge gap, we used chronically implanted micro-wire bundles to record extracellular spikes and local field potentials (LFPs) in truncated (R6/1 and R6/2) and full-length (knock-in, KI) mouse models as well as in transgenic HD rats (tgHD rats) behaving in an open-field arena. Spike activity was recorded in the striatum of all models and in prefrontal cortex (PFC) of R6/2 and KI mice, and in primary motor cortex (M1) of R6/2 mice. We also recorded LFP activity in R6/2 striatum. All HD models exhibited altered neuronal activity relative to wild-type (WT) controls. Although there was no consistent effect on firing rate across models and brain areas, burst firing was reduced in striatum, PFC, and M1 of R6/2 mice, and in striatum of KI mice. Consistent with a decline in bursting, the inter-spike-interval coefficient of variation was reduced in all regions of all models, except PFC of KI mice and striatum of tgHD rats. Among simultaneously recorded neuron pairs, correlated firing was reduced in all brain regions of all models, while coincident bursting, which measures the temporal overlap between bursting pairs, was reduced in striatum of all models as well as in M1 of R6/2s. Preliminary analysis of striatal LFPs revealed aberrant behavior-related oscillations in the delta to theta range and in gamma activity. Collectively, our results indicate that disrupted corticostriatal processing occurs across multiple HD models despite differences in the severity of the behavioral phenotype. Efforts aimed at normalizing corticostriatal activity may hold the key to developing new HD therapeutics.
Substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) dopaminergic neurons receive strong tonic inputs from GABAergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNpr) and globus pallidus (GP), and glutamatergic neurons in the subthalamic nucleus. The presence of these tonic inputs raises the possibility that phasic disinhibition may trigger phasic bursts in dopaminergic neurons. We first applied constant NMDA and GABA(A) conductances onto a two-compartment single cell model of the dopaminergic neuron (Kuznetsov et al., 2006). The model exhibited disinhibition bursting upon stepwise removal of inhibition. A further bifurcation analysis suggests that disinhibition may be more robust than excitation alone in that for most levels of NMDA conductance, the cell remains capable of bursting even after a complete removal of inhibition, whereas too much excitatory input will drive the cell into depolarization block. To investigate the network dynamics of disinhibition, we used a modified version of an integrate-and-fire based model of the basal ganglia (Humphries et al., 2006). Synaptic activity generated in the network was delivered to the two-compartment single cell dopaminergic neuron. Phasic activation of the D1-expressing medium spiny neurons in the striatum (D1STR) produced disinhibition bursts in dopaminergic neurons through the direct pathway (D1STR to SNpr to SNpc). Anatomical studies have shown that D1STR neurons have collaterals that terminate in GP. Adding these collaterals to the model, we found that striatal activation increased the intra-burst firing frequency of the disinhibition burst as the weight of this connection was increased. Our studies suggest that striatal activation is a robust means by which disinhibition bursts can be generated by SNpc dopaminergic neurons, and that recruitment of the indirect pathway via collaterals may enhance disinhibition bursting.
This article was motivated by the conference entitled &quot;Perception &amp; Action - An Interdisciplinary Approach to Cognitive Systems Theory,&quot; which took place September 14-16, 2010 at the Santa Fe Institute, NM, USA. The goal of the conference was to bring together an interdisciplinary group of neuroscientists, roboticists, and theorists to discuss the extent and implications of action-perception integration in the brain. The motivation for the conference was the realization that it is a widespread approach in biological, theoretical, and computational neuroscience to investigate sensory and motor function of the brain in isolation from one another, while at the same time, it is generally appreciated that sensory and motor processing cannot be fully separated. Our article summarizes the key findings of the conference, provides a hypothetical model that integrates the major themes and concepts presented at the conference, and concludes with a perspective on future challenges in the field.
IMPORTANT FOR THE INTERPRETATION OF BOLD FMRI DATA IS A LINEAR RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE BOLD RESPONSE AND THE UNDERLYING NEURAL ACTIVITY: increased BOLD responses should reflect proportionate increases in the underlying neural activity. While previous studies have demonstrated a linear relationship between the peak amplitude of the BOLD response and neural activity in primary visual cortex (V1), these studies have used stimuli that excite large areas of cortex, and the linearity of the BOLD response has not been demonstrated when only a small patch of cortex is stimulated. The BOLD response to isolated Gabor patches of increasing contrast was measured with gradient echo (GE) BOLD and spin echo (SE) BOLD at 7T. Our primary finding is notable spatial heterogeneity of the BOLD contrast response, particularly for the GE BOLD data, resulting in a more reliably linear relationship between BOLD data and estimated neural responses in the center of the cortical representations of the individual Gabor patches than near the edges. A control experiment with larger sinusoidal grating patches confirms that the observed sensitivity to voxel selection in the regions of interest-based analysis is unique to the small stimuli.
We all share the need to optimise the evaluation of patients with disorders of consciousness (DOC), given the high rate of misdiagnosis of vegetative state based on clinical examination. We believe that one way to do this is to optimise assessment from the early stages, in order to reduce discontinuity between the hospital and rehabilitation phases. While clinical observation remains the &quot;gold standard&quot; for the diagnostic assessment of patients with DOC, neurophysiological investigations (electroencephalography, short latency evoked potentials and event-related potentials) could help to further understanding of the pathophysiology underlying the state of unresponsiveness, differentiate coma from other apparently similar conditions (i.e., locked-in and locked-in-like syndromes), and potentially integrate prognostic evaluation with monitoring of the evolution of the clinical state. Moreover, these techniques have the considerable advantage of being available at the bedside. Discontinuity between the hospital and rehabilitation phases is rightly considered to be one of the critical points in the assessment of patients with DOC. In our view, a continuum of expert neurological assessment that begins with monitoring of the acute phase (focusing on evolution of primary brain damage and secondary complications) and follows through to the patient's discharge from the intensive care unit (focusing on the pathophysiology of brain damage and prognostication based on clinical, neuroimaging and neurophysiological tests) could help to: i) optimise the rehabilitation programme according to the expectations of recovery; ii) provide a basis for comparison with subsequent periodic re-evaluations; iii) ensure uniformity of assessment regardless of the heterogeneity of care facilities; and iv) characterise a subset of patients who, showing discrepancies between neurophysiological tests and clinical status, are more likely to undergo unexpected recovery.
The ability to transfer weight from one lower limb to the other is essential for the execution of daily life activities and little is known about how weight transfer during unconstrained natural standing is affected by age. This study examined the weight transfer ability of elderly individuals during unconstrained standing (for 30 min) in comparison to young adults. The subjects (19 healthy elderly adults, range 65-80 years, and 19 healthy young adults, range 18-30 years) stood with each foot on a separate force plate and were allowed to change their posture freely at any time. The limits of stability and base of support width during standing, measures of mobility (using the timed up and go and the preferred walking speed tests), and fear of falling were also measured. In comparison to the young adults, during unconstrained standing the elderly adults produced four times fewer weight transfers of large amplitude (greater than half of their body weight). The limits of stability and base of support width were significantly smaller for the elderly adults but there were no significant differences in the measures of mobility and in the fear of falling score compared to young adults. The observed significant age-related decrease in the use of weight transfer during unconstrained standing, despite any difference in the measured mobility of the subjects, suggests that this task reveals unnoticed and subtle differences in postural control, which may help to better understand age related impairments in balance that the elderly population experiences.
Castrated male quail display intense male-typical copulatory behavior in response to exogenous testosterone but ovariectomized females do not. The behavior of males is largely mediated by the central aromatization of testosterone into estradiol. The lack of behavioral response in females could result from a lower rate of aromatization. This is probably not the case because although the enzymatic sex difference is clearly present in gonadally intact sexually mature birds, it is not reliably found in gonadectomized birds treated with testosterone, in which the behavioral sex difference is always observed. We previously discovered that the higher aromatase activity in sexually mature males as compared to females is not associated with major differences in aromatase mRNA density. A reverse sex difference (females&gt;males) was even detected in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. We analyzed here by in situ hybridization histochemistry the density of aromatase mRNA in gonadectomized male and female quail that were or were not exposed to a steroid profile typical of their sex. Testosterone and ovarian steroids (presumably estradiol) increased aromatase mRNA concentration in males and females respectively but mRNA density was similar in both sexes. A reverse sex difference in aromatase mRNA density (females&gt;males) was detected in the bed nucleus of subjects exposed to sex steroids. Together these data suggest that although the induction of aromatase activity by testosterone corresponds to an increased transcription of the enzyme, the sex difference in enzymatic activity results largely from post-transcriptional controls that remain to be identified.
In the bluebanded goby, Lythrypnus dalli, removal of the male from a social group results in a rapid behavioral response where one female becomes dominant and changes sex to male. In a previous study, within hours of male removal, aromatase activity in the brain (bAA) of dominant females was almost 50% lower than that of control females from a group in which the male had not been removed. For those females that displayed increased aggressive behavior after the male was removed, the larger the increase in aggressive behavior, the greater the reduction in bAA. To investigate whether decreased bAA leads to increased aggression, the present study used a more rapid time course of behavioral profiling and bAA assay, looking within minutes of male removal from the group. There were no significant differences in bAA between control females (large females from groups with the male still present), females that doubled their aggressive behavior by 10 or 20 min after male removal, or females that did not double their aggressive behavior within 30 min after male removal. Further, individual variation in bAA and aggressive behavior were not correlated in these fish. Whole brain decreases in aromatase activity thus appear to follow, rather than precede, rapid increases in aggressive behavior, which provides one potential mechanism underlying the rapid increase in androgens that follows aggressive interactions in many vertebrate species. For fish species that change sex from female to male, this increase in androgens could subsequently facilitate sex change.
Polydipsia is a less examined but prevalent condition in patients with psychiatric disorders. It is usually described in schizophrenia but is rarely reported in bipolar affective disorder (BPAD). It is important to recognize and treat this entity as it can lead to serious complications. One needs to be cautious in choosing the mood stabilizer while treating this condition. We report the successful treatment of a patient with BPAD and polydipsia on a combination of valproate and risperidone.

Loss of hair cells in the mammalian cochlea leads to permanent sensori-neural hearing loss. Hair cells degenerate and their places are taken by phalangeal scars formed by non-sensory supporting cells. Current data indicate that early postnatal post-mitotic supporting cells can proliferate and differentiate into hair cell-like cells in culture. In this study, we used GFAP and nestin promoter-GFP transgenic mice in combination with other stem cell markers to characterize supporting cell subtypes in the postnatal day-3 (P3) and adult organs of Corti with potential stem/progenitor cell phenotype. In P3 organ of Corti, we show GFAP-GFP signal in all the supporting cell subtypes while the nestin-GFP was restricted to the supporting cells in the inner hair cell area. At this stage, GFAP and selected stem/progenitor markers displayed overlapping expression pattern in the supporting cell population. In the adult, GFAP expression is down-regulated from the supporting cells in the outer hair cell area and nestin expression is down-regulated in the supporting cells of the inner hair cell area. Sox2 and Jagged1 expression is maintained in the mature supporting cells, while Abcg2 was down-regulated in these cells. In contrast, GFAP and Abcg2 expression was up-regulated in the inner sulcus limbal cells outside the mature organ of Corti's area. Using quantitative reverse transcription-PCR, we found a decrease in transcripts for Jagged1 and Sox2 in adult cochleae. Our findings suggest that the loss of regenerative capacity of the adult organ of Corti is related to down-regulation of stem/progenitor key-markers from the mature supporting cells.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a neurological disorder that causes paralysis in young adults and affects women more frequently than men. The etiology of MS is not known, but it is generally viewed as an autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS), influenced by genetic and environmental factors. Recent studies have identified interleukin-7 receptor  (IL-7R) as a risk factor for MS. But the role of IL-7R in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model of MS is not known. In this study we demonstrate that IL-7R-deficient (IL-7R(-/-)) mice remain resistant to MOGp35-55-induced EAE. When compared with C57BL/6 wild-type mice, IL-7R(-/-) mice showed less severe inflammation and demyelination in the CNS. The attenuation of EAE in IL-7R(-/-) mice was associated with a decrease in T-helper (Th) 1 and Th17 responses in the CNS and lymphoid organs. IL-7R(-/-) mice also showed an increase in Th2 response and CD4(+)Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells. These findings highlight that IL-7R confers susceptibility by influencing autoimmune Th1/Th17 responses in EAE model of MS.
A genetic study in Drosophila gives important insights into the epigenetic control of gene expression implicated in a human mental retardation syndrome.
Eukaryotic cells harbor a small multiploid mitochondrial genome, organized in nucleoids spread within the mitochondrial network. Maintenance and distribution of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) are essential for energy metabolism, mitochondrial lineage in primordial germ cells, and to prevent mtDNA instability, which leads to many debilitating human diseases. Mounting evidence suggests that the actors of the mitochondrial network dynamics, among which is the intramitochondrial dynamin OPA1, might be involved in these processes. Here, using siRNAs specific to OPA1 alternate spliced exons, we evidenced that silencing of the OPA1 variants including exon 4b leads to mtDNA depletion, secondary to inhibition of mtDNA replication, and to marked alteration of mtDNA distribution in nucleoid and nucleoid distribution throughout the mitochondrial network. We demonstrate that a small hydrophobic 10-kDa peptide generated by cleavage of the OPA1-exon4b isoform is responsible for this process and show that this peptide is embedded in the inner membrane and colocalizes and coimmunoprecipitates with nucleoid components. We propose a novel synthetic model in which a peptide, including two trans-membrane domains derived from the N terminus of the OPA1-exon4b isoform in vertebrates or from its ortholog in lower eukaryotes, might contribute to nucleoid attachment to the inner mitochondrial membrane and promotes mtDNA replication and distribution. Thus, this study places OPA1 as a direct actor in the maintenance of mitochondrial genome integrity.

The groundbreaking and prophetic rhetoric of neuroscience has recently highlighted the fetal brain as the most promising organ for understanding why transsexuals feel &quot;trapped in the wrong body&quot;, and for predicting whether children born with &quot;ambiguous&quot; genitalia will grow up to feel like a man or a woman.This article proposes a recent history of the cerebralization of intersexuality and of transsexuality as atypical neurodevelopmental conditions. It examines the ways in which the organizational theory of brain sex differentiation developed in the late 1950s in behavioral neuroendocrinology has gained increased prominence in and through controversies over best practice issues in the case management of intersex newborns, and the etiology of transsexuality.It focuses on the American context and on the leading warrior in this battle: Milton Diamond, now a most prominent figure in professional debates about the clinical management of intersexuality, and the intersex person's best friend. Persons with an intersexed or transsexual condition consider, not their gonads, but their brains, their core sense of self, as the primary determinant of sex. (Diamond and Beh 2005, 6-7, note 1)
CXC chemokine receptor CXCR4 is expressed in vitro in both human and rodent adult neural progenitor cells (NPCs). It has been suggested that the CXCL12-CXCR4 axis potentially enhances the proliferation of NPCs. However, whether CXCR4 is expressed in the neural stem cells (NSCs), a subset of self-renewing and multipotent NPCs, and whether CXCR4 signaling is directly required for their proliferation are not clear. In this study, we report that CXCR4 is expressed in a subpopulation of NPCs in the early embryonic ventricular zone. In studies of a CXCR4(eGFP) bacterial artificial chromosomal (BAC) transgenic mouse line, we further isolated NPCs from E12.5 transgenic telencephalon and GFP(+) cells demonstrated self-renewal and multipotency in neurosphere assays in vitro. Consistent with these observations, we enriched GFP(+)/CXCR4(+) cells by fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS) with either CXCR4 antibody 12G5 or GFP. Furthermore, we observed that CXCL12 alone did not activate the self-renewal of NPCs or increase the proliferation of NPCs that are induced by bFGF/EGF. However, we found that blocking CXCR4 receptor with antagonist AMD3100 impaired the bFGF/EGF-induced expansion of GFP(+) NPCs through modulating their cell cycling. In addition, AMD3100 treatment of pregnant mice reduced the generation of neurospheres from E12.5 embryos. Our data suggest that CXCR4 is a potential cell surface marker for early embryonic NSCs and modulates growth-factor signaling.
Facioscapulohumeral dystrophy (FSHD) is the third most common muscular dystrophy. It is named for its characteristic involvement of the muscles of the face and upper arm. It is present worldwide, with a prevalence of around 4 per 100000 and an incidence of about 1 in 20000. Overall lifespan is not affected significantly. The scapuloperoneal syndrome is a rarer presentation that may cause some confusion. FSHD is an autosomal dominant condition. The molecular genetics of FSHD are complex, with current understanding focusing on epigenetic effects related to contraction-dependent (FSHD1) and contraction-independent (FSHD2) effects of a hypomethylated repeat sequence (D4Z4), in the presence of a specific 4qA161 phenotype. Molecular genetic diagnosis is available based on these findings, but with some complexities which may lead to false-negative results on routine laboratory investigation. No medication has been demonstrated to alter the clinical course of the disease significantly. A range of supportive measures may be applied. This chapter reviews the epidemiology, pathogenesis, genetics, clinical features, investigation, prognosis, and management of patients with FSHD and the scapuloperoneal syndrome.

Hemifacial spasm (HFS) is a peripherally induced movement disorder causing clonic or tonic contractions of the facial muscles. HFS is usually unilateral and sporadic. It may be primary (mainly attributed to vascular compressions of the seventh cranial nerve in the posterior fossa) or secondary to facial nerve or brainstem damage. The two forms share a number of features but may differ in clinical presentation (simultaneous involvement of the upper and lower facial muscles in secondary forms). The spasm-related electromyogram activity is probably generated by ephaptic transmission, due to local demyelination at the entry zone of the facial nerve root (possibly owing to nerve damage caused by a compressing cerebral vessel). These findings suggest the &quot;nerve origin hypothesis&quot; as the main pathophysiological mechanism underlying HFS. Medical treatment (anticonvulsants or GABAergic drugs) is generally ineffective. Microvascular decompression of the facial nerve can achieve marked improvements in the majority of patients, although recurrences and complications are not uncommon. Local (orbicularis oculi or lower facial muscles) injection of Botulinum toxin (BoNT) is therefore considered the preferred symptomatic treatment for primary HFS. The long-term efficacy and safety of BoNT have been documented by clinical studies.
Neuroleptics having dopamine receptor-blocking properties are frequently responsible for the development of movement disorders. This has been known for many years as these adverse events were identified soon after the introduction of these drugs for the treatment of psychiatric disorders. Parkinsonism, acute dystonic reactions, akathisia, and tardive dyskinesias are the different clinical presentations of these disorders. Tardive dyskinesia is the most problematic among them as it may persist even after discontinuation of the offending drug, and become an irreversible phenomenon. The term &quot;tardive dyskinesia&quot; encompasses a variety of clinical phenomena including stereotypic behaviors, dystonia, myoclonus, and tics. Stereotypies and orobuccolingual dyskinesias are the most frequently observed tardive disorders, particularly in the elderly population exposed to neuroleptics, while dystonic phenomena are more prevalent in younger individuals. The development of these disorders is dependent on the potency of the drug, duration of exposure, and a number of predisposing factors, including age, gender, and presence of organic brain disease. The pathophysiology is rather complex and involves changes in the dopamine synapse both at the pre- and postsynaptic level, as well as plastic changes involving transcription factors and activation of different molecular cascades downstream of the dopamine receptor. The introduction of more novel pharmacological agents, like the so-called atypical neuroleptics, has significantly reduced the incidence of these disorders; however, the prescribing physician has to be aware that a lower risk is not synonymous with absence of risk.
Chorea is uncommonly caused by toxins. Anecdotal evidence from cases of toxin-induced chorea assists in our understanding of neurodegenerative diseases associated with chorea. Beginning in medieval Europe with ergotism and the &quot;fire that twisted people,&quot; spanning to crack dancing in contemporary times and the coexistence of alcohol abuse with chorea, toxins may exert direct effects to enhance mesolimbic dopamine transmission or indirect effects through gamma-aminobutyric acid modulation. The following chapter will discuss toxins associated with chorea and the presumed pathophysiology underlying the movement disorders in these case series.

Neurodegenerative disorders with brain iron accumulation (NBIA) are a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of conditions in which there is neurodegeneration accompanied by elevated levels of brain iron. NBIA is frequently of genetic etiology, but may be secondary to an acquired systemic or neurological disease. Mutations in the ferritin light chain cause an adult-onset autosomal-dominant choreiform movement disorder termed neuroferritinopathy. Homozygous mutations in the ceruloplasmin gene cause aceruloplasminemia, which is characterized by the triad of diabetes, retinopathy, and a neurological disorder in mid adulthood. Mutations in pantothenate kinase 2 (PANK2) and phospholipase A2 (PLA2G6) cause recessive, childhood-onset extrapyramidal disorders termed pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration (PKAN) and infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy (INAD), respectively. There is considerable phenotypic overlap between these conditions. The most useful investigation in suspected NBIA is brain magnetic resonance imaging, which can identify pathological iron deposition and distinguish between genotypes. Iron depletion therapy has been demonstrated to be successful in aceruloplasminemia, but not neuroferritinopathy, PKAN, or INAD. The presentation of NBIA overlaps with the more common adult movement disorders and pediatric neurometabolic conditions, and a high index of suspicion is required to make a correct diagnosis.
Huntington's disease (HD) is caused by a triplet repeat expansion in the IT15 gene on chromosome 4 encoding huntingtin. Gene mutations are found in about 99% of cases, with symptoms and signs suggestive of HD. This implies the existence of other causes of this syndrome, and, in recent years, several other distinct genetic disorders have been identified that can present with a clinical picture indistinguishable from HD, termed HD-like (HDL) syndromes. So far, four genes associated with HDL syndromes have been identified, including the prion protein gene (HDL1), the junctophilin 3 gene (HDL2) and, the gene encoding the TATA box-binding protein (HDL4). In addition, a single family with a recessively inherited HD phenocopy, the exact genetic basis of which is currently unknown (HDL3), has been described. These disorders, however, account for only a small proportion of HDL cases, and the list of HDL genes and conditions is set to grow. In this article, we review the currently identified HD phenocopy disorders and discuss clinical clues to facilitate further investigations. We will concentrate on the four so-called HDL syndromes mentioned above. Other genetic choreatic syndromes such as dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy, neuroferritinopathy, pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration, and chorea-acanthocytosis are also briefly discussed.
HD is a complex illness, with a broad clinical picture that begins years before clear motor onset and evolves over decades to a terminal state of extreme disability. It challenges the resources of families and communities and the skills of medical and ancillary health care providers. A broader understanding of the phenotypes, progression, and genetic basis of HD may elevate the standard of care for these deserving patients.













It is well established that children exposed to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) in utero have an increased risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes including foetal growth retardation, major congenital malformations and impaired postnatal cognitive development. However, due to the significant maternal and foetal risks associated with uncontrolled epileptic seizures, AED treatment is generally maintained during pregnancy in the majority of women with active epilepsy. The prevalence of major malformations in children exposed to AEDs has ranged from 4 to 10%, 2-4 times higher than in the general population. More recent studies suggest a smaller increase in malformation rates. Malformation rates have consistently been higher in association with exposure to valproate than with carbamazepine and lamotrigine. Some prospective cohort studies also indicate reduced cognitive outcome in children exposed to valproate compared to carbamazepine and possibly lamotrigine. Information on pregnancy outcomes with newer generation AEDs other than lamotrigine are still insufficient.
Cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases (PDEs) are a superfamily of enzymes that are involved in the regulation of the intracellular second messengers cyclic AMP (cAMP) and cyclic GMP (cGMP) by controlling their rates of hydrolysis. There are 11 different PDE families and each family typically has multiple isoforms and splice variants. The PDEs differ in their structures, distribution, modes of regulation, and sensitivity to inhibitors. Since PDEs have been shown to play distinct roles in processes of emotion and related learning and memory processes, selective PDE inhibitors, by preventing the breakdown of cAMP and/or cGMP, modulate mood and related cognitive activity. This review discusses the current state and future development in the burgeoning field of PDEs in the central nervous system. It is becoming increasingly clear that PDE inhibitors have therapeutic potential for the treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders involving disturbances of mood, emotion, and cognition.
A growing body of evidence suggests that mitochondrial abnormalities are involved in diabetes and associated complications. This chapter gives an overview about the effects of diabetes in mitochondrial function of several tissues including the pancreas, skeletal and cardiac muscle, liver, and brain. The realization that mitochondria are at the intersection of cells' life and death has made them a promising target for drug discovery and therapeutic interventions. Here, we also discuss literature that examined the potential protective effect of insulin, insulin-sensitizing drugs, and mitochondrial-targeted antioxidants.
Neuroscientific and clinical studies of music over the past two decades have substantially increased our understanding of its use as a means of therapy. The authors briefly review current literature related to music's effect on people with different mental illnesses, and examine several neurobiological theories that may explain its effectiveness or lack thereof in treating psychiatric disorders. Neuroscientific studies have shown music to be an agent capable of influencing complex neurobiological processes in the brain and suggest that it can potentially play an important role in treatment. Clinical studies provide some evidence that music therapy can be used as an alternative therapy in treating depression, autism, schizophrenia, and dementia, as well as problems of agitation, anxiety, sleeplessness, and substance misuse, though whether it can actually replace other modes of treatment remains undetermined. Future research should include translational studies involving both neuroscience and clinical medicine that investigate the long-term effects of music intervention and that lead to the development of new strategies for music therapy.
This section of Headache annually reviews the status of recently completed and ongoing clinical trials involving headache disorders. The review will focus on multicenter trials of new therapies as well as novel formulations of previously approved therapeutics. Table 1 summarizes major migraine therapeutic trials that have been completed recently, according to data obtained from the &quot;ClinicalTrials.Gov&quot; website as well as from corporate press releases. Table 2 summarizes the major therapeutic trials that are ongoing at the present time.

The dual-pathway model of auditory cortical processing assumes that two largely segregated processing streams originating in the lateral belt subserve the two main functions of hearing: identification of auditory &quot;objects&quot;, including speech; and localization of sounds in space (Rauschecker and Tian, 2000). Evidence has accumulated, chiefly from work in humans and nonhuman primates, that an antero-ventral pathway supports the former function, whereas a postero-dorsal stream supports the latter, i.e processing of space and motion-in-space. In addition, the postero-dorsal stream has also been postulated to subserve some functions of speech and language in humans. A recent review (Rauschecker and Scott, 2009) has proposed the possibility that both functions of the postero-dorsal pathway can be subsumed under the same structural forward model: an efference copy sent from prefrontal and premotor cortex provides the basis for &quot;optimal state estimation&quot; in the inferior parietal lobe and in sensory areas of the posterior auditory cortex. The current article corroborates this model by adding and discussing recent evidence.
Recordings of single neurons have yielded great insights into the way acoustic stimuli are represented in auditory cortex. However, any one neuron functions as part of a population whose combined activity underlies cortical information processing. Here we review some results obtained by recording simultaneously from auditory cortical populations and individual morphologically identified neurons, in urethane-anesthetized and unanesthetized passively listening rats. Auditory cortical populations produced structured activity patterns both in response to acoustic stimuli, and spontaneously without sensory input. Population spike time patterns were broadly conserved across multiple sensory stimuli and spontaneous events, exhibiting a generally conserved sequential organization lasting approximately 100 ms. Both spontaneous and evoked events exhibited sparse, spatially localized activity in layer 2/3 pyramidal cells, and densely distributed activity in larger layer 5 pyramidal cells and putative interneurons. Laminar propagation differed however, with spontaneous activity spreading upward from deep layers and slowly across columns, but sensory responses initiating in presumptive thalamorecipient layers, spreading rapidly across columns. In both unanesthetized and urethanized rats, global activity fluctuated between &quot;desynchronized&quot; state characterized by low amplitude, high-frequency local field potentials and a &quot;synchronized&quot; state of larger, lower-frequency waves. Computational studies suggested that responses could be predicted by a simple dynamical system model fitted to the spontaneous activity immediately preceding stimulus presentation. Fitting this model to the data yielded a nonlinear self-exciting system model in synchronized states and an approximately linear system in desynchronized states. We comment on the significance of these results for auditory cortical processing of acoustic and non-acoustic information.
Auditory perceptual 'restoration' occurs when the auditory system restores an occluded or masked sound of interest. Behavioral work on auditory restoration in humans began over 50 years ago using it to model a noisy environmental scene with competing sounds. It has become clear that not only humans experience auditory restoration: restoration has been broadly conserved in many species. Behavioral studies in humans and animals provide a necessary foundation to link the insights being obtained from human EEG and fMRI to those from animal neurophysiology. The aggregate of data resulting from multiple approaches across species has begun to clarify the neuronal bases of auditory restoration. Different types of neural responses supporting restoration have been found, supportive of multiple mechanisms working within a species. Yet a general principle has emerged that responses correlated with restoration mimic the response that would have been given to the uninterrupted sound of interest. Using the same technology to study different species will help us to better harness animal models of 'auditory scene analysis' to clarify the conserved neural mechanisms shaping the perceptual organization of sound and to advance strategies to improve hearing in natural environmental settings.
The auditory cortex is known to be a necessary neural structure for the perception of acoustic signals, particularly the spatial location and the temporal features of complex auditory stimuli. Previous studies have indicated that there is no topographic map of acoustic space in the auditory cortex and it has been proposed that spatial locations are represented by some sort of population code. Additionally, in spite of temporal processing deficits being one of the hallmark consequences of normal aging, the temporal coding of acoustic stimuli remains poorly understood. This report will address these two issues by discussing the results from several studies describing responses of single auditory cortical neurons in the non-human primate. First, we will review studies that have addressed potential spike-rate population codes of acoustic space in the caudal belt of auditory cortex. Second, we will present new data on the neuronal responses to gap stimuli in aged monkeys and compare them to published reports of gap detection thresholds. Together these studies indicate that the alert macaque monkey is an excellent model system to study both spatial and temporal processing in the auditory cortex at the single neuron level.
The human auditory system is comprised of specialized but interacting anatomic and functional pathways encoding object, spatial, and temporal information. We review how learning-induced plasticity manifests along these pathways and to what extent there are common mechanisms subserving such plasticity. A first series of experiments establishes a temporal hierarchy along which sounds of objects are discriminated along basic to fine-grained categorical boundaries and learned representations. A widespread network of temporal and (pre)frontal brain regions contributes to object discrimination via recursive processing. Learning-induced plasticity typically manifested as repetition suppression within a common set of brain regions. A second series considered how the temporal sequence of sound sources is represented. We show that lateralized responsiveness during the initial encoding phase of pairs of auditory spatial stimuli is critical for their accurate ordered perception. Finally, we consider how spatial representations are formed and modified through training-induced learning. A population-based model of spatial processing is supported wherein temporal and parietal structures interact in the encoding of relative and absolute spatial information over the initial ~300 ms post-stimulus onset. Collectively, these data provide insights into the functional organization of human audition and open directions for new developments in targeted diagnostic and neurorehabilitation strategies.
Over the last 15 years, an increasing number of studies have described the responsiveness of thalamic and cortical neurons to communication sounds. Whereas initial studies have simply looked for neurons exhibiting higher firing rate to conspecific vocalizations over their modified, artificially synthesized versions, more recent studies determine the relative contribution of &quot;rate coding&quot; and &quot;temporal coding&quot; to the information transmitted by spike trains. In this article, we aim at reviewing the different strategies employed by thalamic and cortical neurons to encode information about acoustic stimuli, from artificial to natural sounds. Considering data obtained with simple stimuli, we first illustrate that different facets of temporal code, ranging from a strict correspondence between spike-timing and stimulus temporal features to more complex coding strategies, do already exist with artificial stimuli. We then review lines of evidence indicating that spike-timing provides an efficient code for discriminating communication sounds from thalamus, primary and non-primary auditory cortex up to frontal areas. As the neural code probably developed, and became specialized, over evolution to allow precise and reliable processing of sounds that are of survival value, we argue that spike-timing based coding strategies might set the foundations of our perceptive abilities.
The hippocampus projects to the anterior thalamic nuclei both directly and indirectly via the mammillary bodies, but little is known about the electrophysiological properties of these convergent pathways. Here we demonstrate, for the first time, the presence of long-term plasticity in anterior thalamic nuclei synapses in response to high- and low-frequency stimulation (LFS) in urethane-anesthetized rats. We compared the synaptic changes evoked via the direct vs. the indirect hippocampal pathways to the anterior thalamus, and found that long-term potentiation (LTP) of the thalamic field response is induced predominantly through the direct hippocampal projections. Furthermore, we have estimated that that long-term depression (LTD) can be induced only after stimulation of the indirect connections carried by the mammillothalamic tract. Interestingly, basal synaptic transmission mediated by the mammillothalamic tract undergoes use-dependent, BDNF-mediated potentiation, revealing a distinct form of plasticity specific to the diencephalic region. Our data indicate that the thalamus does not passively relay incoming information, but rather acts as a synaptic network, where the ability to integrate hippocampal and mammillary body inputs is dynamically modified as a result of previous activity in the circuit. The complementary properties of these two parallel pathways upon anterior thalamic activity reveal that they do not have duplicate functions.
The effects of ionizing irradiation on the brain are associated with oxidative stress. While oxidative stress following irradiation is generally viewed as detrimental for hippocampal function, it might have beneficial effects as part of an adaptive or preconditioning response to a subsequent challenge. Here we show that in contrast to what is seen in wild-type mice, irradiation enhances hippocampus- dependent cognitive measures in mice lacking extracellular superoxide dismutase. These outcomes were associated with genotype-dependent effects on measures of oxidative stress. When cortices and hippocampi were analyzed for nitrotyrosine formation as an index of oxidative stress, the levels were chronically elevated in mice lacking extracellular superoxide dismutase. However, irradiation caused a greater increase in nitrotyrosine levels in wild-type mice than mice lacking extracellular superoxide dismutase. These paradoxical genotype-dependent effects of irradiation on measures of oxidative stress and cognitive function underscore potential beneficial effects associated with chronic oxidative stress if it exists prior to a secondary insult such as irradiation.
The hippocampus is probably the most studied brain structure regarding memory. Each brain hemisphere contains one hippocampus, and subjects with unilateral hippocampal lesions can perform adequately in several behavioral tasks. This property allows studying how both hippocampi interact. In this work, we show that the information acquired in a passive avoidance task with one hippocampus can be retrieved and used by the brain when the hippocampal side involved in the acquisition is blocked with TTX. The pre-exposition to the context is decisive. By combining behavioral tasks and cytochrome oxidase histochemistry we demonstrated that several brain structures, including the hippocampus, amygdala and other related regions, change their activity under the above-mentioned treatments.
Establishing clear effects of gender and natural hormonal changes during female ovarian cycles on cognitive function has often proved difficult. Here we have investigated such effects on the formation and long-term (24 h) maintenance of social recognition memory in mice together with the respective involvement of - and -estrogen receptors using - and -estrogen receptor knockout mice and wildtype controls. Results in wildtype animals showed that while females successfully formed a memory in the context of a habituation/dishabituation paradigm at all stages of their ovarian cycle, only when learning occurred during proestrus (when estrogen levels are highest) was it retained after 24 h. In -receptor knockout mice (which showed no ovarian cycles) both formation and maintenance of this social recognition memory were impaired, whereas -receptor knockouts showed no significant deficits and exhibited the same proestrus-dependent retention of memory at 24 h. To investigate possible sex differences, male - and -estrogen receptor knockout mice were also tested and showed similar effects to females excepting that -receptor knockouts had normal memory formation and only exhibited a 24 h retention deficit. This indicates a greater dependence in females on -receptor expression for memory formation in this task. Since non-specific motivational and attentional aspects of the task were unaffected, our findings suggest a general -receptor dependent facilitation of memory formation by estrogen as well as an enhanced long-term retention during proestrus. Results are discussed in terms of the differential roles of the two estrogen receptors, the neural substrates involved and putative interactions with oxytocin.
In mammals, sex specialization is reflected by differences in brain anatomy and function. Measurable differences are documented in reproductive behavior, cognition, and emotion. We hypothesized that gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) plays a crucial role in controlling the extent of the brain's sex specificity and that changes in GnRH action during critical periods of brain development, such as puberty, will result in altered sex-specific behavioral and physiological patterns. We blocked puberty in half of the 48 same-sex Scottish mule Texel cross sheep twins with GnRH analog (GnRHa) goserelin acetate every 3 weeks, beginning just before puberty. To determine the effects of GnRHa treatment on sex-specific behavior and emotion regulation in different social contexts, we employed the food acquisition task (FAT) and measurement of heart rate variability (HRV). ANOVA revealed significant sex and sextreatment interaction effects, suggesting that treated males were more likely to leave their companions to acquire food than untreated, while the opposite effect was observed in females. Concordant results were seen in HRV; treated males displayed higher HRV than untreated, while the reverse pattern was found in females, as shown by significant sex and sextreatment interaction effects. We conclude that long-term prepubertal GnRHa treatment significantly affected sex-specific brain development, which impacted emotion and behavior regulation in sheep. These results suggest that GnRH is a modulator of cognitive function in the developing brain and that the sexes are differentially affected by GnRH modulation.




Megalencephalic leucoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts (MLC) is a rare congenital leucodystrophy caused by mutations in MLC1, a membrane protein of unknown function. MLC1 expression in astrocyte end-feet contacting blood vessels and meninges, along with brain swelling, fluid cysts and myelin vacuolation observed in MLC patients, suggests a possible role for MLC1 in the regulation of fluid and ion homeostasis and cellular volume changes. To identify MLC1 direct interactors and dissect the molecular pathways in which MLC1 is involved, we used NH2-MLC1 domain as a bait to screen a human brain library in a yeast two-hybrid assay. We identified the 1 subunit of the Na,K-ATPase pump as one of the interacting clones and confirmed it by pull-downs, co-fractionation assays and immunofluorescence stainings in human and rat astrocytes in vitro and in brain tissue. By performing ouabain-affinity chromatography on astrocyte and brain extracts, we isolated MLC1 and the whole Na,K-ATPase enzyme in a multiprotein complex that included Kir4.1, syntrophin and dystrobrevin. Because Na,K-ATPase is involved in intracellular osmotic control and volume regulation, we investigated the effect of hypo-osmotic stress on MLC1/Na,K-ATPase relationship in astrocytes. We found that hypo-osmotic conditions increased MLC1 membrane expression and favoured MLC1/Na,K-ATPase-1 association. Moreover, hypo-osmosis induced astrocyte swelling and the reversible formation of endosome-derived vacuoles, where the two proteins co-localized. These data suggest that through its interaction with Na,K-ATPase, MLC1 is involved in the control of intracellular osmotic conditions and volume regulation in astrocytes, opening new perspectives for understanding the pathological mechanisms of MLC disease.
Previous studies investigated whether prolactin (PRL) serum level was a biomarker of antipsychotic response, schizophrenia symptomatology, and tardive dyskinesia. Most of the findings support that antipsychotic drugs modulate PRL levels but PRL is not a steady indicator. Recent results suggest a genetic effect of PRL and PRL receptor (PRLR) polymorphisms in PRL levels indicating that independently of antipsychotic therapy subjects could have altered PRL levels due to their genetic background.We evaluated whether PRL and PRLR variants were associated with treatment outcome and tardive dyskinesia. We observed no association of PRL/PRLR polymorphism with treatment response (best genotypic results include PRL rs849885 and PRLR rs4703509 permuted p=0.326). Regarding tardive dyskinesia, the major allele of PRL rs37364 was nominally associated with risk for tardive dyskinesia in the European ancestry sub-sample (permuted p=0.183). Although we reported no significant associations, it is definitely worthy of investigation to see if together (genetic variants in the PRL system and PRL serum measures) could be a reliable biomarker for antipsychotic response and TD prevalence. Our results suggest that more studies in this context are required to shed light in the molecular mechanisms underlying antipsychotic response and tardive dyskinesia occurrence.
Sensory disturbance is very common following stroke and may exacerbate a patient's functional impairment, even if the patient has good motor function. For instance, patients with sensory disturbances will often grip an object with excessive or underestimated pinch pressure, because they do not receive the appropriate sensory feedback and must rely only on visual feedback. In this study, we developed a sensory feedback system that used cutaneous electrical stimulation for patients with sensory loss. In the system, electrical stimulation is modulated by the strength of pinch pressure and the patients are able to identify their fingertip pinch pressure. To evaluate the efficacy of the system, a clinical case study was conducted in a stroke patient with severe sensory loss. The fluctuation in force control during grasping was gradually decreased as the training progressed and the patient was able to maintain a stable pinch pressure during grasping even without the system following 2 months of intervention. We conclude that the system described in this study may be a useful contribution towards the rehabilitation of patients with sensory loss.
Molluscs have proven to be invaluable models for basic neuroscience research, yielding fundamental insights into a range of biological processes involved in action potential generation, synaptic transmission, learning, memory, and, more recently, nociceptive biology. Evidence suggests that nociceptive processes in primary nociceptors are highly conserved across diverse taxa, making molluscs attractive models for biomedical studies of mechanisms that may contribute to pain in humans but also exposing them to procedures that might produce painlike sensations. We review the physiology of nociceptors and behavioral responses to noxious stimulation in several molluscan taxa, and discuss the possibility that nociception may result in painlike states in at least some molluscs that possess more complex nervous systems. Few studies have directly addressed possible emotionlike concomitants of nociceptive responses in molluscs. Because the definition of pain includes a subjective component that may be impossible to gauge in animals quite different from humans, firm conclusions about the possible existence of pain in molluscs may be unattainable. Evolutionary divergence and differences in lifestyle, physiology, and neuroanatomy suggest that painlike experiences in molluscs, if they exist, should differ from those in mammals. But reports indicate that some molluscs exhibit motivational states and cognitive capabilities that may be consistent with a capacity for states with functional parallels to pain. We therefore recommend that investigators attempt to minimize the potential for nociceptor activation and painlike sensations in experimental invertebrates by reducing the number of animals subjected to stressful manipulations and by administering appropriate anesthetic agents whenever practicable, welfare practices similar to those for vertebrate subjects.
This report summarizes presentations and discussions at an NIH-sponsored workshop on Neotropical Primates in Biomedical Research, held in September 2010. Neotropical primates (New World monkeys), with their smaller size, faster maturation, and shorter lifespans than Old World monkeys, are efficient models and present unique opportunities for studying human health and disease. After overviews of the most commonly used neotropical species-squirrel monkeys, marmosets, and owl monkeys-speakers described the use of neotropical primates in specific areas of immunology, infectious disease, neuroscience, and physiology research. Presentations addressed the development of new research tools: immune-based reagents, fMRI technologies suited to these small primates, sequencing of the marmoset genome, the first germline transgenic monkey, and neotropical primate induced pluripotent stem cells. In the discussions after the presentations, participants identified challenges to both continued use and development of new uses of neotropical primates in research and suggested the following actions to address the challenges: (1) mechanisms to support breeding colonies of some neotropical species to ensure a well-characterized domestic source; (2) resources for the continuing development of critical research tools to improve the immunological and hormonal characterization of neotropical primates; (3) improved opportunities for networking among investigators who use neotropical primates, training and other measures to improve colony and veterinary management, and continuedresearch on neotropical primate management and veterinary care issues; (4) support for development activities to produce models that are more affordable and more efficient for moving research &quot;from benchside to bedside&quot;; and (5) establishment of a small program that would fund &quot;orphan&quot; species.
In mast cells, crosslinking the high-affinity IgE receptor (FcRI) results in a dynamic reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton that is associated with membrane ruffling. Although the signaling involved in degranulation has been well described, it is less understood in morphological changes. In this study, we investigated the specific role of conventional protein kinase C (cPKC), a crucial signal for degranulation, in antigen-induced membrane ruffling of mast cells. In RBL-2H3 mast cells, antigen induced a long-lasting membrane ruffling, which was blocked with late-added G6976, a specific cPKC inhibitor, indicating that sustained activation of cPKC is required for maintaining the reaction. Immunofluorescence staining of endogenous PKC/ and real-time imaging of transfected green fluorescent protein-tagged PKC/ demonstrated that in response to antigen both PKC and PKCI quickly translocated to the plasma membrane and were colocalized with actin filaments at the ruffling sites. These reactions were blocked by expression of kinase-negative PKCI, but not kinase-negative PKC, and by treatment with a specific PKC inhibitor, LY333531. The adhesion, spreading and membrane ruffling of mouse bone marrow-derived mast cells (BMMCs), which are mostly nonadhesive, were promoted by both antigen and thymeleatoxin. Treatment with G6976 abolished all these reactions. Antigen-mediated migration of BMMC was also sensitive to G6076 and LY333531. In addition, BMMC adhesion by and migration toward stem cell factor were shown to be dependent on cPKC. Thus, cPKC, at least PKC subtype, may be critical for the dynamic morphological changes that lead to the migration of mast cells.
Research in palliative care has its challenges. However, research in different aspects of palliative care is important. This paper gives simple methods of planning and conducting a research in the area of palliative care in India.




Patients with bipolar disorder spend more time in a depressed than manic state, even with individualized treatment. To date, bipolar depression is often misdiagnosed and ineffectively managed both for acute episodes and residual symptoms. This review attempts to summarize the current status of available treatment strategies in the treatment of bipolar depression. For acute and prophylactic treatment, a substantial body of evidence supports the antidepressive efficacy of lithium for bipolar disorders and its antisuicidal effects. Among numerous anticonvulsants with mood-stabilizing properties, valproate and lamotrigine could be first-line options for bipolar depression. Due to receptor profile, mood-stabilizing properties of second-generation antipsychotics have been explored, and up to date, quetiapine and olanzapine appear to be a reasonable option for bipolar depression. The usefulness of antidepressants in bipolar depression is still controversial. Current guidelines generally recommend the cautious antidepressant use in combination with mood stabilizers to reduce the risk of mood elevation or cycle acceleration. Results from clinical trials on psychosocial intervention are promising, especially when integrated with pharmacotherapy. Most patients with bipolar depression need individualized and combined treatment, although the published evidence on this type of treatment strategy is limited. Future studies on the utility of currently available agents and modalities including psychosocial intervention are required.
A new class of sodium channel blocker insecticides (SCBIs), which include indoxacarb, its active metabolite, DCJW, and metaflumizone, preferably block inactivated states of both insect and mammalian sodium channels in a manner similar to that by which local anesthetic (LA) drugs block mammalian sodium channels. A recent study showed that two residues in the cockroach sodium channel, F1817 and Y1824, corresponding to two key LA-interacting residues identified in mammalian sodium channels are not important for the action of SCBIs on insect sodium channels, suggesting unique interactions of SCBIs with insect sodium channels. However, the mechanism of action of LAs on insect sodium channels has not been investigated. In this study, we examined the effects of lidocaine on a cockroach sodium channel variant, BgNa(v)1-1a, and determined whether F1817 and Y1824 are also critical for the action of LAs on insect sodium channels. Lidocaine blocked BgNa(v)1-1a channels in the resting state with potency similar to that observed in mammalian sodium channels. Lidocaine also stabilized both fast-inactivated and slow-inactivated states of BgNa(v)1-1a channels, and caused a limited degree of use- and frequency-dependent block, major characteristics of LA action on mammalian sodium channels. Alanine substitutions of F1817 and Y1824 reduced the sensitivity of the BgNa(v)1-1a channel to the use-dependent block by lidocaine, but not to tonic blocking and inactivation stabilizing effects of lidocaine. Thus, similar to those on mammalian sodium channels, F1817 and Y1824 are important for the action of lidocaine on cockroach sodium channels. Our results suggest that the receptor sites for lidocaine and SCBIs are different on insect sodium channels.
Voltage-gated sodium channels are the primary target of pyrethroid insecticides. Numerous point mutations in sodium channel genes have been identified in pyrethroid-resistant insect species, and many have been confirmed to reduce or abolish sensitivity of channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes to pyrethroids. Recently, several novel mutations were reported in sodium channel genes of pyrethroid-resistant Aedes mosquito populations. One of the mutations is a phenylalanine (F) to cysteine (C) change in segment 6 of domain III (IIIS6) of the Aedes mosquito sodium channel. Curiously, a previous study showed that alanine substitution of this F did not alter the action of deltamethrin, a type II pyrethroid, on a cockroach sodium channel. In this study, we changed this F to C in a pyrethroid-sensitive cockroach sodium channel and examined mutant channel sensitivity to permethrin as well as five other type I or type II pyrethroids in Xenopus oocytes. Interestingly, the F to C mutation drastically reduced channel sensitivity to three type I pyrethroids, permethrin, NRDC 157 (a deltamethrin analogue lacking the -cyano group) and bioresemthrin, but not to three type II pyrethroids, cypermethrin, deltamethrin and cyhalothrin. These results confirm the involvement of the F to C mutation in permethrin resistance, and raise the possibility that rotation of type I and type II pyrethroids might be considered in the control of insect pest populations where this particular mutation is present.
We have shown that the gene SCN10A encoding the sodium channel Na(v)1.8 is a susceptibility factor for heart block and serious ventricular arrhythmia. Since Na(v)1.8 is known to be present in nerve fibres that mediate pain, it may be related to both cardiac pain and dysrhythmia. The localisation of Na(v)1.8 and other key nociceptive ion channels, including Na(v)1.7, Na(v)1.9, capsaicin receptor TRPV1, and purinergic receptor P2X(3), have not been reported in human heart. The aim of this study was to determine the distribution of Na(v)1.8, related sodium and other sensory channels in human cardiac tissue, and correlate their density with sympathetic nerves, regenerating nerves (GAP-43), and vascularity. Human heart atrial appendage tissues (n = 13) were collected during surgery for valve disease. Tissues were investigated by immunohistology using specific antibodies to Na(v)1.8 and other markers. Na(v)1.8 immunoreactivity was detected in nerve fibres and fascicles in the myocardium, often closely associated with small capillaries. Na(v)1.8 nerve fibres per mm(2) correlated significantly with vascular markers. Na(v)1.8-immunoreactivity was present also in cardiomyocytes with a similar distribution pattern to that seen with connexins, the specialised gap junction proteins of myocardial intercalated discs. Na(v)1.5-immunoreactivity was detected in cardiomyocytes but not in nerve fibres. Na(v)1.7, Na(v)1.9, TRPV1, P2X(3)/P2X(2), and GAP43 positive nerve fibres were relatively sparse, whereas sympathetic innervation and connexin43 were abundant. We conclude that sodium channel Na(v)1.8 is present in sensory nerves and cardiomyocytes of human heart. Na(v)1.8 and other pain channels provide new targets for the understanding and treatment of cardiac pain and dysrhythmia.


Objective. To verify whether markers of metal homeostasis are related to a magnetoencephalographic index representative of glutamate-mediated excitability of the primary somatosensory cortex. The index is identified as the source strength of the earliest component (M20) of the somatosensory magnetic fields (SEFs) evoked by right median nerve stimulation at wrist. Method. Thirty healthy right-handed subjects (51  22 years) were enrolled in the study. A source reconstruction algorithm was applied to assess the amount of synchronously activated neurons subtending the M20 and the following SEF component (M30), which is generated by two independent contributions of gabaergic and glutamatergic transmission. Serum copper, ceruloplasmin, iron, transferrin, transferrin saturation, and zinc levels were measured. Results. Total copper and ceruloplasmin negatively correlated with the M20 source strength. Conclusion. This pilot study suggests that higher level of body copper reserve, as marked by ceruloplasmin variations, parallels lower cortical glutamatergic responsiveness.
Intensive research over the last decades has provided increasing evidence for neuroinflammation as an integral part in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Inflammatory responses in the central nervous system (CNS) are initiated by activated microglia, representing the first line of the innate immune defence of the brain. Therefore, biochemical markers of microglial activation may help us understand the underlying mechanisms of neuroinflammation in AD as well as the double-sided qualities of microglia, namely, neuroprotection and neurotoxicity. In this paper we summarize candidate biomarkers of microglial activation in AD along with a survey of recent neuroimaging techniques.
Ectopic cell cycle events (CCEs) in postmitotic neurons link the neurodegenerative process in human Alzheimer's disease (AD) with the brain phenotype of transgenic mouse models with known familial AD genes. Most reports on the mouse models use the appearance of brain amyloid pathology as a key outcome measure. In the current paper, we focus on the induction of neurodegeneration using CCEs as markers for impending neuronal loss. We compare 5 mouse models of familial AD for the appearance of CCEs in subcortical regions-deep cerebellar nuclei, amygdala, locus coeruleus, hippocampus, and dorsal raphe. We find that the models differ in their CCE involvement as well as in the appearance of phosphorylated tau and amyloid deposition, suggesting that each model represents a different disease phenotype. Comparison with the pattern of neuron death in human AD suggests that each may represent a distinctly different disease model when used in preclinical trials.
The role of metals in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) has gained considerable support in recent years, with both in vitro and in vivo data demonstrating that a mis-metabolism of metal ions, such as copper and zinc, may affect various cellular cascades that ultimately leads to the development and/or potentiation of AD. In this paper, we will provide an overview of the preclinical and clinical literature that specifically relates to attempts to affect the AD cascade by the modulation of brain copper levels. We will also detail our own novel animal data, where we treated APP/PS1 (7-8 months old) mice with either high copper (20ppm in the drinking water), high cholesterol (2% supplement in the food) or a combination of both and then assessed -amyloid (A) burden (soluble and insoluble A), APP levels and behavioural performance in the Morris water maze. These data support an interaction between copper/cholesterol and both A and APP and further highlight the potential role of metal ion dyshomeostasis in AD.
Evidence from clinical trials as well as from studies performed in animal models suggest that both amyloid and tau pathologies function in concert with other factors to cause the severe neurodegeneration and dementia in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Accumulating data in the literature suggest that microRNAs (miRNAs) could be such factors. These conserved, small nonprotein-coding RNAs are essential for neuronal function and survival and have been implicated in the regulation of key genes involved in genetic and sporadic AD. The study of miRNA changes in AD mouse models provides an appealing approach to address the cause-consequence relationship between miRNA dysfunction and AD pathology in humans. Mouse models also provide attractive tools to validate miRNA targets in vivo and provide unique platforms to study the role of specific miRNA-dependent gene pathways in disease. Finally, mouse models may be exploited for miRNA diagnostics in the fight against AD.
Tau is primarily a neuronal microtubule-associated protein that has functions related to the stabilisation of microtubules. Phosphorylation of tau is an important dynamic and regulatory element involved in the binding of tau to tubulin. Thus, highly phosphorylated tau is more likely to be present in the cytosolic compartment of neurons, whereas reduced phosphate burden allows tau to bind to and stabilise the microtubule cytoskeleton. Highly phosphorylated forms of tau are deposited in the brain in a range of neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy, and frontotemporal lobar degeneration associated with Pick bodies. A key candidate kinase for both physiological and pathological tau phosphorylation is glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3). Multiple phosphorylation sites have been identified on tau exposed to GSK-3 in vitro and in cells. In this review, we highlight recent data suggesting a role for GSK-3 activity on physiological tau function and on tau dysfunction in neurodegenerative disease.
Recent advances have been made in defining the genetic and molecular basis of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLBs) and related neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD) and Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) which comprise the spectrum of &quot;Lewy body disorders&quot; (LBDs). The genetic alterations and underlying disease mechanisms in the LBD overlap substantially, suggesting common disease mechanisms. As with the other neurodegenerative dementias, early diagnosis in LBD or even identification prior to symptom onset is key to developing effective therapeutic strategies, but this is dependent upon the development of robust, specific, and sensitive biomarkers as diagnostic tools and therapeutic endpoints. Recently identified mutations in the synucleins and other relevant genes in PD and DLB as well as related biomolecular pathways suggest candidate markers from biological fluids and imaging modalities that reflect the underlying disease mechanisms. In this context, several promising biomarkers for the LBD have already been identified and examined, while other intriguing possible candidates have recently emerged. Challenges remain in defining their correlation with pathological processes and their ability to detect DLB and related disorders, and perhaps a combined array of biomarkers may be needed to distinguish various LBDs.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder whose clinical onset is mainly characterized by memory loss. During AD progression, behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) frequently occur. In this paper we evaluated the association between AD and the short/long (S/L) functional polymorphism of the promoter region of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) transporter gene (SLC6A4). The S-allele shows a 2-fold reduced transcriptional rate, causing an imbalance in 5-HT intracellular availability that might in turn trigger behavioral and cognitive alterations. We also genotyped the SLC6A4 promoter functional variant rs25531 (A  G). By comparing the genotypic and allelic frequencies in an Italian population of 235 AD and 207 controls, we found an association between 5-HTTLPR and AD (odds ratio for the L-allele versus the S-allele: 0.74, associated P value = .03), while no difference was found for the rs25531. A meta-analysis of studies in Italy assessing 5-HTTLPR and AD risk gave an estimation of odds ratio for the L-allele versus the S-allele of 0.85 (associated P value = .08). Overall, our findings are not supportive of a large genetic effect of the explored polymorphisms on AD risk.
Objectives. To investigate the link between neurocognitive measures and various aspects of daily living (ADL and IADL) in women and men with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD). Methods. Participants were 202 AD patients (91 male, 111 female) with CDR global scores of 1. ADLs and IADLs ratings were obtained from caregivers. Cognitive domains were assessed with neuropsychological testing. Results. Memory and executive functioning were related to IADL scores. Executive functioning was linked to total ADL. Comparisons stratified on gender found attention predicted total ADL score in both men and women. Attention predicted bathing and eating ability in women only. Language predicted IADL functions in men (food preparation) and women (driving). Conclusions. Associations between ADLs/IADLs and memory, learning, executive functioning, and language suggest that even in patients with mild AD, basic ADLs require complex cognitive processes. Gender differences in the domains of learning and memory area were found.
Memory awareness in early Alzheimer's disease (AD) influences capacity to provide informed consent for a memory treatment. This study investigated the extent to which aspects of memory awareness influence everyday decision-making capacity about medication management in AD. 42 participants with mild AD and 50 healthy elders underwent clinical ratings of memory awareness, metamemory testing, and an interview of everyday decision-making capacity regarding medication management. 45% of AD subjects were classified as aware (AAD) and 55% as unaware (UAD) based on clinical ratings and supported by metamemory testing (P = .015). Capacity was impaired in each of the AD groups as compared to the healthy elders F(2, 67) = 17.63, UAD, P &lt; .01; AAD, P = .01). Within the AD group, capacity correlated selectively with awareness as measured with clinical ratings (r = -.41, P = .007) but not objective metamemory testing (r = -.10, P = .60 ). Appreciation scores were lower in UAD as compared with AAD F(1,35) = 8.36, P = .007. Unawareness of memory loss should heighten clinicians' concern about everyday decision-making capacity in AD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common type of dementia that is clinically characterized by the presence of memory impairment and later by impairment in other cognitive domains. The clinical diagnosis is based on interviews with the patient and his/her relatives and on neuropsychological assessment, which are also used to monitor cognitive decline over time. Several biomarkers have been proposed for detecting AD in its earliest stages, that is, in the predementia stage. In an attempt to find noninvasive biomarkers, researchers have investigated the feasibility of neuroimaging tools, such as MR, SPECT, and FDG-PET imaging, as well as neurophysiological measurements using EEG. In this paper, we investigate the brain functional networks in AD, focusing on main neurophysiological techniques, integrating with most relevant functional brain imaging findings.
The spatial correlations between the brain's default mode network (DMN) and the brain regions known to develop pathophysiology in Alzheimer's disease (AD) have recently attracted much attention. In this paper, we compare results of different functional and structural imaging modalities, including MRI and PET, and highlight different patterns of anomalies observed within the DMN. Multitracer PET imaging in subjects with and without dementia has demonstrated that [C-11]PIB- and [F-18]FDDNP-binding patterns in patients with AD overlap within nodes of the brain's default network including the prefrontal, lateral parietal, lateral temporal, and posterior cingulate cortices, with the exception of the medial temporal cortex (especially, the hippocampus) where significant discrepancy between increased [F-18]FDDNP binding and negligible [C-11]PIB-binding was observed. [F-18]FDDNP binding in the medial temporal cortex-a key constituent of the DMN-coincides with both the presence of amyloid and tau pathology, and also with cortical areas with maximal atrophy as demonstrated by T1-weighted MR imaging of AD patients.


In a recent study on ischemic rodent brains, we quantitatively characterised and compared brain proteomes under ischemic-preconditioned or injured or tolerant conditions. We discovered an enriched presence of repressive transcriptional regulator proteins with essential roles as epigenetic regulators in ischemic-tolerant brains (Stapels et al., 2010). We further showed their robust, dynamic and differential changes under different ischemic conditions in brains and in cultured neuronal cells. In the present work, using neuronal cell cultures, we aimed to characterise the nascent proteome, the proteome that presents early when the cells receive an ischemic insult. These would be the proteomic changes of newly synthesised proteins. Identification of effectors of this phase of response to ischemia bears the best promise of identifying therapeutic targets for treating acute stroke when patients present to hospital. We compared these nascent proteomes across different ischemic conditions using bioinformatic tools.
MentalSquares (MSQs)--an equilibrium-based dimensional approach is presented for the classification and diagnostic analysis of psychological conditions with Bipolar Disorders (BPDs) as an example. While a Support Vector Machine (SVM) is defined in Hilbert space. A MSQ can be considered as a generic SVM for improved classification. Different from the traditional categorical model of BPDs, the generic approach focuses on the balance of two poles of mental equilibrium. Preliminary results show that this new approach has a number of advantages over existing models. The generic model is analytically illustrated with public domain clinical examples and well-known empirical clinical knowledge. Its clinical and computerised operability is illustrated. Its potential of being a practical method for the classification and analysis of neurobiological patterns and drug effects is discussed.
A calcium signal during oocyte or egg activation is a conserved event in virtually all species analyzed so far. This signal, that is in the form of calcium oscillations in mammals, is spatially and temporally controlled and is mainly supported by calcium release from internal calcium stores, but how it is triggered after fertilization is far from understood. The sperm factor hypothesis of egg activation postulates that sperm delivers a calcium-releasing factor into the egg following sperm-egg fusion. Among the many potential sperm factors, PLCzeta is the strongest bona fide sperm factor candidate. However, how sperm-oocyte fusion occurs prior to PLCzeta delivery and oocyte activation is not entirely known. We propose in the first part of this review the possibility that other pathways such as those involving G-proteins, tyrosine kinases or integrins could be activated besides sperm factor injection and could be upstream mechanisms involved in later embryonic development. Among different assisted reproductive technologies (ARTs), intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) is considered as the best and easiest therapeutic technique to circumvent severe male infertility. Although most reports are reassuring, some recent data suggest a greater incidence of abnormalities in children conceived by ART compared with those conceived normally. Spatio-temporal signals may be missing or abnormal during ICSI, perhaps because membrane fusion and signalling events are bypassed. We discuss in the second part of this review the hypothesis that potential perturbations during the ICSI procedure may have repercussions on epigenetic processes, inducing not only alterations of embryonic development, but also diseases in young children and, perhaps, in adults.
Intact zebrafish embryos were used as an in vivo animal model to investigate the role of Ca2+ signaling during the differentiation of slow muscle cells (SMCs) within forming skeletal muscle. Transgenic zebrafish were generated using an a-actin promoter that targeted apoaequorin expression specifically to muscle cells. Two distinct Ca2+ signaling periods (CSPs) were visualized in the developing SMCs: between ~17.5-19.5 hours post-fertilization (hpf) and after ~23 hpf, separated by a ~3.5 h Ca2+ signaling quiet period. Further spatial characterization of these Ca2+ signals using confocal fluorescent microscopy and calcium green-1 dextran as a reporter, indicated that the earlier CSP displayed distinct nuclear and cytoplasmic components, whereas the later CSP was predominantly cytoplasmic. Both CSPs consisted of a series of oscillating Ca2+ waves generated at distinct frequencies, while the earlier CSP also displayed a slow rise then fall in the Ca2+ baseline-level. Imaging of cyclopamine- and forskolin-treated wild-type, or smo-/- mutant embryos, where SMCs do not form, confirmed the specific cell population generating the signals. Treating embryos with antagonists indicated that both IP3Rs and RyRs are responsible for generating the temporal characteristics of the Ca2+ signaling signature, and that the latter plays a necessary role in SMC differentiation and subsequent myotome patterning. Together, these data support and extend the proposition that specific spatiotemporal patterns of spontaneous Ca2+ signals might be used for different as well as combinatorial regulation of both nuclear and cytosolic signal transduction cascades, resulting in myofibrillogenesis in SMCs as well as myotome patterning.
Mice deficient in the zinc-sensor GPR39, which has been demonstrated to protect cells against endoplasmatic stress and cell death in vitro, display moderate glucose intolerance and impaired glucose-induced insulin secretion. Here, we use the Tet-On system under the control of the proinsulin promoter to selectively overexpress GPR39 in the  cells in a double transgenic mouse strain and challenge them with multiple low doses of streptozotocin, which in the wild-type littermates leads to a gradual increase in nonfasting glucose levels and glucose intolerance observed during both food intake and OGTT. Although the overexpression of the constitutively active GPR39 receptor in animals not treated with streptozotocin appeared by itself to impair the glucose tolerance slightly and to decrease the -cell mass, it nevertheless totally protected against the gradual hyperglycemia in the steptozotocin-treated animals. It is concluded that GPR39 functions in a -cell protective manner and it is suggested that it is involved in some of the beneficial, -cell protective effects observed for Zn(++) and that GPR39 may be a target for antidiabetic drug intervention.
The purpose of this study was to determine the neurotoxicity of two commonly used herbicides: picloram and triclopyr and the neuroprotective effects of the mitochondria-targeted antioxidant, SS31. Using mouse neuroblastoma (N2a) cells and primary neurons from C57BL/6 mice, we investigated the toxicity of these herbicides, and protective effects of SS1 peptide against picloram and triclopyr toxicity. We measured total RNA content, cell viability and mRNA expression of peroxiredoxins, neuroprotective genes, mitochondrial-encoded electron transport chain (ETC) genes in N2a cells treated with herbicides and SS31. Using primary neurons from C57BL/6 mice, neuronal survival was studied in neurons treated with herbicides, in neurons pretreated with SS31 plus treated with herbicides, neurons treated with SS31 alone, and untreated neurons. Significantly decreased total RNA content, and cell viability in N2a cells treated with picloram and triclopyr were found compared to untreated N2a cells. Decreased mRNA expression of neuroprotective genes, and ETC genes in cells treated with herbicides was found compared to untreated cells. Decreased mRNA expression of peroxiredoxins 1-6 in N2a cells treated with picloram was found, suggesting that picloram affects the antioxidant enzymes in N2a cells. Immunofluorescence analysis of primary neurons revealed that decreased neuronal branching and degenerating neurons in neurons treated with picloram and triclopyr. However, neurons pretreated with SS31 prevented degenerative process caused by herbicides. Based on these results, we propose that herbicides--picloram and triclopyr appear to damage neurons, and the SS31 peptide appears to protect neurons from herbicide toxicity.
What distinguishes the cognition of biologically modern humans from that of more archaic populations such as Neandertals? The norm in paleoanthropology has been to emphasize the role of language and symbolism. But the modern mind is more than just an archaic mind enhanced by symbol use. It also possesses an important problem solving and planning component. In cognitive neuroscience these advanced planning abilities have been extensively investigated through a formal model known as working memory. The working memory model is now well-enough established to provide a powerful lens through which paleoanthropologists can view the fossil and archaeological records. The challenge is methodological. The following essay reviews the controversial hypothesis that a recent enhancement of working memory capacity was the final piece in the evolution of modern cognition.
The present paper addresses the philosophical problem raised by current causal neurochemical models of impulsive violence and aggression: to what extent can we hold violent criminal offenders responsible for their conduct if that conduct is the result of deterministic biochemical processes in the brain. This question is currently receiving a great deal of attention among neuroscientists, legal scholars and philosophers. We examine our current knowledge of neuroscience to assess the possible roles of deterministic factors which induce impulsive aggression, and the extent to which this behavior can be controlled by neural conditioning mechanisms. Neural conditioning mechanisms, we suggest, may underlie what we consider the basis of responsible (though not necessarily moral) behavior: the capacity to give and take reasons. The models we first examine are based in part upon the role played by the neurotransmitter, serotonin, in the regulation of violence and aggression. Collectively, these results would appear to argue in favor of the view that low brain serotonin levels induce impulsive aggression which overrides mechanisms related to rational decision making processes. We next present an account of responsibility as based on the capacity to exercise a certain kind of reason-responsive control over one's conduct. The problem with such accounts of responsibility, however, is that they fail to specify a neurobiological realization of such mechanisms of control. We present a neurobiological, and weakly determinist, framework for understanding how persons can exercise guidance control over their conduct. This framework is based upon classical conditioning of neurons in the prefrontal cortex that allow for a decision making mechanism that provides for prefrontal cortical control of the sites in the brain which express aggressive behavior that include the hypothalamus and midbrain periaqueductal gray. The authors support the view that, in many circumstances, neural conditioning mechanisms provide the basis for the control of human aggression in spite of the presence of brain serotonin levels that might otherwise favor the expression of impulsive aggressive behavior. Indeed if those neural conditioning mechanisms underlie the human capacity to exercise control, they may be the neural realization of reason-responsiveness generally.
The clinical management of adults with low-grade gliomas (LGGs) remains a challenge. There is no curative treatment, and management of individual patients is a matter of deciding optimal timing as well as right treatment modality. In addition to conventional imaging techniques, positron emission tomography (PET) with amino acid tracers can facilitate diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. In this paper, the clinical applications of PET with amino acid tracers (11)C-methyl-L-methionine (MET) and (18)F-fluoro-ethyl-L-tyrosine (FET) for patients with LGG are summarized. We also discuss the value of PET for the long-term followup of this patient group. Monitoring metabolic activity by PET in individual patients during course of disease will provide insight in the biological behavior and evolution of these tumors. As such, spatial changes in tumor activity over time, including shifts of hot-spot regions within the tumor, may reflect intratumoral heterogeneity and correlate to clinical parameters.

Living organisms heavily rely on the function of motor circuits for their survival and for adapting to ever-changing environments. Unique among central nervous system (CNS) neurons, motor neurons (MNs) project their axons out of the CNS. Once in the periphery, motor axons navigate along highly stereotyped trajectories, often at considerable distances from their cell bodies, to innervate appropriate muscle targets. A key decision made by pathfinding motor axons is whether to exit the CNS through dorsal or ventral motor exit points (MEPs). In contrast to the major advances made in understanding the mechanisms that regulate the specification of MN subtypes and the innervation of limb muscles, remarkably little is known about how MN axons project out of the CNS. Nevertheless, a limited number of studies, mainly in Drosophila, have identified transcription factors, and in some cases candidate downstream effector molecules, that are required for motor axons to exit the spinal cord. Notably, specialized neural crest cell derivatives, referred to as Boundary Cap (BC) cells, pre-figure and demarcate MEPs in vertebrates. Surprisingly, however, BC cells are not required for MN axon exit, but rather restrict MN cell bodies from ectopically migrating along their axons out of the CNS. Here, we describe the small set of studies that have addressed motor axon exit in Drosophila and vertebrates, and discuss our fragmentary knowledge of the mechanisms, which guide motor axons out of the CNS.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive muscle wasting and weakness with no effective cure. Emerging evidence supports the notion that the abnormal conformations of ALS-linked proteins play a central role in triggering the motor neuron degeneration. In particular, mutant types of superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) and TAR DNA binding protein 43kDa (TDP-43) are key molecules involved in the pathogenesis of familial and sporadic ALS, respectively. The commonalities of the two proteins include a propensity to aggregate and acquire detrimental conformations through oligomerization, fragmentation, or post-translational modification that may drive abnormal subcellular localizations. Although SOD1 is a major cytosolic protein, mutated SOD1 has been localized to mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, and even the extracellular space. The nuclear exclusion of TDP-43 is a pathological hallmark for ALS, although the pathogenic priority remains elusive. Nevertheless, these abnormal behaviors based on the protein misfolding are believed to induce diverse intracellular and extracellular events that may be tightly linked to non-cell-autonomous motor neuron death. The generation of mutant- or misfolded protein-specific antibodies would help to uncover the distribution and propagation of the ALS-linked proteins, and to design a therapeutic strategy to clear such species. Herein we review the literature regarding the mislocalization of ALS-linked proteins, especially mutant SOD1 and TDP-43 species, and discuss the rationale of molecular targeting strategies including immunotherapy.
Uncoupling proteins (UCPs) belong to a family of mitochondrial carrier proteins that are present in the mitochondrial inner membrane. UCP1 was first identified followed by its two homologs, UCP2 and UCP3. The physiological functions of UCP include lowering mitochondrial membrane potential and dissipating metabolic energy as heat. However, UCP can be dysregulated and may contribute to the pathogenesis of metabolic disorders and obesity. Recent studies suggest that UCP also plays a role in neurodegenerative diseases and atherosclerosis. In addition, the widely expressed UCP, UCP2, has been shown to be upregulated in a number of aggressive human cancers. One mechanism of UCP2 upregulation in these cancers is due to oxidative stress, and elevated UCP2 in turn reduces oxidative stress, which provides a growth advantage for these cancers. Nevertheless, new studies suggest UCP2 may interact with oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes, providing a potential new mechanism of how UCP2 contributes to cancer development. In this review, the evidence supporting the role of UCPs in diseases other than diabetes and obesity, the reports on how UCP is regulated in cancer cells, and how UCP may regulate p53 will be discussed.
Nanoformulations of crystalline indinavir, ritonavir, atazanavir, and efavirenz were manufactured by wet milling, homogenization or sonication with a variety of excipients. The chemical, biological, immune, virological, and toxicological properties of these formulations were compared using an established monocyte-derived macrophage scoring indicator system. Measurements of drug uptake, retention, release, and antiretroviral activity demonstrated differences amongst preparation methods. Interestingly, for drug cell targeting and antiretroviral responses the most significant difference among the particles was the drug itself. We posit that the choice of drug and formulation composition may ultimately affect clinical utility.
