Direct-acting serotonin (5-HT) receptor agonists increase serum corticosterone in rats by activating receptors of the 5-HT(1A) or the 5-HT(2A/2C) subtypes. While involvement of 5-HT(1A) receptors in activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis is clear, the 5-HT(2) receptor subtype--5-HT(2A) or 5-HT(2C)--responsible for activation of the HPA axis by direct-acting 5-HT(2) receptor agonists has been difficult to determine due to the lack of selective pharmacologic agents. Recently, however, 5-HT(2) receptor antagonists with high selectivity for 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(2C) receptor subtypes have been discovered. The selective 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist MDL 100,907 and the selective 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonist SB 242084 were used to block the increases in rat serum corticosterone elicited by 5-HT(2) receptor agonists with varying degrees of affinity for 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(2C) receptors. MDL 100,907 was fully effective in blocking the increases in corticosterone concentrations produced by quipazine, DOI, m-CPP and Ro 60-0175, whereas SB 242084 was ineffective or was only marginally effective. Our findings implicate 5-HT(2A) receptors rather than 5-HT(2C) receptors in mediating increases in rat serum corticosterone produced by direct-acting 5-HT(2) receptor agonists in vivo.
Studies of the postmortem human brain have become an increasingly essential element of the effort to understand the neurobiology of psychiatric disorders, especially in light of advances in our knowledge of functional brain circuitry and the new opportunities to apply the approaches of genomics and proteomics. This Perspective reviews some of the opportunities afforded by investigations of the postmortem human brain, and offers suggestions for improving the quality of future studies through the use of well-characterized brain specimens, well-constructed experimental designs and well-controlled confounds.
Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) for determining the degree of carotid stenosis prior to carotid endarterectomy is attractive because it does not have the high morbidity associated with conventional intra-arterial angiography. We assessed the interobserver variability in the estimation of the degree of stenosis amongst observers of different experience. In a prospective study, consecutive patients with transient ischaemic attacks and symptomatic tight carotid stenosis shown by Doppler ultrasound underwent conventional intra-arterial angiography and 2-D and 3-D time-of-flight MRA of the carotid bifurcations. The films of the processed MRA images were reviewed blind to other clinical and imaging data by eight observers of different levels of experience and coded for the presence and degree of stenosis. The stenosis on intra-arterial angiography was used as the reference standard. There was considerable variability between observers for estimation of the degree of stenosis on MRA. The observers' accuracy ranged from 41% (student) to 79% (experienced). From these estimations, excluding those of the student, it could be seen that up to 23% of patients who would have had an endarterectomy based on MRA should not have done so according to angiography, and up to 33% of patients who should have had an endarterectomy according to angiography would have inappropriately missed having an endarterectomy based on MRA results. Observer reliability of MRA processed images is not good, even in experienced hands. Using the source images and views of the circle of Willis might improve the accuracy, but a further study is required to assess this.
It has been reported that light exposure to one eye induces functional lateralization, which can be inverted by exposing the opposite eye to the light. However, the anatomical basis of the functional inversion by the light has not been shown. To address this issue, we labeled cells in the dorsolateral anterior thalamus (DLA) using retrograde fluorescent tracers injected into visual Wulst, counted the labeled cell number, and compared the anatomical asymmetry of DLA between the left eye occluded and the right eye occluded chickens. We found that a rostral part of DLA (DLAda) and a lateral/ventral part of DLA differentially projected to the visual cortex ipsilaterally and contralaterally, respectively. These regions showed anatomical asymmetry that was inverted by the light. An antibody against a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunit more intensively and widely stained the side of DLA receiving the light stimulation and the cell labeled by the tracers co-localized with the immunoreactive neuropil. These results indicated that the light experience induced the anatomical lateralization of thalamofugal visual pathway.
We review a new method to explore the cellular functions in multicellular system by application of the perforated patch-clamp technique to intact pancreatic islet of Langerhans. Using this approach, the integrity of the islet is preserved and intercellular communication via gap junctions and paracrine processes are maintained. By using low-resistance patch electrodes, rapid current responses can be monitored under voltage-clamp control. We have applied this methodology to answer questions not resolved by patch-clamp experiments on isolated single insulin-secreting beta-cells. First, the role of a K(+)-current dependent on Ca(2+)-influx for the termination of burst of action potentials in beta-cells could be documented. Neither the current, nor the bursting pattern of electrical activity is preserved in isolated beta-cells. Second, the conductance of gap junctions (approximately 1 nS) between beta-cells was determined. Third, electrical properties of glucagon-producing alpha- and somatostatin-secreting delta-cells and the different mechanisms for glucose-sensing in these cells could be explored. The findings emanating from these experiments may have implications for neuroscience research such as the mechanism of oscillatory electrical activity in general and processes involved in the glucose-sensing in some neurons, which response to changes of blood glucose concentration.
Myelin contains molecules that can inhibit the growth and regeneration of axons. Neutralizing the activity of these inhibitors can enhance axon regeneration in the adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS). The complexity of the CNS-immune system interactions after CNS trauma is now beginning to be better understood. Recent studies indicate that both cell-mediated and antibody-mediated immune responses can help in promoting axon regeneration after CNS injury. It is hoped that such advances will lead to the development of safe and effective vaccine and cytokine treatments for spinal cord injuries.
New technological and cultural developments surrounding adolescents' use of the World Wide Web offer an opportunity for turning aspects of the Internet gaming phenomenon to the advantage of neuroscience education. Specifically, an experimental project to transmit aspects of problem-based learning and the National Science Standards through an interactive Web adventure is reported here. The Reconstructors is an episodic Web-based adventure series entitled Medicinal Mysteries from History. It is funded by the National Institute on Drug Abuse, and the first series focuses on opioids. It was created with the input of middle school students and teachers. Through the use of multimedia technologies, middle school students enter a futuristic world in which they become &quot;reconstructors,&quot; members of an elite scientific unit charged with recovering lost medical knowledge about analgesic drugs. Two of the four episodes have been evaluated through a comprehensive review process involving middle school students, teachers, neuroscience researchers, and clinicians. Analysis of the pretest and posttest scores demonstrated significant knowledge gain that validly can be attributed to use of the game. These data provide evidence that science content can be transmitted through innovative online techniques without sacrificing compelling content or effective pedagogical strategies.

This study investigated the effects of brain ischemia on sodium channel gene (NaCh) expression in rats. Using quantitative RT-PCR, our findings demonstrated the expression ratio of NaCh genes in normal rat brain to be Na(v)1.1 &gt; Na(v)1.8 &gt; Na(v)1.3 &gt; Na(v)1.7 (rBI &gt; PN3 &gt; rBIII &gt; PN1). In contrast, brain injury caused by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) for 2 h followed by reperfusion significantly down-regulated Na(v)1.3 and Na(v)1.7 genes in both injured and contralateral hemispheres; whereas the Na(v)1.8 gene was down regulated in only the injured hemisphere (though only acutely at 2 or 2-6 h post-MCAo). However, the time-course of NaCh gene expression revealed a significant down-regulation of Na(v)1.1 only in the ischemic hemisphere beginning 6 h post-MCAo and measured out to 48 h post-MCAo. In a separate preliminary study Na(v)1.2 (rBII) gene was found to be expressed at levels greater than that of Na(v)1.1 in normal rats and was significantly down regulated at 24 h post-MCAo). Our findings document, for the first time, quantitative and relative changes in the expression of various NaCh genes following ischemic brain injury and suggest that the Na(v)1.1 sodium channel gene may play a key role in ischemic injury/recovery.
The brain has various in vivo neuroprotective mechanisms that allow it to survive for an entire lifetime. As well as neurotrophic factor-mediated inhibition of in vivo apoptotic mechanisms through various protein kinases including Akt and MAP kinase, we propose adding the neuronal death mode switch mechanism observed under the brain ischemic stress to the list of neuroprotective mechanisms. Necrosis occurs when energy or ATP levels are markedly reduced. Lowered ATP levels cause a Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase failure, leading to an osmolysis. On the other hand, sufficient ATP is required for the apoptosome activation. Under the serum-free condition, cortical neurons rapidly die in necrosis. High-glucose treatment converted the cell death mode to apoptosis through an elevation of cellular ATP levels. This treatment also rescued the cell from death due to retinal ischemic injury. These findings suggest the possibility that ischemia-induced neuronal death could be inhibited by some drugs to elevate cellular ATP levels. Neurogenesis in the adult brain is now an important topic in neuroscience. As brain injury is reported to enhance the neurogenesis, this might be also included in the ways of in vivo neuroprotection. As lysophosphatidic acid has various activities to drive neurogenesis, the neurogenesis could also be managed by other drugs to compensate for functions lost by neuronal death.
Acute liver failure was induced in rats by CCl4 administration and its effects on the hepatic Krebs cycle and gluconeogenic fluxes were evaluated in situ by 13C NMR isotopomer analysis of hepatic glucose following infusion of [U-13C]propionate. In fed animals, CCl4 injury caused a significant increase in relative gluconeogenic flux from 0.80+/-0.10 to 1.34 +/-0.24 times the flux through citrate synthase (p&lt;0.01). In 24-h fasted animals, CCl4-injury also significantly increased relative gluconeogenic flux from 1.36+/-0.16 to 1.80+/-0.22 times the flux through citrate synthase (p&lt;0.01). Recycling of PEP via pyruvate and oxaloacetate was extensive under all conditions and was not significantly altered by CCl4 injury. CCl4 injury significantly reduced hepatic glucose output by 26% (42.8+/-7.3 vs 58.1+/-2.4 micromol/kg/min, p=0.005), which was attributed to a 26% decrease in absolute gluconeogenic flux from PEP (85.6+/-14.6 vs 116+/-4.8 micromol/kg/min, p&lt;0.01). These changes were accompanied by a 47% reduction in absolute citrate synthase flux (90.6+/-8.0 to 47.6+/-8.0 micromol/kg/min, p&lt;0.005), indicating that oxidative Krebs cycle flux was more susceptible to CCl4 injury. The reduction in absolute fluxes indicate a significant loss of hepatic metabolic capacity, while the significant increases in relative gluconeogenic fluxes suggest a reorganization of metabolic activity towards preserving hepatic glucose output.
Growing fractures rarely arise in the skull base. Only six cases of orbital roof growing fractures were found in the relevant literature. We report two such cases. The first case was a 2-year-old girl who had progressive proptosis for 6 months following a mild head injury 1 year previously. The second case was a 9-year-old girl with a history of injury at the age of 3 months. She developed eye deviation and proptosis for 1 year. Computed tomography scan is excellent for demonstrating bony defects in the orbital roof, while magnetic resonance imaging is more sensitive in showing the intraorbital extension of a leptomeningeal cyst. Both patients were operated successfully and proptosis disappeared postoperatively. The exact pathophysiology of growing fractures is still debated in the literature, but a dural laceration along a fracture line is noted in all cases, and frontobasal brain injury seems to play an important role in the pathogenesis of the fracture growth. Growing fractures of the orbital roof should be suspected if ocular symptoms appear in a child who had sustained a head injury several months or years before.
Meningioangiomatosis is a rare, benign neoplastic disorder involving the cortex and leptomeninges. The pathological findings are characterised by proliferation of meningothelial cells and leptomeningeal vessels and calcifications within the mass. We experienced two cases of pathologically confirmed meningioangiomatosis, one as a solitary cortical mass with calcification and the other as a cortical lesion manifested as extensive intracranial haemorrhage. On MRI, the first case showed an isointense cortical mass in the left frontal lobe and homogeneous enhancement on the contrast-enhanced study. The second case showed a target-like lesion with a peripheral dark signal rim on T2-weighted images accompanied by extensive haemorrhage in the adjacent frontal lobe and lateral ventricles.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerases (PARPs) are defined as cell signaling enzymes that catalyze the transfer of ADP-ribose units from NAD(+)to a number of acceptor proteins. PARP-1, the best characterized member of the PARP family, that presently includes six members, is an abundant nuclear enzyme implicated in cellular responses to DNA injury provoked by genotoxic stress (oxygen radicals, ionizing radiations and monofunctional alkylating agents). Due to its involvement either in DNA repair or in cell death, PARP-1 is regarded as a double-edged regulator of cellular functions. In fact, when the DNA damage is moderate, PARP-1 participates in the DNA repair process. Conversely, in the case of massive DNA injury, elevated PARP-1 activation leads to rapid NAD(+)/ATP consumption and cell death by necrosis. Excessive PARP-1 activity has been implicated in the pathogenesis of numerous clinical conditions such as stroke, myocardial infarction, shock, diabetes and neurodegenerative disorders. PARP-1 could therefore be considered as a potential target for the development of pharmacological strategies to enhance the antitumor efficacy of radio- and chemotherapy or to treat a number of clinical conditions characterized by oxidative or NO-induced stress and consequent PARP-1 activation. Moreover, the discovery of novel functions for the multiple members of the PARP family might lead in the future to additional clinical indications for PARP inhibitors.
Increasing evidence suggests that cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), enzymes that normally regulate cell cycle progression, may also participate in the death of neurons. This has led to the proposal that CDKs may serve as a therapeutic target for neuropathological conditions such as stroke. This brief review will serve to examine the evidence supporting the role of CDKs in neuronal death, and will evaluate the potential of CDK inhibitors as a neuroprotective strategy for ischemic injury.
Siberian hamsters increase food intake and hoarding during pregnancy and lactation, perhaps to compensate for large decreases in body fat (approximately 50%). We tested the effects of diet choice on these responses in pregnant, lactating and virgin hamsters housed in a simulated burrow system. Hamsters were offered pellet chow (PC) or a choice of sunflower seeds (SS), rabbit chow (RC) and PC. Pregnant or lactating PC-fed hamsters had increased food intake and hoard size compared with virgins, effects exaggerated by diet self-selection. The pregnancy-induced increases and lactation-induced decreases in body mass were enhanced and diminished by diet self-selection, respectively. Pregnant self-selecting hamsters ate relatively more carbohydrate and less fat and hoarded less carbohydrate and more fat than their virgin counterparts (protein not affected). Lactating and virgin self-selecting hamsters both ate and hoarded relatively more carbohydrate than protein or fat compared with PC-fed hamsters but were not different from each other. Litter and pup sizes were similar at birth, but pups from self-selecting mothers had decreased lipid content (50%) compared with pups from PC-fed mothers, whereas at weaning they were heavier but not fatter. Only lactating PC-fed mothers cannibalized their pups (approximately 60% eaten, 8/10 litters). The pregnancy-induced increased eating and hoarding of carbohydrate may have helped meet immediate energy needs sparing dwindling lipid reserves, whereas the decreased fetal lipid investment may have helped conserve energy in anticipation of the increased demands of lactation. The diet-induced exaggerated caloric intake and food hoard size of lactating hamsters may have promoted pup growth and survival.
Taste sensitivity for a given subject generally has been thought to be genetically determined and not plastic. Yet experience-inducible changes in human taste and olfactory sensitivities have been reported. To test a taste induction hypothesis, we exposed 17 Americans/Europeans to monosodium glutamate (MSG) in food and then compared their ability to identify MSG taste with that of 2 control groups (18 Americans/Europeans without MSG exposure and 18 Japanese). When tested on Day 11 or 12, the Americans/Europeans exposed to MSG were able to identify MSG at significantly lower concentrations than the Americans/Europeans without MSG exposure. Moreover, Japanese subjects who had prior extensive experience with MSG in Japanese food were able to identify MSG at significantly lower concentrations than the two American/European groups. The differences in identification ability between the two American/European groups challenge the notion of taste sensitivity as stable over time and support the hypothesis of an experience-inducible component in human taste.
Rat preparations were used to investigate long-term changes in external anal sphincter (EAS) contractions and reflexive penile erection following electrolytic lesions of the nucleus raphe obscurus (nRO) or the rostral ventrolateral medulla. EAS contractions were measured electromyographically (EAS EMG) following distention of the EAS with a 5-mm probe. Penile erections were measured using a standard ex copula reflex testing paradigm. At 48 h postlesion, 100% of nRO-lesioned animals displayed reflexive erections and the magnitude of EAS EMG was significantly greater in lesioned animals than in sham controls. These results suggested EAS hyperreflexia following destruction of the nRO. By 14 days postlesion, EAS responsiveness in nRO-lesioned animals had returned to levels comparable to nonlesioned animals. No measures of penile erection were affected by nRO lesions. In animals with nucleus gigantocellularis (Gi) and lateral nucleus paragigantocellularis (Gi-lPGi) lesions, no significant changes to EAS reflexes were observed at any time point. At 48 h postoperative, Gi-lPGi lesions significantly reduced the latency to first erection and increased the number of erections elicited relative to controls. Similar facilitation of erection latency was observed at 14 days postlesion, while erection number and flip total were no longer significantly different from controls. These and previous studies suggest that the nRO regulates defecatory reflexes in the rat. These data further suggest that the comingled EAS and bulbospongiosus (BS) motoneurons are controlled by discrete and separate brainstem circuits and that increases in EAS and penile reflexes after spinal cord lesions are mediated by loss of different descending inputs.
A single male subject with hyperuricosuric autism was treated for a period of 2 years with an oral dose of uridine, which increased from 50 to 500 mg/kg/day. This patient experienced dramatic social, cognitive, language, and motor improvements. These improvement decreased within 72 h of the discontinuation of uridine, but reappeared when uridine supplementation was resumed. Thus, it appears that patients with hyperuricosuric autism benefit from metabolic therapy with oral uridine therapy in a manner similar to that seen in other disorders of purine metabolism in which there is autistic symptomatology.
Since a long-term administration of antidepressant drugs and mood stabilizers is required in the treatment of mood disorders, the regulation of gene expression by these drugs that is mediated by transcription factors, such as activator protein-1 (AP-1) complex, may play an important role in the therapeutic action. In this study, the authors investigated the influence of lithium, antidepressant drugs and stress on AP-1 binding activity in the rat brain. In addition, we examined pretreatment with these drugs on the expression of AP-1 binding activity in response to stress. A gel shift assay was used to measure the levels of AP-1 binding activity. Our results indicate that neither acute nor chronic treatment with antidepressant drugs affects in AP-1 binding activity in the rat frontal cortex or hippocampus. However, the authors found that acute restraint stress for 90 min upregulated the induction of AP-1 binding activity in the rat frontal cortex. In addition, chronic pretreatment with imipramine, but not lithium or paroxetine, downregulated the induction of AP-1 binding activity in response to acute restraint stress in the frontal cortex. The functional classification of antidepressant drugs based on the downregulation of restraint stress-induced AP-1 binding activity may contribute to the advances in our understanding of the pathogenesis of depression.

The aim of this study was to study short- and long-term effects of repeated ethanol administration on nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) tissue concentrations in rat brain with radioimmunoassay. Animals were given either ethanol (intraperitoneal) or saline for 13 consecutive days. N/OFQ levels were examined at 30 min, 5 days and 21 days after the last dose on day 13. Ethanol-treated rats had significantly decreased N/OFQ tissue concentration in the hippocampus at 30 min after the last dose. N/OFQ levels were decreased in the cingulate cortex at 5 days after cessation of ethanol administration whereas no significant changes were found at 21 days. There were no significant changes in N/OFQ tissue concentrations at any time point studied in the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system, a brain area associated with ethanol-induced activation. However, the results indicate that repeated ethanol administration may induce short- and long-term changes in N/OFQ tissue concentrations in other brain regions innervated with dopaminergic neurons.
The endogenous cannabinoid anandamide (AEA) is transported into cells by a temperature-sensitive process of facilitated diffusion. This uptake process has been characterised both biochemically and pharmacologically, and shown to be regulated at least in part by the intracellular metabolism of the accumulated AEA by fatty acid amide hydrolase. In this review, the properties of this transport process are briefly reviewed together with the corresponding transport mechanisms for the related endogenous compounds 2-arachidonoylglycerol and palmitoylethanolamide. In addition, the possibility that these transport mechanisms can be targets for therapeutic strategies aimed at prolonging the effects of the endocannabinoids is discussed.
The objective of this study is to examine psychological/psychopathological characteristics of eating disorders and their subtypes through a combined administration of questionnaires and projective tests. Three questionnaires (Eating Disorder Inventory - 2, Social Adaptation Scale, Southern California University Eating Disorder Inventory - Revised) and two projective tests (the Tree Drawing Test [TDT, Baum Test], and the Sentence Completion Test [SCT]) were administered to 126 female patients between the ages of 15 and 30 years, with eating disorders according to DSM-IV criteria at our outpatient clinic, and to 54 sex- and age-matched control subjects. The purging subtypes of eating disorders (anorexia nervosa - binge-eating/purging type [ANBP] and bulimia nervosa - purging type [BNP]) were clearly differentiated from the controls, both by the questionnaires and the projective tests. Compared with the controls, ANBP/BNP showed more problematic profiles across the three questionnaires, drew smaller and poorer trees in TDT to a more left location on the drawing paper, and gave fewer positive, and more negative responses in SCT. In contrast, few significant differences were found between anorexia nervosa- restricting type (ANR) and the controls, and between ANBP and BNP. As a trend, however, ANR was consistently located between the controls and ANBP/BNP across the whole questionnaires and projective tests.
Participants performed a three-beat (strong-weak-weak) finger-tapping pattern with one hand while synchronizing taps of the other hand with either the strong tap (metrically congruous rhythm) or one of the weak taps (metrically incongruous rhythms). We tested the hypothesis that performance would be less stable during the production of the incongruous rhythms. The tapping sequences were performed at two different tempi (Experiment 1) and under two different cognitive descriptions of the task (Experiment 2). Metrically incongruous rhythms showed greater force differentiation between strong and weak taps, increases in the variability of the timing within and between hands, and frequent breakdowns of the between-hand coordination. Tempo variations and the different cognitive descriptions of the task did not influence performance. We suggest that the difficulty in producing incongruous rhythms arises from interference between the required incongruous metric pattern and a spontaneously available pattern in which the potential boundary-markers of the metric units systematically coincide.




Akinetic symptoms or off-period motor signs in patients with Parkinson's disease and motor fluctuations can be associated with subjective symptoms. A systematic interview was conducted in a series of 24 patients. Sixteen out of 24 (67 p. cent) experienced these subjective symptoms as on-off non motor symptoms that were classified in three groups: energy lost consistent with a severe asthenia, perceptive and cognitive alterations, and emotional troubles such as panic and depression. These phenomenons could be combined in some patients and were sometimes asynchron to akinesia. In some patients (six cases reported), they occurred without any akinesia but could totally inhibit patients daily activities, and so could be described as subjective off-period . Frequently, the patients did not distinguish them from motor disability. Their persistence, after subthalamic nucleus stimulation or intrastriatal transplant, could interfere with functional results, even though akinetic symptoms had disappeared. Conclusion: subjective phenomenons during off-periods are frequent. Their frequency is underestimated due to a non-targeted examination. Subjective off-periods are symptoms of Parkinson's disease, partly independent from off motor symptoms, and important to consider in evaluation of therapeutics, especially surgery.
The present study investigated the temporal dynamics of auditory sensory memory in newborns as reflected by the mismatch negativity (MMN), a preattentive electric change-detection response. MMN was obtained from 24 full-term healthy newborns who were either awake or asleep (quiet or active sleep) during the experiments. Stimuli were 1,000 Hz tones (standards) that were occasionally replaced by 1,100 Hz tones (deviants). The constant stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA) was, in separate blocks, either 450, 800, or 1,500 ms. A prominent MMN was obtained at the 800 ms SOA in all three sleep or waking states, whereas no MMN occurred at 450 and 1,500 ms SOAs. In view of the fact that in adults MMN is elicited even with a 10s SOA, these results imply that the time span of auditory memory is considerably shorter in neonates than in adults and 8-12-year-old children.
Parkinson's disease is a movement disorder characterized by degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Dopaminergic neuronal loss also occurs in Drosophila melanogaster upon directed expression of alpha-synuclein, a protein implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease and a major component of proteinaceous Lewy bodies. We report that directed expression of the molecular chaperone Hsp70 prevented dopaminergic neuronal loss associated with alpha-synuclein in Drosophila and that interference with endogenous chaperone activity accelerated alpha-synuclein toxicity. Furthermore, Lewy bodies in human postmortem tissue immunostained for molecular chaperones, also suggesting that chaperones may play a role in Parkinson's disease progression.
Connectionist modeling is one approach to understanding human intelligence using simulated networks of neuron-like processing units. In this article, we report on recent progress in connectionist models that simulate empirical data of higher-level cognitive processes, these being memory, learning, language, thinking, cognitive development, and social cognition. We also review and summarize the advantages and disadvantages of these connectionist models. The computational framework of connectionist modeling has the potential to integrate specialized psychological findings of different areas using the same architectures and local functions of units and connections, inspired from neuroscience. In particular, the problems of dealing with structured information in distributed form, and doing tasks that require variable binding in connectionist networks are discussed from several different perspectives. As one possible solution to treat systematic mental representations properly, the symbolic connectionist model, which is a hybrid approach using symbolic representations and connectionist architectures, is explained. We argue that connectionist computer simulation offers significant benefits for today's psychological researches, and that connectionist modeling is likely to have an important influence on future studies.



Ligands and receptors that mediate cell-cell interactions during development are removed from the cell surface by endocytosis. Subsequently, many of these internalized proteins are detected in multivesicular bodies (MVBs). Recent work in different organisms has elucidated some aspects of MVB biogenesis and trafficking. This review discusses some intriguing links between these findings, the sorting of proteins in endocytic trafficking, and the regulation of signaling pathways in Drosophila.
The ability to remember one's past depends on neural processing set in motion at the moment each event is experienced. Memory formation can be observed by segregating neural responses according to whether or not each event is recalled or recognized on a subsequent memory test. Subsequent memory analyses have been performed with various neural measures, including brain potentials extracted from intracranial and extracranial electroencephalographic recordings, and hemodynamic responses from functional magnetic resonance imaging. Neural responses can predict which events, and which aspects of those events, will be subsequently remembered or forgotten, thereby elucidating the neurocognitive processes that establish durable episodic memories.
Functional dissociations within the neural basis of auditory sentence processing are difficult to specify because phonological, syntactic and semantic information are all involved when sentences are perceived. In this review I argue that sentence processing is supported by a temporo-frontal network. Within this network, temporal regions subserve aspects of identification and frontal regions the building of syntactic and semantic relations. Temporal analyses of brain activation within this network support syntax-first models because they reveal that building of syntactic structure precedes semantic processes and that these interact only during a later stage.
The production of any motor behavior requires coordinated activity in motor neurons and premotor networks. In vertebrates, this coordination is often assumed to take place through chemical synapses. Here we review recent data suggesting that electrical gap-junction coupling plays an important role in coordinating and generating motor outputs in embryonic and early postnatal life. Considering the recent demonstration of a prevalent expression of gap-junction proteins and gap-junction structures in the adult mammalian spinal cord, we suggest that neuronal gap-junction coupling might also contribute to the production of motor behavior in adult mammals.
Recent therapeutic investigations of Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been guided by two seemingly opposed hypotheses: the amyloid cascade theory, which favors the amyloid plaques as the cause of AD; and the cholinergic theory, which favors cholinergic neuron loss as the cause. New investigations indicate that the synthesis and processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) is linked to the trophic actions of nerve growth factor. A pathological cascade in both AD- and Down's syndrome-related memory loss could be triggered by alterations in APP processing or ACh-mediated neuronal function, or both, which in turn trigger the overexpression of amyloid beta, synaptic malfunction and trophic factor loss in target regions. This eventually leads to synaptic and dendritic loss with age.
Enhancement of memory acquisition and recall represents an important pharmacological goal in the treatment of cognitive disorders. In addition to its involvement in pH regulation, HCO3- reabsorption and CO2 expiration, carbonic anhydrase plays a crucial role in signal processing, long-term synaptic transformation and attentional gating of memory storage. Carbonic anhydrase dysfunction impairs cognition and is associated with mental retardation, Alzheimer's disease and aging. The pharmacological profile of carbonic anhydrase has been refined and specific activators have been developed. In this article, an integrated view of the involvement of carbonic anhydrase activity in synaptic plasticity and cognition will be presented, with particular focus on attentional gating of spatial learning and memory.
Cigarette smoking is a preventable risk factor for ischemic stroke. The mechanisms by which smoking contributes to stroke are poorly understood and the role of nicotine in this process is controversial. Although nicotine administered transdermally and orally does not appear to have as many associated health risks as do cigarettes, nicotine does have acute vasoactive and mitogenic effects on vascular tissues. Nicotine might alter the function of the blood-brain barrier and disrupt normal endothelial cell function. Some of the detrimental effects of nicotine are prevented by nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonists. However, recent studies indicate that nicotine might also interact with intracellular signaling pathways that are independent of acetylcholine receptors. In light of these recent developments, the impact of nicotine on cerebrovascular pathology should not be dismissed.



Nurr1 is an orphan nuclear receptor belonging to the family of evolutionary conserved steroid/thyroid hormone receptors. It has been shown that Nurr1 is required for development of ventral mesencephalic dopaminergic cells in vivo and that Nurr1 regulates the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene. The aim of this study was to investigate the possibility of finding ventral mesencephalic TH-positive neurons in Nurr1 deficient tissue when developed in the presence of wild type (WT) striatum. Therefore, fetal ventral mesencephalic tissue from embryonic day (E) 9.5-10.5 fetuses from Nurr1 mutant mice was co-cultured with lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE) from WT fetuses using the 'roller-drum' culture technique. TH-immunohistochemistry revealed similar number of positive neurons in WT, heterozygous, and Nurr1 deficient tissue, respectively. When ventral mesencephalon, dissected from E10.5 fetuses, was cultured alone without the presence of LGE, significantly more TH-immunoreactive neurons were found in WT and Nurr1 +/- than that seen in Nurr1 -/- cultures. In single ventral mesencephalic cultures dissected from E15.5, TH-positive neurons were found in all tissue cultures derived from knockout animals. Interestingly, the formation of TH-positive nerve fiber bundles was obvious in WT cultures while not observed in cultures of knockout tissue. When ventral mesencephalon was cultured alone in serum-free medium, almost no TH-positive neurons were found in cultures of knockout tissue. The addition of the growth factors epidermal growth factor and fibroblast growth factor-8 did not induce TH-immunoreactivity in serum-free Nurr1 -/- tissue cultures. In conclusion, TH-positive neurons may be generated in ventral mesencephalic tissue of Nurr1 deficient mice, suggesting that Nurr1 is not required for TH gene expression in ventral midbrain in vitro.
This paper reports on the initial analysis of protein expression in the mouse cerebellum with the proteomics approach. Proteins from cerebellar tissue homogenates were separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, and the proteins were stained with colloidal Coomassie Blue to produce a high-resolution map of the cerebellum proteome. Selected proteins from this map were digested with trypsin, and the resulting tryptic peptides were analyzed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry and liquid chromatography-electrospray quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometry. The mass spectrometric data were used to identify the proteins through searches of the SWISSPROT protein sequence database. To date, 30 prominent proteins with various functional characteristics were identified. These data will be used for future studies of differential protein expression in mouse models of neurological disorders.
Typical and atypical antipsychotics, the mainstay of schizophrenia pharmacotherapy, have been demonstrated to affect differently neuronal gene expression in several preclinical paradigms. Here we report the differential gene expression of the glutamatergic post-synaptic density proteins Homer and PSD-95 in rat forebrain following acute haloperidol or olanzapine treatment. Moreover, considering the extensive interactions between dopaminergic and opioidergic systems we also measured striatal preproenkephalin mRNA. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with haloperidol 1 mg/kg or olanzapine 0.5 mg/kg or vehicle, i.p. and sacrificed 3 h after the injection. Homer gene expression was significantly increased in caudate putamen and nucleus accumbens of rats treated with haloperidol and in the core of accumbens of rats treated with olanzapine. No changes were detected for Homer in prefrontal and parietal cortex in any of the experimental groups. PSD-95 gene expression was not modulated in our paradigm by administration of either typical or atypical antipsychotics. These results (1) suggest a differential modulation of Homer by typical and atypical antipsychotics; (2) confirm that Homer can be induced as an early gene with putative direct effect on neuronal plasticity and (3) demonstrate different response to antipsychotics by different classes of postsynaptic density proteins at glutamatergic synapses.
Nicotine is the primary addictive component in tobacco, and at relatively low doses it affects cardiovascular responses, locomotor activity, thermoregulation, learning, memory, and attention. At higher doses nicotine produces seizures. The mechanisms underlying the convulsive effects of nicotine are not known, but studies conducted on a number of inbred strains of mice have indicated a positive correlation between the number of alpha-bungarotoxin (alpha-BTX) binding sites in the hippocampus and the sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures. Because alpha7-containing neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) represent the major binding site for alpha-BTX, mice lacking the alpha7 nAChR subunit were predicted to be less sensitive to the convulsive effects of nicotine. To test this hypothesis, we injected nicotine intraperitoneally in alpha7 mutant mice and found that the dose-response curve for nicotine-induced seizures was similar in the alpha7 +/+, alpha7 +/- and alpha7 -/- mice. The retained sensitivity to the convulsant effects of nicotine could not be explained by the presence of cholinergic compensatory mechanisms such as increases in mRNA levels for other nAChR subunits, or changes in binding levels or affinity for nicotinic ligands such as epibatidine and nicotine. These findings indicate that alpha7 may not be necessary for the mechanisms underlying nicotine-induced seizures.
Rat connexin 36 (Cx36) was mutated by substituting serine for cysteine at residue 231 (C231S) and the mutant's effect on the subcellular localization of wild-type Cx36 and the intercellular permeability that it confers was determined in human HeLa and rat PC12 cells. Cells transfected with the mutant or wild-type Cx36 cDNA expressed the expected 36 kDa protein and Cx36 immunoreactivity. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments with monkey COS-7 cells transiently transfected with both mutant and wild-type Cx36 cDNAs demonstrated that the mutant protein bound to the wild-type. Double immunofluorescence microscopy of stably transfected HeLa cells demonstrated that mutant Cx36 blocked the transport of the wild-type Cx36 to the cell membrane, primarily by trapping it in the endoplasmic reticulum around the nucleus. Coexpression of the mutant Cx36 with the wild-type protein abolished the ability of the latter to permit dye transfer in both HeLa and PC12 cells. The findings are the first demonstration of a mutation of Cx36 that inhibits wild-type Cx36 function in mammalian cells.
Phospholipase C gamma 1 (PLC-gamma 1) hydrolyses phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate to the second messengers inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol. PLC-gamma 1 also has mitogenic activity upon growth-factor-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation; however, this activity is not dependent on the phospholipase activity of PLC-gamma 1, but requires an SH3 domain. Here, we demonstrate that PLC-gamma 1 acts as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for PIKE (phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase (PI(3)K) enhancer). PIKE is a nuclear GTPase that activates nuclear PI(3)K activity, and mediates the physiological activation by nerve growth factor (NGF) of nuclear PI(3)K activity. This enzymatic activity accounts for the mitogenic properties of PLC-gamma 1.
Transcription of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene is regulated in a calcium- and neuron-selective manner; however, the mechanisms that underlie this selectivity are not known. We have characterized a new calcium-response element, CaRE1, that is required for activity-dependent transcription of BDNF exon III and have cloned a transcription factor, CaRF, that activates transcription from BDNF promoter III in a CaRE1-dependent manner. The transcriptional activity of CaRF is regulated in a calcium- and neuron-selective manner, suggesting that CaRF may confer selectivity upon the activity-dependent induction of BDNF exon III expression.
Theta oscillations represent the &quot;on-line&quot; state of the hippocampus. The extracellular currents underlying theta waves are generated mainly by the entorhinal input, CA3 (Schaffer) collaterals, and voltage-dependent Ca(2+) currents in pyramidal cell dendrites. The rhythm is believed to be critical for temporal coding/decoding of active neuronal ensembles and the modification of synaptic weights. Nevertheless, numerous critical issues regarding both the generation of theta oscillations and their functional significance remain challenges for future research.
Behavioral studies indicate that prior experience can influence discrimination of subsequent stimuli. The mechanisms responsible for highlighting a particular aspect of the stimulus, such as motion or color, as most relevant and thus deserving further scrutiny, however, remain poorly understood. In the current issue of Neuron, demonstrate that neurons in the caudate nucleus of the basal ganglia signal which dimension of a visual cue, either color or location, is associated with reward in an eye movement task. These findings raise the possibility that this structure participates in the reward-based control of visual attention.
We present a new analytical method for characterizing the directional tuning of neural data. The method is based on computing parameters associated with the geometric properties of solids, and provides an estimate of preferred direction in the context of non-uniform sampling of directions. Unlike optimization methods based on fitting tuning functions, the plate method is computationally fast, and does not require the assumption of an underlying tuning function (e.g. cosine or von Mises functions). In addition to estimating the preferred direction of a dataset, the plate method provides other parameters to fully characterize the directional properties of neural data. The method is presented in the context of a two-dimensional coordinate system but may in principle be extended to higher dimensional spaces as well.
A rat's proclivity to explore a novel environment presents a behaviorally rich paradigm to investigate the role of the hippocampus in spatial navigation. Here we describe a novel technique of behavioral analysis that is derived from a single exploratory trip. An exploratory trip was defined as a rat's departure from the home base that ended when the rat returned to the home base. The behavior observed on a single exploratory trip by a control animal is highly organized into outward and homeward segments. An outward segment is characterized by a slow circuitous progression from the home base marked by several stops. A homeward segment is characterized by a rapid direct return to the home base. The velocity attribute of the exploratory trip was quantified by estimating the point of inflection associated with the trip's cumulative moment-to-moment velocity distribution. The heading direction and variance of the homeward trip segment was analyzed with circular statistics. A comparison of the exploratory behavior of control animals and animals with damage to the fimbria-fornix indicated that the velocity and heading direction of the homeward portion of the trip depends upon the hippocampal formation. While control and fimbria-fornix rats had similar outward segments, the return paths of the fimbria-fornix rats were significantly slower, more circuitous, and more variable compared with that of the control rats. This result was also independent of testing in light or dark conditions. The lack of dependence on allothetic cues suggests that rats employ dead reckoning navigational strategies to initiate the homeward portion of exploratory movements. Methods to quantify exploratory behavior in terms of velocity and angular components provide an assessment of control behavior and the assessment of the behavior of rats with hippocampal formation damage that is easy to implement.
The motor innervation of the duodenum and distal colon remains uncharacterized within the same species. Our aim was to compare the projections and neurochemical properties of duodenal and distal colon circular muscle motor neurons. Circular muscle motor neurons were retrogradely traced by using a neural tracer in vitro, processed for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) immunoreactivity and then visualized by using indirect immunofluorescence. A mean of 372 +/- 64 and 156 +/- 23 neurons (mean +/- SEM) were tracer-labeled within the duodenum and colon, respectively. The ChAT+/NOS- neurons comprised 57.6 +/- 6.6% and 39.6 +/- 4.4% of all labeled cells in the duodenum and colon, respectively, and projected mainly in the oral direction. Of all labeled cells, the ChAT-/NOS+ neurons comprised 8.5 +/- 2.3% in the duodenum and 46.6 +/- 5.0% in the distal colon and projected mainly in the anal direction. Of the remainder, 20.6 +/- 5.0% and 8.2 +/- 2.4% were ChAT+/NOS+ and 13.2 +/- 0.9% and 5.6 +/- 1.4% were ChAT-/NOS- in the duodenum and distal colon, respectively. Within both regions, the distribution of the ChAT+/NOS- and ChAT-/NOS+ neurons are consistent with the ascending excitatory and descending inhibitory reflexes. The proportion of ChAT-/NOS+ neurons is greater within the colon in comparison with the duodenum. A considerable proportion of duodenal motor neurons were ChAT+/NOS+ and ChAT-/NOS-. These two classes may underlie nonperistaltic motor patterns, which predominate within the duodenum. These findings demonstrate regional differences in the innervation of intestinal circular muscle.
Prion diseases are characterized by accumulation of protease resistant isoforms of prion protein (termed PrP(SC)), glial activation and neurodegeneration. The time course of PrP deposition, appearance of activated microglia, and of neuronal apoptosis in experimentally-induced prion disease suggests that microglial activation precedes the process of neuronal loss. Activated microglia and inflammatory mediators, including cytokines and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) co-localize with PrP deposits. In vitro, mouse microglia secrete neurotoxic agents and interleukins (IL)-1 and IL-6, when exposed to synthetic peptides representing the neurotoxic fragment of PrP. In this study, adult human microglia were found to secrete IL-6 and TNF-alpha upon exposure to synthetic fibrillar PrP105-132, the putative transmembrane domain of PrP. Little cytokine release occurred following exposure of microglia to C-terminally amidated, nonfibrillar PrP105-132, suggesting that the degree of fibrillarity of PrP peptides affects their biological properties. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are thought to exert beneficial effects in neurodegenerative disorders through suppressive effects on microglial activation and on cyclooxygenase (COX) activity. Since microglial COX-2 expression and PGE(2) synthesis are increased in human and experimental prion diseases, we investigated the effects of the NSAIDs indomethacin and BF389, an experimental COX-2 selective inhibitor, on the PrP105-132-induced microglial IL-6 and TNF-alpha synthesis in vitro. No inhibitory effects of the NSAIDs were observed. Furthermore, PrP105-132 did not stimulate microglial PGE(2) synthesis. We conclude that, unlike IL-1beta-induced IL-6 synthesis in astrocytes, the PrP-induced IL-6 synthesis in human adult microglia is not PGE2 mediated.
In this study, the ability of monkey amniotic epithelial (MAE) cells to take up dopamine was tested by incubating the cells in buffer containing unlabeled dopamine under different experimental conditions followed by assaying dopamine content using high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Results showed the capability of MAE cells to take up dopamine in a time- and concentration-dependent fashion, and also this uptake is sodium-dependent. Further, selective dopamine transporter blockers inhibited dopamine uptake with rank order of potency that is consistent with the pharmacology of the dopamine transporter. These results suggest that MAE cells may be potential model to study dopamine uptake and release, and to explore new drugs affecting these processes.
In this study, the receptor desensitizing effects of diadenosine polyphosphates at recombinant human P2X3 (hP2X3) receptors were examined. Administration of Ap3A, Ap4A, Ap5A or Ap6A inhibited the hP2X3 receptor-mediated response to a subsequent application of 3 muM alphabeta-methyleneATP (alphabeta-meATP), in a concentration-dependent manner, with IC50 values 2707, 42, 59 and 46 nM, respectively. These agonists did not desensitize alphabeta-meATP responses mediated by the slowly desensitizing heteromeric human P2X2/3 receptor. hP2X3 receptor desensitization was reversible and was not observed following the increase in intracellular Ca2+ levels produced by carbachol. A similar pattern of desensitization evoked by Ap5A was also observed using electrophysiological recordings of Xenopus oocytes expressing hP2X3 receptors. These data demonstrate that diadenosine polyphosphates, found endogenously in the central nervous system, can readily desensitize hP2X3 receptors at nanomolar concentrations that are 10-fold lower than are required to produce agonist-induced receptor activation. Thus, P2X3 receptor desensitization by diadenosine polyphosphates may provide an important modulatory mechanism of P2X3 receptor activation in vivo.
The alpha-globin mRNA has previously been shown to be the target of an erythroid-enriched endoribonuclease (ErEN) activity which cleaves the mRNA within the 3'-untranslated region. We have currently undertaken a biochemical approach to purify this enzyme and have begun characterization of the enzyme to determine requirements for substrate recognition as well as optimal cleavage conditions. Through mutational analysis and truncations we show that a 26-nucleotide region of the alpha-globin 3'-untranslated region is an autonomous element that is both necessary and sufficient for cleavage by ErEN. Mutations throughout this region abolish cleavage activity by ErEN suggesting that the entire sequence is important for recognition and cleavage. ErEN is most active under biological salt concentrations and temperature and activity of the enzyme does not require cations. The size for ErEN was estimated by denaturing gel filtration analysis and is approximately 40 kDa. Interestingly, the exquisite specificity of ErEN cleavage became compromised with increased purity of the enzyme suggesting the involvement of other proteins in specificity of ErEN cleavage. Nondenaturing gel filtration of MEL extract demonstrated that ErEN is a component of an approximately 160 kDa complex implying that additional proteins may regulate ErEN activity and provide increased cleavage specificity.
A growing body of evidence now suggests that programmed cell death (PCD) occurs via non-apoptotic mechanisms as well as by apoptosis. In contrast to apoptosis, however, the molecular mechanisms involved in the regulation of non-apoptotic PCD remain only poorly understood. Here we show that ceramide induces a non-apoptotic PCD with a necrotic-like morphology in human glioma cells. Characteristically, the cell death was not accompanied by loss of the mitochondrial transmembrane potential, cytosolic release of cytochrome c from mitochondria, or the activation of the caspase cascade. Consistent with these characteristics, this ceramide-induced cell death was inhibited neither by the overexpression of Bcl-xL nor by the pan-caspase inhibitor zVAD-fmk. However, strikingly, the ceramide-induced non-apoptotic cell death was inhibited by the activation of the Akt/protein kinase B pathway through the expression of a constitutively active version of Akt. The results for the first time indicate that the Akt kinase, known to play an essential role in survival factor-mediated inhibition of apoptotic cell death, is also involved in the regulation of non-apoptotic PCD.
The purification of membrane proteins in a form and amount suitable for structural or biochemical studies still remains a great challenge. Gap junctions have long been studied using electron microscopy and X-ray diffraction. However, only a limited number of proteins in the connexin family have been amenable to protein or membrane purification techniques. Molecular biology techniques for expressing large gap junctions in tissue culture cells combined with improvements in electron crystallography have shown great promise for determining the channel structure to better than 10 A resolution. Here, we have isolated two-dimensional (2D) gap junction crystals from HeLa Cx26 transfectants. This isoform has never been isolated in large fractions from tissues. We characterize these preparations by SDS-PAGE, Western blotting, negative stain electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy. In our preparations, the Cx26 is easily detected in the Western blots and we have increased expression levels so that connexin bands are visible on SDS-PAGE gels. Preliminary assessment of the samples by electron cryo-microscopy shows that these 2D crystals diffract to at least 22 A. Atomic force microscopy of these Cx26 gap junctions show exquisite surface modulation at the extracellular surface in force dissected gap junctions. We also applied our protocol to cell lines such as NRK cells that express endogenous Cx43 and NRK and HeLa cell lines transfected with exogenous connexins. While the gap junction membrane channels are recognizable in negatively stained electron micrographs, these lattices are disordered and the gap junction plaques are smaller. SDS-PAGE and Western blotting revealed expression of connexins, but at a lower level than with our HeLa Cx26 transfectants. Therefore, the purity and morphology of the gap junction plaques depends the size and abundance of the gap junctions in the cell line itself.
Opioid plays an important role in the regulation of glucose homeostasis in diabetic rats lacking insulin. The present study investigated the changes of beta-endorphin biosynthesis in the adrenal medulla of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats (STZ-diabetic rats) by determination of the gene expression of pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) and the amount of beta-endorphin. Expression of the distinct mRNA that encodes proteins of POMC was studied using reverse transcription combined with polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Results of RT-PCR demonstrated that the mRNA level of POMC in the adrenal gland markedly increased in STZ-diabetic rats as compared with that in normal rats. The content of beta-endorphin-like immunoreactivity (BER) in the adrenal medulla, determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, was actually higher in diabetic rats with insulin deficiency. Normalization of the plasma glucose concentration in STZ-diabetic rats with exogenous insulin or phlorizin, an inhibitor of the renal tubular glucose transport, reversed the mRNA level of POMC in the adrenal gland after 4 days of treatment. A similar decrease of BER amount also observed in the adrenal medulla of STZ-diabetic rats received the same treatment with exogenous insulin or phlorizin. Therefore, correction of hyperglycemia in STZ-diabetic rats could reverse the higher gene expression of POMC in the adrenal gland. These results suggest that hyperglycemia is responsible for the increase of POMC gene expression to enhance beta-endorphin biosynthesis in the adrenal gland of STZ-diabetic rats.

Embryonal tumours of the central nervous system (CNS) represent a heterogeneous group of tumours about which little is known biologically, and whose diagnosis, on the basis of morphologic appearance alone, is controversial. Medulloblastomas, for example, are the most common malignant brain tumour of childhood, but their pathogenesis is unknown, their relationship to other embryonal CNS tumours is debated, and patients' response to therapy is difficult to predict. We approached these problems by developing a classification system based on DNA microarray gene expression data derived from 99 patient samples. Here we demonstrate that medulloblastomas are molecularly distinct from other brain tumours including primitive neuroectodermal tumours (PNETs), atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumours (AT/RTs) and malignant gliomas. Previously unrecognized evidence supporting the derivation of medulloblastomas from cerebellar granule cells through activation of the Sonic Hedgehog (SHH) pathway was also revealed. We show further that the clinical outcome of children with medulloblastomas is highly predictable on the basis of the gene expression profiles of their tumours at diagnosis.
Menadione is selectively toxic to erythrocytes. Although GSH is considered a primary target of menadione, intraerythrocyte thiolic alterations consequent to menadione exposure are only partially known. In this study alterations of GSH and protein thiols (PSH) and their relationship with methemoglobin formation were investigated in human and rat red blood cells (RBC) exposed to menadione. In both erythrocyte types, menadione caused a marked increase in methemoglobin associated with GSH depletion and increased oxygen consumption. However, in human RBC, GSH formed a conjugate with menadione, whereas, in rat RBC it was converted to GSSG, concomitantly with a loss of protein thiols (corresponding to menadione arylation), and an increase in glutathione-protein mixed disulfides (GS-SP). Such differences were related to the presence of highly reactive cysteines, which characterize rat hemoglobin (cys beta125). In spite of the greater thiol oxidation in rat than in human RBC, methemoglobin formation and the rate of oxygen consumption elicited by menadione in both species were rather similar. Moreover, in repeated experiments under N2 or CO-blocked heme, it was found that menadione conjugation (arylation) in both species was not dependent on the presence of oxygen or the status of heme. Therefore, we assumed that GSH (human RBC) and protein (rat RBC) arylation was equally responsible for increased oxygen consumption and Hb oxidation. Moreover, thiol oxidation of rat RBC was strictly related to methemoglobin formation.


Glutamatergic neurons within the deep layers of the prefrontal cortex and dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta preferentially terminate in patch-like regions within the caudate putamen nucleus (CPN). Activation of dopamine D2 receptors is known to potently modulate striatal glutamatergic transmission and may play a role in reward-based motor learning. To determine the cellular substrate for D2-mediated regulation of prefrontal corticostriatal transmission in striatal patches, we combined anterograde transport of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) with immunogold-silver labeling of a D2 receptor antipeptide antiserum in rat brain. Injections centered in deep layers of the dorsal part of the anterior cingulate cortex, one of the prefrontal cortical regions, produced varicose axonal BDA labeling in a patch-like distribution in the dorsomedial CPN. Electron microscopy showed that in these patch compartments, BDA labeling was present exclusively in axons and terminals (total number = 581), 9% of which contained detectable D2-like immunoreactivity. Thirty percent of the BDA-labeled terminals formed asymmetric excitatory synapses with dendritic spine heads, and the remainder were without recognizable junctions. The recipient spines were unlabeled or contained immunogold-silver particles for D2 receptors. A few of the D2-labeled spines also received convergent, often nonsynaptic contact from D2-labeled terminals resembling dopaminergic afferents. In addition, the corticostriatal terminals often apposed spiny and nonspiny neuronal profiles that contained D2 labeling. These results suggest that dopamine D2 receptors are strategically positioned for presynaptic and postsynaptic modulation of prefrontal corticostriatal excitation of spiny neurons in striatal patches. The findings have direct implications for D2-mediated control of reward-related motor learning.
The antennules of decapod crustaceans are covered with thousands of chemosensilla that mediate odor discrimination and orientation behaviors. Most studies on chemoreception in decapods have focused on the prominent aesthetasc sensilla. However, previous behavioral studies on lobsters following selective sensillar ablation have revealed that input from nonaesthetasc antennular chemosensilla is sufficient for many odor-mediated behaviors. Our earlier examination of the setal types on the antennules of the Caribbean spiny lobster Panulirus argus revealed three types of nonaesthetasc chemosensilla. The most abundant and widely distributed of these is the hooded sensillum. The present study describes the detailed ultrastructure of antennular hooded sensilla and the physiological response properties of their receptor neurons. Light and scanning and transmission electron microscopy were used to examine structural characteristics, and electrophysiology was used to examine single-unit responses elicited by focal chemical and mechanical stimulation of antennular hooded sensilla. Hooded sensilla have a porous cuticle and are innervated by 9-10 chemosensory and 3 mechanosensory neurons whose dendrites project to the distal end of the sensillum. Hooded sensillar chemosensory neurons responded to waterborne chemicals, were responsive to only one of the six tested single compounds, and had different specificities. Hooded sensillar mechanosensory neurons were not spontaneously active. They had low sensitivity in that they responded to tactile but not waterborne vibrations, and they responded to sensillar deflection with phasic bursts of activity. These results support the idea that hooded sensilla are bimodal chemo-mechanosensilla and are receptors in an antennular chemosensory pathway that parallels the well-described aesthetasc chemosensory pathway.

Chemosensory receptors are critical for the survival of many mammalian species, and their genes can comprise up to 1% of mammalian genomes. Odorant, taste, and vomeronasal receptors are being discovered and functionally characterized at a rapid pace which has been further accelerated by the availability of the human genome sequence. Five multigene families, consisting of &gt;1,000 genes in the mouse, have been proposed to encode functional chemoreceptors. Although all of the chemoreceptor gene families encode G-protein coupled receptors, they are largely unrelated and uniquely specialized for the processing of different chemosensory modalities. Using members of the families as molecular probes, great insights are being gained into the different organizational strategies used by these sensory systems to encode information in both the periphery and the brain.
Transcallosal conduction time (TCT) in human visual system was estimated from the hemispheric difference of the peak latencies of face-evoked magnetic field (N170m) by left/right hemifield stimulation using 14 8 channel whole-head magnetometers. The estimated TCTwas 18.0 + 6.2 ms (mean +/- s.d.). Although N 170m amplitude was larger in the right hemisphere of seven of nine subjects, no hemispheric asymmetry was observed in the TCT estimate. Transcallosal visual information was likely to be transferred in the higher order (non-retinotopic) visual cortices. Hemifield stimulation with face images is a useful non-invasive method to estimate the TCT in human visual system.
We used a recombinant lentiviral vector (rLV) for gene delivery of GDNF to the striatum, and assessed its neuroprotective effects in the intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion model. The level of GDNF expression obtained with the rLV-GDNF vector was dose-related and ranged between 0.9-9.3 ng/mg tissue in the transduced striatum, as determined by ELISA, and 0.2-3.0 ng/mg tissue were detected in the ipsilateral substantia nigra (SN), due to anterograde transport of the GDNF protein. GDNF expression was apparent at 4 days and maintained for &gt; 8 months after injection. Striatal delivery of rLV-GDNF efficiently protected the nigral dopamine (DA) neurons and their projection, against the 6-OHDA lesion (65-77% of intact side). Sprouting of the lesioned axons was observed along the nigrostriatal pathway, precisely corresponding to the areas containing anterogradely transported GDNF.
We have examined the effects of serotonin2 (5-HT2) stimulation and NMDA antagonism on preprotachykinin (PPT) and preproenkephalin (PPE) gene regulation in the dopamine (DA) depleted striatum. Following DA lesions, PPT mRNA expression was reduced (dorsomedial (DM) 44 +/- 9%, dorsolateral (DL) 40 +/- 4%), whereas PPE message levels were elevated (DM 207+/-28%, DL 198+/-25%). Within this state of dysregulated gene activity, DOI (5-HT2 agonist) increased PPT message levels (174 +/- 5%, DM; 153 +/- 13%, DL) without affecting PPE gene expression. In addition, MK-801 (NMDA antagonist) decreased PPE message levels (DM 59 +/- 10%, DL 52 +/- 7%) without significantly altering PPT mRNA expression. Combined application of DOI and MK-801 resulted in normalization of both PPTand PPE message. Statistical analysis revealed no drug interactions in this paradigm suggesting independent mechanisms for 5-HT2 and NMDA receptors in controlling neuropeptide production following DA depletion.
We compared vestibulo-ocular reflex, optokinetic reflex and postural function in subjects with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), as well as non-diabetic controls. Both IDDM and NIDDM subjects exhibited significant deficits in gaze-holding in darkness (p &lt; 0.05), small changes in vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) phase re velocity (p &lt; 0.005) without a change in VOR gain, and a decrease in optokinetic reflex (OKR) slow phase velocity (p &lt; 0.001). In addition, a smaller decrease was found in OKR quick phase amplitude (p &lt; 0.02); postural sway was increased in both diabetic groups (p &lt; 0.05), although this was not specific to the conditions of the Clinical Test of Sensory Interaction and Balance (CTSIB) that test vestibular contributions to postural stability. No differences were found in optokinetic afternystagmus or latency to circularvection. These results suggest that both IDDM and NIDDM are associated with deficits in gaze-holding, VOR and OKR function.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) were employed to investigate the neural correlates of episodic and semantic task sets. ERPs elicited by cues signalling an upcoming recognition memory test trial showed a sustained positivity relative to those signalling an upcoming semantic test trial, lasting from 500 ms post-cue until the arrival of the test item. However, this effect was present only on the second successive trial on which subjects performed the recognition task. Thus, when episodic vs semantic tasks vary trial-by-trial, the establishment of a recognition memory task-set is not achieved within a single trial. The findings are discussed in relation to the notion of episodic retrieval mode.
To assess whether striatal and pallidal neurones may contribute to bimanual co-ordination, two macaque monkeys were trained to perform a delayed conditional sequence of co-ordinated pull and grasp movements, executed either bimanually or unimanually. Most of the 58 task-related neurones, recorded from the caudate nucleus, putamen, external and internal divisions of the globus pallidus, exhibited an activity related to the execution of the movements. Only a quarter of neurones displayed preparatory activity. The majority of units exhibited a significant modulation of activity in unimanual trials irrespective of the hand used to perform the task. In bimanual trials, one-third of units exhibited discharge patterns reflecting a bimanual synergy, suggesting a possible role for basal ganglia in inter-limb co-operation.
We are interested in the possible role of central glial cells in pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease of mammals. Parkinsonism model was induced by systemic 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) administration, and the reactive glial cells were examined by immunocytochemical visualization of nestin protein in the brains and spinal cords of C57 mice. Abundant nestin-like immunoreactivity was predominately found in the caudate putamen of MPTP-treated mice and about 481-fold of nestin-like immunoreactive cells increased compared with that of control animals, indicating that significant up-regulation of nestin protein occurred in these regions. Majority of nestin-like immunoreactive cells characterized with astrocytic profiles of multiple, radical and hypotrophic processes, and showed a distribution and dynamic patterns similar to that of glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP)-immunoreactive cells in the caudate putamen. Double immunofluorescence confirmed that 100% of nestin-like immunoreactive cells exhibited GFAP-immunoreactivity while nestin/GFAP double-labeled cells constituted about 84% of total GFAP-immunoreactive cells in the caudate putamen, indicating these nestin-like immunoreactive cells belong to a reactive population of the astrocytes. On the other hand, no obvious changes of nestin- or GFAP-like immunoreactivities were detected in the globus pallidus, the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area after MPTP-treatment. The results have provided morphological evidence for the regional activation of astrocytic glial cells following systemic MPTP administration, suggesting that a large population of reactive striatal astrocytes might play an important role in initial pathogenesis or acute stage of Parkinson's disease in mammals.
The aim of this study was to determine the role of catalase in the smooth muscle relaxant actions of sodium azide and cyanamide. The effects of 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole suggested a role for this enzyme in the relaxant actions of sodium azide on rat aorta and bovine retractor penis muscle and cyanamide on rat aorta. Moreover, results obtained using a difference spectrophotometric assay based upon the oxidation of haemoglobin were consistent with the catalase-dependent oxidation of sodium azide to nitric oxide (NO) and of cyanamide to nitroxyl anion. Surprisingly, however, no free nitric oxide or nitroxyl was detected in solution using a sensitive electrode. This anomaly might be explained if the stable complexes of catalase with nitric oxide or nitroxyl do not release their respective ligand except to sites of high affinity, such as the haemoglobin employed in the difference spectrophotometric assay, or indeed, the soluble guanylate cyclase within the smooth muscle.
The catalytic and signaling activities of RET, a tyrosine kinase receptor for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), are controlled by the autophosphorylation of several tyrosine residues in the RET cytoplasmic domain. To analyze the phosphorylation state of individual tyrosines, we generated antibodies recognizing specific phosphotyrosine sites involved in the catalytic (Tyr(905)) and downstream signaling (Tyr(1015), Tyr(1062), and Tyr(1096)) activities of this receptor. Stimulation with GDNF induced coordinated phosphorylation of the 4 tyrosine residues in neuronal cell lines and in primary cultures of sympathetic neurons isolated from rat superior cervical ganglia. Neurturin and artemin, two other members of the GDNF ligand family, also induced synchronized phosphorylation of RET tyrosines with kinetics comparable to those observed with GDNF. Tyrosine phosphorylation was maximal 15 min after ligand stimulation, decaying thereafter with similar kinetics in all 4 residues. Co-stimulation with a soluble form of the GFRalpha1 co-receptor potentiated ligand-dependent phosphorylation of different intracellular tyrosines to a similar extent and increased the survival of superior cervical ganglion neurons compared with treatment with GDNF alone. In vivo, high levels of phosphorylated Tyr(905), Tyr(1015), and Tyr(1062) were detected in embryonic mouse dorsal root ganglia, with a sharp decline at early postnatal stages. Protein transduction of anti-Tyr(P)(1062) antibodies into cultured cells reduced activation of MAPKs ERK1 and ERK2 and the AKT kinase in response to GDNF and diminished GDNF-dependent neuronal differentiation and survival of embryonic sensory neurons from the nodose ganglion. These results demonstrate synchronized utilization of individual RET tyrosine residues in neurons in vivo and reveal an important role for RET Tyr(1062) in mediating neuronal survival by GDNF.
Protein-protein interactions and calcium entry through the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptor regulate synaptic development and plasticity in the central nervous system. The EphB receptor tyrosine kinases are localized at excitatory synapses where they cluster and associate with NMDA receptors. We identified a mechanism whereby EphBs modulate NMDA receptor function. EphrinB2 activation of EphB in primary cortical neurons potentiates NMDA receptor-dependent influx of calcium. Treatment of cells with ephrinB2 led to NMDA receptor tyrosine phosphorylation through activation of the Src family of tyrosine kinases. These ephrinB2-dependent events result in enhanced NMDA receptor-dependent gene expression. Our findings indicate that ephrinB2 stimulation of EphB modulates the functional consequences of NMDA receptor activation and suggest a mechanism whereby activity-independent and activity-dependent signals converge to regulate the development and remodeling of synaptic connections.

On the basis of a spirocyclic ether screening lead, a series of acyclic sulfones have been identified as high-affinity, selective 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonists. Bioavailability lacking in the parent, 1-(2-(2,4-difluorophenyl)ethyl)-4-(phenylsulfonyl)piperidine (12), was introduced by using stability toward rat liver microsomes as a predictor of bioavailability. By this means, the 4-cyano- and 4-carboxamidophenylsulfonyl derivatives 26 and 31 were identified as orally bioavailable, brain-penetrant analogues suitable for evaluation in animal models. Bioavailability was also attainable by N substitution leading to the N-phenacyl derivative 35. IKr activity detected through counterscreening was reduced to insignificant levels in vivo with the latter compound.

Neurotransmitters are released by synaptic vesicle fusion at the active zone. The active zone of a synapse mediates Ca2+-triggered neurotransmitter release, and integrates presynaptic signals in regulating this release. Much is known about the structure of active zones and synaptic vesicles, but the functional relation between their components is poorly understood. Here we show that RIM1alpha, an active zone protein that was identified as a putative effector for the synaptic vesicle protein Rab3A, interacts with several active zone molecules, including Munc13-1 (ref. 6) and alpha-liprins, to form a protein scaffold in the presynaptic nerve terminal. Abolishing the expression of RIM1alpha in mice shows that RIM1alpha is essential for maintaining normal probability of neurotransmitter release, and for regulating release during short-term synaptic plasticity. These data indicate that RIM1alpha has a central function in integrating active zone proteins and synaptic vesicles into a molecular scaffold that controls neurotransmitter release.
Event-related fMRI was employed to characterize differences in brain activation between children ages 8-12 and adults related to two forms of cognitive control: interference suppression and response inhibition. Children were more susceptible to interference and less able to inhibit inappropriate responses than were adults. Effective interference suppression in children was associated with prefrontal activation in the opposite hemisphere relative to adults. In contrast, effective response inhibition in children was associated with activation of posterior, but not prefrontal, regions activated by adults. Children failed to activate a region in right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex that was recruited for both types of cognitive control by adults. Thus, children exhibited immature prefrontal activation that varied according to the type of cognitive control required.
Retrograde signaling from postsynaptic cells to presynaptic neurons is essential for regulation of synaptic development, maintenance, and plasticity. Here we report that the novel protein AEX-1 controls retrograde signaling at neuromuscular junctions in C. elegans. aex-1 mutants show neural defects including reduced presynaptic activity and abnormal localization of the synaptic vesicle fusion protein UNC-13. Muscle-specific AEX-1 expression rescues these defects but neuron-specific expression does not. AEX-1 has an UNC-13 homologous domain and appears to regulate exocytosis in muscles. This retrograde signaling requires prohormone-convertase function in muscles, suggesting that a peptide is the retrograde signal. This signal regulates synaptic vesicle release via the EGL-30 Gq(alpha) protein at presynaptic terminals.
Drosophila melanogaster has been a premier genetic model system for nearly 100 years, yet lacks a simple method to disrupt gene expression. Here, we show genomic cDNA fusions predicted to form double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) following splicing, effectively silencing expression of target genes in adult transgenic animals. We targeted three Drosophila genes: lush, white, and dGq(alpha). In each case, target gene expression is dramatically reduced, and the white RNAi phenotype is indistinguishable from a deletion mutant. This technique efficiently targets genes expressed in neurons, a tissue refractory to RNAi in C. elegans. These results demonstrate a simple strategy to knock out gene function in specific cells in living adult Drosophila that can be applied to define the biological function of hundreds of orphan genes and open reading frames.
In Drosophila, Slit acts as a barrier preventing roundabout expressing axons from entering the midline and sorting contralaterally from ipsilaterally projecting axons. Hutson and Chien, Plump et al., and Bagri et al. (all in this issue of Neuron) use Slit knockout mice and zebrafish astray/Robo2 mutants to show that in vertebrates, Robo/Slit function to channel axons into specific pathways and determine where decussation points occur. Ipsilaterally and contralaterally projected axons are equally affected.
The mitochondrial theory of aging proposes that mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) accumulates mutations with age, and that these mutations contribute to physiological decline in aging and degenerative diseases. Although a great deal of indirect evidence supports this hypothesis, the aggregate burden of mtDNA mutations, particularly point mutations, has not been systematically quantified in aging or neurodegenerative disorders. Therefore, we directly assessed the aggregate burden of brain mtDNA point mutations in 17 subjects with Alzheimer's disease (AD), 10 elderly control subjects and 14 younger control subjects, using a PCR-cloning-sequencing strategy. We found that brain mtDNA from elderly subjects had a higher aggregate burden of mutations than brain mtDNA from younger subjects. The average aggregate mutational burden in elderly subjects was 2 x 10(-4) mutations/bp. The bulk of these mutations were individually rare point mutations, 60% of which changed an amino acid. Control experiments ensure that these results were not due to artifacts arising from PCR error, mistaken identification of nuclear pseudogenes or ex vivo oxidation. Cytochrome oxidase activity correlated negatively with increasing mutational burden. These findings significantly bolster the mitochondrial theory of aging.
Normal murine dermal fibroblasts implanted into the muscles of the mdx mouse, a model for Duchenne muscular dystrophy, not only participate in new myofibre formation but also direct the expression of the protein dystrophin which is deficient in these mice. We have reported that the lectin galectin-1 is implicated in the conversion of dermal fibroblasts to muscle. In the current work we confirm the presence of galectin-1 in the medium used for conversion. Furthermore we report that exposure of clones of dermal fibroblasts to this lectin results in 100% conversion of the cells. Conversion was assessed by the expression within the cells of the muscle-specific cytoskeletal protein desmin. We also investigate the effects of galectin-1 on cells of the C2C12 mouse myogenic cell line and on primary mouse myoblasts. Exposing both transformed and primary myoblasts to the lectin resulted in an increase in fusion of cells to the terminally differentiated state in both types of cultures. Galectin-1 does not cause the myogenic conversion of murine muscle-derived fibroblasts.
Fractalkine/CX3C-chemokine ligand 1 is expressed as a membrane-spanning adhesion molecule that can be cleaved from the cell surface to produce a soluble chemoattractant. Within the vasculature, fractalkine is known to be generated by endothelial cells, but to date there are no reports describing its expression by smooth muscle cells (SMC). In this study we demonstrate that IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha, but not IL-1beta, cooperate synergistically to induce fractalkine mRNA and protein expression in cultured aortic SMC. We also report the release of functional, soluble fractalkine from the membranes of stimulated SMC. This release is inhibited by the zinc metalloproteinase inhibitor batimastat, resulting in the accumulation of membrane-associated fractalkine on the SMC surface. Therefore, an SMC-derived metalloproteinase activity is involved in fractalkine shedding. While soluble fractalkine present in SMC-conditioned medium is capable of inducing calcium transients in cells expressing the fractalkine receptor (CX3CR1), blocking experiments using neutralizing Abs reveal that it can be inactivated without affecting the chemotactic activity of SMC-conditioned media on monocytes. However, membrane-bound fractalkine plays a major role in promoting adhesion of monocytic cells to activated SMC. This fractalkine-mediated adhesion is further enhanced in the presence of batimastat, indicating that shedding of fractalkine from the cell surface down-regulates the adhesive properties of SMC. Hence, during vascular inflammation, the synergistic induction of fractalkine by IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha together with its metalloproteinase-mediated cleavage may finely control the recruitment of monocytes to SMC within the blood vessel wall.
The muscarinic-regulated potassium current (M-current), formed by the heteromeric assembly of subunits encoded by the KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 genes, is a primary regulator of neuronal excitability; this regulation is accomplished by impeding repetitive firing and causing spike-frequency adaptation. Mutations in KCNQ2 or KCNQ3 cause benign familial neonatal convulsions (BFNC), a rare autosomal-dominant generalized epilepsy of newborns, by reducing the maximal current carried by the M-channels without affecting ion selectivity or gating properties. Here we show that KCNQ2/KCNQ3 channels carrying a novel BFNC-causing mutation leading to an arginine to tryptophan substitution in the voltage-sensing S4 domain of KCNQ2 subunits (R214W) displayed slower opening and faster closing kinetics and a decreased voltage sensitivity with no concomitant changes in maximal current or plasma membrane expression. These results suggest that mutation-induced gating alterations of the M-current may cause epilepsy in neonates.
Hippocampal neurons that encode critical events during a delayed-nonmatch-to-sample (DNMS) task were proposed to have functional topography as demonstrated by Hampson et al. (1999b). Functional cell types (FCTs) that encode similar task features were located within alternating transverse segments along the hippocampal longitudinal axis. On this basis, Redish et al. (2001) suggested that firing of populations of CA1 neurons recorded from the same hippocampal locations in animals running on linear or curvilinear tracks should be spatially and temporally correlated; however, they failed to find such correlations. The current study addresses the issues raised by Redish et al. (2001). Initially we found that modeling of simulated place fields revealed absences in temporal correlations in the study by Redish et al. (2001) that should have been present given the reported spatial correlations. In addition, the correlation methods used by those investigators failed to detect robust but transient event-related cross-correlations between FCTs in the DNMS task. Furthermore, demonstration of such transient, short-latency correlated firing between similar CA3 and CA1 FCTs corroborated the anatomic scheme proposed by Hampson et al. (1999b) and reaffirmed the potential existence of a functional topography within hippocampus.
The interplay between principal cells and interneurons plays an important role in timing the activity of individual cells. We investigated the influence of single hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells on putative interneurons. The activity of CA1 pyramidal cells was controlled intracellularly by current injection, and the activity of neighboring interneurons was recorded extracellularly in the urethane-anesthetized rat. Spike transmission probability between monosynaptically connected pyramidal cell-interneuron pairs was frequency dependent and highest between 5 and 25 Hz. In the awake animal, interneurons were found that had place-modulated firing rates, with place maps similar to their presynaptic pyramidal neuron. Thus, single pyramidal neurons can effectively determine the firing patterns of their interneuron targets.
Considerable efforts have been made to identify changes of brain synaptic plasticity associated with fear conditioning. However, for both clinical applications and our fundamental understanding of memory processes, it appears also necessary to investigate synaptic plasticity related to extinction. We previously showed that extinction of freezing to a tone conditioned stimulus (CS; previously paired with footshock) in mice results in a sequence of depression and potentiation of synaptic efficacy in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). These data as well as those from lesion studies suggest that the direction of changes in prefrontal synaptic plasticity may modulate extinction of learned fear. To test this, we analyzed the effects of low-frequency stimulation (LFS) and high-frequency stimulation (HFS) of the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus, known to induce prefrontal long-term depression (LTD) and potentiation (LTP), respectively, on extinction. We found that maintenance of the depression phase, using thalamic LFS, was associated with resistance to extinction. Thalamic HFS applied before extinction testing had no effect on the rate of extinction. However, 1 week follow-up tests revealed that the memory of extinction was intact in these mice (with prefrontal LTP) and in control mice displaying prefrontal LTP-like changes, whereas control mice that did not exhibit such changes displayed a return of freezing to the CS. The results suggest that after extinction the lack of depression-LTP-like conversion sequence in the mPFC synaptic efficacy may profoundly alter the process of consolidation.
A number of functional hypotheses have recently been advanced to account for how the cerebellum may contribute to cognition. Neuropsychological studies suggest the cerebellum is involved in switching attentional set. We present evidence that fails to support this hypothesis. Rather, we propose that in such tasks, the cerebellum is involved with the remapping of response alternatives to different types of stimuli. In our experiment, participants fixated on the center of a screen onto which a random presentation of four visual stimuli was presented. The stimuli were grouped along two dimensions (color: red square or blue square; shape: white circle or white triangle). Participants were instructed to respond with a button press only to presented stimuli for a particular dimension (e.g., red squares), to switch between two dimensions (where the target on the attended dimension served both as a signal for a response and as an indicator to shift attention to the other dimension), or to switch attention between two dimensions but make an overt response only to targets on one of the dimensions. Using functional imaging, we identify areas of lateral cerebellar cortex that are recruited when subjects must reassign motor responses to different stimuli. Furthermore, we demonstrate that switching of attention between dimensions without a motor response does not produce stronger activation within the cerebellum compared with conditions involving response and attention to a single dimension. These results suggest the cerebellum is involved in response reassignment.
GABAergic interneurons appear to play a fundamental role in the functioning of the neostriatum by modulating the spiking of striatal projection neurons with great efficacy. The powerful and strongly divergent output of the GABAergic interneurons neurons suggests that modulation of their activity may be particularly effective at controlling the functioning of the entire neostriatal circuitry. Acetylcholine is one of the main modulators of striatal functioning. The effects of acetylcholine on fast-spiking (FS) GABAergic interneurons were studied with whole-cell recording in an in vitro slice preparation. Acetylcholine exerted two distinct effects on fast-spiking interneurons. Acetylcholine directly depolarized FS interneurons by acting on nondesensitizing soma-dendritic nicotinic receptors. In addition, acetylcholine attenuated the GABAergic inhibition of projection neurons by fast-spiking interneurons through activation of presynaptic muscarinic receptors. It is suggested that the nicotinic excitation of FS interneurons may play an important role in translating the effect of the brief behaviorally contingent cessation of firing of the tonically active cholinergic interneurons to the output neurons of the neostriatum. In contrast, the muscarinic presynaptic inhibitory mechanism may be engaged primarily during longer-lasting elevations of extracellular acetylcholine levels.
Neurotrophic factors have well established roles in neuronal development, although their precise involvement in synapse formation and plasticity is yet to be fully determined. Using soma-soma synapses between identified Lymnaea neurons, we have shown recently that trophic factors are required for excitatory but not inhibitory synapse formation. However, neither the precise site (presynaptic versus postsynaptic cell) nor the underlying mechanisms have yet been defined. In the present study, synapse formation between the presynaptic cell visceral dorsal 4 (VD4) and its postsynaptic partner right pedal dorsal 1 (RPeD1) was examined to define the cellular mechanisms mediating trophic factor-induced excitatory synaptogenesis in cell culture. When paired in a soma-soma configuration in the presence of defined media (DM, nonproteinacious), mutually inhibitory synapses were appropriately reconstructed between VD4 and RPeD1. However, when cells were paired in the presence of increasing concentrations of Lymnaea brain-conditioned medium (CM), a biphasic synapse (initial excitatory synaptic component followed by inhibition) developed. The CM-induced excitatory synapse formation required trophic factor-mediated activation of receptor tyrosine kinases in the postsynaptic cell, RPeD1, and a concomitant modulation of existing postsynaptic nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). Specifically, when RPeD1 was isolated in DM, exogenously applied ACh induced a hyperpolarizing response that was sensitive to the AChR antagonist methyllycaconitine (MLA). In contrast, a single RPeD1 isolated in CM exhibited a biphasic response to exogenously applied ACh. The initial depolarizing phase of the biphasic response was sensitive to both mecamylamine and hexamethonium chloride, whereas the hyperpolarizing phase was blocked by MLA. In soma-soma-paired neurons, the VD4-induced synaptic responses in RPeD1 were sensitive to the cholinergic antagonists in a concentration range similar to that used to block cholinergic responses in single RPeD1 cells. Therefore, the modulation of postsynaptic nAChRs was sufficient to account for the trophic factor-induced excitatory synaptogenesis. This study thus provides the first direct evidence that trophic factors act postsynaptically to promote excitatory synapse formation.
Urocortin and urocortin II are members of the corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) family of neuropeptides that function to regulate stress responses. Two high-affinity G-protein-coupled receptors have been identified that bind CRH and/or urocortin I and II, designated CRHR1 and CRHR2, both of which are present in hippocampal regions of mammalian brain. The hippocampus plays an important role in regulating stress responses and is a brain region in which neurons are vulnerable during disease and stress conditions, including cerebral ischemia, Alzheimer's disease, and anxiety disorders. Here we report that urocortin exerts a potent protective action in cultured rat hippocampal neurons with concentrations in the range of 0.5-5.0 pm, increasing the resistance of the cells to oxidative (amyloid beta-peptide, 4-hydroxynonenal, ferrous sulfate) and excitotoxic (glutamate) insults. We observed that urocortin is 10-fold more potent than CRH in protecting hippocampal neurons from insult, whereas urocortin II is ineffective. RT-PCR and sequencing analyses revealed the presence of both CRHR1 and CRHR2 in the hippocampal cultures, with CRHR1 being expressed at much higher levels than CRHR2. Using subtype-selective CRH receptor antagonists, we provide evidence that the neuroprotective effect of exogenously added urocortin is mediated by CRHR1. Furthermore, we provide evidence that the signaling pathway that mediates the neuroprotective effect of urocortin involves cAMP-dependent protein kinase, protein kinase C, and mitogen-activated protein kinase. This is the first demonstration of a biological activity of urocortin in hippocampal neurons, suggesting a role for the peptide in adaptive responses of hippocampal neurons to potentially lethal oxidative and excitotoxic insults.
Selective blockers of the norepinephrine transporter (NET) inhibit dopamine uptake in the prefrontal cortex. This suggests that dopamine in this region is normally cleared by the somewhat promiscuous NET. We have tested this hypothesis by comparing the effects of inhibitors selective for the three monoamine transporters with those of a nonspecific inhibitor, cocaine, on uptake of 3H-dopamine into synaptosomes from frontal cortex, caudate nucleus, and nucleus accumbens from wild-type, NET, and dopamine transporter (DAT) knock-out mice. Dopamine uptake was inhibited by cocaine and nisoxetine, but not by GBR12909, in frontal cortex synaptosomes from wild-type or DAT knock-out mice. At transporter-specific concentrations, nisoxetine and GBR12909 failed to block dopamine uptake into frontal cortex synaptosomes from NET knock-out mice. The efficacy of cocaine at the highest dose (1 mm) was normal in DAT knock-out mice but reduced by 70% in NET knock-out mice. Nisoxetine inhibited dopamine uptake by 20% in caudate and nucleus accumbens synaptosomes from wild-type and DAT knock-out mice but had no effect in those from NET knock-out mice. Cocaine failed to block dopamine uptake into caudate or nucleus accumbens synaptosomes from DAT knock-out mice. Cocaine and GBR12909 each inhibited dopamine uptake into caudate synaptosomes from NET knock-out mice, but cocaine effectiveness was reduced in the case of nucleus accumbens synaptosomes. Thus, whereas dopamine uptake in caudate and nucleus accumbens depends primarily on the DAT, dopamine uptake in frontal cortex depends primarily on the NET. These data underscore the fact that which transporter clears dopamine from a given region depends on both the affinities and the local densities of the transporters.
This paper describes the use of a high-resolution flatbed scanner for neuroanatomical studies. Individual neurons that had been labeled using gold intensified diaminobenzidine (DAB) could be resolved in thionin-stained rat brain sections. One of the strengths of this method is that it permits the simultaneous visualization of labeled cells and their position relative to underlying cytoarchitectonic structures, allowing for highly accurate neuroanatomical analysis. High resolution maps of complete rat brains ( approximately 100 sections spaced at 250 microm intervals) can be obtained in 10 h. Since much of this method can be automated, the scanning of brain sections is approximately 50% faster than conventional X-Y mapping, camera lucida, or photographic procedures. The method may have many other applications, particularly in evaluating the distribution of other types of labeled cells. For example, Fos immunoreactive neurons, cells labeled with reporter genes such as beta-galactosidase in brains from transgenic animals, and unique histological inclusions such as plaques found in Alzheimer's disease could all be directly imaged without a microscope. In addition, the exchange of primary data between labs via the Internet will provide additional opportunities for collaboration.
Advances in neuroscience require better anatomical knowledge of neuronal architecture and structural details. Optimal embedding techniques are the basis for precise morphometric studies in section series as well as for the evaluation of tissue specimens or implants of differing hardness. There are very few methods for preparing large specimens by resin embedding, although resins such as polyethylene glycol (PEG) and methyl methacrylate (MMA) are presently in use. However, these methods have proven to be laborious and sometimes unsatisfactory for serial sectioning. While glycol methacrylate embedding (GMA) is suitable for smaller specimens, it results in inadequate infiltration and polymerization in blocks larger than 1 x 1 x 0.2 cm. We present an improved technique using GMA, which permits both standardized embedding of 4 x 2 x 2 cm blocks and preparation of section series. This method was developed for preserving skull-brain specimens from rats with polyester-mesh implants. The excellent preservation of cellular details allowed the assessment of local tissue reaction to foreign-body material in situ. Advantages of this method are: (1) No toxic catalysts or solvents are used (as opposed to MMA and current GMA processes); (2) Laborious routines in stretching and mounting of sections are not necessary (in contrast to PEG and MMA); (3) No deplastination is required before staining (in contrast to PEG and MMA); (4) Excellent morphologic preservation of various tissue is achieved.
Catecholamines act via dopaminergic-, and adrenergic receptors, and are involved in a variety of regulatory systems. They take part in regulation of the response to stress, psychomotor activity, emotional processes, learning, sleep and memory. Due to many catecholaminergic pathways, and a wide range of functions they are involved in, both in the central nervous system and in periphery, a development of the reliable techniques for their extraction and quantitation is essential. This paper presents an overview of the currently applied methodologies for catecholamines detection and identification in various biological samples.
To study the contribution of the Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger to Ca(2+) regulation and its interaction with the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), changes in cytoplasmic Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](c)) were measured in single, voltage clamped, smooth muscle cells. Increases in [Ca(2+)](c) were evoked by either depolarisation (-70 mV to 0 mV) or by release from the SR by caffeine (10 mM) or flash photolysis of caged InsP(3) (InsP(3)). Depletion of the SR of Ca(2+) (verified by the absence of a response to caffeine and InsP(3)) by either ryanodine (50 microM), to open the ryanodine receptors (RyRs), or thapsigargin (500 nM) or cyclopiazonic acid (CPA, 10 microM), to inhibit the SR Ca(2+) pumps, reduced neither the magnitude of the Ca(2+) transient nor the relationship between the influx of and the rise in [Ca(2+)](c) evoked by depolarisation. This suggested that Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release (CICR) from the SR did not contribute significantly to the depolarisation-evoked rise in [Ca(2+)](c). However, although Ca(2+) was not released from it, the SR accumulated the ion following depolarisation since ryanodine and thapsigargin each slowed the rate of decline of the depolarisation-evoked Ca(2+) transient. Indeed, the SR Ca(2+) content increased following depolarisation as assessed by the increased magnitude of the [Ca(2+)](c) levels evoked each by InsP(3) and caffeine, relative to controls. The increased SR Ca(2+) content following depolarisation returned to control values in approximately 12 min via Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger activity. Thus inhibition of the Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger by removal of external Na(+) (by either lithium or choline substitution) prevented the increased SR Ca(2+) content from returning to control levels. On the other hand, the Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger did not appear to regulate bulk average Ca(2+) directly since the rates of decline in [Ca(2+)](c), following either depolarisation or the release of Ca(2+) from the SR (by either InsP(3) or caffeine), were neither voltage nor Na(+) dependent. Thus, no evidence for short term (seconds) control of [Ca(2+)](c) by the Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger was found. Together, the results suggest that despite the lack of CICR, the SR removes Ca(2+) from the cytosol after its elevation by depolarisation. This Ca(2+) is then removed from the SR to outside the cell by the Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger. However, the exchanger does not contribute significantly to the decline in bulk average [Ca(2+)](c) following transient elevations in the ion produced either by depolarisation or by release from the store.
Organotypic cultures of the rat hypothalamus are very useful models for the long-term study of parvocellular vasopressin (VP) neurons in the paraventricular (PVN) and suprachiasmatic (SCN) nuclei. However, they do not preserve significant numbers of VP magnocellular neurons (VP-MCNs) in either the PVN or the supraoptic nucleus (SON). Vutskits et al. [(1998) Neuroscience 87:571-582] reported that ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) was a selective survival factor for rat VP-MCNs in organotypic cultures of the rat hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN). We examined the effects of CNTF on the survival of these neurons in rat and mouse SONs. CNTF (10 ng/ml) in the culture media increased the survival of VP-MCNs by 6-fold and OT-MCNs by 3-fold. In the mouse, both OT- and VP-MCNs survive very well in organotypic cultures under standard culture conditions and the addition of CNTF had no further effect. Consistent with these results, in situ hybridization showed substantially higher levels of VP- and OT-mRNA in rat PVNs and SONs in the presence of CNTF, but produced no changes in these nuclei in the mouse. The optimum period for the survival effect of CNTF on MCNs in the rat hypothalamic cultures was in the first 7-10 days of culture and this effect is maintained for at least 5 additional days if CNTF is then removed from the medium. Therefore, using CNTF in the culture media can provide an opportunity for long-term studies of rat VP- and OT-MCNs in SONs in organotypic cultures.
Magnocellular neuroendocrine cells (MNCs) of the supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus (SON) produce and release the hormones vasopressin (VP) and oxytocin (OT) in response to a variety of stimuli to regulate body water and salt, parturition and lactation. Hormone release is influenced by the pattern of neuronal firing of these MNCs, which, in turn, is governed by intrinsic conductances and synaptic inputs, including those mediated by the neurotransmitter glutamate. Functional and molecular evidence has confirmed the expression of AMPA-, NMDA-, and metabotropic-type glutamate receptors in the SON, that together may orchestrate the effects of glutamatergic transmission on neuroendocrine function. However, the specific roles of the different subtypes of glutamate receptors is not yet clear. As with other central neurons, the subunit composition of glutamate receptors on MNCs will likely determine their properties and may potentially help define the differential properties of VP- and OT-producing MNCs. Possible functions of glutamate receptors on SON MNCs include altering excitatory synaptic transmission of osmotic information, neuronal firing, hormone production and release, and calcium signaling. Of interest are the anatomical, molecular, and functional changes at glutamatergic synapses in the SON that occur in response to pertinent physiological stimuli or development. These types of plasticity may include changes in glutamatergic synaptic density, glutamate receptor levels, or glutamate receptor subunit expression, all of which can affect the efficiency of synaptic transmission.
Neuroanatomical tract-tracing methods were used to identify the oligosynaptic circuitry by which the whisker representation of the motor cortex (wMCx) influences the facial motoneurons that control whisking activity (wFMNs). Injections of the retrograde tracer cholera toxin subunit B into physiologically identified wFMNs in the lateral facial nucleus resulted in dense, bilateral labeling throughout the brainstem reticular formation and in the ambiguus nucleus as well as predominantly ipsilateral labeling in the paralemniscal, pedunculopontine tegmental, Klliker-Fuse, and parabrachial nuclei. In addition, neurons in the following midbrain regions projected to the wFMNs: superior colliculus, red nucleus, periaqueductal gray, mesencephalon, pons, and several nuclei involved in oculomotor behaviors. Injections of the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine into the wMCx revealed direct projections to the brainstem reticular formation as well as multiple brainstem and midbrain structures shown to project to the wFMNs. Regions in which retrograde labeling and anterograde labeling overlap most extensively include the brainstem parvocellular, gigantocellular, intermediate, and medullary (dorsal and ventral) reticular formations; ambiguus nucleus; and midbrain superior colliculus and deep mesencephalic nucleus. Other regions that contain less dense regions of combined anterograde and retrograde labeling include the following nuclei: the interstitial nucleus of medial longitudinal fasciculus, the pontine reticular formation, and the lateral periaqueductal gray. Premotoneurons that receive dense inputs from the wMCx are likely to be important mediators of cortical regulation of whisker movements and may be a key component in a central pattern generator involved in the generation of rhythmic whisking activity.
Recently, an animal model for neurodevelopmental disorders has been developed. In this model, the effects of an early neonatal (postnatal day 7 [Pd 7]) basolateral amygdala lesion are compared with the effects of a lesion later in life (Pd 21). The reported data indicate that amygdala damage at a specific point early in life results in enduring behavioral disturbances that become more manifest after puberty, for example, only an early lesion resulted in a disruption of the prepulse inhibition, which is also observed in people suffering from schizophrenia. Accordingly, it was postulated that the early damage may affect the neuroanatomic and neurochemical organization and functioning of other brain structures. This was studied by use of the anterograde tracers biotinylated dextran amine and Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin. At neonatal days 7, 9, 11, 13, and 26, amygdaloid fibers were in particular present in the mediodorsal thalamus (MDT), nucleus accumbens (Acb), and prefrontal cortex (PFC). The development of the topography of the amygdaloid innervation, however, differed markedly for the MDT and Acb compared with the PFC. For the MDT and Acb, no major changes in innervation were observed between Pd 7 and Pd 26, whereas the innervation of the PFC reorganized from a neonatal diffuse (Pd 7 and 9) to a restricted pattern (Pd 11, 13, and 26). In addition, the innervation changed to an adult-like bilaminar pattern. These data provide information on the circuitry that may be involved in the aberrant neurodevelopment of neonatally amygdala-lesioned rats, which have been proposed as an animal model for neurodevelopmental psychopathological disorders.
The effects of injecting an irreversible dopamine receptor antagonist, N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ) bilaterally into the subthalamic nucleus (STN) on changes in muscle tone and behaviour were investigated. Increased muscle tone (i.e. rigidity) was assessed quantitatively as increases in tonic electromyographic (EMG) activity in the hindlimb muscles of conscious, unrestrained rats. Significant, sustained increases in EMG activity were observed for 3-5 h post-injection in the tibialis and gastrocnemius muscles following injection of EEDQ into the STN. This effect was associated with 73% dopamine D1 and 66% dopamine D2 receptor occupancy in the STN, while dopamine receptors in surrounding regions were minimally occupied. These results provide new evidence that dopamine receptors located in the STN play an important role in the regulation of normal muscle tone.

Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (alpha, delta and gamma) are ligand-activated transcription factors that are involved in multiple cellular responses. The PPARdelta subtype is the least understood of all PPAR subtypes. PPARdelta is activated by unsaturated fatty acids, PGI2, and by synthetic ligands. PPARdelta-regulated genes have not been identified and the factors that control PPARdelta expression are not known. The gene that encodes the mouse PPARdelta gene is contained in &gt;30 kb DNA sequence and organized in eight exons, six of which encode the PPARdelta receptor. A PPARdelta-luciferase reporter containing 694 bp 5' upstream regulatory and 127 bp untranslated was introduced to primary brain cultures to begin a characterization of the DNA sequences that mediate transcriptional regulation of PPARdelta. PPARdelta-luciferase expression was 10 times higher in oligodendrocyte-containing mature cultures than in immature cultures, indicating that PPARdelta may play a role during oligodendrocyte migration, proliferation, and/or maturation.
Both excitotoxicity and apoptosis contribute to neuronal loss in various neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease as well as stroke, and a drug inhibiting both types of cell death may lead to practical treatment for these diseases. Post-treatment with troglitazone, a potent and specific activator of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-gamma attenuated the cell death of cerebellar granule neurons, triggered by glutamate exposure. The inhibitory effect of troglitazone against glutamate excitotoxicity, in vitro, was observed even when added 2.5 h after the end of glutamate exposure, a time when glutamate antagonists are no longer neuroprotective. However, troglitazone did not block the glutamate-induced elevation of calcium influx, suggesting that troglitazone interfered with downstream consequences of excitotoxic glutamate receptor overactivation. In addition, troglitazone also suppressed low-potassium-induced apoptosis in cerebellar granule neurons in a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase independent manner. In conclusion, although the mechanisms of troglitazone's neuroprotective effects are unknown, the post-treatment-neuroprotective effect and the dual-inhibitory-activity against both excitotoxicity and apoptosis may provide a novel therapy for various neurodegenerative diseases.
Accumbal dopamine (DA) is generally accepted to participate in the neural mechanisms underlying drug dependence. Recently the involvement of accumbal DA in drug-seeking behaviour has gained more experimental attention. To study an involvement of accumbal DA in drug-seeking behaviour within and between daily self-administration behaviour, changes in extracellular DA concentration in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell were measured during the daily dynamics of intravenous heroin and cocaine self-administration. Groups of drug naive rats were allowed to intravenously self-administer heroin (30 microg/infusion) and cocaine (30 microg/infusion) during five consecutive daily 3 h sessions. Extracellular DA concentrations in the NAc were measured before and after a single 3 h session (acute) and before and after 5 consecutive 3 h sessions (repeated). Following acute and repeated heroin and cocaine self-administration the extracellular DA concentration in the NAc shell was increased by two-fold to three-fold over baseline. These changes in DA concentrations are thought to reflect a direct effect of heroin and cocaine on DA neurotransmission in the NAC shell. Measurement of basal DA concentrations before the self-administration sessions revealed that just before the scheduled 5th self-administration session the (absolute) basal DA levels in the NAc in heroin or cocaine self-administering animals were decreased by approximately halve, as compared to drug-naive animals. It is assumed that just before a scheduled next session the (daily) desire for the drug is high. This decrease in basal DA neurotransmission in the NAc shell may, therefore, reflect an involvement of accumbal DA in drug-seeking behaviour during daily self-administration behaviour. The results demonstrate that initiation of i.v. heroin and cocaine self-administration is linked with changes in extracellular levels of DA in the NAc shell. Moreover, the present data suggest that accumbal DA might be involved in processes underlying the motivational aspects involved in daily drug-seeking behaviour, and that neuroadaptive changes in the mesolimbic DA system due to repeated drug intake lead to an tonic decrease in overall DA activity in the NAc.
Parkinson-like extrapyramidal motor side effects associated with the use of antipsychotic drugs, such as increased muscle rigidity, are thought to result from blockade of striatal dopamine D2 receptors. While anticholinergic medications (muscarinic receptor antagonists) ameliorate extrapyramidal side effects, the mechanisms underlying their effectiveness remain unclear. We investigated the site of action of atropine, a non-selective muscarinic receptor antagonist, in reducing increased muscle rigidity, assessed as increases in tonic electromyographic (EMG) activity, induced by the selective dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, raclopride. Atropine significantly reduced raclopride-induced EMG increases in rat hindlimb muscles, when injected into the ventral striatum, but not the dorsal striatum or the substantia nigra. Atropine's site of action was localised to a small area of muscarinic receptors within the ventral part of the striatum, using quantitative autoradiography. These findings provide new information about the regulation of motor control by muscarinic receptor antagonists and additional evidence about the functional heterogeneity of the striatum.
To investigate the role of apolipoprotein E (APOE) polymorphisms in migraine, we analyzed the APOE genotypes of 241 migraine patients and 587 controls. The results of a Chi-square analysis indicated that APOE alleles were similarly distributed (chi(2)=2.89, P=0.24) between cases and controls. However, we found a significant (P&lt;0.001) increase of the varepsilon2-varepsilon4 genotype in the group of migraine patients. Patients were divided into three subgroups: migraine with aura; migraine without aura; and mixed headaches (migraine associated with tension-type headache). Subgroup analysis showed that the varepsilon2-varepsilon4 genotype was significantly increased only in patients with mixed headaches. The stratification of patients by APOE status did not reveal significant associations with the clinical features of the disease. In conclusion, we observed no significant association between APOE polymorphisms and migraine. The association between the APOE varepsilon2-varepsilon4 genotype and the tension-type headache deserves further evaluation.

This study aimed at examining whether the properties of microneurographically recorded muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) were altered during hypotensive attacks. A retrospective study was performed on 74 subjects who participated in tilt studies when vasodepressive syncope was induced incidentally in six subjects. The specific features of MSNA that distinguish this activity from skin sympathetic nerve activity are (1) rhythmic pulse synchronous burst discharge, (2) a duration of approximately 150-300 ms, and (3) no response to arousal stimuli were abolished during the syncopal attack. The altered features observed during the syncopal attack in these six subjects were (1) scattered reflex latencies of MSNA peak from the ECG R-wave, (2) elongated burst duration twice to five times as long as that in conscious state, and (3) response to arousal stimuli. The reduced input from the baroreceptors due to suppression on the central sympathetic volley proximal to the nucleus tractus solitarius might be attributed to the lost features characteristic of MSNA.
Sharing of best practice and use of all available evidence is important in developing effective clinical guidelines for nursing practice. This can be achieved through benchmarking. Sharing of good practice and achieving consensus guidelines can avoid repetition of effort by nurses engaged in similar fields of practice. The Pan London Neuroscience Practice Development Forum was established in 1998 to share best practice within the field of neuroscience nursing across London. The Pan London Forum has now achieved consensus and developed evidence-based clinical guidelines for the management of external ventricular drainage. Within the scope of this article, the principles of external ventricular drainage will be highlighted, before identifying the evidence base for nursing management of patients. Approaches for troubleshooting common problems will also be discussed and the benchmarked clinical guidelines will be presented.
Reflection is now a prerequisite for all nurses, midwives and health visitors (UKCC, 2001). It is the method endorsed by the UKCC to promote the development of informed, knowledgeable and safe practice, and qualified practitioners are required to maintain a personal professional profile containing evidence of reflection on practice. The aim of this article is to examine why qualified practitioners may be reluctant to reflect formally, to speculate on the possible barriers to refection, and to suggest how reflection can be promoted positively as an integral part of nursing practice. The article begins with an examination of definitions of reflection, reflective theory and the purpose of reflection, and continues by questioning whether the concept of reflection has been embraced as eagerly by nurses at 'grass roots' as it has by academia, the nursing press and the UKCC. It is suggested that several barriers to effective reflection may create a division between practitioners and the professional hierarchy regarding the conceived common practice of reflection, and strategies are proposed that may help to overcome these barriers. The discussion concludes by prioritizing the need for a clear definition and concept analysis of reflection, supported by long-term investment into research that explores the effect of reflection on clinical practice and patient care.

Abnormalities in dopamine neurotransmission are thought to underlie the generation of dystonic movements. The authors performed a case-control allelic association study in patients with the focal dystonia blepharospasm, using polymorphisms in the dopamine receptor and transporter genes. Allele 2 of a DRD5 dinucleotide repeat was significantly associated with blepharospasm. This may indicate a pathogenic role for this receptor.

Adult second language learning seems to be more difficult and less efficient than first language acquisition during childhood. By using event-related brain potentials, we show that adults who learned a miniature artificial language display a similar real-time pattern of brain activation when processing this language as native speakers do when processing natural languages. Participants trained in the artificial language showed two event-related brain potential components taken to reflect early automatic and late controlled syntactic processes, whereas untrained participants did not. This result challenges the common view that late second language learners process language in a principally different way from native speakers. Our findings demonstrate that a small system of grammatical rules can be syntactically instantiated by the adult speaker in a way that strongly resembles native-speaker sentence processing.
Voltage-sensitive dye imaging of mouse thalamocortical slices demonstrated that electrical stimulation of the centrolateral intralaminar thalamic nucleus (CL) resulted in the specific activation of thalamic reticular nucleus, striatum/putamen, and cortical layers 5, 6, and 1. By contrast, ventrobasal (VB) thalamic stimulation, while activating the reticular and basal ganglia nuclei, also activated directly layers 4 and deep 5 of the cortex. Conjoined stimulation of the VB and CL nuclei resulted in supralinear summation of the two inputs at cortical output layer 5, demonstrating coincidence detection along the apical dendrites. This supralinear summation was also noticed at gamma band stimulus frequency ( approximately 40 Hz). Direct stimulation of cortical layer 1, after a radial section of the cortex that spared only that layer, was shown to sum supralinearly with the cortical activation triggered by VB stimulation, providing a second demonstration for coincidence detection. Coincidence detection by coactivation of the specific (VB) and nonspecific (CL) thalamic nuclei has been proposed as the basis for the temporal conjunction that supports cognitive binding in the brain.
The adrenal gland is important for homeostatic responses to metabolic stress: hypoglycemia stimulates the splanchnic nerve, epinephrine is released from adrenomedullary chromaffin cells, and compensatory glucogenesis ensues. Acetylcholine is the primary neurotransmitter mediating catecholamine secretion from the adrenal medulla. Accumulating evidence suggests that a secretin-related neuropeptide also may function as a transmitter at the adrenomedullary synapse. Costaining with highly specific antibodies against the secretin-related neuropeptide pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP) and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) revealed that PACAP is found in nerve terminals at all mouse adrenomedullary cholinergic synapses. Mice with a targeted deletion of the PACAP gene had otherwise normal cholinergic innervation and morphology of the adrenal medulla, normal adrenal catecholamine and blood glucose levels, and an intact initial catecholamine secretory response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia. However, insulin-induced hypoglycemia was more profound and longer-lasting in PACAP knock-outs, and was associated with a dose-related lethality absent in wild-type mice. Failure of PACAP-deficient mice to adequately counterregulate plasma glucose levels could be accounted for by impaired long-term secretion of epinephrine, secondary to a lack of induction of tyrosine hydroxylase, normally occurring after insulin hypoglycemia in wild-type mice, and a consequent depletion of adrenomedullary epinephrine stores. Thus, PACAP is needed to couple epinephrine biosynthesis to secretion during metabolic stress. PACAP appears to function as an &quot;emergency response&quot; cotransmitter in the sympathoadrenal axis, where the primary secretory response is controlled by a classical neurotransmitter but sustained under paraphysiological conditions by a neuropeptide.
A 5-arm maze was used to measure sustained visuo-spatial attention in C57Bl/6 mice and test the hypothesis of differential functional roles for central nicotinic and muscarinic receptors in mediating task performance. Mice were first trained to acquire the basic visual discrimination task in which, on each trial, one randomly chosen arm among the five open arms was baited and remained lit until an arm-choice was made. Mice were then submitted to attentional testing in which trials using light signals of 2, 1 or 0.5 s were intermixed to evaluate the decrement in correct responses as a function of the decrease in light signal duration and thus, to construct a reference curve for the attentional performance of C57Bl/6 mice. Mice were then divided into four groups and received, in rotation, over four pharmacological sessions according to a Latin-square design, i.p. injections of either mecamylamine (4.0 mg/kg), scopolamine (0.8 mg/kg), the combination of mecamylamine and scopolamine or saline, 20 min before re-testing. Injection of cholinergic antagonists produced decreases in percentage of correct responses, which were systematically associated with significant increases in choice latencies. Mecamylamine produced slight disruption, whereas scopolamine and the combined treatment both produced severe disruption. In conclusion, whereas both nicotinic and muscarinic cholinergic antagonists disrupt performance in the attentional task, the increase in response latencies entails that correct responding becomes more dependent on the working memory processes and thus compromises conclusions as to a selective disruption of attention.
The role of the vestibular system in acquisition and performance of a spatial navigation task was examined in rats. Male Long-Evans rats received sham or bilateral sodium arsanilate-induced vestibular lesions. After postoperative recovery, under partial water-deprivation, rats were trained (16 trials/day) to find a water reward in one corner of a black square enclosure. A cue card fixed to one wall of the enclosure served as a stable landmark cue. The orientation of the rat at the start of each trial was pseudo-randomized such that the task could not be solved by an egocentric response strategy. Rats with vestibular lesions acquired the task in fewer trials than the sham treated control rats. Vestibular lesions did not influence the motivation or motor function necessary to perform the task. Performance of sham rats was maintained during probe trials in which the cue card was removed from the enclosure, while lesioned rats were markedly impaired. Rotation of the cue card (+/-90 degrees ) caused an equivalent shift in corner choice behavior of the lesioned rats. However, sham rats often disregarded the rotated cue card and made place responses. These results suggest that the vestibular lesions disrupt idiothetic navigation or path integration and render navigational behavior critically dependent upon external landmarks. These results are consistent with the navigational abilities of humans with bilateral vestibular dysfunction.
Chemokines are small cytokines primarily known for their roles in inflammation. More recently, however, they have been implicated in processes involved in development of the granulation tissue of wounds, but little is known about their functions during this process. Fibroblasts play key roles in this phase of healing: some fibroblasts differentiate into myofibroblasts, alpha-smooth muscle actin (SMA)-producing cells that are important in wound closure and contraction. Here we show that the CXC chemokine chicken chemotactic and angiogenic factor (cCAF) stimulates fibroblasts to produce high levels of alpha-SMA and to contract collagen gels more effectively than do normal fibroblasts, both characteristic properties of myofibroblasts. Specific inhibition of alpha-SMA expression resulted in abrogation of cCAF-induced contraction. Furthermore, application of cCAF to wounds in vivo increases the number of myofibroblasts present in the granulation tissue and accelerates wound closure and contraction. We also show that these effects in culture and in vivo can be achieved by a peptide containing the NH2-terminal 15 amino acids of the cCAF protein and that inhibition of alpha-SMA expression also results in inhibition of N-peptide-induced collagen gel contraction. We propose that chemokines are major contributors for the differentiation of fibroblasts into myofibroblasts during formation of the repair tissue. Because myofibroblasts are important in many pathological conditions, and because chemokines and their receptors are amenable to pharmacological manipulations, chemokine stimulation of myofibroblast differentiation may have implications for modulation of functions of these cells in vivo.
The intermediate filament glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) is a classic marker for several types of glial cells, including astrocytes and nonmyelinating Schwann cells. The pattern of expression of GFAP in the postnatal murine inner ear, from postnatal day 3 (P3) to P38, was studied by anti-GFAP immunostaining in wild-type mice as well as in two lines of transgenic mice expressing either beta-galactosidase (LacZ) or green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of the GFAP promoter. Analysis of protein and promoter activity shows that several classes of supporting cells in the sensory epithelia, as well as Schwann cells and satellite cells express GFAP. Early after birth, all cochlear supporting cells express GFAP, in a gradient decreasing in intensity from base to apex. After P15, GFAP expression in the organ of Corti is mostly restricted to supporting cells of the inner hair cell area (i.e., inner border and inner phalangeal cells) and outer hair cell area (i.e., Deiters' cells). A small population of limbic cells also showed expression in a base-to-apex gradient. In the vestibular organs, high expression was detected in supporting cells in extrastriolar regions of the utricular macula and in the canal ampullae, with weaker staining in the saccular macula. These results suggest that supporting cells of the inner ear have important similarities to glial cells and may play roles similar to those of astrocytes or Schwann cells in supporting the normal development and maintenance of neurons and sensory cells of the inner ear.
Although the medicinal leech is a well-studied system in which many neurons and circuits have been identified with precision, descriptions of the distributions of some of the major biogenic amines, such as dopamine (DA) and octopamine (OA), have yet to be completed. In the European medicinal leech Hirudo medicinalis and the American medicinal leech Macrobdella decora,we have presented the first immunohistochemical study of DA neurons in the entire central nervous system, and of OA-immunoreactive (ir) neurons in the head and tail brains. Dopaminergic neurons were identified using the glyoxylic acid method and antisera to DA and its rate-limiting synthetic enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Octopaminergic neurons were recognized using a highly specific antiserum raised against OA. An antibody raised against DA-beta-hydroxylase (DbetaH), the mammalian enzyme that converts DA to norepinephrine (NE), was found to immunostain OA-ir neurons. This antibody appears to cross-react with the closely related invertebrate enzyme tyramine-beta-hydroxylase, which converts tyramine to OA, suggesting that the OA-ir cells are indeed octopaminergic, capable of synthesizing OA. Because the DbetaH antiserum selectively immunostained the OA-ir neurons, but not the DA-synthesizing cells, our results also indicate that the DA-ir neurons synthesize DA and not NE as their end product. The expression of TH immunoreactivity was found to emerge relatively early in development, on embryonic day 9 (47-48% of development). In contrast, OA expression remained absent as late as embryonic day 20. Higher order processes of some of the dopaminergic and octopaminergic neurons in the adult brain were observed to project to a region previously described as a neurohemal complex. Several TH-ir processes were also seen in the stomatogastric nerve ring, suggesting that DA may play a role in the regulation of biting behavior. By mapping the distributions and developmental expression pattern of DA and OA neurons in the leech, we aim to gain a better understanding of the functional roles of aminergic neurons and how they influence behavior.
Globus pallidus (GP) neurons receive dense inhibitory synaptic inputs interspersed with sparse excitatory inputs distributed across the entire extent of their somata and dendrites. Yet, despite this predominance of inhibitory influence, GP neurons fire at a high tonic rate, suggesting that intrinsic properties play an important role in determining the physiological characteristics of these neurons. High-voltage-activated (HVA) calcium channels represent an important class of conductances that plays roles in controlling neurotransmitter release, postsynaptic excitability, and intracellular calcium signaling. To better understand the intrinsic properties of GP neurons, we examined the subcellular localization of HVA calcium channels by using immunocytochemistry at the electron microscopic level. Peroxidase labeling with antibodies against P/Q-, N-, and R-type HVA calcium channels demonstrated the presence of these channels in both proximal and distal dendrites of GP neurons. P/Q-, N-, and R-type channels were also found in presynaptic terminals, whereas L-type channels were found exclusively postsynaptically in neuronal elements. Immunogold labeling demonstrated that, although the density of intracellular L-type calcium channel labeling remains constant throughout the proximal-distal extent of the dendritic tree of GP neurons, the density of plasma membrane-bound channels is greater in distal dendrites. The finding of HVA calcium channels distributed throughout the whole dendritic tree of GP neurons indicates that these channels may interact with synaptic inputs to allow rich processing possibilities for GP neuron dendrites. Furthermore, the finding of a greater density of plasma membrane-bound L-type channels in distal dendrites expands the view that L-type channels are important only in somatic and proximal locations.
Nitric oxide has been shown to have diverse actions in the mammalian nervous, immune and vascular systems. These include antimicrobial and antiviral activities as well as the modulation of cell adherence. In the nervous system, nitric oxide modulates neurotransmitter release, neurosecretion and behavioral activities such as feeding. In the present review, we discuss the finding that invertebrate organisms also contain nitric oxide and that they appear to use this multidimensional molecule in a similar manner as noted for mammals. Therefore, nitric oxide signaling appears to have emerged first in these primitive non-cognitive organisms. We conclude that basal nitric oxide functioning was established in these organisms and that this molecule was later employed in man, including its involvement in cognitive neural processes.
Reelin is an extracellular matrix protein that plays a pivotal role in development of the central nervous system. Reelin is also expressed in the adult brain, notably in the cerebral cortex, where it might play a role in synaptic plasticity. The mechanism of action of reelin at the molecular level has been the subject of several hypotheses. Here we show that reelin is a serine protease and that proteolytic activity is relevant to its function, since (i) Reelin expression in HEK 293T cells impairs their ability to adhere to fibronectin-coated surfaces, and adhesion to fibronectin is restored by micromolar concentrations of diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate, a serine hydrolase inhibitor; (ii) purified Reelin binds FP-Peg-biotin, a trap probe which irreversibly binds to serine residues located in active catalytic sites of serine hydrolases; (iii) purified Reelin rapidly degrades fibronectin and laminin, while collagen IV is degraded at a much slower rate; fibronectin degradation is inhibited by inhibitors of serine proteases, and by monoclonal antibody CR-50, an antibody known to block the function of Reelin both in vitro and in vivo. The proteolytic activity of Reelin on adhesion molecules of the extracellular matrix and/or receptors on neurons may explain how Reelin regulates neuronal migration and synaptic plasticity.
The present study was designed to investigate how tert-butylhydroquinone (tBHQ) prevents hydrogen peroxide-induced apoptosis in IMR-32 cells. tBHQ pretreatment (10 microm) attenuated hydrogen peroxide-induced cell death and reduced the number of TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated, dUTP-incorporated nick end labeling)-positive cells. We hypothesize that tBHQ-mediated activation of the antioxidant responsive element is critical for generating this protective response. Addition of LY294002, a selective inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), 30 min prior to tBHQ treatment completely reversed the protective effect of tBHQ. Oligonucleotide microarrays were used to analyze the gene expression profile associated with tBHQ treatment in the absence and presence of LY294002. Ranking analysis using Affymetrix's difference call indicated that the expression of 137 genes changed with tBHQ treatment. Further analysis using the coefficient of variation for -fold change or average difference change reduced the list to 63 increased and 0 decreased genes. Reverse transcription-PCR for selected genes also confirmed the gene expression pattern. Many of these genes function to combat oxidative stress and increase the detoxification potential of the cells. Inhibition of PI3K significantly blocked the enhanced expression of 49 of the 63 genes induced by tBHQ. These data are the first to show a set of programmed cell life genes involved in conferring protection from an oxidative stress-induced apoptosis.
Emerging evidence has shown that tumor suppressor p53 expression is enhanced in response to brain ischemia/hypoxia and that p53 plays a critical role in the cell death pathway in such an acute neurological insult. However the mechanism remains unclear. Recently it was reported that Peg3/Pw1, originally identified as a paternally expressed gene, plays a pivotal role in the p53-mediated cell death pathway in mouse fibroblast cell lines. In this study, we found that Peg3/Pw1 expression is enhanced in peri-ischemic neurons in rat stroke model by in situ hybridization analysis, where p53 expression was also induced by immunohistochemical analysis. Moreover, we found that p53 was co-localized with Peg3/Pw1 in brain ischemia/hypoxia by double staining analysis. In human neuroblastoma-derived SK-N-SH cells, Peg3/Pw1 mRNA expression is enhanced remarkably at 24 h post-hypoxia, when p53 protein expression was also enhanced at high levels. Subcellular localization of Peg3/Pw1 was observed in the nucleus. Adenovirus-mediated high dose p53 overexpression induced Peg3/Pw1 mRNA expression. Overexpression of Peg3/Pw1 reduced cell viability under hypoxic conditions, whereas that of the C-terminal-deleted mutant and anti-sense Peg3/Pw1 inhibited hypoxia-induced cell death. These results suggest that Peg3/Pw1 is involved in the p53-mediated cell death pathway as a downstream effector of p53 in brain ischemia/hypoxia.
A number of 1-hydroxyazole derivatives were synthesized as bioisosteres of (S)-glutamic acid (Glu) and as analogues of the AMPA receptor agonist (R,S)-2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolyl)propionic acid (AMPA, 3b). All compounds were subjected to in vitro pharmacological studies, including a series of Glu receptor binding assays, uptake studies on native as well as cloned Glu uptake systems, and the electrophysiological rat cortical slice model. Compounds 7a,b, analogues of AMPA bearing a 1-hydroxy-5-pyrazolyl moiety as the distal carboxylic functionality, showed only moderate affinity for [3H]AMPA receptor binding sites (IC(50) = 2.7 +/- 0.4 microM and IC(50) = 2.6 +/- 0.6 microM, respectively), correlating with electrophysiological data from the rat cortical wedge model (EC(50) = 280 +/- 48 microM and EC(50) = 586 +/- 41 microM, respectively). 1-Hydroxy-1,2,3-triazol-5-yl analogues of AMPA, compounds 8a,b, showed high affinity for [3H]AMPA receptor binding sites (IC(50) = 0.15 +/- 0.03 microM and IC(50) = 0.13 +/- 0.02 microM, respectively). Electrophysiological data showed that compound 8a was devoid of activity in the rat cortical wedge model (EC(50) &gt; 1000 microM), whereas the corresponding 4-methyl analogue 8b was a potent AMPA receptor agonist (EC(50) = 15 +/- 2 microM). In accordance with this disparity, compound 8a was found to inhibit synaptosomal [3H]D-aspartic acid uptake (IC(50) = 93 +/- 25 microM), as well as excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) EAAT1 (IC(50) = 100 +/- 30 microM) and EAAT2 (IC(50) = 300 +/- 80 microM). By contrast, compound 8b showed no appreciable affinity for Glu uptake sites, neither synaptosomal nor cloned. Compounds 9a-c and 10a,b, possessing 1-hydroxyimidazole as the terminal acidic function, were devoid of activity in all of the systems tested. Protolytic properties of compounds 7a,b, 8b, and 9b were determined by titration, and a correlation between the pK(a) values and the activity at AMPA receptors was apparent. Optimized structures of all the synthesized ligands were fitted to the known crystal structure of an AMPA-GluR2 construct. Where substantial reduction or abolition of affinity at AMPA receptors was observed, this could be rationalized on the basis of the ability of the ligand to fit the construct. The results presented in this article point to the utility of 1-hydroxypyrazole and 1,2,3-hydroxytriazole as bioisosteres of carboxylic acids at Glu receptors and transporters. None of the compounds showed significant activity at metabotropic Glu receptors.
Developing neurons transiently express somatostatin and its receptors, but little is known about their function at these early stages. As we thought that endogenous somatostatin might control the migratory behaviour of immature neurons, we have examined the effects of somatostatin in cerebellar granule cells of early postnatal mice, because these cells express all five types of somatostatin receptors before the initiation of their migration. Here we show that somatostatin has opposite and stage-specific effects on the migration of cerebellar granule cells. Activation of somatostatin receptors increases the rate of granule cell migration near their birthplace, but decreases the rate near their final destination. Furthermore, somatostatin enhances the size and frequency of spontaneous Ca2+ fluctuations in the early phase of migration, whereas it eliminates spike-like Ca2+ transients in the late phase. Somatostatin-induced changes at both early and late phases are reversed by a blockade of K+ channel activity. These results indicate that somatostatin may provide an essential cue for accelerating the movement of granule cells in the early phase and for terminating the movement in the late phase through altering intracellular Ca2+ concentrations and K+ channel activity.
We model the development of the functional circuit of layer 4 (the input-recipient layer) of cat primary visual cortex. The observed thalamocortical and intracortical circuitry codevelop under Hebb-like synaptic plasticity. Hebbian development yields opponent inhibition: inhibition evoked by stimuli anticorrelated with those that excite a cell. Strong opponent inhibition enables recognition of stimulus orientation in a manner invariant to stimulus contrast. These principles may apply to cortex more generally: Hebb-like plasticity can guide layer 4 of any piece of cortex to create opposition between anticorrelated stimulus pairs, and this enables recognition of specific stimulus patterns in a manner invariant to stimulus magnitude. Properties that are invariant across a cortical column are predicted to be those shared by opponent stimulus pairs; this contrasts with the common idea that a column represents cells with similar response properties.
Slit proteins have previously been shown to regulate axon guidance, branching, and neural migration. Here we report that, in addition to acting as a chemorepellant for cortical axons, Slit1 regulates dendritic development. Slit1 is expressed in the developing cortex, and exposure to Slit1 leads to increased dendritic growth and branching. Conversely, inhibition of Slit-Robo interactions by Robo-Fc fusion proteins or by a dominant-negative Robo attenuates dendritic branching. Stimulation of neurons transfected with a Met-Robo chimeric receptor with Hepatocyte growth factor leads to a robust induction of dendritic growth and branching, suggesting that Robo-mediated signaling is sufficient to induce dendritic remodeling. These experiments indicate that Slit-Robo interactions may exert a significant influence over the specification of cortical neuron morphology by regulating both axon guidance and dendritic patterning.
The cellular and molecular mechanisms that guide axonal and dendritic differentiation in the cerebral cortex are just beginning to be defined. Many of the molecular signals that guide axons also, and sometimes simultaneously, influence dendritic growth. Whitford et al. (2002 [this issue of Neuron]) demonstrate that in addition to their roles in axon guidance and cell migration cue, Slit proteins can also regulate dendritic growth.
The main objective ofthe study was to evaluate with autoradiographic technique whether or not [11C]vinpocetine, a compound widely used in the prevention and treatment of cerebrovascular diseases (Cavinton, Gedeon Richter Ltd., Budapest), binds to specific sites in the human brain in post mortem human brain sections. Binding was assessed under four conditions: the incubation was performed using Tris-HCl buffer with or without the addition of salts (0.1% (weight/vol) ascorbic acid, 120 mM NaCl, 5 mM KCl, 2 mM CaCl2 and 1 mM MgCl2), with or without the addition of excess (10 microM) unlabelled vinpocetine. Measurements on digitized autoradiograms indicated that [11C]vinpocetine labelled all grey matter areas in the human brain to a similar extent and no significantly heterogeneous binding could be demonstrated among cortical or subcortical regions. The addition of excess unlabelled vinpocetine lowered the binding slightly in all regions. Although these results indicate that [11C]vinpocetine does not bind to human brain transmitter receptors or transporters with a high affinity (Ki &lt; 10 nM), it cannot be ruled out that the compound binds to receptors and/or transporters with lower affinity.

The neuroendocrine system has always been a main research area for neuroscience. The distinctiveness of this system is due to its diverse anatomical and physiological properties, which modulates the homeostasis and reproductivity of the organism. For decades, generated research models have served to elucidate the complex properties of this system and provided invaluable data on the physiology and mechanism. Currently, the basic research has concentrated on the mechanisms of neuropeptide secretion, carriage and transportation with neurotransmitters and mechanisms operative during various physiological or pathological states. Comparable to the basic research, neuroendocrine models also help to investigate certain clinical aspects of neurological neurosurgical diseases. Pituitary adenomas have been induced by several methods in rats to elucidate adenoma morphology, characteristics and treatment options. More recently, experimental studies are concentrated on the effectiveness of therapeutic gene transfer in neuroendocrine disorders and tumors. Moreover, animal models are of great importance for both to investigate the role of hypothalamus in aging and the potential of correcting age-related neurodegenerative processes in this setting.
In recent years significant progress has been made in identifying genetic alterations in glial brain neoplasms. Nowadays, three types of development to glioblastoma multiforme (the most malignant form of primary brain tumours) can be identified using genetic molecular techniques. Moreover, with these techniques patients can be identified who will respond to the treatment with alkylating cytostatic drugs. Future research on the genome level but in particular on the level of gene expression holds promise for better grading systems, tailored treatment based on genetic profiling and new targets for treatment. In this paper the history of genetic research on glioma and the techniques that are used are briefly reviewed.
Function of the nervous system has been the main domain of interest of an elite group of philosophers, scientists and physicians. This topic may only be understood within a historical perspective, since the progression of knowledge of the function of the nervous system has always paralleled the expansion of our understanding of the outer world and of biological organisms observed. However, data gained from functional experimental and clinical researches in neurosurgery, neurology and neuroscience constitute not only a traditional and historical accumulation of this knowledge but also serve as one of the most important aspects of experimental and clinical neuroscience in the future. This article summarizes the basic principles and methods used in neurological function-based research. In order to elucidate the topic, the text was practically divided into three main sections: (1) historical perspective regarding functional research models in clinical and experimental neuroscience; (2) neurological function-based clinical studies in humans; and (3) experimental research models on animals.
The Anatomy Based Research in Neurosurgery is an important part of Applied Neuroanatomy that mainly concerns neurosurgical procedures and related problems, namely neuroimaging, brain mapping and surgical techniques. This includes a wide variety of research fields such as 2-D and 3-D structure visualization and referencing (stereotaxy), intraoperative imaging cartography and targeting (neuronavigation), as well as microsurgical, functional and endoscopic anatomy. The methods involved in this investigation regard predominantly microsurgical proceedings and morphological variability studies, both on living or post-mortem material (the strict neuroimaging techniques remaining a main tool for radiologists). The present paper provides an overview of the main techniques of neuroanatomical research applied to neurosurgery. Their major indications and requirements are described and discussed. Special attention is paid to some anatomical techniques such as microdissection and serial sectioning as well as 2-D and 3-D image procedures that are explained in detail.
The development of the central nervous system (CNS) in humans is the most important factor differentiating the human being from other species. Intelligence is the most important result of evolution of the CNS in humans. However, human intelligence is not a static factor, having evolved during the historical progression of cultural factors and educational systems. Since the Middle Ages, universities have been the most dominant open-society institutions to regulate intellectual influences, share scientific knowledge and values, and promote research in natural sciences. Research is particularly important in contemporary neurosurgery and neurological sciences with regard to the development of new techniques and testing of the acquired knowledge of the CNS. Research activities in neuroscience and neurosurgery have especially involved anatomical and functional aspects. However, advances in molecular biology and genetics have been remarkably effective in research activities in neurosciences. Such progress will help us to understand nature, environment and humans. Of course, research is now a domain of method, organisation and financial gain. The dedication, heroism and creativity which used to be the driving forces behind scientific research are now diminishing in value and are a source of controversy.


Neurochemical damage following brain injury can be assessed non-invasively by measurement of N-Acetyl-Aspartate (NAA) using Proton Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (1HMRS). This report documents results of applying Chemical Shift Imaging (CSI) postprocessing for measuring NAA in traumatically injured brain. Following stabilization, severely head-injured patients (GCS 8 or less) were transported to the MRI suite. Semi-quantitative measurement of NAA, creatine (Cr/PCr) and choline (Cho) were obtained from single voxels (8 cm3) and CSI for acquisition of smaller voxels (2 cm3) throughout areas of the brain. Studies were completed with no complication. In focal injury, SVS positioned at the site of lesion demonstrated reduced NAA, compared to contralateral hemisphere. In diffuse injury, CSI demonstrated uniform reduction of NAA throughout the brain. NAA/Cho showed normal levels within 24 hours of injury averaging 2.4 and decreased over the next 10 days reaching a plateau of 0.75. At 30 days, NAA showed no recovery in poor outcome patients. In patients with good outcome, NAA initially low recovered near baseline levels. CSI provides a comprehensive neurochemical assessment of neuronal damage. NAA decreases and remains low in patients with poor outcome. NAA recovers in patients with favorable outcome, suggesting marginal metabolic impairment and possible re-synthesis of the NAA pool.

The Spiegelberg automated compliance device offers practical benefits over the standard manual injection techniques for assessing volume-pressure status. Currently, however, the system relies on the insertion of an intraventricular catheter. If automated continuous measurement of intraparenchymal compliance could be achieved, then this would be a further practical advance. Automated measurements of compliance using a prototype intraparenchymal probe were assessed in comparison with the current intraventricular probe in a sheep model of diffusely raised ICP. The results show poor correlation between intraventricular compliance (IVC) and intraparenchymal compliance (IPC) at low levels of cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP). The IPC response to decreasing CPP beyond probable levels of blood flow autoregulation suggest that IPC is more dependent on local tissue perfusion factors, rather than overall physical compliance. Further evaluation of compliance in the intraparenchymal compartment versus intraventricular compliance will be needed before adaptation of the automated system for clinical application.
Deciding upon shunting in patients with hydrocephalus with possibly related symptomatology, is difficult. The Spiegelberg automated device allows continuous measurements of intracranial compliance. We aimed to evaluate the added information that this new technology can provide, in addition to standard continuous ICP monitoring. Thirty-three patients with hydrocephalus were continuously monitored for ICP and compliance. Patients with abnormal ICP or compliance profiles were selected for shunting. Thirteen patients underwent ventriculo-peritoneal shunting on this basis, with 12 obtaining benefit and one dying as a complication of shunt-related sepsis. The 13 patients undergoing shunting had abnormalities in either intracranial pressure or compliance or both. Only 1 patient had normal ICP, but abnormal compliance and so the true complementary role of continuous compliance measurements cannot be determined. It is proposed that further recruitment be on a larger multi-centre basis. Determination of benefit is required, particularly as a possible time lag of abnormal ICP abnormal compliance over appearing during monitoring can be demonstrated.
Analyses of a multi-centre database of 71 patients at risk of raised ICP showed that in head injured patients (n = 19) and tumour patients (n = 13) clear inverse relationships of ICP vs compliance exist. SAH patients (n = 5) appear to exhibit a biphasic relationship between ICP and compliance, however greater numbers of patients need to be recruited to this group. Patients with hydrocephalus (n = 34) show an initial decrease in compliance while ICP is less than 20 mmHg, thereafter compliance does not show a dependence upon ICP. A power analysis confirmed that sufficient numbers of patients have been recruited in the hydrocephalus group and a ROC analysis determined that a mean compliance value of 0.809 (lower and upper 95% CL = 0.725 &amp; 0.894 resp.) was a critical threshold for raised ICP greater than 10 mmHg. Preliminary time-series analyses of the ICP and compliance data is revealing evidence that the cumulative time compliance is in a low compliance state (&lt; 0.5 ml/mmHg), as a proportion of total monitoring time, increases more rapidly than the cumulative time ICP is greater than 25 mmHg. Before trials testing compliance thresholds can be designed, we need to consider not just the absolute threshold, but the duration of time spent below threshold. A survey may be required to identify a consensus of what is the minimum duration of raised ICP above 25 mmHg needed to instigate treatment.
The purpose of this article is to stress the importance of working with interdisciplinary teams in neurorehabilitation and describe requirements of team effectiveness. It is not sufficient to focus only on different impairments associated with brain injury and offer individuals a variety of therapy. The essential aspect in neurorehabilitation is the integration of disciplines and consistent goal setting to regard individual patient's needs. Interdisciplinary teams benefit from a leader qualified for neuroscience, neurorehabilitation, clinical neuropsychology and psychotherapy. A good structural organization of the team, notice of basic communication rules, understanding typical group dynamics and stressors of interdisciplinary teams, conflict management and a definite decision making increase productive interdisciplinary working and enable the team to continue to mature. Further empirical research is necessary to support the effectiveness of interdisciplinary teams as an important variable in the evaluation of rehabilitation outcome and quality control.
The idiopathic cerebellar ataxias (IDCA) comprise a wide spectrum of neurodegenerative diseases with heterogeneous neuropathology, characterized by the negativity of search for any known genetic mutation. On the basis of both their clinical presentation and their magnetic resonance imaging pattern, patients with IDCA can be subdivided into patients with a purely cerebellar syndrome and atrophy of the cerebellum (IDCA-C) and patients with additional noncerebellar symptoms and atrophy of both cerebellum and brainstem (IDCA-P). The aim of the present study was to evaluate the disaggregated contribution of brainstem and cerebellum in the control of eye movements, by means of an extensive battery of quantitative tests covering most oculomotor subfunctions related to lesions of the cerebellum and the brainstem. The smooth-pursuit movement analysis showed a decrease in gain and magnitude in both subgroups of IDCA with respect to normal controls, without any significant differences in the prevalence pattern between the two subgroups; the mean values of these parameters, however, were significantly lower in IDCA-P than in IDCA-C subjects in both gain (P &lt; 0.01) and magnitude (P &lt; 0.001). No statistically significant difference was observed between the two subgroups in the analysis of saccadic movements or in the other parameters investigated. The distinction between IDCA-P and IDCA-C subgroups has clinical implications, as a poorer prognosis is related to brainstem involvement, which may occur late in the course of the disease. Thus, the possibility to detect the brainstem involvement, also in association with cerebellar impairment, by a relatively simple eye-movement analysis, potentially useful mainly in follow-up investigations, needs to be evaluated further.

The recognition of cerebrovascular disease (CVD) as a contributing factor and a cause of dementia has led to the development of clinical criteria for vascular dementia (VaD). Due to high specificity, the consensus criteria developed by the National Institute for Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke (NINDS)-Association Internationale pour la Recherche et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences (AIREN) have been used in controlled clinical trials to select patients with pure VaD. VaD is predominantly a subcortical frontal form of dementia with prominent executive dysfunction. In contrast, the criteria of the NINCDS-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association (ADRDA) emphasize memory loss as the main feature to distinguish Alzheimer's disease (AD) from VaD and from other forms of dementia. Moreover, CVD may precipitate the clinical expression of AD. Although no criteria have been created specifically for patients having AD with CVD, the ischemic score, the Informant Questionnaire on Cognitive Decline in the Elderly and a history of prestroke mild cognitive impairment (MCI) may be useful for identifying patients with this mixed form of dementia.
Microdysgenesis is a subtle malformation, which is often found in specimens from epilepsy surgery. It is, however, not clear whether the changes are focal or diffuse. A recent autopsy case offered an opportunity to investigate whether microdysgenesis found after temporal lobe surgery was focal or widespread in the brain. The entire brain of a 20-year-old patient who died suddenly and unexpectedly was examined histologically. Microdysgenesis had previously been diagnosed after a left temporal lobectomy performed because of therapy-resistant seizures. A light microscopic examination was performed on specimens stained with Luxol-fast blue-cresyl violet and polyclonal antibodies to glial fibrillary acidic protein. Widespread microdysgenesis with irregular nerve cell distribution in the cortex and an increased number of nerve cells in cortical layer I and in the white matter was found in the right temporal and parietal lobes and bilaterally in the frontal and occipital lobes. The post-mortem examination confirmed the previous diagnosis of microdysgenesis and showed that the changes were widespread in a patient who was operated on because of focal epilepsy.
Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) is characterized by snoring and apnea during sleep leading to decreased oxygen saturation and disturbed sleep, excessive daytime sleepiness and neuropsychological disturbances. This study investigates cognitive neuropsychological abilities in a group of 53 OSAS patients before and after treatment with uvulopalatopharyngoplasty. General intellectual ability, verbal learning and memory as well as executive functioning were measured at baseline and 6 months postoperatively. After surgery there were significant improvements in verbal learning and memory (mean change -39, SD 57.3, p &lt; 0.001), recall (mean change -24.3, SD 39.3, p &lt; 0.001) and executive functioning (as assessed by percentage of errors on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test; mean change -9.1, SD 15.7, p &lt; 0.001). These improvements were in accordance with improvements in the degree of sleep apnea, the oxygen desaturation index (mean change -9.7, SD 15.9, p &lt; 0.001) and arterial minimum oxygen saturation (mean change 4.5%, SD 10.2%, p &lt; 0.01). Surgical treatment seems to improve verbal learning, memory and recall and executive functions in parallel with better oxygenation in OSAS.




Injury to the mature mammalian central nervous system (CNS) is often accompanied by permanent loss of function of the damaged neural circuits. The failure of injured CNS axons to regenerate is thought to be caused, in part, by neurite outgrowth inhibitory factors expressed in and around the lesion. These include several myelin associated inhibitors, proteoglycans, and tenascin-R. Recent studies have documented the presence of class 3 semaphorins in fibroblast-like meningeal cells present in the core of the neural scar formed following CNS injury. Class 3 semaphorins display neurite growth-inhibitory effects on growing axons during embryonic development. The induction of the expression of class 3 semaphorins in the neural scar and the persistent expression of their receptors, the neuropilins and plexins, by injured CNS neurons suggest that they contribute to the regenerative failure of CNS neurons. Neuropilins are also expressed in the neural scar in a subpopulation of meningeal fibroblast and in neurons in the vicinity of the scar. Semaphorin/neuropilin signaling might therefore also be important for cell migration, angiogenis and neuronal cell death in or around neural scars. In contrast to neurons in the CNS, neuropilin/plexin positive neurons in the PNS do display long distance regeneration following injury. Injured PNS neurons do not encounter a semaphorin positive neural scar. Furthermore, Semaphorin 3A is downregulated in the regenerating spinal motor neurons themselves. This was accompanied by a transient upregulation of Semaphorin 3A in the target muscle. These observations suggest that the injury induced regulation of Semaphorin 3A in the PNS contributes to successful regeneration and target reinnervation. Future studies in genetically modified mice should provide more insight into the mechanisms by which neuropilins and semaphorins influence nervous system regeneration and degeneration.

The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is the rate-limiting step in the translation of neurotrophin neuroscience into clinically effective neurotherapeutics. Since neurotrophins do not cross the BBB, these proteins cannot be used for neuroprotection following intravenous administration, and it is not feasible to administer these molecules by intra-cerebral injection in human stroke. The present studies describe the development of the chimeric peptide brain drug targeting technology and the use of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) chimeric peptides in either global or regional brain ischemia. The BDNF chimeric peptide is formed by conjugation of BDNF to a monoclonal antibody (MAb) to the BBB transferrin receptor, and the MAb acts as a molecular Trojan Horse to ferry the BDNF across the BBB via transport on the endogenous BBB transferrin receptor. High degrees of neuroprotection in transient forebrain ischemia, permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion, or reversible middle cerebral artery occlusion are achieved with the delayed intravenous administration of BDNF chimeric peptides. In contrast, no neuroprotection is observed following the intravenous administration of unconjugated BDNF, because the neurotrophin does not cross the BBB in vivo.
Transforming growth factor-betas (TGF-betas) are a still growing superfamily of cytokines with widespread distribution and diverse biological functions. They fall into several subfamilies including the TGF-betas 1, 2, and 3, the bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs), the growth/differentiation factors (GDFs), activins and inhibins, and the members of the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor family. Following a brief description of their general roles and signaling in development, maintenance of homeostasis, and disease, we shall focus on their distribution in the CNS and their involvement in regulating neuron survival and death.

Functional sex differences in reproduction, gender and sexual orientation and in the incidence of neurological and psychiatric diseases are presumed to be based on structural and functional differences in the hypothalamus and other limbic structures. Factors influencing gender, i.e., the feeling to be male or female, are prenatal hormones and compounds that change the levels of these hormones, such as anticonvulsants, while the influence of postnatal social factors is controversial. Genetic factors and prenatal hormone levels are factors in the determination of sexual orientation, i.e. heterosexuality, bisexuality or homosexuality. There is no convincing evidence for postnatal social factors involved in the determination of sexual orientation. The period of overt sexual differentiation of the human hypothalamus occurs between approximately four years of age and adulthood, thus much later than is generally presumed, although the late sexual differentiation may of course be based upon processes that have already been programmed in mid-pregnancy or during the neonatal period. The recently reported differences in a number of structures in the human hypothalamus and adjacent structures depend strongly on age. Replication of these data is certainly necessary. Since the size of brain structures may be influenced by premortem factors (e.g. agonal state) and postmortem factors (e.g. fixation time), one should not only perform volume measurements, but also estimate a parameter that is not dependent on such factors as, i.e., total cell number of the brain structure in question. In addition, functional differences that depend on the levels of circulating hormones in adulthood have been observed in several hypothalamic and other brain structures. The mechanisms causing sexual differentiation of hypothalamic nuclei, the pre- and postnatal factors influencing this process, and the exact functional consequences of the morphological and functional hypothalamic differences await further elucidation.
Subjects exposed to constant velocity rotation in a large fully-enclosed room that rotates initially make large reaching errors in pointing to targets. The paths and endpoints of their reaches are deviated in the direction of the transient lateral Coriolis forces generated by the forward velocity of their reaches. With additional reaches, subjects soon reach in straighter paths and become more accurate at landing on target even in the absence of visual feedback about their movements. Two factors contribute to this adaptation: first, muscle spindle and golgi tendon organ feedback interpreted in relation to efferent commands provide information about movement trajectory, and second, somatosensory stimulation of the fingertip at the completion of a reach provides information about the location of the fingertip relative to the torso.
In the absence of sensory input, the central nervous system can generate a rhythmical pattern of coordinated activation of limb muscles. Contracting muscles have spring-like properties. If synergistic muscles are co-activated in the right way, sustained locomotion can occur. What is the role of sensory input in this scheme? In this chapter we first discuss the implications of positive force feedback control in hindlimb extensor reflexes in the cat. We then raise the question of whether the sensory-evoked responses, which are modest in size and quite delayed in the stance phase, contribute to any significant extent. A locomotor model is used to show that when centrally generated activation levels are low, stretch reflexes can be crucial. However, when these levels are higher, stretch reflexes have a less dramatic role. The more important role for sensory input is probably in mediating higher level control decisions.
Feedback from muscle afferents is essential for locomotion to be functional under changing external conditions. In this article, we review the role of afferent feedback in adapting locomotor activity to transient and more sustained changes in sensory input in reduced and walking cat preparations. Much of the work on muscle afferent regulation of locomotion has focused on the regulation of stance phase activity. Proprioceptive feedback from extensor muscles during the stance phase ensures that the leg does not go into swing when loaded and that the magnitude of extensor activity is adequate for support. Proprioceptive feedback from flexor muscles towards the end of the stance phase facilitates the initiation of the swing phase of walking. Evidence that muscle afferent feedback also contributes to the magnitude and duration of flexor activity during the swing phase has been demonstrated recently. The regulation of the magnitude and duration of extensor and flexor activity during locomotion is mediated by monosynaptic, disynaptic, and polysynaptic muscle afferent pathways in the spinal cord. In addition to allowing for rapid adaptation in motor output during walking, afferent feedback from muscle proprioceptors is also involved in longer-term adaptations in response to changes in the biomechanical or neuromuscular properties of the walking system.
The contribution of muscle spindles to the control of locomotion depends on the patterns of discharge that occur in static and dynamic gamma motoneurones (gammaS and gammaD). Discharges of gamma-axons to the MG muscle were studied during treadmill locomotion in pre-mammillary, decerebrated cats. All gammaS-efferents increased their rate of discharge at onset of locomotion and were modulated with movement. Type-1 increased their rate with muscle shortening whereas type-2 gammaS efferents increased their discharge rate during muscle lengthening. The type-1 gammaS pattern appears to be a temporal template of the intended movement. The type-2 gammaS pattern may be appropriate for afferent biasing through bag2 intrafusal fibres. The gammaD axons showed an interrupted discharge pattern with sudden onset of firing at the start of muscle shortening and falling quiet shortly after the beginning of lengthening. The gammaD discharge would prepare primary endings to respond with high sensitivity at the start of muscle lengthening.
The theme of this review is that it is inappropriate to regard proprioceptors as general purpose transducers of system variables associated with movements. We should not try to describe their properties by general expressions derived by testing with a wide range of externally applied disturbances, in the way that is customary in engineering practice. Instead, if study is concentrated on their behaviour during natural active movements such as locomotion, then the significance of the signals which they feed back to the CNS is much easier to understand. This idea is developed briefly for tendon organs, and then in more detail for muscle spindles in locomotion.
There are conflicting views on the functional importance of the system of C3-C4 propriospinal neurones in the macaque, although the two sets of observations from the opposing laboratories are actually quite similar, both making the system appear much weaker than its well-known equivalent in the cat. One group asserts, mainly via evidence derived from experiments with strychnine, that this is a consequence simply of inhibition of the propriospinal neurone. However, we ague here that this judgement is premature and that much more needs to be known about the neurones involved and their connectivity before the analogy with the system in the cat is safe. This is particularly important because of a similar analogy which has been made with respect to measurements in human subjects.
Over the past four decades, the understanding of proprioceptive spinal reflexes has advanced far more rapidly than generally considered. This problem could be largely obviated in undergraduate and graduate training programs if the topic of reflexes was introduced subsequent to the concept and mechanisms of pattern generation within the central nervous system. The key advantage would then be that the neuroscience community as a whole would gain appreciation of the fact that proprioceptive reflexes are not hard-wired but rather are context- and phase-dependent, with the central nervous system selecting input-output pathways appropriate for the task at hand.
Afferent feedback from muscle proprioceptors, as well as movement-induced activation of skin receptors plays an important role in the patterning of motor activity for stepping and postural control. An important component in this control is the presynaptic GABAergic modulation of the synaptic effectiveness of muscle and cutaneous afferents, known to change in phase with the locomotor cycle, during the execution of voluntary movements, or after a peripheral nerve injury. Recent electrophysiological studies, together with ultrastructural observations, indicate that the distribution of GABAa synapses in the intraspinal arborizations of muscle spindle and tendon organ afferents is not homogeneous. Namely, that some collaterals are the targets of one, or more, GABAergic interneurones, while other collaterals of the same fibre receive no GABAergic connections. In addition, both PAD and inhibition of PAD have a local character. This allows, at least in principle, decoupling the information arising from common sensory inputs. A spatially restricted modulation of PAD could play a significant role in the adjustment of the synaptic effectiveness of Ia afferents at the onset of voluntary contractions in humans, during movement-induced stimulation of the skin, or during the compensation of motor activity following partial denervation of muscles. Changes in the synchronization of the PAD-mediating interneurones can also have a profound effect on the information transmitted by a given set of afferent fibres. Data are presented that in the anesthetized cat, variation in the spontaneous activity of a population of dorsal horn neurones in laminae III-VI, that respond to stimulation of low-threshold cutaneous afferents, produce correlated fluctuations of monosynaptic reflexes by means of pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms. It is suggested that correlated changes in the level of PAD can also play a significant role in the presynaptic adjustment of the synaptic effectiveness of the afferent fibres during specific motor tasks.
This paper introduces the new scientific discipline of psychosocial genomics as an emerging area in the foundations of mind-body medicine. Psychosocial genomics brings together a variety of interdisciplinary fields ranging from studies of stress, psychosomatics, psychoimmunology, and psychoendocrinology to the deep psychobiology of creativity, optimal performance, dreaming, art, ritual, culture, and spiritual life. The focus of psychosocial genomics is on creating new models of how the levels of gene expression, neurogenesis, and healing are interrelated as a complex, adaptive system with the levels of human experiencing, behavior, and consciousness. Ongoing research in psychosocial genomics is presented to illustrate how this complex adaptive system operates in the theory and practice of alternative and complementary mind-body medicine and psychotherapy on all levels, from mind to gene.







The fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is caused by maternal alcohol misuse during pregnancy and is characterized by pre- and postnatal growth retardation, central nervous system anomalies and a wide spectrum of malformations, the most typical being the craniofacial features. The eye is a sensitive indicator of the adverse effects of environmental agents, and the ocular abnormalities observed in children with FAS indicate that the developing eye is particularly affected by alcohol. The external signs include short palpebral fissures, telecanthus, epicanthus, blepharoptosis, microphthalmos and strabismus. Within the eyes, the signs and symptoms most commonly detected are optic nerve hypoplasia, increased tortuosity of the retinal vessels and impaired vision. Experimental models of FAS, closely reproducing characteristics of human FAS, have contributed to our understanding of the cellular and molecular basis of the action of alcohol in the developing visual system. As there is such a high frequency of eye signs and symptoms in FAS, an ophthalmological examination is important when making the diagnosis, as well as in the management of the disorder. Current knowledge of ophthalmological involvement in FAS in humans is presented, as well as a review of findings using animal models specially designed for studying ocular developmental changes induced by alcohol.



Alzheimer disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative condition leading to progressive, irreversible loss of cognitive and behavioral function. Despite considerable investments in neuroscience research, only four drugs, all cholinesterase inhibitors, have been approved for the symptomatic management of AD in the United States. Although basically safe and modestly effective, these drugs are far from ideal, being neither universally efficacious nor disease modifying. AD exacts a considerable toll in direct medical costs, quality of life, and caregiver burden for persons and society. In addition to the obvious clinical benefit, therapeutic agents for AD and related dementias represent a considerable market opportunity for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. There are currently 8-10 million AD sufferers in the seven major pharmaceutical markets. The market will grow rapidly in coming decades, as the developed world experiences an enormous increase in its elderly population. Given the great need for new therapeutic agents to manage and prevent AD, the Institute for the Study of Aging and the Fidelity Foundation organized a workshop, &quot;Barriers to the Discovery and Development of Drugs for Alzheimer's Disease,&quot; to examine ways to expedite drug discovery and development. The identified barriers and potential solutions will be discussed here and in the accompanying articles in more detail.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an adult-onset degenerative disorder characterized by the death of motor neurons in the cortex, brain stem, and spinal cord. Despite intensive research the basic pathophysiology of ALS remains unclear. Although most cases are sporadic, approximately 10% of ALS cases are familial (FALS). Mutations in the Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene cause approximately 20% of FALS. The gene(s) responsible for the remaining 80% of FALS remain to be found. Using a large European kindred without SOD1 mutation and with classic autosomal dominant adult-onset ALS, we have identified a novel locus by performing a genome scan and linkage analysis. The maximum LOD score is 4.5 at recombination fraction 0.0, for polymorphism D18S39. Haplotype analysis has identified a 7.5-cM, 8-Mb region of chromosome 18q21, flanked by markers D18S846 and D18S1109, as a novel FALS locus.
Recent evidence suggests that lower urinary tract functions may be influenced by reproductive status, particularly under pathophysiological conditions. This study used repeated cystometrograms via a transurethral catheter to investigate the influence of estrous stage on micturition thresholds before and after turpentine-induced bladder inflammation in urethane-anesthetized female rats. Whereas there were no estrous influences on micturition threshold in the uninflamed bladder, micturition thresholds after bladder inflammation were significantly lower in rats in proestrus or estrus than in rats in metestrus or diestrus. Furthermore, the risk that the initial urethral catheterization and preinflammation cystometrogram would produce hematuria was significantly lower in estrus than in the other stages. These estrous influences are not readily explicable by levels of ovarian hormones at the time of testing and may relate instead to dynamic interactions between these hormones and other neuroactive molecules. In addition, the results here have relevance to interpretations of cystometrographic findings in the clinic and basic research.
The relationship between ingestive behavior (eating + drinking) and core body temperature (T(b)) in naturally cycling female rats was compared in a normotensive strain (Sprague-Dawley; SD) and a hypertensive strain reputed to have chronically elevated T(b) (spontaneously hypertensive rats; SHR). T(b) (by telemetry) and ingestive behavior (automated recording) were quantified every 30 s. Ingestive behavior and T(b) were related on all days of the ovarian cycle in both strains, but the strength of that relationship was reduced on the day of estrus (E) compared with nonestrous days. Several strain differences in T(b) were found as well. In SHR, dark-phase T(b) was elevated on E, whereas SD remained at the lower nonestrous values. Fluctuations in dark-phase T(b) were correlated with ingestive behavior in both strains but had greater amplitude in SHR except on E. Short-term fasting or sucrose availability did not eliminate elevated dark-phase T(b) on E in SHR. We propose that estrus-related changes unique to SHR may indicate heightened thermal reactivity to hormonal changes, ingestive behavior, and general locomotor activity.
Siberian hamsters exhibit seasonal fluctuations in white adipose tissue (WAT) mass, with peaks in long &quot;summerlike&quot; days (LDs) and nadirs in short &quot;winterlike&quot; days (SDs). These responses can be mimicked in the laboratory after transfer from LDs to SDs. The purpose of the present study was to test whether changes in WAT and brown adipose tissue (BAT) gene expression that are mediated by the sympathetic nervous system in other obesity models are also associated with seasonal adiposity changes in Siberian hamsters. SDs decreased WAT mass and leptin mRNA, increased WAT beta(3)-adrenoceptor mRNA, and induced retroperitoneal WAT uncoupling protein-1 mRNA (the latter measured by RT-PCR, others measured by ribonuclease protection assay) while increasing BAT uncoupling protein-1 and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator-1 mRNAs. These effects were not due to SD-induced gonadal regression and largely occurred before the usual SD-induced decreases in food intake. Thus the SD-induced decreased adiposity of Siberian hamsters may be due to a coordinated suite of WAT and BAT gene transcription changes ultimately increasing lipid mobilization and utilization.


The recent identification of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) in pulmonary fibroblasts suggests that in utero nicotine exposure may alter collagen expression by these cells in the developing lung. To test this hypothesis, timed-pregnant rhesus monkeys were administered nicotine (1-1.5 mg/kg/d, subcutaneously) using osmotic minipumps from Days 26-134 or 26-160 of gestation (term = 165 d). In utero nicotine exposure significantly increased airway wall area per unit epithelial basement membrane. Collagen type I and III mRNA expression and immunostaining were significantly increased in the airway and alveolar walls of the nicotine-treated group. Elastin mRNA expression increased, but protein expression in parenchyma remained unchanged. Dual labeling studies colocalized alpha7 nAChR and collagen to the same cells in airway wall cells, and colocalization of alpha7 nAChR and collagen was confirmed in isolated pulmonary fibroblasts. These findings suggest that nicotine may directly interact with alpha7 nAChR to increase collagen accumulation in airway and alveolar walls following in utero nicotine exposure. These data suggest that passage of nicotine across the placenta to increase collagen deposition and therefore increase airway wall dimensions in fetal lung may partially explain the observed alterations in lung mechanics in the infants of mothers who smoke during pregnancy.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a major mediator in angiogenesis and vascular permeability. In central nervous system (CNS) it plays a pivotal role as: 1. inductor of endothelial cell proliferation, migration and inhibition of apoptosis, and 2. mediator of vascular permeability and subsequently of brain edema. This ubiquitous epiphenomenon is a major complication in several CNS pathologies, including head trauma and stroke. After brain injury the expression of VEGF is increased contributing to disruption of the blood brain barrier (BBB). VEGF increase the permeability of BBB via the synthesis/release of nitric oxide and subsequent activation of soluble guanylate cyclase. The immunohistochemistry shows an increase of stained astrocytes and endothelial cells around cortical micronecrosis. VEGF immunopositivity distribution shows some correspondence with the blood brain barrier breakdown following a cortical micronecrosis.
Repeated administration of cocaine lowers the basal extracellular levels of glutamate in the nucleus accumbens as measured by microdialysis. The studies presented reveal that this long-term neuroadaptation elicited by repeated cocaine results from a decrease in the activity of cystine/glutamate exchange.
Antiakinsic effects of the uncompetitive NMDA antagonists, memantine, amantadine and MK-801, and competitive antagonists, CGP 40116, alone or in co-administration with acute subthreshold dose of L-Dopa (5 mg/kg) in MPTP-treated mice, functional alterations induced by acute MK-801 in combinations with neuroleptic compounds or behavioural deficits following postnatal administration of MK-801 were investigated. Memantine and amantadine injected 60 min before the subthreshold dose of L-Dopa (5 mg/kg), induced antiakinesic actions in hypokinesic MPTP-treated mice. Concurrently, higher doses of memantine and MK-801 caused dyskinesic changes, reducing further rearing (10 and 30 mg/kg) and locomotor (30 mg/kg) behaviour of the MPTP mice; MK-801 elevated locomotion (0.1 mg/kg) but reduced rearing (0.3 mg/kg). In control, saline-treated mice, memantine (3, 10 and 30 mg/kg) and MK-801 (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg) increased locomotor behaviour but decreased rearing behaviour. In rats, MK-801 induced marked increases in locomotor activity and disruptions of circular swim maze acquisition that were to greater or lesser extents blocked or potentiated by neuroleptic compounds: SCH 23390 (0.005 and 0.05 mg/kg) and clozapine (5.0 and 10.0 mg/kg) dose-dependently antagonised MK-801 (0.3 mg/kg) induced locomotor activity whereas raclopride (0.1 mg/kg) and haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg) attenuated it dose-specifically. Amperozide (0.5 mg/kg) attenuated the MK-801 effect but potentiated it at the 2.0 mg/kg dose. In the circular swim maze, raclopride (0.01 mg/kg) and SCH 23390 (0.05 mg/kg) improved the acquisitive performance of rats administered MK-801 (0.03 mg/kg) acutely whereas clozapine (10.0 mg/kg) and amperozide (2.0 mg/kg) deteriorated the performance of MK-801-treated rats. Postnatal administration of MK-801 (0.05 mg/kg, day 11 after birth) induced severe functional alterations in adult mice. At 70 days of age, MK-801 mice showed an initial hypoactivity followed by marked hyperactivity in the motor activity test chambers. These mice showed deficits in habituation, a nonassociative form of learning. Their hyperactivity in the test chambers was reversed by a low dose of d-amphetamine (0.25 mg/kg). Taken together, these findings display a wide range of acute/long-term functional alterations induced by NMDA antagonists, particularly MK-801, associated with animal models of brain disorders.
Neuroprotective concentrations of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) promote survival of cerebellar granule cell neurons against glutamate excitotoxicity through a TrkB receptor-mediated brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) autocrine loop. However, the intracellular signaling pathway(s) are not clear. Our results show that PI-3 kinase/Akt is activated by either NMDA or BDNF displaying differential kinetics. BDNF and NMDA increased Akt phosphorylation within 5 minutes but maximal activation by NMDA was observed at 3 hours. Akt phosphorylation was completely blocked by the PI-3 kinase inhibitor LY294002. NMDA-mediated activation of Akt was completely blocked by MK-801 and partially blocked by the TrkB receptor inhibitor, K252a, indicating the requirement of TrkB receptors for maximal activation by NMDA. In contrast, BDNF-induced Akt phosphorylation was abolished by K252a, but not by the addition of MK-801. Therefore, the PI-3 kinase/Akt pathway is co-activated by NMDA and TrkB receptors. The kinetics of BDNF and NMDA-mediated activation of PI-3 kinase/Akt suggests that they have different roles in intraneuronal time-related events.
The discovery of the adipocyte-produced hormone leptin has greatly changed the field of obesity research and future treatment as well as our understanding of energy homeostasis in man. In addition to its relevant role as a metabolic adaptor to overweight and fasting states, new and previously unsuspected neuroendocrinological roles have emerged for leptin. In reproduction, leptin is implicated in fertility regulation and appears as a permissive factor for puberty. In particular, various sets of data suggest that leptin may serve as a signal to the central nervous system (CNS) with information on the critical amount of adipose tissue stores that is necessary for gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion and pubertal activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. Leptin also acts at the periphery, directly on the ovary and testis where it may control steroidogenesis, although the exact role of intragonadal action in the physiology and pathophysiology of the human reproductive system needs to be further elucidated. Furthermore, relevant gender-based differences in leptin levels exist, with higher levels in women, even at birth, and which persist throughout life. In adult life, there is experimental evidence that leptin is a permissive factor for the menstrual cycle, with a regulatory role exerted at hypothalamic, pituitary and gonadal levels, and with severe changes in pregnancy and postpartum. Moreover, leptin is present in both human and commercial milk, and may play a role in the adaptive responses of the newborn.
Axonal pathology is a major cause of neurological disability in multiple sclerosis. Axonal transection begins at disease onset but remains clinically silent because of compensatory brain mechanisms. Noninvasive surrogate markers for axonal injury are therefore essential to monitor cumulative disease burden in vivo. The neuronal compound N-acetylaspartate, as measured by magnetic resonance spectroscopy, is currently the best and most specific noninvasive marker of axonal pathology in multiple sclerosis. The possibility has been raised, however, that N-acetylaspartate is expressed also by oligodendroglial lineage cells. In order to investigate N-acetylaspartate specificity for white matter axons, transected rat optic nerves were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography and immunohistochemistry. In transected adult nerves, N-acetylaspartate and N-acetyl aspartylglutamate decreased in concordance with axonal degeneration and were undetectable 24 days posttransection. Nonproliferating oligodendrocyte progenitor cells, oligodendrocytes, and myelin were abundant in these axon-free nerves. At 24 days posttransection, N-acetylaspartate was increased (42%; p = 0.02) in nontransected contralateral nerves. After transection at postnatal day 4, total N-acetylaspartate decreased by 80% (P14; p = 0.002) and 94% (P20; p = 0.003). In these developing axon-free nerves, 25 to 33% of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells were proliferating. These data validate magnetic resonance spectroscopy measurements of N-acetylaspartate as an axon-specific monitor of central nervous system white matter in vivo. In addition, the results indicate that neuronal adaptation can increase N-acetylaspartate levels, and that 5 to 20% of the N-acetylaspartate in developing white matter is synthesized by proliferating oligodendrocyte progenitor cells.
To achieve selective electrical interfacing to the neural system it is necessary to approach neuronal elements on a scale of micrometers. This necessitates microtechnology fabrication and introduces the interdisciplinary field of neurotechnology, lying at the juncture of neuroscience with microtechnology. The neuroelectronic interface occurs where the membrane of a cell soma or axon meets a metal microelectrode surface. The seal between these may be narrow or may be leaky. In the latter case the surrounding volume conductor becomes part of the interface. Electrode design for successful interfacing, either for stimulation or recording, requires good understanding of membrane phenomena, natural and evoked action potential generation, volume conduction, and electrode behavior. Penetrating multimicroelectrodes have been produced as one-, two-, and three-dimensional arrays, mainly in silicon, glass, and metal microtechnology. Cuff electrodes circumvent a nerve; their selectivity aims at fascicles more than at nerve fibers. Other types of electrodes are regenerating sieves and cone-ingrowth electrodes. The latter may play a role in brain-computer interfaces. Planar substrate-embedded electrode arrays with cultured neural cells on top are used to study the activity and plasticity of developing neural networks. They also serve as substrates for future so-called cultured probes.
The actin cytoskeleton plays a major role in morphological development of neurons and in structural changes of adult neurons. This article reviews the myriad functions of actin and myosin in axon initiation, growth, guidance and branching, in morphogenesis of dendrites and dendritic spines, in synapse formation and stability, and in axon and dendrite retraction. Evidence is presented that signaling pathways involving the Rho family of small GTPases are key regulators of actin polymerization and myosin function in the context of different aspects of neuronal morphogenesis. These studies support an emerging theme: Different aspects of neuronal morphogenesis may involve regulation of common core signaling pathways, in particular the Rho GTPases.
Mammalian reproduction depends on the coordinated expression of behavior with precisely timed physiological events that are fundamentally different in males and females. An improved understanding of the neuroanatomical relationships between sexually dimorphic parts of the forebrain has contributed to a significant paradigm shift in how functional neural systems are approached experimentally. This review focuses on the organization of interconnected limbic-hypothalamic pathways that participate in the neural control of reproduction and summarizes what is known about the developmental neurobiology of these pathways. Sex steroid hormones such as estrogen and testosterone have much in common with neurotrophins and regulate cell death, neuronal migration, neurogenesis, and neurotransmitter plasticity. In addition, these hormones direct formation of sexually dimorphic circuits by influencing axonal guidance and synaptogenesis. The signaling events underlying the developmental activities of sex steroids involve interactions between nuclear hormone receptors and other transcriptional regulators, as well as interactions at multiple levels with neurotrophin and neurotransmitter signal transduction pathways.
The overall organization of the peripheral autonomic nervous system has been known for many decades, but the mechanisms by which it is controlled by the central nervous system are just now coming to light. In particular, two major issues have seen considerable progress in the past decade. First, the pathways that provide visceral sensation to conscious perception at a cortical level have been elucidated in both animals and humans. The nociceptive system runs in parallel to the pathways carrying visceral sensation from the cranial nerves and may be considered in itself a component of visceral sensation. Second, structures in the central nervous system that generate patterns of autonomic response have been identified. These pattern generators are located at multiple levels of the central nervous system, and they can be combined in temporal and spatial patterns to subserve a wide range of behavioral needs.
Dendritic morphology has a profound impact on neuronal information processing. The overall extent and orientation of dendrites determines the kinds of input a neuron receives. Fine dendritic appendages called spines act as subcellular compartments devoted to processing synaptic information, and the dendritic branching pattern determines the efficacy with which synaptic information is transmitted to the soma. The acquisition of a mature dendritic morphology depends on the coordinated action of a number of different extracellular factors. Here we discuss this evidence in the context of dendritic development in the cerebral cortex. Soon after migrating to the cortical plate, neurons extend an apical dendrite directed toward the pial surface. The oriented growth of the apical dendrite is regulated by Sema3A, which acts as a dendritic chemoattractant. Subsequent dendritic development involves signaling by neurotrophic factors and Notch, which regulate dendritic growth and branching. During postnatal development the formation and stabilization of dendritic spines are regulated in part by patterns of synaptic activity. These observations suggest that extracellular signals play an important role in regulating every aspect of dendritic development and thereby exert a critical influence on cortical connectivity.
Nitric oxide (NO) is synthesized from L-arginine by NO synthase (NOS). As an endothelium-derived relaxing factor, a mediator of immune responses, a neurotransmitter, a cytotoxic free radical, and a signaling molecule, NO plays crucial roles in virtually every cellular and organ function in the body. The discovery of NO synthesis has unified traditionally diverse research areas in nutrition, physiology, immunology, pathology, and neuroscience. Increasing evidence over the past decade shows that many dietary factors, including protein, amino acids, glucose, fructose, cholesterol, fatty acids, vitamins, minerals, phytoestrogens, ethanol, and polyphenols, are either beneficial to health or contribute to the pathogenesis of chronic diseases partially through modulation of NO production by inducible NOS or constitutive NOS. Although most published studies have focused on only a single nutrient and have generated new and exciting knowledge, future studies are necessary to investigate the interactions of dietary factors on NO synthesis and to define the underlying molecular mechanisms.
Schizophrenia is a chronic, severely disabling brain disorder with symptomatic onset in early adulthood. Typical antipsychotic medications that block dopamine D2 receptors are most effective in treating the psychosis but have limited effects on the negative symptoms and cognitive impairments. Considerable research has demonstrated that noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonists, the dissociative anaesthetic like phencyclidine and ketamine, reproduce the cardinal symptomatic features of schizophrenia. Postmortem studies reveal variable alterations in glutamate receptors and their modulators in schizophrenia. Several clinical trials indicate agents that enhance NMDA receptor function via the glycine modulatory site reduce negative and variably improve cognitive function in schizophrenics receiving typical antipsychotics. Thus, hypofunction of a subpopulation of cortico-limbic NMDA receptors may participate in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
In this review we describe an emerging understanding of the roles of the Extracellular-signal regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase (ERK/MAPK) cascade in learning and memory. We begin by describing several behavioral memory paradigms and review data implicating ERK as an essential component of the signal transduction mechanisms subserving these processes. We then describe evidence implicating ERK as a critical player in synaptic and neuronal plasticity-a cellular role likely to underlie ERK's behavioral role in the animal. We then proceed to parsing the complexities of biochemical regulation of ERK in neurons and to a description of a few likely cellular targets of ERK. This is in order to begin discussing the possible molecular basis of ERK-mediated behavioral change. We close our review with speculations concerning how the complexities and idiosyncrasies of ERK regulation may allow for sophisticated information processing at the biochemical level in neurons-attributes that may make the ERK cascade well-suited for triggering complex and long-lasting behavioral change. Our goal in this review is not so much to portray ERK as unique regarding its role as a signal transducter in memory, but rather to use ERK as one specific example of recent studies beginning to address the molecules and signal transduction pathways subserving cognition.
The olfactory system sits at the interface of the environment and the nervous system and is responsible for correctly coding sensory information from thousands of odorous stimuli. Many theories existed regarding the signal transduction mechanism that mediates this difficult task. The discovery that odorant transduction utilizes a unique variation (a novel family of G protein-coupled receptors) based upon a very common theme (the G protein-coupled adenylyl cyclase cascade) to accomplish its vital task emphasized the power and versatility of this motif. We now must understand the downstream consequences of this cascade that regulates multiple second messengers and perhaps even gene transcription in response to the initial interaction of ligand with G protein-coupled receptor.
Depression is a disorder of the representation and regulation of mood and emotion. The circuitry underlying the representation and regulation of normal emotion and mood is reviewed, including studies at the animal level, human lesion studies, and human brain imaging studies. This corpus of data is used to construct a model of the ways in which affect can become disordered in depression. Research on the prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate, hippocampus, and amygdala is reviewed and abnormalities in the structure and function of these different regions in depression is considered. The review concludes with proposals for the specific types of processing abnormalities that result from dysfunctions in different parts of this circuitry and offers suggestions for the major themes upon which future research in this area should be focused.
Even the most extreme environmentalists along the nature-nurture continuum in psychology now acknowledge that genes often contribute to individual differences in behavior. Behavioral traits are complex, reflecting the aggregate effects of many genes. These genetic effects are interactive, inter se and with the environments in which they are expressed. Human studies of addictive behaviors have clearly implicated both environmental and genetic influences. This review selects drug dependence as a paradigmatic addiction, and further, concentrates on the extensive literature with genetic animal models. Both traditional studies with inbred strains and selected lines and studies exploiting the new molecularly based technologies of the genomics era are discussed. Future directions for further contribution of animal models studies to our understanding of the brain dysregulations characteristic of addictions are identified.
Clinical neuropsychologists have adopted numerous (and sometimes conflicting) approaches to the assessment of brain-behavior relationships. We review the historical development of these approaches and we advocate an approach to clinical neuropsychology that is informed by recent findings from cognitive neuroscience. Clinical assessment of executive and emotional processes associated with the frontal lobes of the human brain has yet to incorporate the numerous experimental neuroscience findings on this topic. We review both standard and newer techniques for assessment of frontal lobe functions, including control operations involved in language, memory, attention, emotions, self-regulation, and social functioning. Clinical and experimental research has converged to indicate the fractionation of frontal subprocesses and the initial mapping of these subprocesses to discrete frontal regions. One anatomical distinction consistent in the literature is that between dorsal and ventral functions, which can be considered cognitive and affective, respectively. The frontal lobes, in particular the frontal poles, are involved in uniquely human capacities, including self-awareness and mental time travel.
Proximate and ultimate biological theories for understanding sexual behavior predict that sexual dimorphism in sexual partner preference should be ubiquitous in the animal kingdom. A review of the literature found evidence for same-sex sexual partner preference in a small number of species (female pukekos, cows, domestic rams, female Uganda kobs, female Japanese macaques). Thus, theoretical predictions concerning the development and evolution of sexual partner preference appear to hold true except for a handful of exceptional species. Why individuals in some animal species exhibit same-sex sexual partner preference remains the object of debate. At a proximate level, domestic rams that exhibit same-sex sexual partner preference have been shown to differ in certain aspects of their neurobiology and physiology from rams that do not exhibit such a preference. It remains unclear, however, as to whether these differences are produced by sex-atypical perinatal exposure to androgens and their estrogenic metabolites. At an ultimate level, numerous functional hypotheses for same-sex sexual partner preference have been tested in female Japanese macaques but have failed to receive support. Understanding why same-sex sexual partner preference evolves in some species may involve abandoning a strictly functional perspective and, instead, approaching the issue from the perspective of each species' unique evolutionary history.
Angiogenesis, the formation of new blood vessels, is necessary for tumour growth. The aim of this study was to quantify the sensitivity of five endothelial cell markers CD31/CD34-mix, CD31, CD34, lectin UEA-1 and FVIII-rag. Paraffin-embedded tumour tissue from 15 patients with astrocytomas grades II-IV and oligodendrogliomas grades II-III was used Sections of 2 microm were stained. Seven serial sections from each of the 15 tumours enabled consecutive examination of the vessels with all five markers and with two interposed hematoxylin-eosin (H&amp;E) sections as controls. Among the endothelial cell markers, the mix CD31/CD34 showed the highest sensitivity with 79% and 99%, respectively, when applied in astrocytomas grade II and grades III-IV and 86% when applied in oligodendrogliomas. The study has shown that the sensitivity of the five endothelial cell markers varied. The mix CD31/CD34 was superior and seems to be a useful marker for quantification of angiogenesis.
The incidence of melanoma has been increasing steadily in many countries since 1960, but the underlying mechanism causing this increase remains elusive. The incidence of melanoma has been linked to the distance to frequency modulation (FM) broadcasting towers. In the current study, the authors sought to determine if there was also a related link on a larger scale for entire countries. Exposure-time-specific incidence was extracted from exposure and incidence data from 4 different countries, and this was compared with reported age-specific incidence of melanoma. Geographic differences in melanoma incidence were compared with the magnitude of this environmental stress. The exposure-time-specific incidence from all 4 countries became almost identical, and they were approximately equal to the reported age-specific incidence of melanoma. A correlation between melanoma incidence and the number of locally receivable FM transmitters was found. The authors concluded that melanoma is associated with exposure to FM broadcasting.
Despite its long use in clinical settings, the checkered reputation of hypnosis has dimmed its promise as a research instrument. Whereas cognitive neuroscience has scantily fostered hypnosis as a manipulation, neuroimaging techniques offer new opportunities to use hypnosis and posthypnotic suggestion as probes into brain mechanisms and, reciprocally, provide a means of studying hypnosis itself. We outline how the hypnotic state can serve as a way to tap neurocognitive questions and how cognitive assays can in turn shed new light on the neural bases of hypnosis. This cross talk should enhance research and clinical applications.






The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is maintained by the endothelial tight junctions within the brain microvasculature. Most small-molecule neuropharmaceutical agents and virtually all large-molecule drugs do not cross the BBB. The BBB problem is the rate-limiting factor preventing the transfer of progress in the molecular neurosciences to the development of clinically effective neurotherapeutic agents. The future development of neurotherapeutic agents will be accelerated by the development of BBB drug-targeting technology.
The human hyoid moves continuously in feeding, facilitating movements of the tongue surface and the processing and transport of food. The hypothesis that similar hyoid movements support tongue movements in speech was tested in 10 normal young adults of both sexes, who were recorded with lateral-projection videofluorography when feeding on hard and soft foods and when reading the 'Grandfather Passage', which includes the major vowel-consonant combinations in English. Recordings were made with and without tongue-markers. Images were analysed with a digital frame grabber and computer. Each participant served as his/her own control. The hyoid moved continuously during speech and feeding. In speech, hyoid motions were irregular and not linked to jaw movement, as they were for feeding. The centroids and variances of the domains for all reference points were compared for speech and feeding; the centroid represents the average position of a structure and variance its amount of motion. Gape and hyoid centroids were significantly different for feeding and speech (P&lt;0.001), but differences for gape averaged &lt;1mm while the difference for the hyoid centroid was &gt;7mm. There were no significant differences in gape attributable to sex. Consistent with the known differences in hyolaryngeal position there were significant sex differences in hyoid centroid (P=0.031) but not variance. In speech, tongue-markers had a smaller spatial domain (P=0.001) condensed within the larger feeding domain. The small shift in the gape centroid does not explain the larger forward shift of the hyoid during speech. These findings raise questions about the neuromotor control of hyoid position in the two behaviours and the biomechanics of the supralaryngeal vocal tract.
To obtain a more integrated view of the cellular behaviour of the cochlea it is essential to observe not only wider regions of the exposed turns but also to visualize structures below the reticular lamina. Using confocal microscopy and in vitro preparations of guinea pig and mouse inner ears, cellular structures within the intact organ of Corti can be visualized at high resolution. The approach thus offers a means to investigate detailed cellular events, e.g. structural reorganization following acoustic overstimulation. Confocal microscope images, although sharper than images acquired using regular light microscopy, are still subject to problems related to light scattering within the optical system and low signal-to-noise ratio. Significant image restoration can, however, be obtained by applying a combination of wavelet denoising techniques and deconvolution algorithms. Future work will focus both on more dynamical cellular events and on new in vivo models where the inner ear is visualized at a better functional state.
Assertive Community Treatment (ACT) is the most widely studied and well supported evidence based community management model for persons with severe mental illness (SMI) in the mental health literature. This report details the replacement of an unevaluated generic model of case management with ACT in a metropolitan inner city area. This is work in progress and detailed patient outcomes are not yet available. The steps taken and the problems encountered in changing clinical practice are important over and above the intervention itself and are discussed. The main difficulty that we encountered was moving staff from focusing on and becoming demoralized by potential problems and obstacles to problem solving and implementation of the best available solution. Staff were consulted at all stages of the project. The use of an 'action research' strategy maximised their sense of ownership and ultimately enabled the project to be implemented although in a revised format to that originally envisaged. Flexibility in this regard was crucial since the budget granted was only 40% of that requested. The original aim of having all 3 sector teams of the Inner City Mental Health Service (ICMHS) involved did not eventuate due to internal organisational issues and only one team undertook to implement the ACT approach.
Geomagnetic effects on quantitative characteristics of alpha-rhythm were assessed by shifts in electroencephalograms recorded in 126 essentially healthy human subjects and changes in lipid metabolism in the cortex and white matter in 140 white rats. Indices of the geomagnetic activity were D, H and Z-components. The method of &quot;epoch superposition&quot; revealed an inconsistent alpha-rhythm depression and flattening out of the interhemispheric functional asymmetry against persistently high electrical activity in the right hemisphere, and biochemical asymmetry in consequence of different lipid transformation processes. Spotlighted were some nonspecific adaptive reactions to changes in the environment and stressful agents.
The age-related impairment in muscle force is only partially explained by the loss of muscle mass. The loss both in specific and absolute forces contributes to the muscle weakness measured in the elderly and in animal models of ageing. Successful interventions aimed at preventing age-associated functional deficits will require a better insight into the mechanisms underlying the decline in muscle-specific force. The present review article is focused on recent evidence supporting excitation-contraction uncoupling as a key factor underlying fast and slow muscle fiber impairment with ageing. The molecular, functional and structural factors supporting this theory and counteracting measures such as insulin-like growth factor 1 transgenic overexpression are discussed.
Brian Blundell Boycott was an outstanding zoologist and neurobiologist. His early research (1947-52), at the Anatomy Department of University College London and at the Stazione Zoologica in Naples, Italy, was on learning and memory in cephalopods and the functional architecture of the octopus brain. From 1952 to 1970 he was a teacher of zoology and later neurobiology at University College London (Zoology Department). Brain's research interests changed in the early 1960s, when he began studying the mammalian retina. Over a period of 35 years he produced many seminal papers that laid the foundation for our modern understanding of the cell types and synaptic connections that form the basis of parallel processing in the retina. In 1970 Brian moved to the Medical Research Council (MRC) Biophysics Unit at King's College London, from which he retired as Director at the end of 1989. He continued to be an active researcher at Guy's Hospital Medical School (1990-97) and in the Institute of Ophthalmology, University College London (1997-2000). Brian was a modest and kind person, generous in sharing ideas and material; he liked to interact and cooperate with other people and was very supportive of young scientists.
The influence of endogenous opioid blockade by naltrexone during prenatal life on postnatal heart development was studied in rats. Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats received daily injections of 50 mg/kg naltrexone (NTX) or saline throughout gestation; offspring were cross-fostered at birth to mothers not receiving NTX. In general, NTX-treated offspring weighed more than controls throughout preweaning life, whereas heart weights were often increased from age-matched controls up to 35 days. Biochemical analyses of nucleic acids and protein demonstrated that DNA and protein content were increased throughout development in NTX-treated animals relative to controls. Morphometric analyses revealed increases in total area of the heart and myocardial area in NTX-exposed rats relative to control levels. These data suggest that endogenous opioids function to regulate cardiac growth during the prenatal period, and that disruption of this process has long-term implication for cardiac biology.
This article reviews the modern literature on two key aspects of the central circuitry of emotion: the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the amygdala. There are several different functional divisions of the PFC, including the dorsolateral, ventromedial, and orbital sectors. Each of these regions plays some role in affective processing that shares the feature of representing affect in the absence of immediate rewards and punishments as well as in different aspects of emotional regulation. The amygdala appears to be crucial for the learning of new stimulus-threat contingencies and also appears to be important in the expression of cue-specific fear. Individual differences in both tonic activation and phasic reactivity in this circuit play an important role in governing different aspects of anxiety. Emphasis is placed on affective chronometry, or the time course of emotional responding, as a key attribute of individual differences in propensity for anxiety that is regulated by this circuitry.
Rodent models of social behavior provide powerful experimental tools for elucidating the molecular, cellular, and neurobiological mechanisms regulating social behavior. Here I discuss several rodent models that have been particularly useful in understanding the neurobiology of the discrimination of social verses nonsocial stimuli, affiliative behavior, and social avoidance. The oxytocin knockout mouse model has been useful for understanding how, in the context of social recognition, the brain may process social stimuli differently from nonsocial stimuli. Vole species that are either highly social and monogamous or solitary and promiscuous have provided a model for investigating the brain mechanisms involved in promoting social interactions. Comparative studies in these species strongly implicate the neuropeptides oxytocin and vasopressin in the regulation of affiliative behavior as well as social attachment. A conditioned defeat model in hamsters may provide a useful model to understand how adverse social experiences may facilitate social avoidance. These models have yielded valuable insights into the regulation of social behaviors, and the findings of these studies may prove useful in understanding the neural mechanisms that underlie individual differences in human personality traits.
The amygdala has long been implicated in the mediation of emotional and social behaviors. Because there are very few human subjects with selective bilateral damage of the amygdala, much of the evidence for these functional associations has come from studies employing animal subjects. Macaque monkeys live in complex, highly organized social groups that are characterized by stable and hierarchical relationships among individuals who engage in complex forms of social communication, such as facial expressions. Understanding the role of the amygdala in animals that display a level of social sophistication approaching that of humans will help in understanding the amygdala's role in human social behavior and in psychopathology such as social anxiety. Selective bilateral lesions of the amygdala in mature macaque monkeys result in a lack of fear responses to inanimate objects and a &quot;socially uninhibited&quot; pattern of behavior. These results imply that the amygdala functions as a protective &quot;brake&quot; on engagement of objects or organisms while an evaluation of potential threat is carried out. They also suggest that social anxiety may be a dysregulation or hyperactivity of the amygdala's evaluative process. Finally, recent data from developmental studies raise the possibility that, at least at some developmental stages, fear in social contexts may be subserved by different brain regions than fear of inanimate objects.
In order to understand the significance of brain signals, chaotic dynamics of the EEG were analyzed during parabolic flight. Chaotic and other measures of brain waves and eye movements change their characteristics as a function of a host of relatively slow components, such as an about-monthly cycle and early in human ontogeny, starting in gestation. Structural and functional redundancy, yet with diversity in space and time, may serve for adjustment to changes in the environment of the species and thus of the individual. With increasing age, with the accumulation of structured information, the order-to-noise ratio increases, suggesting that for a while during growth, the making of order out of chaos may define the course of development in time.
We have developed a genetically targetable, optical channel-gating reporter that converts rapid membrane potential changes into changes in fluorescence intensity. We have named this construct SPARC (sodium channel protein-based activity reporting construct). Green fluorescent protein was inserted into an intracellular loop of a reversibly nonconducting form of the rat mu I skeletal muscle voltage-gated sodium channel. Rapid changes of the membrane potential modulate the fluorescence of the inserted green fluorescent protein. This change in fluorescence can faithfully report depolarizing pulses as short as 2 ms. The fluorescence signal does not inactivate during extended depolarizations. Several features of the probe's response properties indicate that it likely reports gating charge movement of a single domain of rat mu I skeletal muscle. This probe provides a new approach for studying rapid channel movements and may possibly act as a fluorescent activity reporter in excitable cells.
We studied patterns of oscillatory neural activity in the network that generates respiratory rhythm in mammals. When isolated in vitro, this network spontaneously generates an inspiratory-related motor rhythm, with stable amplitude from cycle to cycle. We show that progressively elevating neuronal excitability in vitro causes periodic modulation of this inspiratory rhythm, evoking (in order): mixed-mode oscillations, quasiperiodicity, and ultimately disorganized aperiodic activity. Thus, the respiratory network oscillator follows a well defined sequence of behavioral states characterized by dynamical systems theory, which includes discrete stages of periodic and quasiperiodic amplitude modulation and progresses (according to theory) to aperiodic chaos-like behavior. We also observed periodic, mixed-mode periodic, and quasiperiodic breathing patterns in neonatal rodents and human infants in vivo, suggesting that breathing patterns generated by the intact nervous system reflect deterministic neural activity patterns in the underlying rhythm-generating network.
Technological computation is entering the quantum realm, focusing attention on biomolecular information processing systems such as proteins, as presaged by the work of Michael Conrad. Protein conformational dynamics and pharmacological evidence suggest that protein conformational states-fundamental information units ('bits') in biological systems-are governed by quantum events, and are thus perhaps akin to quantum bits ('qubits') as utilized in quantum computation. 'Real time' dynamic activities within cells are regulated by the cell cytoskeleton, particularly microtubules (MTs) which are cylindrical lattice polymers of the protein tubulin. Recent evidence shows signaling, communication and conductivity in MTs, and theoretical models have predicted both classical and quantum information processing in MTs. In this paper we show conduction pathways for electron mobility and possible quantum tunneling and superconductivity among aromatic amino acids in tubulins. The pathways within tubulin match helical patterns in the microtubule lattice structure, which lend themselves to topological quantum effects resistant to decoherence. The Penrose-Hameroff 'Orch OR' model of consciousness is reviewed as an example of the possible utility of quantum computation in MTs.
The paper is devoted to the analysis of digitized sequences of real numbers and discrete strings, by means of the concepts of entropy and complexity. Special attention is paid to the random character of these quantities and their fluctuation spectrum. As applications, we discuss neural spike-trains and DNA sequences. We consider a given sequence as one realization of finite length of certain random process. The other members of the ensemble are defined by appropriate surrogate sequences and surrogate processes. We show that n-gram entropies and the context-free grammatical complexity have to be considered as fluctuating quantities and study the corresponding distributions. Different complexity measures reveal different aspects of a sequence. Finally, we show that the diversity of the entropy (that takes small values for pseudorandom strings) and the context-free grammatical complexity (which takes large values for pseudorandom strings) give, nonetheless, consistent results by comparison of the ranking of sample sequences taken from molecular biology, neuroscience, and artificial control sequences.
New staining techniques continue to be introduced, and older ones continue to be used and improved. Several factors control specificity, selectivity and visibility of the end product in any procedure using dyes, fluorochromes, inorganic reagents or histochemical reactions applied to sections or similar preparations. Local concentration of the tissue target often determines the intensity of the observed color, as does the fine structure within the object being stained, which may facilitate or impede diffusion of dyes and other reagents. Several contributions to affinity control the specificity of staining. These include electrical forces, which result in accumulation of dye ions in regions of oppositely charged tissue polyions. Weaker short-range attractions (hydrogen bonding, van der Waals forces or hydrophobic bonding, depending on the solvent) hold dyes ions and histochemical end products in contact with their macromolecular substrates. Nonionic forces can also increase visibility of stained sites by causing aggregation of dye molecules. Covalent bonds between dye and tissue result in the strongest binding, such as in methods using Schiff's reagent and possibly also some mordant dyes. The rate at which a reagent gains access to or is removed from targets in a section or other specimen affect what is stained, especially when more then one dye is used, together or sequentially. Rate-controlled staining is greatly influenced by the presence and type of embedding medium, such as a resin, that infiltrates the tissue. The rates of chemical reactions are major determinants of outcome in many histochemical techniques. Selective staining of different organelles within living cells is accomplished mainly with fluorochromes and is controlled by mechanisms different from those that apply to fixed tissues. Quantitative structure-activity relations (QSAR) of such reagents can be derived from such molecular properties as hydrophilic-hydrophobic balance, extent of conjugated bond systems, acid-base properties and ionic charge. The QSAR correlates with staining of endoplasmic reticulum, lysosomes, mitochondria, DNA, or the plasma membranes of living cells.

In a clinical trial, treatment of mild-moderate hypertensive patients with losartan (50 mg) increased Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores by 4 points from baseline over a 26-month period, compared with a 1-point increase in patients treated with hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg). This study explores the potential economic consequences of this improvement in cognitive function in a population of elderly hypertensive patients in Sweden. Resource use and MMSE data for 437 hypertensive, non-demented subjects aged 75 years and above, were taken from a population-based study in Sweden. MMSE scores were strongly related with costs of care due to higher utilization of home help and special living arrangements in patients with low scores. A 1-point difference in MMSE was associated with a difference in the annual cost of care of approximately 5700 Swedish kronor (SEK). Over 26 months, the potential cost savings from the 4-point improvement observed with losartan was estimated to be between 24700 and 43700 SEK. This can be compared with the acquisition cost of losartan; approximately 5700 SEK over the study period. Thus, an improvement in cognitive function of the magnitude documented in the study of losartan vs hydrochlorothiazide, may translate into economic benefits beyond those expected in terms of blood pressure control.
1. We recently reported that nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) inhibited forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity and increased basal enzyme activity in membranes of the external plexiform layer (EPL) and granule cell layer (GRL), respectively, of the rat main olfactory bulb. In the present study we have characterized the pharmacological profile of the inhibitory and stimulatory responses by examining the effects of various N/OFQ receptor agonists and antagonists. 2. N/OFQ(1 - 13)NH(2) fully mimicked the inhibitory and stimulatory effects of N/OFQ with EC(50) values of 0.9 and 6.5 nM, respectively. N/OFQ(1 - 7) was inactive at concentrations up to 1 microM, whereas Ac-RYYRIK-NH(2) and [Phe(1)Psi(CH(2)NH)Gly(2)]N/OFQ(1 - 13)-NH(2) behaved as partial agonists in eliciting both responses. 3. The nonpeptidyl N/OFQ receptor antagonist J-113397 competitively counteracted the inhibitory and stimulatory effects of N/OFQ with pA(2) values of 8.63 and 8.70, respectively. Similarly, the peptidyl antagonist [Nphe(1)]N/OFQ(1 - 13)NH(2) potently antagonized the two effects with pA(2) values of 8.03 and 8.45, respectively. None of the antagonists per se affected adenylyl cyclase activity. 4. These data show that in distinct layers of rat olfactory bulb both the inhibitory and stimulatory effects of N/OFQ on cyclic AMP formation display pharmacological properties consistent with the involvement of N/OFQ receptors.
Cannabinoids have an antinociceptive action in many pain models. We have investigated a possible modulatory role for Type 1 Cannabinoid receptors (CB(1)) on the release of excitatory transmitter Substance P from the adult mouse spinal cord after stimulation of nociceptor terminals by capsaicin. Capsaicin (0.1 - 10 microM) was applied to superfused cord sections and evoked a dose dependent release of SP above basal outflow of (23.36+/-2.96 fmol 8 ml(-1)). Maximum evoked SP release was obtained with 5 microM Capsaicin (262.4+/-20.8 fmol 8 ml(-1)). Higher capsaicin concentrations (50 - 100 microM) evoked less SP release. Superfusion of CB(1) antagonist SR141716A (5 microM) increased evoked SP release with capsaicin (0.1 - 10 microM) and reversed the reducing effect of high dose capsaicin (100 microM). Antagonism of CB(1) receptors in the spinal cord during capsaicin stimulation, is evidence of tonic CB(1) activity inhibiting the release of excitatory transmitters after activation of nociceptive neurones and is also indicative of endocannabinoid production during noxious stimulation.
In 1978, Hoffman and Brookler published an article in The Laryngoscope to challenge prevailing views on the lack of diagnostic power of certain symptoms often reported by patients to neuro-otologists. Some of these 'under-rated neuro-otological symptoms' include complaints of non-rotational dizziness, blurred and double vision, and the development of visual motion hypersensitivity in patients with balance disorders. In this review, I revisit these visual symptoms in the light of new findings from our laboratory. Double vision due to skew eye deviation can indeed occur in peripheral vestibular disease when there is a large, acute peripheral imbalance of vestibular function. It is more frequent and severe in brain stem disease. In both cases, it is explained by disruption of the torsional vestibular ocular reflex. It is usually assumed that damage to the otolith underlies the emergence of skew diplopia, but recent evidence shows that the vertical canal system is likely to be partly responsible as well. The other 'under-rated symptom' revisited here is what patients describe as dizziness when watching moving objects or whilst walking in visually busy surroundings such as supermarkets. Recent work has shown that this 'visual vertigo' emerges in patients who, in addition to suffering from a vestibular disorder, have increased visual dependence. Visual dependence denotes subjects who preferentially use vision, as opposed to vestibular or proprioceptive input, for spatial orientation and postural control. We do not know as yet what makes some vestibular patients become extremely visually dependent. However, we have provided evidence for Hoffman and Brookler's impression that visually triggered complaints should not be summarily dismissed, as they often point to an underlying vestibular disorder.
The generation of tinnitus is a topic of much scientific enquiry. This chapter reviews possible mechanisms of tinnitus, whilst noting that the heterogeneity observed within the human population with distressing tinnitus means that there may be many different mechanisms by which tinnitus can occur. Indeed, multiple mechanisms may be at work within one individual. The role of the cochlea in tinnitus is considered, and in particular the concept of discordant damage between inner and outer hair cells is described. Biochemical models of tinnitus pertaining to the cochlea and the central auditory pathway are considered. Potential mechanisms for tinnitus within the auditory brain are reviewed, including important work on synchronised spontaneous activity in the cochlear nerve. Whilst the number of possible mechanisms of tinnitus within the auditory system is considerable, the identification of the physiological substrates underlying tinnitus is a crucial element in the design of novel and effective therapies.
The role of temporal lobe structures in olfactory memory was investigated by (i) the examination of odour learning and memory in patients who had undergone resection from a temporal lobe (including primary olfactory regions) for the treatment of intractable epilepsy; and (ii) the examination of brain function during odour memory tasks as assessed via PET imaging of healthy individuals. In order to study different stages of odour memory, recognition of a 'list' of odours was tested after a first exposure, again after four exposures and once more after a 24 h delay interval. Patients with resection from a temporal lobe performed significantly less well than control subjects on all trials, and no significant differences were noted as a function of side of resection, indicating that there is not a strong hemispheric superiority for this task. The PET data yielded different levels of activity in piriform cortex (primary olfactory cortex), in relation to the 'no-odour' baseline scan, depending on the type of processing: no increase in activity noted during odour encoding, a small increase bilaterally during short-term recognition and a larger increase bilaterally during long-term recognition. These findings, together with findings in animal studies, suggest that piriform cortex may have an active role in odour memory processing, not simply in odour perception. Taken together, the findings from the lesion study and functional brain imaging of healthy subjects suggest that olfactory memory requires input from left and right temporal lobe regions for optimal odour recognition, and that, unlike with verbal or non-verbal visual material, there is not a strong functional lateralization for olfactory memory.
In patients suffering from temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), increased extracellular glutamate levels in the epileptogenic hippocampus both during and after clinical seizures have been reported. These increased glutamate levels could be the result of malfunctioning and/or downregulation of glutamate transporters (also known as EAATs; excitatory amino acid transporters). In this study, the distribution of protein and mRNA of EAAT subtypes was examined in the hippocampus of TLE patients with hippocampal sclerosis (HS group) and without hippocampal sclerosis (non-HS group), and in autopsy controls without neurological disorders. EAAT protein localization was studied by immunohistochemistry on paraffin sections using specific poly- and monoclonal antibodies against the glial glutamate transporters EAAT1 and EAAT2 and the neuronal glutamate transporter EAAT3. Antibody specificity was shown by immunoblotting. In the HS group, a small decrease in EAAT1-immunoreactivity (IR) was observed in CA4 and in the polymorphic and supragranular layer of the dentate gyrus, compared with the control group. The strongest changes were found for EAAT2 levels. In the non-HS group, increased EAAT2-IR was detected in the CA1 and CA2 field, compared with non-epileptic controls. EAAT2-IR was decreased in the HS compared with the non-HS group. Fewer EAAT3-positive cells were found in the HS group than in the non-HS and control group. In both TLE groups, increased EAAT3 levels were observed in individual neurones. In the HS group, the percentage of EAAT3-IR neurones was increased in CA2 and in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus. Radioactive in situ hybridization for EAAT1-3 confirmed our immunohistochemical results. Non-radioactive in situ hybridization showed that not only astrocytes, but also neurones express EAAT2 mRNA. Taken together, differences in both mRNA and protein levels of glutamate transporter subtypes were found in specific regions in the TLE hippocampus, with most severe changes found for EAAT2 and EAAT3 levels. The results indicate an upregulation of EAAT2 protein expression in CA1 and CA2 in neurones in the non-HS group. This is in line with decreased EAAT2 protein levels in the HS group, since these hippocampi are characterized by severe neuronal cell loss. The functional consequences (glutamate transport capacity) of the reported changes in EAAT2 and EAAT3 remain to be determined.
The ability of neuropeptides to modulate neural circuit activity is well established, but little is known regarding how the actions of neurally-released peptides are regulated. This issue is being studied in the isolated stomatogastric nervous system (STNS) of decapod crustaceans. The STNS is a small neural system that contains the rhythmically active gastric mill (chewing) and pyloric (filtering of chewed food) motor circuits within the stomatogastric ganglion (STG). These circuits are influenced by a set of modulatory projection neurons in the neighboring commissural and oesophageal ganglia. This system includes three different projection neurons that contain the peptide transmitter proctolin among an overlapping complement of cotransmitters. Despite their shared proctolinergic phenotype, when these projection neurons are activated individually each of them has distinct actions on the gastric mill and pyloric circuits. These distinct actions result only partly from the presence of different cotransmitters in these projection neurons. Also contributing to these distinct actions are differences in the pattern of transmitter release as well as a differential, peptidase-mediated sculpting of the actions of the proctolin released from each projection neuron. There is also a convergence of peptide cotransmitter actions, at the level of the target ion channel, which might limit the effectiveness of each individual cotransmitter. One lesson already learned from this small neural system is that there is a diverse collection of regulatory mechanisms for controlling the actions of neurally-released peptides on rhythmically active neural circuits.
An evolutionarily conserved feature of neural systems is that they can be modified by neuromodulators. These modulatory chemical signals include the biogenic amines, octopamine (OA), serotonin (5-HT) and dopamine (DA). Such modulation effectively broadens the operational range in which specific neural circuits can function adaptively. This report discusses how these amines are themselves modulated; for example, by the steroid hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone (20-E) or by the addition of a second biogenic amine. Such second-order neuromodulation, termed metamodulation, is discussed in the context of two well-studied invertebrate systems: the tobacco hornworm moth Manduca sexta, a model of neurodevelopment and plasticity, and the medicinal leech Hirudo medicinalis, a long-favored preparation used to study neural circuits at the level of identified neurons. A portion of this article reviews our previous research of M. sexta that shows that the 'preadult' rise in 20-E is both necessary and sufficient for the increased levels of octopamine observed in the adult. Such elevated levels likely play an important role in the production and modulation of adult behaviors. The somatic growth of median octopaminergic neurons and the late expression of OA-immunoreactivity by novel lateral neurons are also demonstrated to be dependent on 20-E. New immunocytochemical results of stained dopaminergic neurons in the larval and adult moth brain are provided as well, and the potential influence of 20-E on the developmental expression of this neuromodulator is presented. Turning attention to the leech, data indicate that the actions of OA are dramatically altered when 5-HT is combined with OA in the bath surrounding the isolated nervous system. Although either OA or 5-HT alone induces fictive swimming behavior, a cocktail of these two amines strongly inhibits the generation of swimming. Subsequent removal of such a mixture induces nearly continuous swimming and constitutes the best swim-inducing stimulus encountered to date. To understand better how these nonadditive effects are achieved, new results are discussed that indicate that the leech brain is the target of metamodulation by the two amines. Both the arthropod and annelid systems presented here highlight the multiple levels of metamodulation that can exist in nervous systems, and the diverse ways that a modulator's actions can become altered over short or long time periods.
What examples of convergence in higher-level complex cognitive characteristics exist in the animal kingdom? In this paper I will provide evidence that convergent intelligence has occurred in two distantly related mammalian taxa. One of these is the order Cetacea (dolphins, whales and porpoises) and the other is our own order Primates, and in particular the suborder anthropoid primates (monkeys, apes, and humans). Despite a deep evolutionary divergence, adaptation to physically dissimilar environments, and very different neuroanatomical organization, some primates and cetaceans show striking convergence in social behavior, artificial 'language' comprehension, and self-recognition ability. Taken together, these findings have important implications for understanding the generality and specificity of those processes that underlie cognition in different species and the nature of the evolution of intelligence.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has had an enormous impact on the practice of medicine, and especially, on the clinical neurosciences. One area in which MRI has had a particularly large impact has been on the analysis and understanding of cerebral malformations. This manuscript describes the manner in which MRI in conjunction with modern molecular biology has helped to shed new light on our understanding and classification of cerebral malformations.

Mice lacking a corpus callosum (CC) often show little or no deficit on tests of behavior. This paper reports that on highly complex bimanual motor tasks, deficits can be found. The speed of running on a wheel with irregularly spaced rungs is reduced by both hereditary absence of the CC in 129 x BALB/c recombinant mice and surgical section of the CC in genetically normal B6D2F(2) mice. The effect of CC absence appears on measures most closely related to speed, no influence exists on the amount of running over a period of 5 days. Motor behavior on a notched balance beam, on the other hand, shows clear superiority of the hybrid mice but no relation with reduced size of the CC, whether it was produced by genotype or surgery. The effect of absent CC is task dependent, but it is not obscured by developmental compensation in the recombinant mice.
Dysfunction of the hippocampal formation manifests as impaired relational learning and memory in humans and animals. One of the most frequently applied relational learning paradigms in animals is the Morris water maze (MWM), in which the subject is required to learn complex spatial relationships of visual cues. MWM has been employed as a diagnostic tool to investigate effects of drugs and mutations. However, the validity of this test and its ability to properly detect hippocampal dysfunction have been questioned. In order to corroborate the role of hippocampus in spatial learning, we employed ibotenic acid lesioning and ablated the hippocampus bilaterally or unilaterally in mice, as ascertained by magnetic resonance imaging. We found a significant impairment in response to hippocampal disruption that was more pronounced in mice with bilateral lesion than with unilateral lesion. However, the results also indicated that even the mice with bilateral lesion could improve their performance, which confirms the notion that the MWM has an important non-hippocampal component. It is thus possible that experimental alteration of brain function does not manifest as modified performance in MWM, even when hippocampal function is modified (false-negative finding), or manifest as altered performance without varying hippocampal function (false-positive finding), possibilities that have important implications for studies using genetic and pharmacological manipulation of the brain.
In this study, we focused on the potential function of the murine gene Tcf12 (also known as ME1 or HEB) encoding the bHLH E-protein ME1 during brain development. An exencephaly phenotype of low penetrance has consistently been observed in both Tcf12 null mice and Tcf12(dm) homozygous mice. Thus, to address the possible underlying mechanism of the Tcf12 gene during the early steps of brain development, we performed a detailed analysis of its spatio-temporal expression pattern at distinct steps of gastrulation and neurogenesis. We found that Tcf12 transcripts are detected in the embryonic ectoderm prior to neural induction during gastrulation. During neurulation, Tcf12 transcripts are evident at high levels in the proliferating neuroepithelium of the neural folds and the cephalic mesenchyme. Thus, Tcf12 gene expression coincides with the massive proliferation occurring in the forming neuroepithelium and cephalic mesenchyme during neural tube formation, which is consistent with the exencephaly phenotype of Tcf12 null mice. In the developing cortex and spinal cord, Tcf12 expression is restricted to the proliferative ventricular zones, indicating that Tcf12 expression is down regulated when these neuronal cells undergo their final differentiation. Interestingly, we found that the postnatal Tcf12 expression parallels the ongoing adult neurogenesis in the mitotically active subventricular zone. Thus, the timing and location of Tcf12 expression combined with this severe neurulation defect support our hypothesis that the Tcf12 gene may be involved in the control of proliferating neural stem cells and progenitor cells and that it may be critical to sustain their undifferentiated state during embryonic and adult neurogenesis.
APC2 (previously known as APCL), a molecule closely related to the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) tumor suppressor, can deplete cytoplasmic beta-catenin, like APC itself. Recently, it has been shown that APC2 may regulate the localization of p53 and the microtubule stability and/or extension. Although it has been reported that APC2 mRNA is expressed in human brain, the anatomical and ontogenic expression patterns remain unclear. The purpose of this study was to investigate the distribution of mouse Apc2 during mouse development. In the adult brain, Apc2 is expressed predominantly in neurons and throughout the brain. Northern blot analysis demonstrated a high level of Apc2 expression in embryonic and early postnatal brain. Ontogenic analysis has indicated that Apc2 is expressed in neural tissue, including the peripheral nervous system. During development of cortex, retina and cerebellum, Apc2 is expressed in post-mitotic cells. These findings suggest that Apc2 may contribute to the development of neuronal cells.
The present study investigated the test-retest reliability of EEG source localizations of somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) in human upper limb amputees over a long time frame (several months) and examined the validity of source reconstruction. In two sessions spaced several months apart five unilateral upper limb amputees were stimulated at the first and fifth digit of the intact hand and at the left and right lower corner of the mouth. To examine the validity of the results of the neuroelectric source reconstruction a comparison with neuromagnetic source localization was performed for two subjects. The source localizations of the SEP components were found to be highly reproducible: the mean standard deviation of the dipole locations was 8.80 mm in the x-, 7.00 mm in the y- and 4.15 mm in the z-direction. The match of the comparison of EEG and MEG data was in the range of one centimeter. These results support the use of multi-electrode EEG recordings combined with MRI as an adequate method for the investigation of the functional organization of the somatosensory cortex in upper limb amputees and suggest high stability of cortical reorganization in these subjects.
The alarming increase in cannabis abuse has triggered a renewed interest in the neurobiological mechanisms which underlie its effects, particularly as regards its addictive properties either intrinsic or when crossed with other narcotics as well as its subsequent damage. We here report an evaluation of experimental data which reveal in animals a psychological dependence, common to all addictive drugs; a physical dependence, which is considered up to now as the characteristic of &quot;hard addictive drugs&quot;; the incentive effect that cannabis should exert on the inclination to abuse other addictive drugs, especially heroin; and finally the close relationships which seem to exist between cannabis and schizophrenia. Most of these recent data are far from reassuring as regards cannabis psychotoxicity. Furthermore they underline its potential danger and prompt increased caution.
Numerous data in both animals and humans have shown that the serotoninergic system in brain plays a key role in self-control behaviour, as a low serotoninergic tone is well known to be frequently associated with impulsivity, auto- and hetero-aggressive behaviour. Interestingly, repeated administration of addictive drugs such as cocaine actually induces a decrease in the brain serotoninergic tone, thereby promoting the loss of self-control which characterizes drug craving in dependent subjects. Indeed, extensive neurobiological studies showed that changes in central serotoninergic neurotransmission caused by chronic treatment with cocaine and other addictive drugs are in fact opposite to those produced by drugs which enhance serotoninergic neurotransmission such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Accordingly, the latter effect very probably accounts for the capacity of these antidepressants to promote autoinhibition, and reduce both craving and consumption of drugs. On this basis, it can be proposed that the combination of selected serotonin receptor ligands with substances having the capacity to reduce the reinforcing appetitive properties of drugs of abuse (such as cannabinoid receptor antagonists) might be a novel therapeutic approach of withdrawal in addicted subjects.
Helmholtz was an outstanding scientist, and dominated physiology during the second half of the XIXth century in the field of visual and auditory perception. Philosopher, he was deeply indebted to Kant for elaboration of empirical and experimental approach of facts. Man of culture, he laid the foundations of a scientific approach of music and painting. His work remains a fundamental contribution to the theory of knowledge.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE), a well characterized protein, forms lipoprotein complexes with cholesterol. Such complexes formed are endocytosed via the LDL receptor family by many cell types in particular within the human central nervous system (CNS). The apoE-endocytic pathway leads to apoE degradation. However, it has recently been indirectly shown that apoE can be retained intracellularly and then re-secreted. To investigate the fate of endocytosed apoE isoforms E2 and E3 within human CNS cells in real-time, we added the CNS form of these apoE isoforms, linked to a green fluorescent protein (EGFP), to cultured human foetal brain tissue. There was bi-directional trafficking of apoE-EGFP in neuron and astrocyte processes and 'stationary' perinuclear vesicles in type-I astrocytes. Thus, active apoE recycling in cells with defined processes suggests a role for apoE in mediating signalling through receptor-mediated endocytosis.
We have isolated mouse DLG6 (mDLG6) cDNA clones by RT-PCR and then by using the RT-PCR products to screen a mouse brain cDNA library. The deduced amino acid sequence of mDLG6 shows 79.2% and 82.7% overall identity to human (hDLG6) and rat DLG6 (rDLG6), respectively. In situ hybridization revealed that mDLG6 mRNA is predominantly expressed in embryonic and adult brain.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) plays a role in the distribution of lipid within many organs and cell types in the human body, including the central nervous system (CNS). The apoE4 isoform is also an established risk factor for late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD), however its role in the aetiology of the disease remains largely unknown. Therefore, as AD is a late-onset disease, we sort to investigate how conditions hypothesised to model ageing affect apoE metabolism, such as the transport of apoE along the secretory pathway. Two of these models include oxidative stress and calcium deregulation. Using apoE-EGFP-expressing astrocytoma cell lines we established that vesicle number and velocity are up-regulated under oxidative stress conditions, and slowed under KCl induced calcium deregulation. Although these findings apply to cells in general under these two stress conditions, the up-regulation of apoE in particular may be a response to cell injury with implications for neurodegeneration such as that found with late-onset AD.


The effect of zinc ions on caffeine-induced contracture in vascular smooth muscle and skeletal muscle of rat was studied. In aortic strips, caffeine contracture was depressed by Zn2+ in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, the extent of the depression of caffeine contracture in the Zn2+ loaded smooth muscle increased with repetitive caffeine exposures. For instance, in the preparations perfused with a medium containing 100 microM [Zn2+] for 15 or 30 min, the first caffeine contractures were similarly depressed to about 60% of the control. However, the subsequent caffeine exposure at 15 min interval could not evoke any contracture. In this study this feature is referred to as activation dependence of the Zn2+ effect. In small bundles of soleus muscle 2100 microM [Zn2+] similarly caused a depression of caffeine contracture, and the activation dependence also was evident. However, an evident potentiation of caffeine contracture was seen in the preparations loaded with lower [Zn2+] such as 0.5 microM, indicating that the effect of Zn2+ on caffeine contracture of skeletal muscle was somewhat different from that seen in smooth muscle. By observing how the depression effect depends on the intervals between caffeine exposures as well as on caffeine concentrations, it is indicated that the activation dependence of the Zn2+ effect, at least in skeletal muscle, may not be explained by depletion of intracellular Ca2+ stores alone. The possible mechanism for that caffeine contracture of smooth muscle and skeletal muscle was differentially affected by Zn2+ ions is discussed.
The aim of this study was to characterize the regulatory mechanisms of the P2X(7) receptor (P2X(7)R)-mediated phospholipase D (PLD) activation in a rat brain-derived Type-2 astrocyte cell line, RBA-2. A time course study revealed that activation of P2X(7)R resulted in a choline and not phosphorylcholine formation, suggesting that activation of P2X(7)R is associated with the phosphatidylcholine-PLD (PC-PLD) in these cells. GF 109203X, a selective protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, partially inhibited the P2X(7)R-mediated PLD activation, while blocking the phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA)-stimulated PLD activity. In addition, PMA synergistically activated the P2X(7)R-mediated PLD activity. Furthermore, genistein, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, blocked the P2X(7)R-activated PLD, while KN62, a Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) inhibitor, was less effective, whereas the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitor PD98059 was ineffective. No additive inhibitory effects were found by simultaneous treatment of GF 109203X and KN62 on P2X(7)R-activated PLD. Taken together, these results demonstrate that both PKC-dependent and PKC-independent signaling pathways are involved in the regulation of P2X(7)R-mediated PLD activation. Additionally, CaMKII may participate in the PKC-dependent pathway, and tyrosine kinase may play a pivotal role on both PKC-dependent and PKC-independent pathways in the P2X(7)R-mediated PLD activation in RBA-2 cells.
Sensory cells in the organ of Corti exhibit loose microtubule networks enriched in tyrosinated tubulin, whereas supporting cells have bundled microtubules containing post-translationally modified tubulin. The tubulin isoform distribution suggests that the microtubules in sensory cells are dynamic and those in supporting cells are stable. To test this, microtubule resistance to cold-induced depolymerization was examined by using immunocytochemical methods and antibodies to post-translationally modified tubulins. Microtubule labelling in cochleas perfused/immersed at room temperature was identical to that in previous studies of untreated cochleas. However, the microtubule patterns of perfused/immersed specimens were changed in cold-treated cochleas. Microtubules were no longer detected with antibodies to alpha- and tyrosinated tubulin in sensory cells from specimens exposed to cold, indicating their disassembly. Supporting cells in the same specimens showed almost total loss of detyrosinated and polyglutamylated tubulin in the middle and apical cochlear turns, and reduced labelling in the basal-most turn. Probing for alpha-, nontyrosinatable, acetylated and glycylated tubulin yielded decreased and sometimes patchy staining but these isoforms were observed even when detyrosinated and polyglutamylated tubulins were absent. The results indicate that sensory cells in the gerbil auditory sensory epithelium contain only cold-sensitive microtubules. In contrast, supporting cells possess a substantial subset of cold-stable microtubules, providing structural support to the vibratory sensory organ required for hearing.
In this review, recent studies using pharmacological treatment, cell transplantation, and gene therapy to promote regeneration of the injured spinal cord in animal models will be summarized. Pharmacological and cell transplantation treatments generally revealed some degree of effect on the regeneration of the injured ascending and descending tracts, but further improvements to achieve a more significant functional recovery are necessary. The use of gene therapy to promote repair of the injured nervous system is a relatively new concept. It is based on the development of methods for delivering therapeutic genes to neurons, glia cells, or nonneural cells. Direct in vivo gene transfer or gene transfer in combination with (neuro)transplantation (ex vivo gene transfer) appeared powerful strategies to promote neuronal survival and axonal regrowth following traumatic injury to the central nervous system. Recent advances in understanding the cellular and molecular mechanisms that govern neuronal survival and neurite outgrowth have enabled the design of experiments aimed at viral vector-mediated transfer of genes encoding neurotrophic factors, growth-associated proteins, cell adhesion molecules, and antiapoptotic genes. Central to the success of these approaches was the development of efficient, nontoxic vectors for gene delivery and the acquirement of the appropriate (genetically modified) cells for neurotransplantation. Direct gene transfer in the nervous system was first achieved with herpes viral and El-deleted adenoviral vectors. Both vector systems are problematic in that these vectors elicit immunogenic and cytotoxic responses. Adeno-associated viral vectors and lentiviral vectors constitute improved gene delivery systems and are beginning to be applied in neuroregeneration research of the spinal cord. Ex vivo approaches were initially based on the implantation of genetically modified fibroblasts. More recently, transduced Schwann cells, genetically modified pieces of peripheral nerve, and olfactory ensheathing glia have been used as implants into the injured spinal cord.
Fabry disease is an X-linked recessive disorder caused by a deficiency of the lysosomal hydrolase alpha-galactosidase A (alpha-gal). The deficiency of this enzyme leads to the systemic deposition of ceramide trihexoside (CTH) in various tissues and organs. Enzyme replacement using IV doses of recombinant human alpha-gal produced in CHO cells or in human fibroblasts is currently being evaluated in clinical trials as a potential therapy for this disease. However, it requires lifelong therapy involving a large amount of purified alpha-gal. As a novel approach for treatment of Fabry disease we used polymer encapsulated Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells genetically modified to express alpha-gal. The secreted high levels of alpha-gal passed through the semipermeable polymeric membrane. Using coculture system with Fabry fibroblasts, the secreted enzyme was taken up in cells, resulting in reduced accumulation of CTH in Fabry fibroblasts. This in vitro study demonstrated that an encapsulated alpha-gal-secreting cell line can be used to treat Fabry mice by transplantation in vivo. Judging from the protection against immune rejection by a semipermeable synthetic membrane, this novel approach may be applied to treat patients with Fabry disease and other lysosomal storage diseases.
The effect of experimentally induced seizure activity on the functional reorganization of motor maps has not previously been investigated. Furthermore, while the functional reorganization of motor maps has been thought to involve increases in synaptic communication, there has yet to be a test of this hypothesis. Here we show that repeated seizure activity (kindling), that is accompanied by increased synaptic strength within adult rat motor cortex, results in a doubling of the caudal forelimb motor area. We measured neo-cortical evoked potentials in the right hemisphere prior to 25 days of electrical kindling of the medial frontal corpus callosum or amygdala and re-measured them either 1 or 21 days following the last kindling session. Then, using high resolution intracortical microstimulation (ICMS), the caudal forelimb area in the left hemisphere was mapped. This is the first report of any procedure causing a motor representation to double in size. Furthermore, this expansion was related to the enhanced area of a neocortical polysynaptic field potential and not the motor convulsions per se. Moreover, both the motor map and field potential enhancements were persistent in nature and could be driven from either cortical or limbic sites. The data have implications for human populations with epilepsy.
Recently, we demonstrated that neural responses within the whisker region of the primary somatosensory cortex (SIw) of rats are profoundly influenced by the spatiotemporal attributes of ipsilateral, as well as contralateral, whisker stimuli. As inactivation of one SIw eliminates in the intact SIw both ipsilaterally evoked responses and the influence of ipsilateral stimulation on contralaterally evoked activity, we proposed that interhemispheric interactions between the SIws may be important for integrating bilateral whisker information. To test whether rats can recognize the bilateral nature of a whisker stimulus, we developed a tactile discrimination task that required rats to conjointly determine distances to a left and a right discriminandum as equidistant or non-equidistant using only their facial whiskers. All rats trained in this task achieved performance levels indicative of an ability to integrate bilateral whisker information. Testing during unilateral, as well as bilateral, inactivation of the SIws indicated that rats rely on both SIws for detecting the bilateral nature of a whisker stimulus. Rats were unable to perform the task without both sets of whiskers, a fact that indicates that the whiskers (and not other modalities) were used to perform this task. The findings presented here indicate that rats can solve a task that requires the conjoint detection of left and right whisker-mediated distance information and implicate the SIws as central to this ability.
Granule cells of the cerebellum constitute the largest homogeneous neuronal population of mammalian brain. Due to their postnatal generation and the feasibility of well characterized primary in vitro cultures, cerebellar granule cells are a model of election for the study of cellular and molecular correlates of mechanisms of survival/apoptosis and neurodegeneration/neuroprotection. The present review mainly deals with recent data on mechanisms and factors promoting survival or apoptotic elimination of cerebellar granule neurons, with a particular focus on the molecular correlates at the level of gene expression and induction of cellular signal pathways. The in vivo development is first analysed with particular reference to the role played by several neurotrophic factors and by the NMDA subtype of glutamate receptor. Then, mechanisms of survival/apoptosis are examined in the model of primary in vitro cultures, where the role of neurotrophins acting on cerebellar granule cells is followed by the large deal of data coming from the paradigm of potassium/serum withdrawal. The role of some key genes of the Bcl family, of some kinase systems and of transcriptional factors is primarily highlighted. Furthermore, the involvement of mitochondria, free radicals and proteases of the caspase family is considered. Finally, the use of cerebellar granule neurons in primary culture to experimentally address the issue of neurodegeneration and pharmacological neuroprotection is considered, with some comments on models at the borderline between necrosis and apoptosis, such as the excitotoxic neuronal damage. The overlapping of cellular signal pathways activated in granule neurons by apparently unrelated stimuli, such as neurotrophins and neurotransmitters/neuromodulators is stressed to put into light the special 'trophic' role played by activity in neurons. Finally, the advantage of designing and performing conceptually equivalent experiments on cerebellar granule neurons during development in vivo and in vitro, is stressed. On the basis of the reviewed material, it is concluded that cerebellar granule neurons have acquired a special position in modern neuroscience as one of the most reliable models for the study of neural development, function and pathology.

The prognostic predictors of poor outcome, as defined by death between 3 and 15 months and dependent living at 15 months, were examined in the Helsinki Stroke Aging Memory (SAM) study cohort. Death between 3 and 15 months was registered from the whole study group of 486 consecutive patients aged 55-85 years. Altogether 286 of the 486 patients went through a detailed follow-up examination both 3 and 15 months after stroke, including structured measures of emotion (Beck's Depression Inventory, BDI), cognition (Mini-Mental State Examination, MMSE), dementia assessment according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-III), and handicap (Rankin scale, RS). The only independent correlate of death between 3 and 15 months was dependent living at 3 months (OR 2.6, 95% CI 1.2-5.8), which also had the most powerful association with dependent living at 15 months (OR 5.8, 95% CI 2.6-13.1). Also, both worsening in cognition (change in MMSE, OR for each point of worsening 1.2, 95% CI 1.1-1.3) and worsening of depression (change in BDI, OR for each point of worsening 1.1, 95% CI 1.02-1.12), between 3 and 15 months follow-up, had an independent effect on dependent living 15 months after ischemic stroke. This challenges the care and rehabilitation of these items even at the stable period after stroke.
Patients with intracranial haemorrhage may sometimes require antithrombotic drugs or be inadvertently given antithrombotic therapy. We systematically reviewed all published trials comparing any antithrombotic agent with control among patients with any form of intracranial haemorrhage. We extracted data on deaths, recurrent intracranial haemorrhage and functional outcome. There were 9 randomised trials of 5 different antithrombotic agents versus control in patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage (6 trials, n = 1,224) or with acute intracerebral haemorrhage (3 trials, n = 819). The overall odds ratio (OR) for death among patients with any intracranial haemorrhage given an antiplatelet agent (8 trials, 1,997 patients) was 0.85 (95% confidence interval, CI, 0.63-1.15), and for recurrent intracranial haemorrhage it was 1.00 (95% CI 0.73-1.37). The corresponding ORs for patients with intraparenchymal cerebral haemorrhage were 0.96 (0.62-1.5) and 1.02 (0.5-1.8), respectively, but 65% of these patients received only a few doses of antithrombotic treatment. The overall OR for death in patients with any intraparenchymal cerebral haemorrhage given heparin compared with control (3 trials, 819 patients, subcutaneous heparin) was 0.96 (95% CI 0.38-2.40), and for recurrent intracranial haemorrhage it was 2.00 (95% CI 0.86-4.70). There were no reliable data on the effects of antithrombotic agents on functional outcome. These scant data do not support reliable conclusions about the safety or otherwise of antithrombotic agents in patients with acute intracranial haemorrhage. Antithrombotic agents should be avoided where possible in patients with acute intracerebral haemorrhage.

Vascular dementia (VaD) incorporates different vascular mechanisms and changes in the brain, and has different causes and clinical manifestations. Current criteria for VaD select an aetiologically and clinically heterogeneous group and this definitional heterogeneity has affected clinical trial results. Focus on a more homogeneous group, such as that with subcortical (ischaemic) VaD, could be an alternative in clinical drug trials. This subtype incorporates two small vessel clinical entities - 'Binswanger's disease' and 'the lacunar state'. It comprises small vessel disease as the primary vascular aetiology, lacunar infarct(s) and ischaemic white matter lesions as the primary type of brain lesions, subcortical location as the primary location of lesions, and the subcortical clinical syndrome as the primary clinical manifestation. Subcortical VaD is expected to show a more predictable clinical picture, natural history, outcome and treatment responses.

Autoimmune diseases are rarely the cause of stroke even in the young age group in association with cervical artery dissection and collagen vascular diseases. Takayasu arteritis is a chronic, idiopathic, inflammatory disease that primarily affects large vessels, such as the aorta and its main branches. Takayasu arteritis rarely coexists with systemic lupus erythematosus, and only few cases have been reported in association with the presence of antiphospholipid antibodies. We describe a young patient with right internal carotid artery dissection and subsequent stroke who presented with all three syndromes. Although this patient met the diagnostic criteria for each syndrome, systemic lupus erythematosus, Takayasu arteritis and the antiphospholipid antibody syndrome, it remains unlikely that the three disorders are not related. We suggest a single disimmune disorder may have led to carotid artery dissection.

SB-T-1213 and IDN5109 are semisynthetic, orally available taxanes that are up to 400-fold more active than paclitaxel against drug-resistant cells. IDN5109 is in clinical trials. We investigated the primary target for SB-T-1213 and IDN5109 and whether the compounds interact with microtubules differently than paclitaxel. Unlike paclitaxel, at 1-10 microM both novel taxanes initiate microtubule polymerization in vitro with no lag. They enhance polymerization equally or more potently than paclitaxel. SB-T-1213 induces unusual microtubules with attached extra protofilaments or open sheets, and IDN5109 induces large protofilamentous sheets. Both inhibit HeLa cell proliferation, block mitosis at the metaphase/anaphase transition, bundle microtubules at high drug concentrations, and induce abnormal metaphase spindles and apoptosis. They target microtubules but alter their polymerization and structure differently than paclitaxel. These differences may play a role in their enhanced cytotoxicity and efficacy.
4-Hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE) has been recognized as reactive product of lipid peroxidation and has been suggested to play a role in the pathogenesis in several common diseases as well as injuries caused by environmental toxicants. Although formed intracellularly in vivo, for practical reasons this molecule is applied extracellularly in order to analyze its biological effects. The focus of this study was to develop an approach that would enable intracellular HNE production in the absence of the many other products and processes that occur in cells experiencing generalized oxidative stress. To this end, we synthesized 1,1,4-tris(acetyloxy)-2(E)-nonene (HNE[Ac]3), a triester analogue of HNE that is itself unreactive but could be hydrolyzed intracellularly presumably by lipases and/or esterases into the highly reactive HNE. In vitro lipase rapidly converted HNE(Ac)(3) initially to 4-acetyloxy-2-nonenal (HNE[Ac]1) and then to HNE. Neuro 2A cell lysate also caused a rapid hydrolysis of HNE(Ac)3 into HNE(Ac)1 and HNE. Incubation of BSA with HNE(Ac)3 resulted in protein-adduct formation only in the presence of lipase. We demonstrated adduction of HNE to proteins in Neuro 2A cells exposed to HNE(Ac)3 by immunoblotting and immunocytochemistry using antibodies specific for HNE-Michael adducts on proteins. We have previously shown that microtubule organization is very sensitive to HNE. Analysis of Neuro 2A cell microtubules showed that this cytoplasmic organelle is similarly sensitive to HNE and HNE(Ac)3.
Taste-responsive cells in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) either project to the parabrachial nuclei (PbN) of the pons, through which taste information is transmitted to forebrain gustatory nuclei, or give rise to axons terminating locally within the medulla. Numerous anatomical studies clearly demonstrate a substantial projection from the rostral NST, where most taste-responsive cells are found, to the PbN. In contrast, previous electrophysiological studies in the rat have shown that only a small proportion (21-45%) of taste-responsive NST cells are antidromically activated from the PbN, suggesting that less than half the cells recorded from the NST are actually involved in forebrain processing of gustatory information. In the present experiment we investigated the projections from the NST to the PbN electrophysiologically in urethane anesthetized hamsters. Responses of 101 single neurons in the rostral NST were recorded extracellularly following lingual stimulation with 32 mM NaCl, sucrose and quinine hydrochloride (QHCl) and 3.2 mM citric acid. The taste-responsive region of the PbN was identified electrophysiologically and stimulated with a concentric bipolar electrode to antidromically activate each NST cell. Of the 101 taste-responsive NST cells, 81 (80.2%) were antidromically activated from the ipsilateral PbN. The mean firing rates to taste stimulation and the spontaneous activity of these projection neurons were significantly greater than those of non-projecting cells. Every sucrose-best neuron in the sample projected to the PbN. The mean conduction velocity of the 23 QHCl-best neurons was significantly lower than that of the other 58 PbN projection neurons, suggesting that the most QHCl-responsive cells are a subset of smaller neurons. These data show that a large majority of NST cells responsive to taste stimulation of the anterior tongue project to the gustatory subdivisions of the PbN and that these cells have the most robust responses to gustatory stimulation.
Chlorhexidine, a bitter bis-biguanide antiseptic, is the only known blocker of the human salty taste. In order to characterize the effects of chlorhexidine on stimulus identification, taste confusion matrix (TCM) performance was measured for subjects treated with 1.34 mM chlorhexidine gluconate (n = 9) and water controls (n = 9). Ten stimuli [water, 0.1 M NaCl, 0.1 M KCl, 0.1 mM quinine-HCl (QHCl), 0.1 M monosodium glutamate (MSG), 3 mM citric acid, 0.3 M sucrose and mixtures of NaCl, QHCl and citric acid with sucrose] were presented in 10 replicates for identification from a list of 10 stimulus names. T(10), a measure of performance consistency from information theory, was lower for chlorhexidine-treated subjects (2.02 +/- 0.11 bits) than controls (2.73 +/- 0.11 bits) (P &lt; 0.0001). T(2), an indirect measure of pairwise stimulus discrimination, approached chance levels (0.40 bit) in chlorhexidine-treated subjects for all possible pairs of NaCl, KCl, QHCl and water, as well as pairs composed of sucrose and the NaCl-sucrose and quinine-sucrose mixtures. In controls T(2) values approached perfect scores (1.00 bit) for all stimulus pairs except NaCl-KCl and NaCl-MSG. The results demonstrate a decreased ability to identify taste stimuli that is consistent with alterations in the ability of stimuli to elicit salty and bitter taste perceptions. As a selective, effective, persistent and reversible blocker of taste perceptions, chlorhexidine should prove useful in defining taste mechanisms in humans.
Numerous animals use chemical cues within their environments to execute various behaviors. One of these behaviors is orientation to an odor source. Crayfish, in particular, can orient to food sources under a number of different conditions. It has not been determined, however, what kind of search strategy these animals employ to successfully locate a food source. To determine the role of antennae and antennules in this behavior and to investigate different modes of orientation behavior, the orientation patterns of crayfish with complete and partial antennal lesions were examined. Detailed analysis of orientation paths confirmed that crayfish could not locate odor sources with either bilateral or unilateral lesions. This suggests that crayfish are using the spatial information obtained from these appendages to successfully orient. Animals using information from the bilaterally paired appendages in the control group exhibited increased walking speed, increased speed to source and decreased heading angles towards the source compared to these measurements taken from lesioned groups. There was no significant difference in any parameters between animals with unilateral or bilateral lesions. This strongly suggests that these animals are reliant on the spatial comparison of differences between bilaterally paired olfactory appendages for successful orientation.

Research on students with disabilities in mainstream schools often focuses on the students' personal abilities rather than on the establishment itself. To promote inclusive education, the environmental prerequisite for participation has to be explored also. The aim of this study was to identify the barriers to participation in Swedish mainstream schools, from the personal perspective of students with physical disabilities. The study also investigated how gender, diagnosis, level of mobility, academic years and availability of an assistant were related to student-environment fit. A total of 34 students with physical disabilities, aged between 10 and 19 years, participated in the study. The students were assessed by 'The school-setting interview'. Results show that two-thirds of the students experienced barriers to participation in both the physical and the social environment. A majority of the barriers originated from the way in which school activities were organized and carried out in schools. Failure to provide adequate environmental adjustments resulted in restricted participation or exclusion from some of the activities in class. Older students experienced significantly more barriers than younger ones because the school organization was less favourable. The results suggest that the way in which activities are organized in school is the area in need of most improvements to promote participation of students with physical disabilities.


1. Over the past 5 years, there has been emerging evidence that the vestibular system regulates sympathetic nerve activity in humans. We have studied this issue in humans by using head-down rotation (HDR) in the prone position. 2. These studies have clearly demonstrated increases in muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) and calf vascular resistance during HDR. These responses are mediated by engagement of the otolith organs and not the semicircular canals. 3. However, differential activation of sympathetic nerve activity has been observed during HDR. Unlike MSNA, skin sympathetic nerve activity does not increase with HDR. 4. Examination of the vestibulosympathetic reflex with other cardiovascular reflexes (i.e. barorereflexes and skeletal muscle reflexes) has shown an additive interaction for MSNA. 5. The additive interaction between the baroreflexes and vestibulosympathetic reflex suggests that the vestibular system may assist in defending against orthostatic challenges in humans by elevating MSNA beyond that of the baroreflexes. 6. In addition, the further increase in MSNA via otolith stimulation during isometric handgrip, when arterial pressure is elevated markedly, indicates that the vestibulosympathetic reflex is a powerful activator of MSNA and may contribute to blood pressure and flow regulation during dynamic exercise. 7. Future studies will help evaluate the importance of the vestibulosympathetic reflex in clinical conditions associated with orthostatic hypotension.

The concept of a purinergic signalling system, using purine nucleotides and nucleosides as extracellular messengers, was first proposed over 30 years ago. After a brief historical review and update of purinoceptor subtypes, this article focuses on the diverse physiological roles of adenosine triphosphate, adenosine diphosphate, uridine triphosphate and adenosine. These molecules mediate short-term (acute) signalling functions in neurotransmission, secretion and vasodilation, and long-term (chronic) signalling functions in development, regeneration, proliferation and cell death. Plasticity of purinoceptor expression in pathological conditions is frequently observed, including an increase in the purinergic component of parasympathetic nervous control of the human bladder in interstitial cystitis and outflow obstruction, and in sympathetic cotransmitter control of blood vessels in hypertensive rats. The antithrombotic action of clopidogrel (Plavix), a P2Y12 receptor antagonist, has been shown to be particularly promising in the prevention of recurrent strokes and heart attacks in recent clinical trials (CAPRIE and CURE). The role of P2X3 receptors in nociception and a new hypothesis concerning purinergic mechanosensory transduction in visceral pain will be considered, as will the therapeutic potential of purinergic agonists or antagonists for the treatment of supraventricular tachycardia, cancer, dry eye, bladder hyperactivity, erectile dysfunction, osteoporosis, diabetes, gut motility and vascular disorders.
A 72-year-old woman was operated for a left parietal tumor of the meninges. The symptomatology began 22 years earlier with a right hemiparesis. The histological examination of the tumor showed a proliferation of meningothelial cells with whorl formation, associated with a pleomorphic proliferation of a malignant fibrous histiocytoma. The meningothelial meningioma showed a typical aspect, with nuclear inclusions and absence of mitotic activity. The second tumor component showed a storiform architecture with giant multinucleated cells, necrosis and many typical and atypical mitoses. There was also an inflammatory component with infiltrates of lymphocytes. This tumor component at the border with the meningioma appeared to arise from the septa of the meningioma with many prongs merging into one large and pleomorphic histiocytomatous tumor. The dual histological aspect and the case are discussed in the light of what is already known in the literature. The woman has been irradiated after surgery and she is doing well 6 months after operation.
Idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) is characterized by motor signs such as akinesia, rigidity, and often tremor at rest. In addition to these symptoms, depression is a common finding affecting 40% of patients with IPD. This study evaluates the effect of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, citalopram, on motor and nonmotor symptoms of depressed and nondepressed patients with IPD. Forty-six nondemented patients with IPD (24 men, 22 women; mean age 64 +/- 5.3 years; mean +/- SD disease duration, 6.4 +/- 3.2 years; mean +/- SD Hoehn-Yahr stage, 2.8 +/- 1.2) were included in the study. Patients were divided in two subgroups: depressed (n = 18) and nondepressed (n = 28). Citalopram was added in an unblinded manner, starting with 10 mg/d, and, after a week, increased up to 20 mg/d in the depressed subgroup (n = 18) and in half of the nondepressed subgroup (n = 14). Parkinsonian and depressive symptoms were evaluated before and after 1 and 4 months of treatment. Statistical evaluation was made by analysis of variance for repeated measures. Citalopram did not worsen motor performance in IPD, but improved bradykinesia and finger taps after 1 month and 4 months of treatment both in patients with and without depression (p &lt; 0.05 versus baseline). A clear improvement in mood was also observed in 15 of 16 patients with depression. Although case reports indicate that citalopram can potentially worsen the motor symptoms in patients with PD, to date this effect has not been confirmed. Many of the symptoms, typically associated with depression, can be observed in nondepressed patients with IPD, because signs thought to represent depression can be produced by Parkinson's disease. In this study, we observed that when combined with levodopa, citalopram induces an improvement of motor performance, in particular of subscores 23 and 31 of Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale both in depressed and in nondepressed patients with IPD.
Introduced on the market in 1989, pergolide, a D1/D2 dopamine receptor agonist, is still widely prescribed for the treatment of patients with early and advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). Initially, pergolide was introduced as an adjunct therapy to levodopa treatment in patients exhibiting fluctuating motor responses and dyskinesias. Results of recent randomized controlled clinical trials in de novo patients with PD show that pergolide is able to improve parkinsonian symptoms when used as monotherapy. Moreover, preliminary results of a long-term monotherapy study in early PD suggest that pergolide is as effective as levodopa, and that a significant delay in the time of the onset of levodopa-induced motor complications can be obtained. A number of randomized studies have shown that pergolide is more effective than bromocriptine as adjunct therapy to levodopa in patients with advanced PD; the greater benefit found with pergolide could be ascribed to its action on both D1 and D2 dopamine receptors. However, controlled comparative studies with new dopamine agonists, such as ropinirole, cabergoline, and pramipexole, have not been performed yet. Interestingly, few open studies in patients with complicated PD have shown that high doses of pergolide (&gt; 6 mg/d) are able to improve motor fluctuations and dyskinesias through a dramatic reduction of levodopa dosage. The side-effect profile of pergolide is similar to that of other dopamine agonists, and complications such as sleep attack and serosal fibrosis have been rarely reported.

Astrocytes exhibit neural stem cell characteristics in vitro by generating multipotent clones of cells. In order to see if normal cues are present in vivo that can direct these astrocytes to generate cells of neuronal lineage, the astrocytes were transplanted into the persistently neurogenic mouse subependymal zone/rostral migratory stream. Grafted astrocytes assumed migratory profiles, joined chains of indigenous neuroblasts, and migrated into the olfactory bulb. Additionally, however, some grafted astrocytes &quot;homed&quot; to the lateral ventricle where they became hyperplastic, forming spherical structures composed of cells of mixed phenotype that attached to the ventricular wall, and eventually penetrated and dispersed within surrounding brain parenchyma. It is proposed that, with an interest in the use of stem cell transplants for neurological disease, findings of hyperplasia and apparent atypical integration of a native population of multipotent astrocytic stem cells suggest the need for caution before beginning even autologous neural stem cell transplants.
This review focuses on the in vitro and in vivo neuropharmacology of YM872, a potential neuroprotective agent currently undergoing clinical trials in the United States (trial name: AMPA Receptor Antagonist Treatment in Ischemic Stroke - ARTIST). Its neuroprotective properties in rats and cats with induced focal cerebral ischemia are described. YM872, [2,3-dioxo-7-(1H-imidazol-1-yl)-6-nitro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoxalin-1-yl]-acetic acid monohydrate, is a selective, potent and highly water-soluble competitive alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonist. YM872 has a potent inhibitory effect on [(3)H]AMPA binding with a K(i) value of 0.096 microM. In contrast, YM872 has very low affinity for other ionotropic glutamate receptors. The solubility of YM872 is approximately 500 to 1000 times higher than that of the other competitive AMPA antagonists: YM90K, NBQX, or CNQX. The neuroprotective efficacy of YM872 was investigated in rats and cats subjected to permanent occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery. The animals were assessed either histologically or neurologically following ischemia. In rats with occluded middle cerebral artery (MCAO) YM872, by i.v. infusion, significantly reduced infarct volume measured at 24 h and 1 week after ischemia. Significant neuroprotection was maintained even when drug administration was delayed for up to 2 h after ischemia. In addition, YM872 significantly improved neurological deficit measured at 1 week after ischemia. In cats with MCAO YM872, by i.v. infusion, dose-dependently reduced infarct volume at 6 h after ischemia. YM872 produced no behavioral abnormalities and was not nephrotoxic. The evidence for the neuroprotective efficacy of YM872 suggests its therapeutic potential in the treatment of acute stroke in humans.
Bipolar (manic-depressive) disorder is one of the most common of the severe mental illnesses. Officially recognised forms comprise type I (with mania), type II (with hypomania), cyclothymia and a rapid-cycling subtype. International lifetime prevalence estimates are 1 to 5% of the general population, and bipolar disorder accounts disproportionately for idiopathic psychoses. Psychiatric and substance-abuse comorbidities are common complications, and mortality rates are increased as a result of high suicidal risks, accidents, complications of substance abuse and increased fatality of stress-sensitive medical illnesses. Complex and labile symptomatic presentations, a tendency for patients to deny illness and reject treatment, and diagnostic heterogeneity severely complicate the design, conduct and interpretation of experimental treatment trials in bipolar disorder. Progress in the short-term treatment of mania with certain antiepileptic drugs and atypical antipsychotic agents has advanced greatly in recent years; however, long-term treatment trials other than with lithium remain rare, as are studies of type II disorder, bipolar depression and mixed states, and there is limited information on treatment effectiveness against comorbidity, dysfunction and mortality. There is a growing realisation that bipolar disorder represents a major, largely unmet, international public health challenge and that innovative methods for carrying out reliable and generalisable long-term pharmacological treatment trials, alone and in combination with cost-effective psychosocial and rehabilitative interventions, are urgently required.
Since its first marketing as an antiepileptic drug (AED) 35 years ago in France, valproate has become established worldwide as one of the most widely used AEDs in the treatment of both generalised and partial seizures in adults and children. The broad spectrum of antiepileptic efficacy of valproate is reflected in preclinical in vivo and in vitro models, including a variety of animal models of seizures or epilepsy. There is no single mechanism of action of valproate that can completely account for the numerous effects of the drug on neuronal tissue and its broad clinical activity in epilepsy and other brain diseases. In view of the diverse molecular and cellular events that underlie different seizure types, the combination of several neurochemical and neurophysiological mechanisms in a single drug molecule might explain the broad antiepileptic efficacy of valproate. Furthermore, by acting on diverse regional targets thought to be involved in the generation and propagation of seizures, valproate may antagonise epileptic activity at several steps of its organisation. There is now ample experimental evidence that valproate increases turnover of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and thereby potentiates GABAergic functions in some specific brain regions thought to be involved in the control of seizure generation and propagation. Furthermore, the effect of valproate on neuronal excitation mediated by the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptors might be important for its anticonvulsant effects. Acting to alter the balance of inhibition and excitation through multiple mechanisms is clearly an advantage for valproate and probably contributes to its broad spectrum of clinical effects. Although the GABAergic potentiation and glutamate/NMDA inhibition could be a likely explanation for the anticonvulsant action on focal and generalised convulsive seizures, they do not explain the effect of valproate on nonconvulsive seizures, such as absences. In this respect, the reduction of gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) release reported for valproate could be of interest, because GHB has been suggested to play a critical role in the modulation of absence seizures. Although it is often proposed that blockade of voltage-dependent sodium currents is an important mechanism of antiepileptic action of valproate, the exact role played by this mechanism of action at therapeutically relevant concentrations in the mammalian brain is not clearly elucidated. By the experimental observations summarised in this review, most clinical effects of valproate can be explained, although much remains to be learned at a number of different levels about the mechanisms of action of valproate. In view of the advances in molecular neurobiology and neuroscience, future studies will undoubtedly further our understanding of the mechanisms of action of valproate.
Frequent, severe and long-lasting migraine attacks require prophylaxis. Established drugs used for the prevention of migraine such as beta-adrenoceptor antagonists (beta-blockers), calcium channel antagonists, antidepressants and others have an unknown mode of action in migraine. Their prophylactic effect in migraine was discovered by chance in clinical practice when these drugs were used for other purposes. Recently, research into the mechanisms of migraine and the progressive recognition that cortical hyperexcitability and an imbalance between neuronal inhibition [mediated by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)] and excitation (mediated by excitatory amino acids) may play an important role in migraine pathophysiology have lead to the identification of potential new agents for the prevention of migraine attacks. This paper reviews the recent literature on these new agents. A search was conducted using MEDLINE from 1998 to November 2001 with the following search terms: migraine, preventive, prophylactic and treatment. Headache textbooks edited in 2000 and 2001 were also used. After analysing the available controlled and uncontrolled clinical studies as well as abstracts, divalproex sodium (valproate semisodium) can be recommended for the prevention of migraine. Lamotrigine may be useful for preventing aura associated with migraine, and topiramate seems a promising option pending trials with more patients, which are currently underway. Riboflavin (which is possibly involved in improving neuronal energy production) appears to be a promising agent, although comparisons with established prophylactic medications are needed. Gabapentin, magnesium, lisinopril and botulinum toxin A have recently been suggested to be effective; however, at present, there are insufficient rigorous and reliable controlled data on these drugs for them to be indicated for such use. Emerging options such as tiagabine, levetiracetam, zonisamide and petasites may all be useful, but controlled data are required to confirm their efficacy. The anti-asthma medication montelukast was found to be effective in an open trial, but ineffective in a recently completed controlled trial. There is an expectation that modern neuroscience will soon provide more efficacious and better tolerated prophylactic medications for migraine.
Antiepileptic drugs (AEDS) are used regularly in the treatment of patients with bipolar disorders. Carbamazepine and valproic acid (sodium valproate) are effective as antimanic treatments, and the success of these medications has prompted investigation of other AEDs as possible treatments in patients with mood disorders. Lamotrigine appears to be the most promising of the newer AEDs with respect to effects in mood disorders. Current evidence suggests efficacy of this drug both as monotherapy and as an adjunctive agent in bipolar depression, and studies are underway to clarify its efficacy in mood stabilisation and rapid cycling, as currently available data are equivocal. Use of gabapentin is not as well supported in the literature, although data from open trials using it as an adjunctive agent suggest that it may be helpful in patients with bipolar depression. There have been some open trials and case reports supporting the use of topiramate as an adjunctive agent for the treatment of mania; however, data from controlled trials are not yet available. Further controlled trials of lamotrigine, gabapentin or topiramate as monotherapy and adjunctive treatment are needed to clarify their potential roles in the treatment of patients with mood disorders.
This paper focuses on hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia as risk factors for Alzheimer's disease and, as such, subjects for prevention. The long-term, prospective, population-based studies regarding the relationship between hypertension or hypercholesterolaemia and Alzheimer's disease, and the clinical studies regarding the association between antihypertensive or lipid-lowering medications and the risk of Alzheimer's disease, are reviewed. These studies provide evidence to suggest that elevated blood pressure and cholesterol levels earlier in life may have an important role in the development and expression of late-life Alzheimer's disease. Based on these data, we propose that proper, early interventions aimed at reducing these cardiovascular risk factors may have an impact on the future incidence and prevalence of Alzheimer's disease.

An interaction between antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and the combined oral contraceptive pill was first proposed when the dose of estradiol in the oral contraceptive pill was reduced from 100 to 50 microg. There was a higher incidence of breakthrough bleeding and contraceptive failure among women with epilepsy compared with women in general. Since then, interaction studies have been undertaken to look for possible interactions between AEDs and the combined oral contraceptive pill. Phenobarbital (phenobarbitone), phenytoin, carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, felbamate and topiramate have been shown to increase the metabolism of ethinylestradiol and progestogens. Therefore, if a women is on one of the AEDs and wishes to take the oral contraceptive pill, she will need to take a preparation containing at least 50 microg of ethinylestradiol. Levonorgestrel implants are contraindicated in women receiving these AEDs because of cases of contraceptive failure. It is recommended that medroxyprogesterone injections be given every 10 rather than 12 weeks to women who are receiving AEDs that induce hepatic microsomal enzymes. There are no interactions between the combined oral contraceptive pill, progesterone-only pill, medroxyprogesterone injections or levonorgestrel implants and the AEDs valproic acid (sodium valproate), vigabatrin, lamotrigine, gabapentin, tiagabine, levetiracetam, zonisamide, ethosuximide and the benzodiazepines. Therefore, normal dose contraceptive preparations can be used in patients receiving these AEDs.








This study investigates differences in premorbid conditions and in the role of triggering events in the onset of early-onset versus adult-onset panic disorder (PD). Two hundred forty-one outpatients with a principal diagnosis of PD (DSM-IV) were evaluated using a semistructured interview to generate axis I and axis II diagnoses according to DSM-IV, and to collect family history of psychiatric disorders and life events. For statistical analysis the sample was subdivided in two groups according to age at onset (&lt; or =18 years or &gt;18 years). Early-onset and adult-onset patients with PD do not differ in the severity of the disorder and in the interference with their overall functioning. Early-onset patients have (1) higher familial loading for psychiatric disorders in general and for PD in particular; (2) higher frequency of preceding anxiety disorders, dysmorphophobia, and bulimia nervosa; and (3) higher comorbidity rates for personality disorders and particularly for disorders of the &quot;anxious-fearful&quot; cluster. The data we found on life stress indicate that the environmental factors play a major role in the development and/or in precipitating the onset of adult-onset PD. Our findings suggest that the early-onset form of PD seems to be more characterized by endogenous components compared to the adult-onset form.

Cognitive dysfunction is recognised as one of the more enduring deficits in schizophrenia. The syndrome is associated with impairment of the temporal and frontal regions of the brain that are concerned with cognitve function, as well as subcortical regions that are closely interconnected with them. Cognitive dysfunction may underpin some of the psychopathology of schizophrenia, as well as contribute to the patient's impaired social and vocational functioning. Cognitive deficits are relatively independent of psychotic symptoms in schizophrenia, and are probably central and enduring features of the disorder. It must also be considered that cognitive disability may be rate-limiting to the schizophrenic patient's rehabilitation and impairs quality of life. Although there is a general consensus that neuroleptic drugs are able to improve the psychopathology of schizophrenia, there is continued debate concerning their impact on cognitve function. Chronic treatment with classical neuroleptics has been reported to produce only minimal improvement in, and may actually impair, cognitive function in schizophrenia. In contrast, novel antipsychotics seem to cause less cognitive impairment than classical antipsychotic medication and may improve cognitive function. Whilst in the past research focused on the development of clinically effective antipsychotic drugs with a reduced propensity to cause extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS), it is now being recognised that maintaining and enhancing cognitive function and improving quality of life should be the goal in the treatment of schizophrenia.
One of the most stimulating problems posed by second generation antipsychotics is the question of whether their ability to act on the negative, as well as the positive, symptoms of schizophrenia relies on the same neurochemical mechanisms as those responsible for their lack of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS). Amisulpride is a substituted benzamide antipsychotic, which is known to be efficacious against both the positive and the negative symptoms of schizophrenia and to have a lower propensity to induce EPS than conventional antipsychotics. Amisulpride preferentially blocks the D2 and D3 subtypes of dopamine receptors, both presynaptically in the frontal cortex, enhancing dopaminergic transmission, and postsynaptically in subcortical areas such as the nucleus accumbens, so reducing dopaminergic transmission. Given that dopaminergic under-activity in the frontal cortex is thought to produce negative symptoms, and over-activity in the limbic system to produce positive symptoms, it is proposed that these are the mechanisms by which amisulpride produces its atypical profile.
Extracellular concentrations of excitatory amino acids increase substantially within cerebral tissue beds exposed to ischaemic conditions. This leads to excessive stimulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, a major cerebral excitatory neurotransmitter receptor that likely plays a critical role in the propagation of ischaemic injury in neurons. Pharmacological blockade of these receptors has proven to be an effective neuroprotective therapy by a number of animal models of central nervous system ischaemia. Clinical trials of these drugs were begun with high expectations for successful therapy of human stroke. These putative neuroprotective drugs included competitive or non-competitive inhibitors of the NMDA receptor itself, as well as inhibitors of a co-modulatory glycine site. Thus far, all clinical trials of NMDA antagonists have been unsuccessful in establishing benefit for human stroke.
Hemorrhagic transformation (HT) is a frequent consequence of ischemic stroke that becomes more prevalent after thrombolytic therapy. Despite concerns about safety parameters, thrombolytic drugs remain the first course of action available to clinicians for stroke management. However, recent efforts in preclinical studies have attempted to discover other drugs that can lessen the risk of hemorrhage associated with thrombolytic administration. This review focuses on three classes of pharmacologic agents that have shown some promise in animal models of stroke, and can thus be considered as possible candidates for coadministration with thrombolytics in the treatment of stroke. These include the following: 1) spin trap agents, such as alpha-phenyl-N-t-butylnitrone (PBN) that scavenge free radicals; 2) matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) inhibitors, such as BB-94, that prevent membrane and vessel remodeling following ischemia; and 3) the novel glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa platelet receptor antagonist SM-20302. Although these drugs affect different mechanisms, the common denominator seemed to be their effectiveness in reducing the incidence of hemorrhage in response to thrombolytic infusion following an embolic stroke.
Bioanalytical groups in the pharmaceutical industry provide quantitative data to support all stages of drug discovery. The increased use of 96-well plates and robotic liquid handling systems, the availability of robust triple quadruple mass spectrometers, and developments in chromatographic and samples preparation techniques, have all increased the rate at which this data can be generated. This review describes currently used methods and emerging technologies for automation of high-throughput quantitative bioanalysis. The focus is on recent applications of sample preparation and chromatography techniques compatible with detection by triple quadruple mass spectrometers.
Urinary tract infection is the most frequently reported secondary impairment in individuals with spinal cord lesion. The most prevalent risk indicator is an indwelling catheter. Hydrophilic catheters for clean intermittent catheterization may induce lower rates of bacteriuria and long-term urethral complications. Due to chronic bacterial infection within biofilms, an antibacterial treatment based on a urinary culture of bacteria in the urine and its antimicrobial susceptibility may fail to eradicate catheter-associated urinary tract infection. No commercially available drugs are sufficiently active against the bacteria in a mature biofilm. Biomaterials may be modified to decrease the formation of a biofilm. Silver alloy catheters are effective in preventing urinary tract infection when indwelling urinary catheterization is necessary. The risk of systemic argyria in long-term use needs to be evaluated. Suprapubic cystostomy drainage in patients with neurogenic bladder is preferred to an indwelling urethral catheter. In cases of recurring urinary tract infection in patients with a permanent urinary catheter, it may be beneficial to change the catheter every 1 or 2 weeks. There is some evidence that cranberry products may prevent urinary tract infection. In the future, bacterial interference and vaccination may be a possibility for prevention of urinary tract infection.
Interest in kainate receptors has increased over the past few years. Our understanding of their physiology and pharmacology has improved markedly since their original cloning and expression in the early 1990s. For example, agonist profiles at recombinant kainate receptors have been used to identify and distinguish kainate receptors in neurons. Furthermore, the development of selective antagonists for kainate receptor subtypes has increased our understanding of the functional roles of kainate receptors in neurons and synaptic transmission. In this review we described the activity of agonists and antagonists at kainate receptors and their selectivity profiles at NMDA and non-NMDA receptors.
It is generally agreed that (S)-glutamic acid (Glu) receptors are involved in the development of a number of diseases in the central nervous system (CNS), and ligands that interact with these receptors are of significant interest. Selective ligands are indispensable as tools for the elucidation of the physiological role of AMPA receptors and as leads for the development of therapeutic agents. Over the last decade a wide variety of such ligands have been developed and studies on the structure-activity relationships of these compounds have contributed to our understanding of the mechanisms involved in AMPA receptor activation and blockade. Series of selective agonists using the 3-isoxazolol amino acid ibotenic acid (2) as a lead compound have been designed and developed. Other heterocycles, such as the uracil moiety of willardiine (6), have also proved to be highly effective bioisosteres for the distal carboxyl group of Glu. For a number of reasons, the development of competitive antagonists with therapeutic potential has been hampered for example due to the limited solubility of key heterocyclic compounds structurally unrelated to Glu. However, some problems have been overcome, and series of water-soluble, potent and selective quinoxalinediones, indenoimidazones and isatine oximes have now been developed. At the turn of the millennium the crystal structure of GluR2 co-crystallized with different AMPA receptor ligands became available, opening a new era in the design of AMPA receptor ligands on a rational basis.
The 5-HT1A receptor has been extensively studied over the last two decades. There is a plethora of information describing its anatomical, physiological and biochemical roles in the brain. In addition, the development of selective pharmacological tools coupled with our understanding of psychiatric pathology has lead to multiple hypotheses for the therapeutic utility of 5-HT1A agents and in particular 5-HT1A receptor antagonists. Over the last decade it has been suggested that 5-HT1A receptor antagonists may have therapeutic utility in such diseases as depression, anxiety, drug and nicotine withdrawal as well as schizophrenia. However, a very compelling rationale has been developed for the therapeutic potential of 5-HT1A receptor antagonists in Alzheimer s disease and potentially other diseases with associated cognitive dysfunction. Receptor blockade by a 5-HT1A receptor antagonist appears to enhance activation and signaling through heterosynaptic neuronal circuits known to be involved in cognitive processes and, as such, represents a novel therapeutic approach to the treatment of cognitive deficits associated with Alzheimer s disease and potentially other disorders with underlying cognitive dysfunction.
Benzodiazepines are widely prescribed for the treatment of anxiety and sleep disorders. Although safe, tolerance develops rapidly to their sedative activity and more slowly to their anticonvulsant activity. In animals anxiolytic tolerance has also been measured. Abrupt cessation of benzodiazepine treatment leads to symptoms of withdrawal. The mechanisms responsible for these phenomena are not known. Benzodiazepines act via GABA(A) receptors, but do not appear to produce tolerance and dependence by simple downregulation of receptor number. GABA(A) receptors are hetero-oligomers comprised of multiple subunits encoded by a multigene family. The molecular effects of long-term benzodiazepine exposure are reviewed and a model is presented that draws on results from a number of research groups working in this area.

The treatment of progressive myoclonus epilepsy (PME) remains a major therapeutic challenge in neurology. Generalized convulsive seizures are often well controlled through classic antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) like valproate and clonazepam, whereas myoclonus, the main symptom that is affecting patients most in their daily life, is usually refractory to standard AEDs. Alternative therapy concepts have been and still are investigated. Among the new drugs, zonisamide and piracetam have shown the most promising results as add-on treatments. Other therapeutic approaches, like the use of antioxidants, 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), and baclofen should also be taken into consideration for the treatment of intractable cases of PME. Nonpharmacologic treatment options such as diet and physical therapy should always be considered, because they may save costs and side effects. In some instances, the occasional use of alcohol has shown beneficial effects.
The sense of taste is a chemosensory system responsible for basic food appraisal. Humans distinguish between five primary tastes: bitter, sweet, sour, salty and umami. The molecular events in the perception of bitter taste are believed to start with the binding of specific water-soluble molecules to G-protein-coupled receptors encoded by the TAS2R/T2R family of taste receptor genes. TAS2R receptors are expressed at the surface of taste receptor cells and are coupled to G proteins and second messenger pathways. We have identified, cloned and characterized 11 new bitter taste receptor genes and four new pseudogenes that belong to the human TAS2R family. Their encoded proteins have between 298 and 333 amino acids and share between 23 and 86% identity with other human TAS2R proteins. Screening of a mono-chromosomal somatic cell hybrid panel to assign the identified bitter taste receptor genes to human chromosomes demonstrated that they are located in chromosomes 7 and 12. Including the 15 sequences identified, the human TAS2R family is composed of 28 full-length genes and 16 pseudogenes. Phylogenetic analyses suggest a classification of the TAS2R genes in five groups that may reflect a specialization in the detection of specific types of bitter chemicals.
We considered it possible that the differences in clinical symptoms between two suggested subgroups of Alzheimer's disease (AD), AD type I and AD type II, have biological correlates, for instance different metabolic profiles. Therefore, we performed regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) measurements and investigated the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of the monoamine metabolites homovanillic acid (HVA), 5-HIAA, and HMPG in 15 patients with AD type I, in 36 patients with AD type II, in a control group and in a contrast group consisting of 16 patients with frontotemporal dementia. The results suggest that there are underlying biological correlates of the phenomenological discrepancies between AD type I and AD type II. For instance, a decreased CSF level of HVA (p &lt; 0.001) was specific to AD type I and decreased rCBF (p &lt; 0.05 to &lt;0.001) in three particular regions was specific to AD type II.
Five patients with the early-onset form of Alzheimer disease (AD) received GM1 ganglioside by continuous injection into the frontal horns of the lateral ventricles for a period of 12 months. The optimal GM1 dose varied between 20 and 30 mg/24 h. The patients were trained twice a week for 4-5 h with an individually designed cognitive programme, which included the use of a word processor. Neurological, neuropsychological, psychiatric and neurochemical examinations were performed a week before surgery and on days 30, 90, 180, 270 and 365 after surgery. The cerebrospinal fluid levels of the monoamine metabolites homovanillic acid and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and the neuropeptide somatostatin increased. The regional cerebral blood flow showed a tendency to increase. The progression of deterioration was stopped, and motor performance and neuropsychological assessments improved. The patients became more active and felt safer in relation to other people and performing various activities. They had improved reading comprehension and a better feeling for language. They were able to write reports and short letters on a word processor. When interviewed at the end of the study, all 5 patients stated that they felt better, and their relatives reported that they had regained integrity and their joie de vivre.
Both tau and beta-amyloid 42 (Abeta42) have been implicated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and tau alone in frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). These proteins can be measured in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF); differences from normal CSF levels may reflect pathophysiological mechanisms. Using ELISAs, we investigated the levels of total CSF-tau (here referred to as tau), phosphorylated CSF-tau (phosphotau), and Abeta42 in patients with AD (n = 19), FTD (n = 14), ALS (n = 11) and Parkinson's disease (PD; n = 15) and in age-matched controls (n = 17). Both CSF-tau and CSF-phosphotau were increased in AD compared with FTD (p &lt; 0.001), ALS (p &lt; 0.001), PD (p &lt; 0.001) and controls (p &lt; 0.001). CSF-Abeta42 was markedly decreased in AD and ALS (both p &lt; 0.001) and slightly decreased in FTD (p &lt; 0.01) and PD (p &lt; 0.05) compared with controls. Using CSF-phosphotau may improve the differentiation of AD from FTD and ALS in clinical praxis. Furthermore, decreased CSF-Abeta42 levels may be common in neurodegenerative disorders possibly reflecting changes in the metabolism of beta-amyloid or axonal degeneration.
We examined whether a diagnosis of depression affects verbal and visuospatial performance in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Using data from a population-based study, persons with AD and depression (AD/D), AD alone and a control group of normal older adults were compared in two tests of verbal ability (category and letter fluency) and two tests of visuospatial skill (block design and clock drawing). As expected, there were clear AD-related deficits across all cognitive tasks. More importantly, the AD and AD/D groups were indistinguishable on all task variables. The lack of effects of depression was discussed relative to the view that those symptoms of this disease which are especially detrimental to cognitive functioning (e.g. concentration difficulties, lack of interest, loss of energy) may already be present in AD as a result of the neurodegenerative process.
During early development, significant changes occur in the neural regions that subserve attention and related skills. Although preschoolers typically have difficulty performing continuous performance tests, it is not clear if this is primarily due to an inability to selectively respond or an inability to maintain attention. A group of 52 children between 3.5 and 5.5 years of age performed 2 vigilance-type reaction time tasks. The tasks included short duration, continuously presented visual stimuli across several short blocks. Among the children under 4.5 years of age, 46% were unable to coordinate the necessary task demands, and those who could made significantly more omission errors than the older children. Active engagement was high during the reaction time tasks for all children. These results suggest that the skills necessary for vigilance tasks, particularly speeded response initiation and response selection, are still emerging during the preschool years but can be adequately measured after 4.5 years of age.
Studies have shown that individuals with language disorders, such as developmental dyslexia and specific language impairment, exhibit impairments in the processing of brief, successive, or rapidly changing auditory information. It is also the case that a higher rate of autoimmune disorders have been identified in those with language-based learning disorders and, conversely, that individuals with autoimmune disorders show a higher incidence of language-related disorders. The rapid auditory processing (RAP) deficits described for older individuals with language impairments may also be used as a behavioral marker to identify infants at higher risk for language delays. Thus, we were interested in examining RAP abilities in a subset of infants with a positive family history of autoimmune disorders. Eleven infants from our ongoing prospective longitudinal studies were identified based on parental response to a question about the presence of a family history of autoimmune disease and compared to 11 matched controls. The RAP threshold of each infant was assessed at 6 and 9 months of age using a conditioned head-turn procedure (using tone pairs with brief interstimulus intervals) and an auditory-visual habituation-recognition memory task using computer-generated consonant-vowel syllables (/ba/ vs. /da/). A visual habituation-recognition memory task that did not require processing of brief temporal cues was also administered. Group differences emerged on the infant RAP tasks, and on language outcome measures at 12 and 16 months of age. Infants from families with a history of autoimmune disorder had significantly higher (i.e., poorer) RAP thresholds and lower language scores than did control infants, whereas visual discrimination scores did not differ between family history infants and controls. Moreover, when brief auditory cues were necessary for the discrimination of /ba/ vs. /da/, infants with a family history of autoimmune disorder performed significantly more poorly than did controls. These findings lend support to the hypothesis that a similar mechanism, perhaps a neural-immune interaction, may underlie the observed co-occurrence of autoimmune disorders and learning impairments.
This article investigates the role that nonverbal actions play in language processing over 3 different time frames. First, we speculate that nonverbal actions played a role in how formal language systems emerged from our primate ancestors over evolutionary time. Next, we hypothesize that if nonverbal behaviors played a foundational role in the emergence of language over evolution, these actions should influence how children learn language in the present. Finally, we argue that nonverbal actions continue to play a role for adults in the moment-to-moment processing of language. Throughout, we take an embodied view of language and argue that the neural, cognitive, and social components of language processing are firmly grounded in bodily action.
We explored the neuropsychological profile for executive functions of children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) to assess whether problems associated with the two most cited relevant processes--inhibition and attentional problems--were the core of any executive function difficulty. A battery of executive function tests was administered to 31 children with a clinical diagnosis of ADHD and to 33 normal control participants, all aged between 7 and 12. The executive function battery encompassed a number of tasks, selected because each had multiple measures: a sustained attention reaction time task, a related vigilance task, an adaptation of the Hayling Sentence Completion Test, an adaptation of the Brixton Spatial Rule Attainment Test, a Letter Fluency task, a number Stroop task, and an &quot;n-back&quot; working memory task. The overall pattern of the results fit well with those obtained in previous studies as far as abnormalities of the ADHD group in the domain of inhibitory processes, attentional functions, and executive functions. The children with ADHD, although performing well on baseline tasks, performed more poorly than the controls on all the experimental tasks with one borderline exception: Letter Fluency, where the children with ADHD showed a very different pattern than most adult frontal lobe subgroups. However, there was no specific impairment on measures of inhibitory processes. In addition, strategy generation and use were severely affected in the ADHD group. Particular findings fitted well with disorders of a high-level effort system and of a monitoring system.
A previous study from our laboratory demonstrated differences in the ability of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) to promote survival of pro-oligodendroblasts (pro-OLs) against glutamate-mediated apoptosis. In the current study, we tested whether submaximal concentrations of NT-3 would maintain receptor tyrosine kinase TrkC activation and Akt phosphorylation and thus promote long-term survival of the pro-OL against glutamate. Our results demonstrate that NT-3 at any concentration sufficient to activate the TrkC receptor results in a transient phosphorylation of the receptor and of Akt due, in part, to downregulation of the Trk receptor. In contrast, even submaximal IGF-I concentrations maintain long-term Akt activation and prevent glutamate-mediated apoptosis in pro-OLs. In addition, we also present data showing that IGF-I and NT-3 differentially activate their receptors and Akt depending on the maturational stage of the oligodendrocyte.
Cerebral hypoxia/ischemia (H/I) of the premature infant is a major cause of cerebral palsy and mental retardation. An important determinant of the ultimate outcome from this insult is the extent to which the stem cells and progenitors in the brain are affected. Irreversible injury to these cells will impair normal development of the infant's brain and, hence, its function. In the present study, we examine early intervals after H/I to identify which cells in the periventricular region are most vulnerable. At 0 h of recovery from a perinatal H/I insult, the choroid plexus shows extensive necrotic damage. The adjacent ependymal and subependymal cells are also affected. Swelling of the ependymal and medial subependymal cells is observed; however, these cells rarely sustain permanent damage. By contrast, cells in the most lateral aspect of the subventricular zone (SVZ) show more delayed, but extensive apoptotic and hybrid cell deaths. Interestingly, activated macrophages/microglia are observed adjacent to the swollen ependymal cells as well as within the affected subependyma. We conclude that the choroid plexus is an especially vulnerable structure in the immature brain, whereas the ependymal and adjacent subependymal cells are relatively resistant to damage. As the medial aspect of the SVZ contains neural stem cells, we predict that neural stem cells will be especially resistant to perinatal H/I brain damage.
Nerve injury in newborn animals results in the loss of motoneurons and dorsal root ganglion neurons and long-term changes in reflex activation of surviving motoneurons. Parvalbumin has been previously shown to be found in large-diameter primary afferent axons and interneurons in the spinal cord, and was used here to study the changes in parvalbumin-immunoreactive appositions onto identified tibialis anterior/extensor digitorum longus (TA/EDL) motoneurons, during both normal development and following neonatal nerve injury in the rat spinal cord. During normal development, there was a decrease in the number of parvalbumin-immunoreactive appositions onto TA/EDL motoneurons. Thus, at postnatal day 7 (P7), there were 72.8 +/- 17.5 (mean +/- SD) appositions per motoneuron and by P14, it had decreased to 38.8 +/- 13.2 (mean +/- SD; p &gt; 0.05). Following neonatal nerve injury at P2, there were fewer parvalbumin-positive afferent appositions close to the TA/EDL motoneurons than normal, so that at P7, there were 53.5 +/- 17.1 (mean +/- SD), and at P14, it further decreased to 25.8 +/- 8.6 (mean +/- SD; p &gt; 0.05). This injury-induced reduction in the number of parvalbumin-immunoreactive boutons apposing TA/EDL motoneurons may result, at least in part, from the death of dorsal root ganglion cells with the consequent loss of their central projections. The alterations in the number of parvalbumin-positive appositions close to motoneurons observed in this study may contribute to the changes in the pattern of reflex activity observed in the developing spinal cord both during normal development and following neonatal injury.
Psychiatric disorders are characterized by diverse clinical manifestations that include deficits in cognition, perception, mood and arousal. These complex processes are not mediated by any specific brain region but require the coordinated activity of several areas that are anatomically connected. Impairments in these neural circuits may therefore be expected to result in an attenuation of the functions regulated by them. The white matter provides the structural and physiological substrate of neural circuits in the central nervous system. We propose that injury to the white matter, from diverse biological sources, may compromise neural connectivity by associated axonal injury or impaired conductivity. Either mechanism could result in clusters of signs and symptoms that are currently recognized as psychiatric disorders. The role of white matter impairment in the pathophysiology of psychiatric illness is under-appreciated in the neurosciences. Focused translational research aimed at identifying the links between white matter compromise and specific behaviors are necessary for a more thorough understanding of the etiology of mental illness to emerge.
We have previously provided evidence that ferritin binds selectively to white matter tracts in adult mouse and human brains. In cell culture experiments, ferritin binding is specifically localized to oligodendrocytes. The goal of the present study is to test the hypothesis that the developmental pattern for ferritin binding will coincide with the onset and progression of myelination. The first evidence of ferritin binding in the mouse brain is at 12 days of age and occurs within the brainstem. Ferritin binding persisted in the brainstem and expanded to the corpus callosum by 15-16 days of age. By 23-24 days of age ferritin binding had further extended to the striatal white matter. By adulthood, ferritin binding was strongly and selectively expressed throughout all white matter tracts. To begin to identify which factors may be involved in the induction of ferritin-binding proteins on oligodendrocytes, brains from the myelin mutant jimpy mice and unaffected littermates were examined at postnatal days 16-18. Jimpy mice were chosen because their oligodendrocytes fail to produce myelin or accumulate iron. Thus, using jimpy mice would elucidate whether these factors are necessary for ferritin-binding protein expression. Both the jimpy mutants and their controls exhibited saturable ferritin binding with similar binding densities and dissociation constants. Dissociation constants for ferritin binding in the unaffected littermates and jimpy mutant mice were 0.38 +/- 0.04 and 0.32 +/- 0.06 nM, respectively and binding densities were similar (1.1 +/- 0.09 and 0.96 +/- 0.12 fmol/mg, respectively). Our results demonstrate that expression of ferritin binding is dependent on the age of the oligodendrocytes and not dependent upon iron accumulation by oligodendrocytes or myelin production. We propose that iron delivery to oligodendrocytes is predominantly via ferritin and this method of iron uptake is unique to oligodendrocytes in the brain.
Fibroblast growth factors are a family of broad-spectrum growth factors influencing a plethora of cellular activities. The interaction of at least 23 ligands, 4 receptors and multiple coreceptors provides a dramatic complexity to a signaling system capable of effecting a multitude of responses. This review focuses on the fibroblast growth factors signaling in oligodendrocyte development, function and discusses implications for demyelination/remyelination.
Analysis of an allelic series in mice revealed that the Pitx2 homeobox gene is required at multiple stages of pituitary development. It is necessary for initiating expansion of Rathke's pouch and maintaining expression of the fetal-specific transcription factors Hesx1 and Prop1. At later stages Pitx2 is necessary for specification and expansion of the gonadotropes and Pit1 lineage within the ventral and caudomedial anterior pituitary. Mechanistically, this is due to the dependence of several critical lineage-specific transcription factors, Pit1, Gata2, Egr1 and Sf1, on a threshold level of PITX2. The related Pitx1 gene has a role in hormone gene transcription, and it is important late in ontogeny for the final expansion of the differentiated cell types. Pitx1 and Pitx2 have overlapping functions in the expansion of Rathke's pouch, revealing the sensitivity of pituitary organogenesis to the dosage of the PITX family. The model developed for PITX gene function in pituitary development provides a better understanding of the etiology of Rieger syndrome and may extend to other PITX-sensitive developmental processes.

The relationship between years of excessive alcohol consumption and central serotonergic neurotransmission, as assessed by the prolactin (PRL) response to D-fenfluramine, was investigated in 22 male alcohol-dependent subjects. A negative correlation was obtained, that is, the longer duration of excessive alcohol consumption the lower PRL response to D-fenfluramine. It is therefore suggested that long duration of excessive alcohol consumption in alcohol-dependent subjects causes a reduction in central serotonergic neurotransmission, possibly by a toxic effect of alcohol on serotonin neurons. The relationship between depressive and anxiety symptoms during on-going drinking and the PRL response to D-fenfluramine was also investigated. No such correlations were obtained, suggesting that reduction in central serotonergic neurotransmission does not pre-dispose to the development of depressive and anxiety symptoms, at least in relation to on-going drinking in alcohol-dependent subjects.
Psychotropic drugs, especially antidepressants and antipsychotics, may give rise to some concern in clinical practice because of their known ability to reduce seizure threshold and to provoke epileptic seizures. Although the phenomenon has been described with almost all the available compounds, neither its real magnitude nor the seizurogenic potential of individual drugs have been clearly established so far. In large investigations, seizure incidence rates have been reported to range from approximately 0.1 to approximately 1.5% in patients treated with therapeutic doses of most commonly used antidepressants and antipsychotics (incidence of the first unprovoked seizure in the general population is 0.07 to 0.09%). In patients who have taken an overdose, the seizure risk rises markedly, achieving values of approximately 4 to approximately 30%. This large variability, probably due to methodological differences among studies, makes data confusing and difficult to interpret. Agreement, however, converges on the following: seizures triggered by psychotropic drugs are a dose-dependent adverse effect; maprotiline and clomipramine among antidepressants and chlorpromazine and clozapine among antipsychotics that have a relatively high seizurogenic potential; phenelzine, tranylcypromine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, sertraline, venlafaxine and trazodone among antidepressants and fluphenazine, haloperidol, pimozide and risperidone among antipsychotics that exhibit a relatively low risk. Apart from drug-related factors, seizure precipitation during psychotropic drug medication is greatly influenced by the individual's inherited seizure threshold and, particularly, by the presence of seizurogenic conditions (such as history of epilepsy, brain damage, etc.). Pending identification of compounds with less or no effect on seizure threshold and formulation of definite therapeutic guidelines especially for patients at risk for seizures, the problem may be minimised through careful evaluation of the possible presence of seizurogenic conditions and simplification of the therapeutic scheme (low starting doses/slow dose escalation, maintenance of the minimal effective dose, avoidance of complex drug combinations, etc.). Although there is sufficient evidence that psychotropic drugs may lower seizure threshold, published literature data have also suggested that an appropriate psychotropic therapy may not only improve the mental state in patients with epilepsy, but also exert antiepileptic effects through a specific action. Further scientific research is warranted to clarify all aspects characterising the complex link between seizure threshold and psychotropic drugs.


Rafael Lorente de N was the last disciple of Santiago Ramn y Cajal. He initiated, together with Fernando de Castro, the physiological orientation of Cajal's histological school. His development as a researcher reveals the difficulties that Cajal's disciples had to face in order to progress from neurohistological to neurophysiological research. The correspondence between Ramn y Cajal and Lorente de N during this period (1930-1934), published here, clearly shows these problems. We also attempt to diminish the important gap in Spanish historical-medical research presented by the letters of Ramn y Cajal.
Dyslexia is widely considered to be associated with impaired performance on phonological awareness tasks. However, it is likely that orthographic knowledge also influences performance on these tasks. In this study, adult dyslexics, for whom reading is no longer a major problem, were compared to a control group on a measure of articulatory awareness, a task which is not confounded with orthography. The dyslexic group showed deficits on the task in comparison to the control group. We hypothesize that information about articulatory movements for specific phonemes is less accessible to dyslexics because of a deficient phonological processing system.
The effects of long-term smoking on mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) deletions in hair follicles were investigated in subjects with different antioxidant capacity. Twenty-two male smokers with a smoking index of greater than 5 pack-years and without any known systemic diseases were recruited for this study. Forty healthy nonsmoking males were included as controls. We found that the concentrations of ascorbate and alpha-tocopherol and the activities of glutathione S-transferase (GST) and glutathione peroxidase in blood plasma were significantly decreased in smokers. The levels of glutathione and protein thiols in whole blood and the incidence of a 4,977 bp deletion of mtDNA (dmtDNA) in hair follicles were significantly increased in smokers. A significantly higher incidence of the 4,977 bp dmtDNA was found in smokers with plasma GST activity less than 5.66 U/l (OR = 7.2, P = 0.020). Using multiple covariate ANOVA and logistic regression, we found that age and low plasma GST activity were the only two risk factors for the 4,977 bp dmtDNA. These results suggest that smoking depletes antioxidants and causes mtDNA deletions and that plasma GST may play an important role in the preservation of the mitochondrial genome in tissue cells of smokers.
Merbarone is a catalytic inhibitor of topoisomerase II (topo II) that has been proposed to act primarily by blocking topo II-mediated DNA cleavage without stabilizing DNA-topo II-cleavable complexes. In this study merbarone was used as a model compound to investigate the genotoxic effects of catalytic inhibitors of topo II. The clastogenic properties of merbarone were evaluated using in vitro and in vivo micronucleus (MN) assays combined with CREST staining. For the in vitro MN assay, ICRF-187, a different type of catalytic inhibitor, and etoposide, a topo II poison, were used for comparison. Treatment of TK6 cells with all three of these drugs resulted in highly significant dose-related increases in kinetochore-lacking MN and, to a lesser extent, kinetochore-containing MN. In addition, a good correlation between p53 accumulation and MN formation was seen in the drug-treated cells. A mouse MN assay was performed to confirm that similar DNA-damaging effects would occur in vivo. Bone marrow smears from merbarone-treated B6C3F1 mice showed a dose-related increase in micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes with a mean of 26 MN per 1000 cells being seen at the 60 mg/kg dose. Almost all MN lacked a kinetochore signal, indicating that merbarone was predominantly clastogenic under these conditions in vivo. The present study clearly shows that merbarone is genotoxic both in vitro and in vivo, and demonstrates the inaccuracy of earlier statements that merbarone and other catalytic inhibitors block the enzymatic activity of topo II without damaging DNA.



Epilepsy surgery in childhood can now be more readily considered as a result of enhanced presurgical investigative techniques and safer neurosurgical practice. As in adults, surgery available may be resective (focal resection or hemispherectomy) or functional. The most common procedures are temporal lobectomy and hemispherectomy, with malformative lesions and developmental tumours the next common pathology. The timing of surgery requires careful consideration, and the definition of drug resistance given specific thought in the young child. Presurgical evaluation should be noninvasive where possible, and should include optimised MRI, including 3D data set and video EEG telemetry to document seizures. Detection of temporal lobe abnormalities in temporal lobe epilepsy with MR may be enhanced using quantitative and semiquantitative techniques. Ictal and interictal SPECT may be useful in providing information about the seizure onset zone, if reviewed in conjunction with MR data and video-EEG. Interictal PET is more likely to demonstrate abnormalities relating to structural defects, but may be particularly useful in infants where incomplete myelination may restrict structural information provided by MRI. Neuropsychology testing plays a major role by the determination of verbal and nonverbal function in older children, and in the determination of cerebral dominance. Functional MRI for determination of language or motor cortex may enhance such evaluation, although it is limited to older unsedated children at present. Although the aims of the presurgical evaluation remain similar to adult practice, the range of children presenting is wide, and the aims and likely outcome of surgery require careful evaluation with the family. This aside, the benefits of seizure elimination or reduction in drug-resistant focal epilepsy prior to adolescence, as well as in certain early catastrophic epilepsies of childhood, remain self apparent.





Although factors associated with successful termination of methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) have been well studied, the question of why certain methadone patients try to taper off methadone while others do not is still unanswered. Those patients who wish to continue MMT should of course be allowed to stay in treatment. However, even if only a small portion of the MMT patients wish to quit maintenance treatment, they should be offered all possible support by the treatment staff to maximize the possibility of a successful outcome. In the present study, we compared two groups of well-functioning MMT patients with respect to background factors, methadone-related factors, drug-related factors and psychological characteristics: one group consisted of patients who were trying to terminate their MMT (group 1) and the other group consisted of patients who were not trying (group 2). Each of the groups contained 25 well-rehabilitated subjects matched by age, gender and the number of years in MMT. The results show that the patients who were not trying to terminate MMT (in comparison to group 1) were not influenced by others to try to quit methadone, had a long history of opiate use as well as mixed drug use prior to MMT, had a higher methadone dose and reported a lower degree of anticipated abstinence symptoms. According to the statements of the subjects in group 2, the most important reason for not quitting treatment was the belief that they needed the methadone. The fact that they knew others who had failed to quit MMT and low confidence in succeeding were other common answers. Further, our results suggest that patients who were satisfied with their overall drug situation were less inclined to make a withdrawal attempt.
Mammalian adenylate cyclases are predicted to possess complex topologies, comprising two cassettes of six transmembrane-spanning motifs followed by a cytosolic, catalytic ATP-binding domain. Recent studies have begun to provide insights on the tertiary assembly of these proteins; crystallographic analysis has revealed that the two cytosolic domains dimerize to form a catalytic core, while more recent biochemical and cell biological analysis shows that the two transmembrane cassettes also associate to facilitate the functional assembly and trafficking of the enzyme. The older literature had suggested that adenylate cyclases might form higher order aggregates, although the methods used did not necessarily provide convincing evidence of biologically relevant events. In the present study, we have pursued this question by a variety of approaches, including rescue or suppression of function by variously modified molecules, coimmunoprecipitation and fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) analysis between molecules in living cells. The results strongly suggest that adenylate cyclases dimerize (or oligomerize) via their hydrophobic domains. It is speculated that this divalent property may allow adenylate cyclases to participate in multimeric signaling assemblies.
The problem of finding correspondence between a particular neuronal organization and a specific function of the human brain remains a central question of neuroscience. It is sometimes thought that language and music are two sides of the same intellectual coin, but research on brain-damaged patients has shown that the loss of verbal functions (aphasia) is not necessarily accompanied by a loss of musical abilities (amusia). Amusia without aphasia has also been described. This double dissociation indicates functional autonomy in these mental processes. Yet verbal and musical impairments often occur together. The global picture that emerges from studies of music and its neural substrate is by no means clear and much depends on which subjects and which aspect of musical abilities are investigated. An illustration of these concepts is provided by the case of the French composer Maurice Ravel, who suffered from a progressive cerebral disease of uncertain aetiology, with prominent involvement of the left hemisphere. As a result, Ravel experienced aphasia and apraxia and became unable to compose. The available facts favour a clinical diagnosis of primary progressive aphasia (PPA), with the possibility of an overlap with corticobasal degeneration (CBD). In view of Ravel's clinical history, we propose that two of his final compositions, the Bolero and the Concerto for the Left Hand, include certain patterns characteristic of right-hemisphere musical abilities and may show the influence of disease on the creative process.
Twenty-seven young (&lt;50 years old) patients with spontaneous carotid artery dissection in 11 cases and carotid atherosclerosis in 16 cases were evaluated to determine the apolipoprotein E polymorphism. At the DNA analysis the epsilon3/epsilon3 genotype was observed in all patients with dissection, in 13 of 16 (81.2%) patients with atherosclerosis and in 27 of 30 (90%) controls. Three of 16 (18.8%) patients with atherosclerosis and 3 of 30 (10%) controls presented with the epsilon4/epsilon3 genotype, and this difference was not statistically significant. Moreover, observation of the epsilon4/epsilon3 genotype was not significantly higher in patients with atherosclerosis compared with those with dissection. No homozygote epsilon4/epsilon4, epsilon2/epsilon2 or heterozygote epsilon2 genotype was observed. No correlation was found between the presence of the epsilon4/epsilon3 genotype and vascular risk factors. Therefore, the epsilon4 allele seems to be involved in carotid premature atherosclerosis development whereas it may appear to be protective for artery dissection occurrence. A larger sample size is needed to support this suggestion.
The ascending thalamofugal visual pathway in pigeons (Columba livia) terminates in the telencephalic wulst. Characterizing the role of this pathway in visually guided behaviour has remained a challenge. To determine whether this pathway, and in particular the wulst, may participate in sun-compass-guided behaviour in homing pigeons, intact, ectostriatum-lesioned or wulst-lesioned pigeons were trained to use their sun compass to locate the direction of a food reward in an outdoor, octagonal arena. Control and ectostriatum-lesioned pigeons learned the task well, and orientated appropriately during the first trial of the last three training sessions and after a phase-shift manipulation. In contrast, the wulst-lesioned pigeons learned the task but they took more sessions to learn, and their directional choices were more scattered during the first trial of the last three training sessions and after the phase-shift manipulation. A subsequent regression analysis indicated that deeper layers of the wulst might have made more of a contribution to the observed behavioural impairments. The data indicate that the homing pigeon wulst participates in visually guided behaviour when the sun compass is used to learn the directional location of a goal.
The effects of contextual fear-learning on hippocampal synaptic excitability were investigated by means of high frequency tetanic stimulation (HFS) in rat brain slices (hippocampal CA1 region), prepared at different intervals (immediately, 24 h or 7 days) after a one-trial contextual fear conditioning paradigm session. In the latter, rats that had previously received aversive electrical footshocks in the experimental apparatus exhibited freezing (the conditioned response) when placed again in the same apparatus (retrieval test). It was shown that contextual fear-learning affects the hippocampal synaptic response. In fact, the HFS produced a decrease in the amplitude of short-term (STP) and long-term potentiation (LTP) when compared to control &quot;nave&quot; subject values. This decrease in STP amplitude could be observed only in slices prepared immediately after the training session. A decrease in the amplitude of long-term but not short-term potentiation was also observed at 24 h. At 7 days, no decreases in amplitude were observed. These modifications may be thought of as specifically associated with the learning process as they were not recorded in brain preparations from &quot;shock-only&quot; rats (i.e. those that received the same number of aversive stimuli of equal intensity as the conditioned group but with the shocks compressed temporally so that the shocked subjects could not associate nociceptive stimulation and surroundings - no conditioned freezing during retention testing). In &quot;exploration&quot; preparations (brain slices from rats having only freely explored the experimental apparatus without receiving any adverse stimulation) a decrease in LTP amplitude was recorded only immediately after the training session, and STP was never modified. The synaptic response modifications do not appear to be due to presynaptic events, as they are not associated with paired-pulse facilitation curve (PPF) modifications. The present results show that contextual fear conditioning and exploration of a novel environment (i) reduce the ability to induce synaptic plasticity; (ii) differentially influence STP and LTP and that (iii) the persistence of synaptic modifications depends on an animal's prior experience.
In an attempt to define clinically relevant models of akinesia and dyskinesia in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats, we have examined the effects of drugs with high (L-DOPA) vs. low (bromocriptine) dyskinesiogenic potential in Parkinson's disease on three types of motor performance, namely: (i) abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) (ii) rotational behaviour, and (iii) spontaneous forelimb use (cylinder test). Rats with unilateral 6-OHDA lesions received single daily i.p. injections of L-DOPA or bromocriptine at therapeutic doses. During 3 weeks of treatment, L-DOPA but not bromocriptine induced increasingly severe AIMs affecting the limb, trunk and orofacial region. Rotational behaviour was induced to a much higher extent by bromocriptine than L-DOPA. In the cylinder test, the two drugs initially improved the performance of the parkinsonian limb to a similar extent. However, L-DOPA-treated animals showed declining levels of performance in this test because the drug-induced AIMs interfered with physiological limb use, and gradually replaced all normal motor activities. L-DOPA-induced axial, limb and orolingual AIM scores were significantly reduced by the acute administration of compounds that have antidyskinetic efficacy in parkinsonian patients and/or nonhuman primates (-91%, yohimbine 10 mg/kg; -19%, naloxone 4-8 mg/kg; -37%, 5-methoxy 5-N,N-dimethyl-tryptamine 2 mg/kg; -30%, clozapine 8 mg/kg; -50%, amantadine 40 mg/kg). L-DOPA-induced rotation was, however, not affected. The present results demonstrate that 6-OHDA-lesioned rats do exhibit motor deficits that share essential functional similarities with parkinsonian akinesia or dyskinesia. Such deficits can be quantified using novel and relatively simple testing procedures, whereas rotometry cannot discriminate between dyskinetic and antiakinetic effects of antiparkinsonian treatments.
An important modulatory cell type, found in all molluscan feeding networks, was investigated using two-electrode voltage- and current-clamp methods. In the cerebral giant cells of Lymnaea, a transient inward Na+ current was identified with activation at -58 +/- 2 mV. It was sensitive to tetrodotoxin only in high concentrations (approximately 50% block at 100 microm), a characteristic of Na+ channels in many molluscan neurons. A much smaller low-threshold persistent Na+ current (activation at &lt; -90 mV) was also identified. Two purely voltage-sensitive outward K+ currents were also found: (i) a transient A-current type which was activated at -59 +/- 4 mV and blocked by 4-aminopyridine; (ii) a sustained tetraethylammonium-sensitive delayed rectifier current which was activated at -47 +/- 2 mV. There was also evidence that a third, Ca2+-activated, K+ channel made a contribution to the total outward current. No inwardly rectifying currents were found. Two Ca2+ currents were characterized: (i) a transient low-voltage (-65 +/- 2 mV) activated T-type current, which was blocked in NiCl2 (2 mm) and was completely inactivated at approximately -50 mV; (ii) A sustained high voltage (-40 +/- 1 mV) activated current, which was blocked in CdCl2 (100 microm) but not in omega-conotoxin GVIA (10 microm), omega-agatoxin IVA (500 nm) or nifedipine (10 microm). This current was enhanced in Ba2+ saline. Current-clamp experiments revealed how these different current types could define the membrane potential and firing properties of the cerebral giant cells, which are important in shaping the wide-acting modulatory influence of this neuron on the rest of the feeding network.
Inhibitors of apoptosis proteins (IAPs) define a protein family with the ability to counteract cell death by the inhibition of different caspases activated during apoptosis. These proteins are present in different cells, however, the function and roles of IAPs in brain tissue are not fully understood. We report here that RIAP-2, the rat homologue of human cIAP-1/HIAP-2, is expressed in different areas of rat brain as shown by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. Brain regions with relatively high expression of RIAP-2 mRNA included cortex, cerebellum and different subregions of rat hippocampus. Double labelling using a specific anti-RIAP antibody and markers for neurons and glial cells, showed that RIAP-2 is predominantly expressed by nerve cells. Kainic acid treatment, which induces seizures, transiently up-regulated RIAP-2 mRNA levels in cerebral cortex, in the CA1 and dentate gyrus regions of hippocampus, which returned to normal levels at 24 h. However in the CA3 region, RIAP-2 mRNA was decreased at 6 h following an early up-regulation. This region contains neurons particularly vulnerable to kainic acid induced cell degeneration. The decrease in RIAP-2 following kainic acid was also observed using immunohistochemistry. RIAP-2 protein did not colocalize with TUNEL labelling present in cells undergoing cell death. The results show that in the adult rat brain RIAP-2 is expressed mainly by neurons, and that the levels are regulated by kainic acid, which activates glutamate receptors. The decrease in RIAP-2 in specific neuronal populations may contribute to cell degeneration in vulnerable brain regions observed after kainic acid treatment.
Numerous studies of the proliferative effects of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) in culture, including neonatal and adult hippocampal precursors, suggest that the factor plays a ubiquitous and life-long role in neurogenesis. In contrast, in vivo, bFGF is devoid of effects on neurons in mature hippocampus, raising the possibility that bFGF exhibits developmental stage-specific activity in the complex animal environment. To define neurogenetic effects in the newborn, a single subcutaneous injection of bFGF (20 ng/gm) was administered to postnatal day 1 (P1) rats, and hippocampal DNA content was quantified: bFGF elicited an increase in total DNA throughout adulthood, by 48% at P4, 25% at P22, and 17% at P180, suggesting that bFGF increases hippocampal cell number. To define mechanisms, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) was injected at P1 and mitotically labelled cells were assessed at P22: there was a twofold increase in BrdU-positive cells in the dentate granule cell layer (GCL), indicating that bFGF enhanced the generation of neurons, or neuronogenesis, from a cohort of precursors. Moreover, enhanced mitosis and survival led to a 33% increase in absolute GCL neuron number, suggesting that neuron production depends on environmental levels of bFGF. To evaluate this possibility, bFGF-knockout mice were analyzed: hippocampal DNA content was decreased at all ages examined (P3, -42%; P21, -28%; P360, -18%), and total GCL neuron and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive cell number were decreased by 30%, indicating that bFGF is necessary for normal hippocampal neurogenesis. We conclude that environmental levels of bFGF regulate neonatal hippocampal neurogenesis. As adult hippocampal neuronogenesis was unresponsive to bFGF manipulation in our previous study [Wagner, J.P., Black, I.B. &amp; DiCicco-Bloom, E. (1999) J. Neurosci., 19, 6006], these observations suggest distinct, stage-specific roles of bFGF in the dentate gyrus granule cell lineage.
The neuropeptides orexin-A and orexin-B are produced in neurons of the lateral hypothalamic area and have been implicated to be involved in the regulation of food/water intake and sleep-wake control. The orexins act at two different G-protein-coupled orexin receptors (OX-R1 and OX-R2) that are derived from separate genes and expressed differentially throughout the central nervous system. In the present study, we have used a polyclonal antipeptide antiserum to analyse in detail the distribution of OX-R1-immunoreactive neurons in the rat hypothalamus. In order to identify the chemical mediators of orexin action in the hypothalamus, the OX-R1-containing neurons were characterized with regard to the content of peptides shown previously to affect ingestive and drinking behaviour. Neurons containing OX-R1 immunoreactivity were widely distributed in the hypothalamus with cell bodies located in the suprachiasmatic, periventricular, paraventricular (both magno- and parvocellular division), supraoptic, arcuate, ventromedial, dorsomedial and tuberomammillary nuclei and the lateral hypothalamic area. In magnocellular neurons of the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei, OX-R1 immunoreactivity was seen in both vasopressin- and oxytocin-containing neurons. OX-R1 immunoreactivity was demonstrated in vasopressin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) neurons of the suprachiasmatic nucleus, in somatostatin neurons of the periventricular nucleus and in corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons of the parvocellular paraventricular nucleus. In the arcuate nucleus, OX-R1 immunoreactivity was present in neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related peptide (AGRP) neurons of the ventromedial part as well as in proopiomelanocortin (POMC) and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) neurons of the ventrolateral division. In the lateral hypothalamic area, OX-R1 immunoreactivity was demonstrated in melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH)- and orexin-containing neurons. In the hypothalamic tuberomammillary nucleus, OX-R1-immunoreactivity was shown in many histamine-containing neurons. The results support the idea that orexins have important actions on hypothalamic neurons that control food intake and fluid balance, but also that orexins may regulate other neuroendocrine systems.
The objective was to evaluate the effects of therapeutic dietary supplements and drugs on cognitive function in subjects with Down syndrome. The study design was a systematic review of randomized controlled trials of dietary supplements and/or drugs reporting any assessment of cognitive function in subjects with Down syndrome. Eleven trials were identified with 373 randomized participants. None of the trials reported cognitive enhancing effect in subjects with Down syndrome. Meta-analysis was not conducted due to the heterogeneous nature of the population, interventions and outcome measures used. Overall, the quality of the trials was poor with few subjects and generally inadequate allocation concealment of the treatments given. This comprehensive systematic review provides no positive evidence that any combination of drugs, vitamins and minerals enhance either cognitive function or psychomotor development in people with Down syndrome. However, because of the small number of subjects involved and the overall unsatisfactory quality of the trials, an effect cannot be excluded at this point. At present there is no justification for the use of such regimes outside the context of large well designed trials. Parents of children with Down syndrome should be actively discouraged from giving these 'miracle drugs' to their children.

Auditory event-related brain potentials evoked in response to tone stimuli and to speech stimuli were recorded in a group of parents of children with specific language-impairment and a group of parents of normally speaking children. The parents of the language-impaired children showed longer P3 latencies than the parental control group in the speech task requiring a phonological discrimination, but did not differ from the controls in the linguistically non-demanding tone discrimination task. The longer P3 latency was associated with a positive parental history of language delay. There were no group differences concerning the N1 component in any of the tasks. The findings indicate that parents of children with specific language impairment show signs of deficient late-stage perceptual higher order linguistic processing, whereas the earlier central sensory detection stage of the phonological information is no different from the controls. Our observations are particularly interesting with regard to a study of the children of these two parental groups, where the language-impaired children showed longer P3 latencies than controls in both a tone task and a speech task, whereas there were no differences between the children concerning the N1 component. We propose that deficient late-stage auditory higher order perceptual processing as indexed by the longer P3 latency to speech stimuli observed both in children with specific language-impairment and in their parents may represent a constitutional trait, contributing to the language acquisition difficulties in these children.

Event-related brain potentials evoked by tone and speech stimuli were recorded in ten children with specific language impairment and a control group. The patient group showed prolonged P3 latencies in both tasks compared with the controls and smaller P3 amplitude in the speech task. There were no group differences concerning the N1-P2 components. The findings indicate that the children with language impairment showed signs of deficient late-stage auditory perceptual processing whereas the earlier sensory stages as indexed by the N1 were no different from the controls. The results are further discussed within the framework of context updating in working memory.
Tuberous sclerosis complex is characterized by hamartomatous lesions involving skin, brain, kidneys, eyes and heart. Pathologically, tuberous sclerosis is a disorder of cell migration, proliferation and differentiation. Cell lineage and cell migration disorders in the developing cortex of tuberous sclerosis complex patients might produce very different neurological phenotypes including epilepsy, cognitive impairment and autism. Cortical tubers constitute the hallmark of the disease and are pathognomonic of cerebral tuberous sclerosis. Epilepsy is the most common neurological feature, occurring in 96% of patients. Seizures often begin in the first months of life and are frequently severe and intractable. The treatment of seizures has recently benefited from the advent of the new anti-epileptic drugs. Selected drug-resistant patients with tuberous sclerosis complex could be considered for surgical treatment. Clear localization of the most active epileptogenic focus and the zone of the cortical abnormality may lead to tuberectomy and improved seizure control in selective drug-resistant patients. The finding of multiple areas of cerebral involvement should not automatically preclude epilepsy surgery in a child with intractable seizures and a well defined seizure origin.
We have previously conducted a small treatment study on staphylococcus toxoid in fibromyalgia (FM) and chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS). The aim of the present study was to further assess the efficacy of the staphylococcus toxoid preparation Staphypan Berna (SB) during 6 months in FM/CFS patients. One hundred consecutively referred patients fulfilling the ACR criteria for FM and the 1994 CDC criteria for CFS were randomised to receive active drug or placebo. Treatment included weekly injections containing 0.1 ml, 0.2 ml, 0.3 ml, 0.4 ml, 0.6 ml, 0.8 ml, 0.9 ml, and 1.0 ml SB or coloured sterile water, followed by booster doses given 4-weekly until endpoint. Main outcome measures were the proportion of responders according to global ratings and the proportion of patients with a symptom reduction of &gt; or =50% on a 15-item subscale derived from the comprehensive psychopathological rating scale (CPRS). The treatment was well tolerated. Intention-to-treat analysis showed 32/49 (65%) responders in the SB group compared to 9/49 (18%) in the placebo group (P&lt;0.001). Sixteen patients (33%) in the SB group reduced their CPRS scores by at least 50% compared to five patients (10%) in the placebo group (P&lt; 0.01). Mean change score on the CPRS (95% confidence interval) was 10.0 (6.7-13.3) in the SB group and 3.9 (1.1-6.6) in the placebo group (P&lt;0.01). An increase in CPRS symptoms at withdrawal was noted in the SB group. In conclusion, treatment with staphylococcus toxoid injections over 6 months led to significant improvement in patients with FM and CFS. Maintenance treatment is required to prevent relapse.
Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) is an effective tool in alleviating neuropathic pain. However, a number of well-selected patients fail to obtain satisfactory pain relief. Previous studies have demonstrated that i.t. baclofen and/or adenosine can enhance the SCS effect, but this combined therapy has been shown to be useful in less than half of the cases and more effective substances are therefore needed. The aim of this experimental study in rats was to examine whether gabapentin or pregabalin attenuates tactile allodynia following partial sciatic nerve injury and whether subeffective doses of these drugs can potentiate the effects of SCS in rats which do not respond to SCS. Mononeuropathy was produced by a photochemically induced ischaemic lesion of the sciatic nerve. Tactile withdrawal thresholds were assessed with von Frey filaments. Effects of increasing doses of gabapentin and pregabalin (i.t. and i.v.) on the withdrawal thresholds were analysed. These drugs were found to reduce tactile allodynia in a dose-dependent manner. In SCS non-responding rats, i.e. where stimulation per se failed to suppress allodynia, a combination of SCS and subeffective doses of the drugs markedly attenuated allodynia. In subsequent acute experiments, extracellular recordings from wide dynamic range neurones in the dorsal horn showed prominent hyperexcitability. The combination of SCS and gabapentin, at the same subeffective dose, clearly enhanced suppression of this hyperexcitability. In conclusion, electrical therapy and pharmacological therapy in neuropathic pain can, when they are inefficient individually, become effective when combined.
This short review is based on only a small selected sample of research to illustrate the wide variety of cellular mechanisms that underlie the neural basis of digestive diseases. The enteric nervous system and its effector cells are involved in the control of most gastrointestinal activities. The review summarises the neural mechanisms involved in normal and abnormal gastrointestinal functions. The gastrointestinal tract is exposed to a tremendous variety of foreign substances including those ingested with food and those produced by the extensive commensal and pathological bacterial flora. Normal functions controlled by the enteric neural circuits are well adapted to distinguish nutrients from harmful stimuli. The main enteric neural circuits have been identified in experimental animals and are being investigated in humans. The enormous variety of motor patterns observed in normal gastrointestinal tract is the result of interplay of a few fundamental mechanisms, including myogenic mechanisms; neurogenic accommodation, neurogenic propulsive mechanisms and migrating neurogenic motor activity. Motor dysfunctions of the gut are likely to be caused by abnormalities of one or more of these mechanisms. Disturbances of enteric neural functions can arise from physiological defence reactions to harmful insults, from abnormal activation of physiological circuits, or from pathological alterations of the enteric circuits. Vomit and expulsive propulsion and inflammation or bacteria neurally induced changes in motility are physiological defence mechanisms. Pathological alterations include toxic, autoimmune, genetic lesions also secondary to systemic diseases and can be partial and graded.
Neuron-derived neuregulins have been implicated in the regulation of glial cell function and survival. This factor family and its receptors may therefore be assumed to be of importance for the cellular response to traumatic injury. In this study we have examined the distribution of mRNA for neuregulin 1 (NRG1), ErbB3 and ErbB4-receptor tyrosine kinases after a ventral funiculus lesion in the lumbar spinal cord (VFL). The techniques used were in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. The survival times were 1-21 days. The spinal cords from normal adult and embryonic rats were used as controls. For comparison, sections from the olfactory bulb of perinatal and adult rats were also included in the study. Expression of NRG1 mRNA was observed in motoneurons in the intact spinal cord. A decrease in the labeling for NRG1 mRNA was seen during the first 5 days after VFL but then became slightly upregulated at 3 weeks after the lesion. A high labeling signal for ErbB3-mRNA was observed in the ventral and dorsal roots of E16 and E18 embryos. Labeling for ErbB3-mRNA was strong in the affected ventral root at 3 days after the VFL, reached a maximum at 1 week and was still upregulated after 3 weeks. Increased labeling for ErbB3 was also noted in scattered cells in the scar tissue 1-3 weeks after the VFL. These findings were verified with immunohistochemistry for ErbB3. A strong labeling for ErbB3 in the olfactory nerve fiber layer and olfactory nerve bundles was observed in rats of all ages examined. ErbB4 had strong expression in the embryonic spinal cord, but no evidence for lesion-induced regulation of ErbB4 receptors could be found after the VFL. Our data show that ErbB3 in the ventral roots was upregulated after a VFL and that NRG1 mRNA was initially downregulated in the motoneurons. The lesion-induced changes in the expression of NRG1 and ErbB3 in the injured spinal cord and denervated ventral root can be assumed to be of importance for axonal growth and the regulation of glial cell survival.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) produces an increase in extracellular excitatory amino acid (EAA) concentrations that results in glutamate receptor-mediated excitotoxic events. An important class of these receptors is the metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). mGluRs can activate a number of intracellular pathways that increase neuronal excitability and modulate neurotransmission. Group I mGluRs are known to modulate EAA release and the development of chronic central pain (CCP) following SCI; however, the role of group II and III mGluRs remains unclear. To begin evaluating group II and III mGluRs in SCI, we administered the specific agonists for group II, APDC, or group III, L-AP4, by interspinal injection immediately following SCI. Contusion injury was produced at spinal segment T10 with a New York University impactor (12.5-mm drop, 10-g rod 2 mm in diameter) in 30 adult male Sprague-Dawley rats (175-200 g). Evoked and spontaneous behavioral measures of CCP, locomotor recovery, changes in mGluR expression, and amount of spared tissue were examined. Neither APDC nor L-AP4 affected locomotor recovery or the development of thermal hyperalgesia; however, L-AP4 and APDC attenuated changes in mechanical thresholds and changes in exploratory behavior indicative of CCP. APDC- and L-AP4-treated groups had higher expression levels of mGluR2/3 at the epicenter of injury on post contusion day 28; however, there was no difference in the amount of spared tissue between treatment groups. These results demonstrate that treatment with agonists to group II and III mGluRs following SCI affects mechanical responses, exploratory behavior, and mGluR2/3 expression without affecting the amount of tissue spared, suggesting that the level of mGluR expression after SCI may modulate nociceptive responses.
Sonic hedgehog (Shh), a member of hedgehog (hh) family of signaling molecules, is necessary for normal axial patterning and cellular differentiation in the developing central nervous system. Shh also promotes the survival of fetal dopaminergic neurons and protects cultures of fetal midbrain dopaminergic neurons from the toxic effects of N-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)), a neurotoxin that selectively injures nigral dopaminergic neurons. The mRNA expression of Shh and its putative receptor in the adult brain indicates an important role of Shh in the mature nervous system in addition to its roles during embryogenesis. In this study we examined the behavioral and anatomical effects of intrastriatal injection of singly myristoylated wild-type human Sonic hedgehog N-terminal fragment (Shh-M) in a rat model of Parkinson's disease (PD). Five groups of rats received a series of four intrastriatal injections of Shh-M (180 ng, 540 ng, or 4.275 microg per injection), glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) (1 microg/injection), or vehicle on days 1, 3, 5, and 8. On day 4, the animals received an intrastriatal injection of 15 microg 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) free base. Intrastriatal administration of Shh (180 ng/injection) twice before and after a single intrastriatal injection of 6-OHDA reduced apomorphine- and amphetamine-induced rotation and forelimb akinesia and partially preserved dopaminergic axons in the striatum. This is the first demonstration in vivo that Shh reduces behavioral deficits induced by intrastriatal 6-OHDA lesion and suggests that Shh may be useful in the treatment of disorders that affect the nigrostriatal system, such as PD.
At focal CNS injury sites, several cytokines accumulate, including ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta). Additionally, the CNTF alpha receptor is induced on astrocytes, establishing an autocrine/paracrine loop. How astrocyte function is altered as a result of CNTF stimulation remains incompletely characterized. Here, we demonstrate that direct injection of CNTF into the spinal cord increases GFAP expression and astroglial size and that primary cultures of spinal cord astrocytes treated with CNTF, IL-1beta, or leukemia inhibitory factor exhibit nuclear hypertrophy comparable to that observed in vivo. Using a coculture bioassay, we further demonstrate that CNTF treatment of astrocytes increases their ability to support ChAT(+) ventral spinal cord neurons (presumably motor neurons) more than twofold compared with untreated astrocytes. Also, the complexity of neurites was significantly increased in neurons cultured with CNTF-treated astrocytes compared with untreated astrocytes. RT-PCR analysis demonstrated that CNTF increased levels of FGF-2 and nerve growth factor (NGF) mRNA and that IL-1beta increased NGF and hepatocyte growth factor mRNA levels. Furthermore, both CNTF and IL-1beta stimulated the release of FGF-2 from cultured spinal cord astrocytes. These findings demonstrate that cytokine-activated astrocytes better support CNS neuron survival via the production of neurotrophic molecules. We also show that CNTF synergizes with FGF-2, but not epidermal growth factor, to promote DNA synthesis in spinal cord astrocyte cultures. The significance of these findings is discussed by presenting a new model depicting the sequential activation of astrocytes by cytokines and growth factors in the context of CNS injury and repair.
Implantation of cells genetically modified to express therapeutic genes into the brain has been proposed as a potential treatment for neurodegenerative diseases. In the current study embryonic rat-derived astrocytes were cultured and transduced with a lentiviral vector expressing the reporter gene green fluorescent protein (GFP) and subsequently grafted into the adult rat brain. The proportion of GFP expressing cells was stable, albeit small (1%), at all survival times, up to 6 weeks, the longest time point studied. In parallel in vitro studies, the astrocytes were lentivirally transduced to express either one of the two isoforms of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD(65) or GAD(67)) or glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). When transducing 293T cells with the two GAD vectors, released GABA could be measured using high-performance liquid chromatography. Further studies of rat astrocytes transduced with the same vectors resulted in a level of GAD activity about 10 times higher than the activity of an intact rat striatum. One hundred thousand astrocytes transduced with LV-GDNF released approximately 27 ng of GDNF per hour. Thus, taken together, our observations provide support for the use of rat astrocytes in ex vivo gene transfer of these proteins in animal models of CNS disorders, e.g., Parkinson's disease or epilepsy.
Here we examined the ability of human neural progenitors from the embryonic forebrain, expanded for up to a year in culture in the presence of growth factors, to respond to environmental signals provided by the developing rat brain. After survival times of up to more than a year after transplantation into the striatum, the hippocampus, and the subventricular zone, the cells were analyzed using human-specific antisera and the reporter gene green fluorescent protein (GFP). From grafts implanted in the striatum, the cells migrated extensively, especially within white matter structures. Neuronal differentiation was most pronounced at the striatal graft core, with axonal projections extending caudally along the internal capsule into mesencephalon. In the hippocampus, cells migrated throughout the entire hippocampal formation and into adjacent white matter tracts, with differentiation into neurons both in the dentate gyrus and in the CA1-3 regions. Directed migration along the rostral migratory stream to the olfactory bulb and differentiation into granule cells were observed after implantation into the subventricular zone. Glial differentiation occurred at all three graft sites, predominantly at the injection sites, but also among the migrating cells. A lentiviral vector was used to transduce the cells with the GFP gene prior to grafting. The reporter gene was expressed for at least 15 weeks and the distribution of the gene product throughout the entire cytoplasmic compartment of the expressing cells allowed for a detailed morphological analysis of a portion of the grafted cells. The extensive integration and differentiation of in vitro-expanded human neural progenitor cells indicate that multipotent progenitors are capable of responding in a regionally specific manner to cues present in the developing rat brain.
Fifty years after the discovery of nerve growth factor, the first gene therapy trial for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease utilizing nerve growth factor has begun. This review focuses on the history of nerve growth factor and the rationale behind targeting nerve growth factor therapy to rescue degenerating neurons of the cholinergic basal forebrain system in Alzheimer's disease. Further, the future steps necessary to turn the promise of gene therapy into a practical approach for treating Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders are discussed, including key issues, such as regulatable gene expression and making the transition from an ex vivo to an in vivo gene therapy approach.
Animal models for human neurological and psychiatric diseases only partially mimic the underlying pathogenic processes. Therefore, we investigated the potential use of cultured postmortem brain tissue from adult neurological patients and controls. The present study shows that human brain tissue slices obtained by autopsy within 8 h after death can be maintained in vitro for extended periods (up to 78 days) and can be manipulated experimentally. We report for the first time that 1) neurons and glia in such cultures could be induced to express the reporter gene LacZ after transduction with adeno-associated viral vectors and 2) cytochrome oxidase activity could be enhanced by the addition of pyruvate to the medium. These slice cultures offer new opportunities to study the cellular and molecular mechanisms of neurological and psychiatric diseases and new therapeutic strategies.
Astrocyte motility plays an important role in the response of the brain to injury and during regeneration. We used two in vitro assays, a wound-healing model and a chemotaxis assay, to study mechanisms that control astrocyte motility. Ryanodine receptors (RyR), intracellular calcium-release channels, modulate intracellular Ca2+ levels, and also motility: 1) blocking RyR with antagonizing concentration of ryanodine (200 microM) strongly attenuated motility and 2) motility of astrocytes cultured from homozygous RyR type 3 knockout mice was impaired strongly compared with wild-type. In contrast, MIP-1a-induced chemotaxis was neither impaired in the presence of ryanodine nor in the cells from the knockout animals. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis combined with Western blotting and immunocytochemistry confirmed the expression of RyR type 3, but not type 1 or 2 in cultured and acutely isolated astrocytes. RyR in astrocytes are linked to Ca2+ signaling because the RyR agonist 4-chloro-m-cresol induced a release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores. These results indicate that astrocytes express only RyR type 3 and that this receptor is important for controlling astrocyte motility.
The current study was performed to analyse the potential existence and structure of a GHRH-transporting tuberoinfundibular system in the rat median eminence. The immunocytochemical analysis using anti-GHRH revealed an intense immunoreaction in the ependimary cells, tanycytes, at the level of the floor of the infundibular recess forming part of the median eminence. The basal processes of these cells course towards the external layer of the median eminence and reach the growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) fibres of the tuberoinfundibular tract and this reaction was increased after intraventricular treatment with colchicine. Thus, these observations suggest the existence of a second or alternative cerebrospinal fluid-mediated route of GHRH transport to the median eminence and implicate the involvement of tanycytes in the regulation of this novel transport system.


The aim of this study was to evaluate A-delta fibre function in a patient with hereditary sensory-autonomic neuropathy (HSAN). We used the mixed and cutaneous silent period techniques in addition to a conventional electromyographic investigation in a patient with type 2 HSAN, a rare disease characterised by wide-spread sensory and variable autonomic dysfunction caused by incomplete development of sensory and autonomic neurons. Whereas the stimulation of one digital nerve did not show any evidence of silent period in either the left or the right hand, the simultaneous stimulation of two digital nerves, as well as the stimulation of a mixed nerve, revealed a measurable delayed and shortened silent period. These data suggest that a spatial summation mediated by A-delta fibres was required for generation of the silent period in this patient and that combining the CSP and MNSP may be of practical use in evaluating impairment of the small myelinated fibres.

Nkx 3.1 is an evolutionarily conserved vertebrate homolog of the Drosophila Nk-3 homeodomain gene bagpipe that is expressed by a variety of cells during early mammalian development and has been shown to be a critical factor for prostate development and function. Previous studies utilizing a heterologous cell transfection strategy from our laboratory identified the smooth muscle gamma-actin (SMGA) gene as a novel molecular target of Nkx 3.1 regulatory activity. In the studies presented here, SMGA gene activity and regulation were evaluated in normal and cancerous prostate epithelial cells. SMGA transcripts were demonstrated in prostate epithelia and SMGA mRNA levels were increased in androgen-responsive LNCaP cancer and normal prostate epithelial cells. SMGA gene transcriptional activity was androgen responsive in these cells and required a segment of the human SMGA promoter containing NKE and SRF (serum response factor) binding elements. This region of the human SMGA proximal promoter is well conserved across species and is synergistically activated by coexpression of Nkx 3.1 and SRF in heterologous CV-1 cells. SMGA transcription was not responsive to steroid in PC-3 prostate epithelial cancer cells, which do not express Nkx 3.1. However, SMGA transcription was influenced by expression of androgen receptor in these cells, a situation that allows the androgen-dependent expression of Nkx 3.1. Furthermore, SMGA gene activity was influenced by direct Nkx 3.1 expression in the PC-3 cells. Thus, SMGA gene activity in prostate epithelia is due, in part, to the androgen-dependent expression of Nkx 3.1. As such, our studies provide the initial description of Nkx 3.1 target gene regulatory activity in the prostate.
Implantation of olfactory ensheathing glia (OEG) is a promising strategy to augment long-distance regeneration in the injured spinal cord. In this study, implantation of OEG following unilateral hemisection of the dorsal cervical spinal cord was combined with ex vivo gene transfer techniques. We report, to our knowledge for the first time, that purified cultures of primary OEG are capable of expressing a foreign gene following adenoviral (AdV) and lentiviral (LV) vector-mediated gene transfer. OEG implants subjected to AdV vector-mediated gene transfer expressed high levels of transgenic protein in both intact and lesioned spinal cord at 7 days after implantation. However, the levels of transgene expression gradually declined between 7 and 30 days after implantation in lesioned spinal cord. Infection with LV vectors resulted in stable transduction of primary OEG cultures and transgene expression persisted for at least 4 months after implantation. Genetic engineering of OEG opens the possibility of expressing additional neurotrophic genes and create optimal 'bridging' substrates to support spinal axon regeneration. Furthermore, stable transduction of OEG allows us to reliably study the behaviour of implanted cells and to obtain better understanding of their regeneration supporting properties.
Mice that exhibit characteristics of physical dependence following ethanol exposure serve as useful models of alcoholism in humans. The DBA/2J and C57BL/6J inbred strains differ in their behavioral response to ethanol withdrawal. Alterations in gene expression are believed to underlie neuroadaptation to ethanol dependence and tolerance. Therefore, the differences in ethanol withdrawal severity observed between the DBA/2J and C57BL/6J strains may be related to differential regulation of gene expression. We have used cDNA microarrays to determine the gene expression profile in the hippocampus of DBA/2J and C57BL/6J mice during withdrawal after chronic and acute ethanol exposure. Of the 7634 genes surveyed, approximately 2% were consistently differentially expressed by at least 1.4-fold in DBA/2J mice during chronic ethanol withdrawal. Less than 1% of the genes showed altered expression in C57BL/6J mice under the same conditions, or in DBA/2J mice during acute ethanol withdrawal. Strain- and treatment-specific patterns of altered expression were observed for multiple genes associated with the Janus kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription and the mitogen activated protein kinase pathways. Genes associated with both pathways are regulated in DBA/2J mice during chronic ethanol withdrawal, and to a lesser extent during acute ethanol withdrawal. Only those genes associated with the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway exhibited changes in expression in C57BL/6J mice during ethanol withdrawal. Furthermore, genes associated with retinoic acid-mediated signaling show differential expression exclusively in C57BL/6J mice. These findings represent significant differences in cellular adaptation to ethanol between the DBA/2J and C57BL/6J strains.
The use of cDNA and oligonucleotide microarrays, or 'chips', is emerging as a powerful, new technology in the field of neuroscience for examining gene expression in a high-throughput fashion. The application of microarray technology to the study of brain and behavior has lagged behind other areas of biology such as cancer and yeast genetics due to the challenges presented by the heterogeneous and complex organization of the nervous system. This review provides a brief overview of available microarray technology as well as a description of experimental considerations in planning and implementing a neuroscience-based array study. Successful implementation of microarray technology within the field of neuroscience will provide a molecular approach to studying systems neurobiology, leading to insights into areas ranging from fundamental questions of developmental neurobiology to neurological and psychiatric disorders.
Complex traits, i.e. those with multiple genetic and environmental determinants, represent the greatest challenge for genetic analysis, largely due to the difficulty of isolating the effects of any one gene amid the noise of other genetic and environmental influences. Methods exist for detecting and mapping the Quantitative Trait Loci (QTLs) that influence complex traits. However, once mapped, gene identification commonly involves reduction of focus to single candidate genes or isolated chromosomal regions. To reach the next level in unraveling the genetics of human disease will require moving beyond the focus on one gene at a time, to explorations of pleiotropism, epistasis and environment-dependency of genetic effects. Genetic interactions and unique environmental features must be as carefully scrutinized as are single gene effects. No one genetic approach is likely to possess all the necessary features for comprehensive analysis of a complex disease. Rather, the entire arsenal of behavioral genomic and other approaches will be needed, such as random mutagenesis, QTL analyses, transgenic and knockout models, viral mediated gene transfer, pharmacological analyses, gene expression assays, antisense approaches and importantly, revitalization of classical genetic methods. In our view, classical breeding designs are currently underutilized, and will shorten the distance to the target of understanding the complex genetic and environmental interactions associated with disease. We assert that unique combinations of classical approaches with current behavioral and molecular genomic approaches will more rapidly advance the field.
By applying the mammalian codon usage to Cre recombinase, we improved Cre expression, as determined by immunoblot and functional analysis, in three different mammalian cell lines. The improved Cre (iCre) gene was also designed to reduce the high CpG content of the prokaryotic coding sequence, thereby reducing the chances of epigenetic silencing in mammals. Transgenic iCre expressing mice were obtained with good frequency, and in these mice loxP-mediated DNA recombination was observed in all cells expressing iCre. Moreover, iCre fused to two estrogen receptor hormone binding domains for temporal control of Cre activity could also be expressed in transgenic mice. However, Cre induction after administration of tamoxifen yielded only low Cre activity. Thus, whereas efficient activation of Cre fusion proteins in the brain needs further improvements, our studies indicate that iCre should facilitate genetic experiments in the mouse.
Hofer and Sliwinski raise a critical concern regarding a popular practice in aging research of inferring associations among aging changes of different processes from correlations based on cross-sectional age differences. It is shown analytically that cross-sectional information drawn from age-heterogeneous samples is not suitable for answering questions about the interdependence between aging changes. While in general we agree with the problem pointed out by Hofer and Sliwinski, the two aims of this commentary are: (1) to highlight links between the specific concern and two long-standing issues confronting life-span researchers and (2) to introduce alternative approaches that are currently underutilized in gerontological research. We elaborate general issues with respect to challenges in inferring aging changes from age differences and using age as a proxy for aging. We show that several other sources of variance independent of rates of change, such as cohort- and mortality-related selection effects, are confounded in age-heterogeneous designs. We suggest general considerations for developing more explicit theories of cognitive aging in the future. Alternative research methods and paradigms for studying the causes and mechanisms of the aging mind at different time scales and levels are also highlighted. The role of chronological age in aging research is rather &quot;superficial&quot;. To understand the underlying processes and mechanisms of cognitive aging, classical process-oriented, rather than solely age-oriented, theoretical conceptions need to be reconsidered and reified with new methodological and empirical advances. Concerted gerontological research endeavors utilizing recent progresses made in statistical analyses of dynamic processes and in cognitive and computational neurosciences that may lead to fruitful breakthroughs.
How does the literary inspiration phenomenon find an explanation around 1900? As an unexpected glimpse of imagination, is inspiration opposed to the idea of making? Does the individual attend as a passive spectator the work of his motive system or is he its master? Can we suppose that the opposition between automatic and self-willed language is legitimate? By investigating models of physiological psychology, which are focused on the brain and the nervous system, we will try to answer these questions. And by reading some doctor's, neurologist's and philosopher's writings, we will go in search of a concrete representation of the literary inspiration phenomenon. Indeed, if inspiration is a process which results from an organic motive combination, as several scientists seem to consider, it should be visible enough to have its own physiological model. We shall nevertheless see that the investigation of these models reveals interests which largely overstep the bounds of science. Thus, between rigour and dreaming, illness and health, neurological physiology and creation, we realise that the literary inspiration phenomenon does not find its place among the positive facts.
Oligodendroglia and Schwann cells synthesize myelin-specific proteins and lipids for the assembly of the highly organized myelin membrane of the motor-sensory axons in the central (CNS) and peripheral nervous system (PNS), respectively, allowing rapid saltatory conduction. The isoforms of the main myelin proteins, the peripheral myelin basic isoproteins (MBP) and the integral proteolipid proteins, PLP and DM20, arise from alternative splicing. Activation of a cryptic splice site in exon III of plp leads to the deletion of 105 bp encoding the PLP-specific 35 amino acid residues within the cytosolic loop 3 of the four-transmembrane domain (TMD) integral membrane protein. To study the different proposed functions of DM20 during the development of oligodendrocytes and in myelination, we targeted the plp locus in embryonic stem cells by homologous recombination by a construct, which allows solely the expression of the DM20 specific exon III sequence. The resulting dm20(only) mouse line expresses exclusively DM20 isoprotein, which is functionally assembled into the membrane, forming a highly ordered and tightly compacted myelin sheath. The truncated cytosolic loop devoid of the PLP-specific 35 amino acid residues, including two thioester groups, had no impact on the periodicity of CNS myelin. In contrast to the PLP/DM20-deficient mouse, mutant CNS of dm20(only) mice showed no axonal swellings and neurodegeneration but a slow punctuated disintegration of the compact layers of the myelin sheath and a rare oligodendrocyte death developing with aging.
ATP is an important signaling molecule in the nervous system and it's signaling is mediated through the metabotropic P2Y and ionotropic P2X receptors. ATP is known to stimulate Ca(2+) influx and phospholipase D (PLD) activity in the type-2 astrocyte cell line, RBA-2; in this study, we show that the release of preloaded [(3)H]GABA from RBA-2 cells is mediated through the P2X(7) receptors. ATP and the ATP analogue 3'-O-(4-benoylbenoyl)-adenosine-5'-triphosphate (BzATP) both stimulated [(3)H]GABA release in a concentration dependent manner, while the nonselective P2 receptor antagonist pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS), the P2X(7)-sensitive antagonist oxidized ATP (oATP), and high extracellular Mg(2+) all inhibited the ATP-stimulated [(3)H]GABA release. The ATP-stimulated [(3)H]GABA release was not affected neither by removing extracellular Na(+) nor by changes in the intracellular or extracellular Ca(2+) concentration. The GABA transporter inhibitors nipecotic acid and beta-alanine also had no effect. The ATP-stimulated [(3)H]GABA release was blocked, however, when media Cl(-) was replaced with gluconate and when extracellular HCO(3)(-) was removed. The Cl(-) channel/exchanger blockers 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2',2'-disulfonic acid (DIDS) and 4-acetamido-4'- isothiocyanatostilbene-2',2'-disulfonic acids (SITS), but not diphenylamine-2-carboxylic acid (DPC) and furosemide, blocked the ATP-stimulated [(3)H]GABA release. The anionic selectivity of the process was F(-) &gt; Cl(-) &gt; Br(-) which is the same as that reported for volume-sensitive Cl(-) conductance. Treating cells with phorbol-12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), forskolin, dibutyryl-cAMP, PD98059, neomycin, and D609 all inhibited the ATP-stimulated [(3)H]GABA release. We concluded that in RBA-2 cells, ATP stimulates [(3)H]GABA release through the P2X(7) receptors via a Cl(-)/HCO(3)(-)-dependent mechanism that is regulated by PKC, PKA, MEK/ERK, and PLD.
Synapses are the fundamental units of connectivity that link together the nervous system. Lectin studies from 30 years ago suggested that specific glycans are concentrated at neuromuscular synapses in the peripheral nervous system and at excitatory synapses in the brain. Subsequent studies have confirmed that particular glycan structures are localized at these synapses, including polysialic acid, high mannose, the cytotoxic T cell antigen, and forms of heparan sulfate. Though the role of these molecules in synapse formation and function is still poorly understood, there is increasing evidence that the function of agrin, a synaptogenic factor in neuromuscular formation, is modulated by several glycans. In addition, the recent generation of ST8SiaIV null mice strongly suggests a role for polysialic acid in synaptic plasticity in the some regions of the central nervous system.
Studies of schizotypal personality disorder (SPD) are important because the condition is genetically related to schizophrenia and because data accumulating to confirm its biological underpinnings are challenging some traditional views about the nature of per-sonality disorders. This review of 17 structural imaging studies in SPD indicates that individuals with this disorder show brain abnormalities in the superior temporal gyrus, parahippocampus, temporal horn region of the lateral ventricles, corpus callosum, thalamus, and septum pellucidum, as well as in total cerebrospinal fluid volume, similar to those seen in persons with schizophrenia. Differences between SPD and schizophrenia include lack of abnormalities in the medial temporal lobes and lateral ventricles in SPD. Whether the normal volume, and possibly normal functioning, of the medial temporal lobes in individuals with SPD may help to suppress psychosis in this disorder remains an intriguing but still unresolved question. Such speculation must be tempered due to a paucity of studies, and additional work is needed to confirm these preliminary findings. The imaging findings do suggest, however, that SPD probably represents a milder form of disease along the schizophrenia continuum. With further clarification of the neuroanatomy of SPD, researchers may be able to identify which neuroanatomical abnormalities are associated with the frank psychosis seen in schizophrenia.



Portal hypertension is associated with hyperdynamic circulation, but the pathogenesis remains unclear. To clarify the role of central cardiovascular regulatory mechanisms, several protocols were conducted in rats with portal hypertension due to portal vein stenosis (PVS). Neuronal activation was quantified by immunohistochemical staining for Fos, the protein product of the c-fos gene. Fos expression in several brain nuclei with cardiovascular-regulatory roles was examined at 1, 3, 5, and 10 days following PVS surgery. This was correlated with development of cardiovascular changes measured at the same time points. Finally, Fos expression in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) was blocked by local microinjection of c-fos antisense oligonucleotides twice daily for 5 days following PVS. The results showed that Fos-positive neurons were significantly increased in the paraventricular nucleus of hypothalamus, supraoptic nucleus, ventrolateral medulla, and NTS, detectable at day 1 and persistently increased at every day examined in the PVS rats. However, the hyperdynamic circulation developed between days 3 to 5. Administration of c-fos antisense oligonucleotides eliminated the hyperdynamic circulation in PVS rats, but had no effect on sham-operated controls. We conclude that the activation of central cardiovascular-regulatory nuclei, through a c-fos-dependent pathway, is necessary for development of hyperdynamic circulation in portal-hypertensive rats.
Transcriptional profiling (TP) offers a powerful approach to identify genes activated during memory formation and, by inference, the molecular pathways involved. Trace eyeblink conditioning is well suited for the study of regional gene expression because it requires the hippocampus, whereas the highly parallel task, delay conditioning, does not. First, we determined when gene expression was most regulated during trace conditioning. Rats were exposed to 200 trials per day of paired and unpaired stimuli each day for 4 days. Changes in gene expression were most apparent 24 h after exposure to 200 trials. Therefore, we profiled gene expression in the hippocampus 24 h after 200 trials of trace eyeblink conditioning, on multiple arrays using additional animals. Of 1,186 genes on the filter array, seven genes met the statistical criteria and were also validated by real-time polymerase chain reaction. These genes were growth hormone (GH), c-kit receptor tyrosine kinase (c-kit), glutamate receptor, metabotropic 5 (mGluR5), nerve growth factor-beta (NGF-beta), Jun oncogene (c-Jun), transmembrane receptor Unc5H1 (UNC5H1), and transmembrane receptor Unc5H2 (UNC5H2). All these genes, except for GH, were downregulated in response to trace conditioning. GH was upregulated; therefore, we also validated the downregulation of the GH inhibitor, somatostatin (SST), even though it just failed to meet criteria on the arrays. By during situ hybridization, GH was expressed throughout the cell layers of the hippocampus in response to trace conditioning. None of the genes regulated in trace eyeblink conditioning were similarly affected by delay conditioning, a task that does not require the hippocampus. These findings demonstrate that transcriptional profiling can exhibit a repertoire of genes sensitive to the formation of hippocampal-dependent associative memories.
Virtual reality was used to sequentially present objects within a town square and to test recognition of object locations from the same viewpoint as presentation, or from a shifted viewpoint. A developmental amnesic case with focal bilateral hippocampal pathology showed a massive additional impairment when tested from the shifted viewpoint compared with a mild, list length-dependent, impairment when tested from the same viewpoint. While the same-view condition could be solved by visual pattern matching, the shifted-view condition requires a viewpoint independent representation or an equivalent mechanism for translating or rotating viewpoints in memory. The latter mechanism was indicated by control subjects' response latencies in the shifted-view condition, although the amnesic case is not impaired in tests of mental rotation of single objects. These results show that the human hippocampus supports viewpoint independence in spatial memory, and suggest that it does so by providing a mechanism for viewpoint manipulation in memory. In addition, they suggest an extremely sensitive test for human hippocampal damage, and hint at the nature of the hippocampal role in episodic recollection.
Past neuroimaging research has identified a parahippocampal place area (PPA) in the posterior medial temporal lobe (MTL), which responds preferentially to visual scenes and plays a role in episodic memory for this class of stimuli. In the present positron emission tomography study, we examined to what extent the functional characteristics of the PPA resemble those of other, more anterior MTL regions across various learning and recognition-memory tasks. We also determined whether the involvement of the PPA in recognition of previously studied scenes is specific to a particular type of scene information. We found that, like the PPA, anterior hippocampal regions showed a novelty response (higher activation for novel than repeated scenes) and a stimulus-related response (higher activation for scenes than objects) during learning, indicating that MTL structures other than the PPA contribute to the encoding of novel stimulus relationships in scenes. However, these anterior hippocampal regions showed no involvement during recognition of either spatial or nonspatial information contained in scenes. The PPA, by contrast, was consistently involved in recognition of all types of scene details, presumably through interactions with co-activated parietal and occipitotemporal cortices. We suggest that MTL contributions from the PPA are sufficient to support recognition of scenes when the task can be based on a perceptually based familiarity process.
The hippocampal formation generates new neurons throughout adulthood. Recent studies indicate that these cells possess the morphology and physiological properties of more established neurons. However, the function of adult generated neurons is still a matter of debate. We previously demonstrated that certain forms of associative learning can enhance the survival of new neurons and a reduction in neurogenesis coincides with impaired learning of the hippocampal-dependent task of trace eyeblink conditioning. Using the toxin methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) for proliferating cells, we tested whether reduction of neurogenesis affected learning and performance associated with different hippocampal dependent tasks: spatial navigation learning in a Morris water maze, fear responses to context and an explicit cue after training with a trace fear paradigm. We also examined exploratory behavior in an elevated plus maze. Rats were injected with MAM (7 mg/kg) or saline for 14 days, concurrent with BrdU, to label new neurons on days 10, 12, and 14. After treatment, groups of rats were tested in the various tasks. A significant reduction in new neurons in the adult hippocampus was associated with impaired performance in some tasks, but not with others. Specifically, treatment with the antimitotic agent reduced the amount of fear acquired after exposure to a trace fear conditioning paradigm but did not affect contextual fear conditioning or spatial navigation learning in the Morris water maze. Nor did MAM treatment affect exploration in the elevated plus maze. These results combined with previous ones suggest that neurogenesis may be associated with the formation of some but not all types of hippocampal-dependent memories.
The hippocampus plays an important role in spatial learning and memory. However, the biochemical alterations that subserve this function remain to be fully elucidated. In this study, rats were subjected to a single-trial contextual fear conditioning (CFC) paradigm; the activation of different protein kinase C (PKC) subtypes and the levels and phosphorylation of the plasticity-associated protein GAP-43 were assayed in the hippocampus at varying times after training. We observed a rapid activation of hippocampal PKC (15 min through 24 h), with differential translocation of the PKC isotypes studied. At early times after CFC (15-90 min), PKCalpha and PKCgamma translocated to the membrane, while PKCbetaII and PKCepsilon moved more transiently (15 to 30 min) to the cytosol. These PKC isotypes returned to the membrane at later time points after CFC. Correlating with these changes in PKC translocation and activity, there was an early decrease in GAP-43 phosphorylation followed by a more sustained increase from 1.5-72 h. GAP-43 protein levels were also increased after 3 h, and these levels remained elevated for at least 72 h. These changes in PKC and GAP-43 were specific to the CFC trained animals and no changes were seen in animals exposed to the same stimuli in a non-associative fashion. Comparison of translocation of different PKC isotypes with the changes in GAP-43 phosphorylation suggested that PKCbetaII and PKCepsilon may mediate both the early changes in the phosphorylation of this protein and the increases in GAP-43 expression at later times after CFC.
Intracranial field potentials were recorded from electrodes implanted in the hippocampus in 12 epileptic patients. Potentials were elicited by stimuli presented during a delayed matching-to-sample test. Each trial began with a sample stimulus composed of a 3 x 3 grid of rectangular color patches. The sample was followed by a sequence of similar but task-irrelevant stimuli and the sequential presentation of two test stimuli, one of which was identical to the sample. Patients indicated their recognition of the test stimulus that matched the sample with a button press. High-amplitude negative potentials were consistently elicited by sample and test stimuli. Peak amplitudes occurred 300-500 ms after stimulus onset and were larger for the sample in all cases. The patterns of potential gradients observed between adjacent hippocampal contacts and the locations of maximal amplitudes, as verified by magnetic resonance imaging in seven patients, suggest that these potentials were produced by neuronal activity in posterior hippocampus. These field potentials appear to index a memory storage function engaged in response to events that will later be remembered. The hippocampal contribution to storing declarative memories can thus begin, in some circumstances, within the first half-second after the presentation of a to-be-remembered stimulus.
The role of the basal forebrain cholinergic system in hippocampal spatial representation was explored by examining the effects of immunotoxic lesions of the septo-hippocampal cholinergic neurons on the firing patterns of hippocampal place cells as rats explored familiar and novel environments. In a highly familiar environment, the basic qualities and stability of place fields were unaffected by the lesion. When first exposed to a set of novel environmental cues without otherwise disorienting the animals, place cells in both normal and lesioned animals responded with similar alterations in their firing patterns. Upon subsequent repetitive exposures to the new environment, place cells of normal rats developed a spatial representation distinct from that of the familiar environment. By contrast, place cells of lesioned animals reconverged in the direction of the representation associated with the familiar environment. These results suggest that cholinergic input may determine whether new visual information or a stored representation of the current environment will be actively processed in the hippocampal network.
The extracellular space (ECS) is the microenvironment of the nerve cells and an important communication channel, allowing for long-distance extrasynaptic communication between cells. Changes in ECS size, geometry, and composition have been reported in diverse (patho)physiological states, including aging. In the present study, real-time tetramethylammonium (TMA+) iontophoresis was used to quantify ECS diffusion parameters in different brain regions of adult and behaviorally characterized aged rats. Prior to ECS diffusion measurement, superior and inferior learners were selected from a large group of aged rats, according to their performance in the open-field water maze. The main finding was that the degree of impaired maze performance of old rats correlates, firstly, with decrease in ECS volume, loss of diffusion anisotropy in hippocampus, and degree of astrogliosis, and secondly, with disorganization of the astrocytic processes and reduction of hippocampal ECS matrix molecules. Importantly, no significant differences were found in the density of neurons in any region of the hippocampus or dentate gyrus. The alterations in hippocampal diffusion parameters evident in aged animals with severe learning deficits could account for the learning impairment, due to their effects on extrasynaptic volume transmission and/or on the &quot;cross-talk&quot; between synapses, which has been suggested to be involved in neural processes associated with learning and memory formation.
In the rat hippocampal formation, application of mu opioid receptor (MOR) agonists disinhibits principal cells, promoting excitation-dependent processes such as epileptogenesis and long-term potentiation. However, the precise location of MORs in particular inhibitory circuits, has not been determined, and the roles of MORs in endogenous functioning are unclear. To address these issues, the distribution of MOR-like immunoreactivity (-li) was examined in several populations of inhibitory hippocampal neurons in the CA1 region using light and electron microscopy. We found that MOR-li was present in many parvalbumin-containing basket cells, but absent from cholecystokinin-labeled basket cells. MOR-li was also commonly in interneurons containing somatostatin-li or neuropeptide Y-li that resembled the &quot;oriens-lacunosum-moleculare&quot; (O-LM) interneurons innervating pyramidal cell distal dendrites. Finally, MOR-li was in some vasoactive intestinal peptide- or calretinin-containing profiles resembling interneurons that primarily innervate other interneurons. These findings indicate that MOR-containing neurons form a neurochemically and functionally heterogeneous subset of hippocampal GABAergic neurons. MORs are most frequently on interneurons that are specialized to inhibit pyramidal cells, and are on a limited number of interneurons that target other interneurons. Moreover, the distribution of MORs to different neuronal types in several laminae, some relatively far from endogenous opioids, suggests normal functional roles that are different from the actions seen with exogenous agonists such as morphine.
Fear conditioning (FC) allows the dissociation of hippocampal and nonhippocampal behavioral function in rodents, and has become a diagnostic tool in transgenic mouse research employed to investigate mutation-induced changes in brain function. Although the procedural details of the paradigm have been established, quantification of the behavioral output, freezing, remains problematic in mice. Observation-based techniques are time-consuming and may be subject to bias, while movement detection with photocells is imprecise. Here we describe an alternative method for movement detection, based on an electronic force transducer system that allows the quantification of acceleration forces generated by a moving subject. We compare the behavior of two inbred strains of mice (C57BL/6 and DBA/2) whose performance is known to differ in hippocampal tasks, including FC. The comparison is made using multiple techniques: the force transducer approach, and three observation-based methods, a computer-aided event-recording approach, a traditional time-sampling paper/pencil method, and a subjective impression-based scoring system. In addition, we investigate the correlation structures of behavioral elements quantified by event recording, using principal component analyses; we conclude that fear may manifest in multiple forms and in a stimulus- and genotype-dependent manner. We suggest that the force transducer system provides precise quantification of movements in an automated manner and will allow high-throughput screening for mutation and drug effects in mice. However, we also argue that fear responses can be complex, and freezing behavior may not be the only measure of fear or fear-associated memory.
Previous behavioral studies (Minichiello et al., Neuron 1999;24:401-414) showed that mice deficient for the TrkB receptor in the forebrain were unable to learn a swimming navigation task with an invisible platform and were severely impaired in finding a visible platform in the same setup. Likewise, additional behavioral deficits suggested a malfunction of the hippocampus and proximally connected forebrain structures. In order to discriminate whether the behavioral impairment was caused either by deficits in spatial memory and learning, or alternatively by loss of behavioral flexibility, 8 trkB mutant, 13 wild-type, and 22 heterozygous mice were implanted with transponders and released for 21 days into a large outdoor pen (10 x 10 m). The enclosure contained 2 shelters and 8 computer-controlled feeder boxes, delivering food portions for every mouse only during their first visit. Every third day, mice received food ad libitum inside the shelters. All mice learned to patrol the boxes correctly within a few days. However, significant differences emerged during those days with free food available. Wild-type mice remained inside the shelters, while all homozygous mutants continued to patrol the boxes in their habitual way, the heterozygous mutants showing intermediate scores. These and previous data suggest that one of the natural functions of the mouse hippocampus is to comediate behavioral flexibility, and that TrkB receptors might play an essential role in maintaining the neuronal short-term plasticity necessary for this capacity.
The cyclic AMP (cAMP)-response element binding protein (CREB) is an activity-dependent transcription factor that plays a role in synaptic plasticity and memory storage in Aplysia, Drosophila, and rodents. Mice with targeted deletions of two CREB isoforms (alpha and delta; CREB alphadelta mice) have been characterized on a mixed genetic background of C57BL/6 (B6) and 129/SvEv (129), as well as on a defined F1 hybrid of B6 and FVB/N, and these results suggest that the phenotype of CREB alphadelta mice depends critically on genetic background. In an examination of the hypothesis that the role of CREB in learning and memory can be influenced by strain differences, we analyzed mice with the CREB alphadelta mutation on an F1 hybrid background of B6 and 129 strains. CREB alphadelta mice on this background had impaired short-term and long-term cued and contextual fear conditioning and normal spatial learning in the Morris water maze. Our results suggest that at least some aspects of hippocampal function are normal in CREB alphadelta mice, and that CREB alphadelta mice on the B6/129 F1 background have alterations in amygdala function. These studies underscore the importance of controlling for genetic background in the behavioral analysis of knockout and transgenic mice.
The members of a given species display a normal distribution of gene expression which is here termed the species gene ensemble. This more specific designation of the 'genetic background' leads to a consideration of why gene targeting outcomes are regulated by the species gene ensemble. One consequence is the utility of the heterozygous knockout which buffers the drastic compensatory reactions of the homozygous knockout thereby revealing subtle but yet consistent alterations in hippocampally-dependent behaviors.
There is an increasing body of evidence to suggest that different functional classes of neurones express characteristic cell-surface carbohydrates. Previous studies have shown that the plant lectin Ulex europaeus agglutinin-I (UEA) binds to a population of small to medium diameter primary sensory neurones in rabbits and humans. This suggests that a fucose-containing glycoconjugate may be expressed by nociceptive primary sensory neurones. In order to determine the extent to which this glycoconjugate is expressed by other species, in the current study, we have examined the distribution of UEA-binding sites on primary sensory neurones in seven different mammals. Binding sites for UEA were associated with the plasma membrane and cytoplasmic granules of small to medium dorsal root ganglion cells and their axon terminals in laminae I-III of the grey matter of the spinal cord, in the rabbit, cat and marmoset monkey. However, no binding was observed in either the dorsal root ganglia or spinal cord in the mouse, rat, guinea pig or flying fox. These results indicate an inter-species variation in the expression of cell-surface glycoconjugates on mammalian primary sensory neurones.
The optimal management of patients with low-grade gliomas remains a challenge for the treating physician. The natural history of the disease shows a large variety, and there is a substantial controversy about many of everyday treatment recommendations. However, new developments in clinical and basic research in neuro-oncology have occurred during the last years. In this review some of these new insights into clinical and biological aspects of low-grade gliomas are discussed, with focus on the translation of new knowledge from basic research into clinical practice. For example, molecular genetic profiling of tumour material has started to guide treatment recommendations and clinical management of some patients with oligodendrogliomas. Experimental studies of the different molecular pathways in tumour cells and in their normal counterparts involved in cell-cycle check-point control have elucidated some of the underlying mechanisms of resistance of gliomas to radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Finally, improved classification of the different subtypes of low-grade gliomas may be achieved in the near future by characterization of the genetic heterogeneity within the tumour and by identification of a putative stem cell as the origin of the tumour cells.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathology is characterized by accumulation of &quot;senile&quot; plaques (SPs) and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) in vulnerable brain regions. SPs are principally composed of aggregates of up to 42/43 amino acid beta-amyloid (A beta) peptides. The discovery of familial AD (FAD) mutations in the genes for the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilins (PSs), all of which increase A beta42 production, support the view that A beta is centrally involved in the pathogenesis of AD. A beta42 aggregates readily, and is thought to seed the formation of fibrils, which then act as templates for plaque formation. A beta is generated by the sequential intracellular cleavage of APP by beta-secretase to generate the N-terminal end of A beta, and intramembranous cleavage by gamma-secretase to generate the C-terminal end. Cell biological studies have demonstrated that A beta is generated in the ER, Golgi, and endosomal/lysosomal system. A central question involving the role of A beta in AD concerns how A beta causes disease and whether it is extracellular A beta deposition and/or intracellular A beta accumulation that initiates the disease process. The most prevalent view is that SPs are composed of extracellular deposits of secreted A beta and that A beta causes toxicity to surrounding neurons as extracellular SP. The recent emphasis on the intracellular biology of APP and A beta has led some investigators to consider the possibility that intraneuronal A beta may directly cause toxicity. In this review we will outline current knowledge of the localization of both intracellular and extracellular A beta.
Independent component analysis (ICA) has been shown as a promising tool for the analysis of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) time series. Each of these studies, however, used a general-purpose algorithm for performing ICA and the computational efficiency and accuracy of elicited neuronal activations have not been discussed in much detail. We have previously proposed a direct search method for improving computational efficiency. The method, which is based on independent component-cross correlation-sequential epoch (ICS) analysis, utilizes a form of the fixed-point ICA algorithm and considerably reduces the time required for extracting desired components. At the same time, it is shown that the accuracy of detecting physiologically meaningful components is much improved by tailoring the contrast function used in the algorithm. In this study, further improvement was made to this direct search method by integrating an optimal contrast function. Functional resolution of activation maps could be controlled with a suitable selection of the contrast function derived from prior knowledge of the spatial patterns of physiologically desired components. A simple skewness-weighted contrast function was verified to extract sufficiently precise activation maps from the fMRI time series acquired using a 3.0 Tesla MRI system.
The present paper describes three studies examining the acute effects of single doses of Ginkgo biloba (GK501), Ginseng (G115) and their combination (Ginkoba M/E, Pharmaton SA) on the performance of healthy young adults (mean age 21 years) during serial arithmetic tasks with differing cognitive load. In each double-blind, placebo-controlled study three different treatment doses and a placebo were administered, according to a balanced crossover design, with a 7-day washout period between each dose. Participants' scores on two computerised serial subtraction tasks (Serial Threes and Serial Sevens) were assessed pre-dosing and at 1, 2.5, 4 and 6 h thereafter. A number of significant time, dose and task-specific effects were associated with each treatment. There was a dose-dependent improvement in speed of responding during Serial Threes following Ginkgo biloba. Different doses of Ginseng improved accuracy and slowed responses during Serial Sevens. The most striking result, however, was a highly significant and sustained increase in the number of Serial Sevens responses following 320 mg of the Ginkgo-Ginseng combination at all post-treatment testing times. This was accompanied by improved accuracy during Serial Sevens and Serial Threes following the 640 mg and the 960 mg dose, respectively. The paper concludes with speculation into the possible mechanisms underlying these effects.


Eliciting cerebral seizure during electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is essential for therapeutic purposes. When it exceeds beyond 120 seconds (Freeman, 1995) i.e., prolonged, it adds to adverse effects of ECT. Estimating seizure duration using 'cuff method' alone has limitations. This study examined the merits of electroencephalographic (EEG) monitoring in routine ECT practice on a large representative sample. Modified ECT either unilateral or bilateral electrode placement, was administered to 485 patients under EEG monitoring at first ECT session. Ninety one (18.8%) patients had prolonged seizures of which only 59 would have been detected if 'cuff method' alone was used. Twenty nine (6%) patients had inadequate motor seizures but had adequate EEG seizure duration. Twenty five (5.2%) of them had no motor seizure and two such patients even had prolonged seizures. The prolonged seizure was unpredictable in majority. In conclusion, EEG monitoring during ECT is essential to detect both adequacy of cerebral seizure in patients having no or inadequate motor seizures and a/so to detect prolonged seizures.
In this study, we present a new method to derive a single-number measure of the directivity of hearing aids. The method is an extension of the conventional directivity index (DI), and is called overall directivity index (ODI). The directivities of five different hearing aid styles were compared with that of the open ear. The behind-the-ear (BTE) style showed the lowest directionality compared to the other hearing aid styles and the open ear. There were only minor differences in directivity between any of the four different hearing aid styles placed in the ear and of the open ear canal. The conventional measure of DI is less suitable for hearing aids, because it ignores sound coming from other than the frontal direction. To quantify directionality of a hearing aid in a real-life situation, we suggest the single-number ODI, weighted with the articulation index and related to a listening segment of 0-30 degrees. An application of the data is shown for a BTE with a directional microphone.

Social identity theory was applied in group therapy for adults with mild mental retardation. Social identity theory suggests that social group membership, also called collective identity, has an impact on self-esteem. Individuals will try to maintain self-esteem by viewing their social groups positively. This may not be possible for individuals who are members of a stigmatized group. However, it may be possible to enhance self-esteem by broadening one's awareness of collective identity. Furthermore, being able to positively view other individuals who are co-members of one's own stigmatized group can also have positive consequences for self-esteem. A clinical vignette demonstrates this process in group therapy. Results are discussed as being applicable to members of various stigmatized groups.
Kimura Recurring Figures were presented after the priming trial to the upper or lower, left or right, tachistoscopic fields while monopolar electroencephalographic activity was measured over the left and right parietal, occipital, and temporal lobes for 9 men and 9 women. The relative proportions of alpha rhythms during the 2 sec after each of 64 presentations were employed as the primary measure. The powerful asymmetry in electroencephalographic activity, manifested as a paucity of alpha activity over the right temporal lobe compared to the left temporal lobe, was not observed for the parietal or occipital regions. There was conspicuously more relative activity over the parietal and occipital lobes, but not over the temporal lobes, during presentations of the familiar figures compared to the unfamiliar figures. Several interactions--explaining more than 25% of the variance--between gender, left and right hemispheric EEG activity, and visual quadrants were consistent with lateralization of function and gender differences in functional brain organization.
Thirty monolingual university men and women and 33 bilingual university men and women who had learned English after 5 years of age were administered Roberts' Dichotic Word Listening Test. The bilingual men committed twice the numbers of errors for words presented to the left ear but not to the right ear or to both ears when compared to the bilingual women, the monolingual men, or the monolingual women. The latter three groups did not differ significantly from each other. This interaction between sex and language history explained about 16% of the variance in the numbers of errors for the left ear. The results are related to other studies that showed men who acquired English after the age of 5 years exhibited a relative weakness for verbal memory but not for figural memory compared to bilingual women or monolingual men and women. Implications for the relative accuracies of verbal memory are considered.
Attitudes of psychiatric nursing personnel towards patients who had attempted suicide were examined before and after a training program in psychiatric suicide prevention. The attitudinal changes were measured by a newly constructed scale, the understanding of suicide attempt patients scale (USP-scale), and responses to three brief clinical vignettes. General understanding and willingness to nurse, as measured by the USP-scale, increased significantly, and the suicide risk of patients described in case vignettes was estimated more accurately after the program. The results suggest that it may be possible to enhance attitudes to attempted suicide patients among psychiatric nursing personnel.

Evidence is accumulating that intermediates of oxygen reduction may be associated with the development of alcoholic disease. Free radical-induced perturbation of the oxidant/antioxidant balance in the cell is widely recognized as the main causative factor of age-related disorders. In the present study we investigated the effects of 20 months of ethanol consumption on the antioxidant defense system in different rat organs compared with normal aging in the absence and presence of treatment with L-acetyl carnitine. We demonstrate that aged rats underwent significant perturbation of the antioxidant defense system, as indicated by depletion of reduced glutathione (GSH) content, increased oxidized GSH, free radical-induced luminescence associated with increased hydroxynonenal content and decreased GSH reductase activity. These modifications, observed particularly in brain and liver compared with other organs, were enhanced by long-term alcohol exposure and, interestingly, were significantly reduced with acetyl carnitine supplements. Our results indicate that decreased GSH reductase activity and thiol depletion are important factors in effecting a pathogenic role for oxidative stress in aging and in all situations in which age-correlated and oxidant-induced changes occur, such as in alcoholism. Administration of acetyl carnitine greatly reduces these metabolic abnormalities. Our findings support its pharmacological potential in the management of alcoholic disturbances.
The objective of this study was to assess whether tyrosol and caffeic acid are able to inhibit lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha release. TNF is one of the most important cytokines involved in inflammatory reactions. The results show that both tyrosol and caffeic acid are able to inhibit LPS-induced TNF-alpha release from human monocytes, even at low doses. Their mechanisms of action are discussed and we conclude that high doses of the two compounds are not required to achieve effective inhibition of inflammatory reactions due to TNF-alpha release.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) predominates in the healthy brain, with butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) considered to play a minor role in regulating brain acetylcholine (ACh) levels. However, BuChE activity progressively increases in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), while AChE activity remains unchanged or declines. Both enzymes therefore represent legitimate therapeutic targets for ameliorating the cholinergic deficit considered to be responsible for the declines in cognitive, behavioral and global functioning characteristic of AD. The two enzymes differ in substrate specificity, kinetics and activity in different brain regions. Experimental evidence from the use of agents with enhanced selectivity for BuChE (cymserine analogues, MF-8622) and the dual inhibitor of both AChE and BuChE, rivastigmine, indicates potential therapeutic benefits of inhibiting both AChE and BuChE in AD and related dementias. Recent evidence suggests that both AChE and BuChE may have roles in the aetiology and progression of AD beyond regulation of synaptic ACh levels. The development of specific BuChE inhibitors and further experience with the dual enzyme inhibitor rivastigmine will improve understanding of the aetiology of AD and should lead to a wider variety of potent treatment options.









The relationships among Schwann cells, axons, and the perineurial barrier emphasize the key role Schwann cells play in normal functions of the nerve. Schwann cells are responsible for action potential velocity through insulation of axons, maintenance of axonal caliber, and correct localization of Na+ channels; immunological and funcitonal integrity of the nerve through the perineurial blood-nerve-barrier; and effective nerve regeneration. In diabetic neuropathy, many of these facets of nerve function are defective. Hypoxia, hyerglycemia, and increased oxidative stress contribute directly and indirectly to Schwann cell dysfunction. The results include impaired paranodal barrier function, damaged myelin, reduced antioxidative capacity, and decreased neurotrophic support for axons. This chapter discusses the role of the Schwann cell in the normal or regenerating nerve nad in the altered metabolic conditons of diabetes.
Vasa nervorum, the vascular supply to peripheral nerve trunks, and their associated cell bodies in ganglia have unique anatomical and physiological characteristics. Several different experimental approaches toward understanding the changes in vase nervorum following injury and disease have been used. Quantative techniques most widely employed have been microelectrode hydrogen clearance palarography and [14C]iodoantipyrine autoradiographic distribution, whereas estimates of red blood cell flux using a fiber-optic laser Doppler probe offer real time data at different sites along the nerve trunk. There are important caveats about the use of these techniques, their advantages, and their limitations. Reports of nerve blood flow require careful documentation of physiological variables, including mean arterial pressure and nerve temperature during the recordings. Several ischemic models of the peripheral nerve trunk have addressed the ischemic threshold below which axonal degeneration ensues (&lt; 5ml/100 g/min). Following injury, rises in local blood flow reflect acitons of vasoactive peptides, nitric oxide, and the development of angiogenesis. In experimental diabetes, a large number of studies have documented reductions in nerve blood flow and tandem corrections of nerve blood flow and conduction slowing. A significant proportions, however, of the work can be criticized on the basis of methodology and interpretation. Similarly, not all work has confirmed that reductions of nerve blood flow are an invariable feature of experimental or human diabetic polyneuropathy. Therefore, while there is disagreement as to whether early declines in nerve blood flow &quot;account&quot; for diabetic polyneuropathy, there is unquestioned eveidence of early microangiopathy. Abnormalities of vase nervorum and micorvessels supplying ganglia at the very least develop parallel to and together with changes in neurons, Schwann cells, and axons.

The models of cortical dysplasia discussed earlier--the Lis1 knockout, the MAM-induced cobblestone LIS, the spontaneous tish mutant, and focal freeze injury-induced PMG--illustrate several important insights into epileptogenesis in malformed brain. First, the appearance of epilepsy varies according to the pathogenesis of the dysplasia and may well depend more on the intrinsic properties of the neurons in these models rather than on the disturbed position of the cells. This is supported by models such as the reeler mouse, in which the dysfunctional extracellular matrix molecule leads to a form of lissencephaly in mouse and human, but there is a far less impressive association with seizures than for LIS1 mutations. However, Lis1 and Dex mutations that appear to affect the cytoskeleton and perhaps intracellular protein trafficking are frequently associated with infantile spasms and epilepsy. Second, the possible mechanisms of epileptogenesis in these models include (a) a loss of subsets of neurons, (b) altered neurotransmitter release, (c) differences in neurotransmitter receptor levels and changes in receptor subunit composition, (d) altered neurite density and/or synaptogenesis, (e) changed membrane properties (e.g., altered voltage-gated channels), (f) altered cell morphology (neuronal differentiation), and (g) effects on cytoskeletal function. Finally, it is important to note that the &quot;generator&quot; of excitability in affected brain may be within the heterotopia or in the normotopic cortex. As additional genetic models come to light and the ability to distinguish their clinical counterparts improves, more individually tailored therapies, including standards for surgical interventions, will surely evolve.
Infantile spasms represent a unique age-specific epileptic syndrome that is often associated with a focal or diffuse encephalopathy and can result in severe neurodevelopmental delay and retardation. The behavioral and electroencephalogram (EEG) phenotype of infantile spasms is similar, despite its association with multiple neurological disease states. The stereotypy suggests that the spasms originate from a highly age-specific hyperexcitable network. Treatment strategies for infantile spasms remain largely empirical due to the lack of understanding of the underlying neurochemistry and circuitry. This chapter reviews experimental evidence for the presence of unique developmental factors that appear to promote hyperexcitability in the immature brain and that may play a role in the generation of infantile spasms. In addition, this chapter evaluates the potential interplay between an associated developmental encephalopathy and enhanced neuronal hyperexcitability in infantile spasms.
Four strains of mice were inoculated intracerebrally with a primary isolate of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) and the cloned mouse-adapted scrapie strain ME7. Clinical prion disease diagnosis was made at the appearance of three or more neurological symptoms and their persistence for 3 consecutive weeks and confirmed by neuropathological criteria. For BSE, incubation periods were profoundly different between the sexes in all four mouse strains, being longer in the females. In contrast, ME7 scrapie incubation times were similar between the sexes. Our results indicate that sex-specific processes are involved in the course of primary BSE transmission. Research into this phenomenon may provide clues to the prophylaxis of BSE and have possible implications for new variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in humans.
Distortion-product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) at 2f1-f2 can be suppressed by the introduction of a third &quot;suppressor&quot; tone. Plotting the suppression of the DPOAE level against the changing frequency and level of the suppressor produces frequency-tuning functions referred to as suppression tuning curves (STCs). The dominant features of STCs, including their shape, are similar to the features of neural tuning curves (NTCs) recorded from single auditory nerve fibers. However, recent findings using reversible diuretics suggest that STCs do not provide the same measure of cochlear frequency selectivity as provided by NTCs. To determine if STCs are also insensitive to the adverse effects of excessive sounds, the present study exposed rabbits to a moderate-level noise that produced temporary threshold shift-like (TTS) effects on DPOAEs, and examined the influence of such exposures on STCs. DPOAEs were produced using primary tones with geometric-mean frequencies centered at 2.8 or 4 kHz, and with L1 and L2 values of 45/45, 50/35, 50/50, and 55/45 dB SPL. STCs were obtained before and during recovery for a period of approximately 2 h immediately following, and at 1, 2, 3, and 7 d post-exposure to a 2 kHz octave band noise, at levels and durations sufficient to cause significant but reversible reductions in DPOAE levels. STC data included tip center frequency, tip threshold, and Q10dB measures of tuning for suppression criteria of 3, 6, 9, and 12 dB. Recovery was variable between animals, but all rabbits recovered fully by 7 d post-exposure. STC center frequencies measured during the TTS typically tuned to a slightly higher frequency, while tip thresholds tended to decrease and Q10dB increase. Together, the results indicate that, despite similarities in the general properties of STCs and NTCs, these two types of tuning curves are affected differently following reversible cochlear insult.
Stapes vibrations were measured in deeply anesthetized adult and neonatal (ages: 14 to 20 days) Mongolian gerbils. In adult gerbils, the velocity magnitude of stapes responses to tones was approximately constant over the entire frequency range of measurements, 1 to 40 kHz. Response phases referred to pressure near the tympanic membrane varied approximately linearly as a function of increasing stimulus frequency, with a slope corresponding to a group delay of 30 micros. In neonatal gerbils, the sensitivity of stapes responses to tones was lower than in adults, especially at mid-frequencies (e.g., by about 15 dB at 10-20 kHz in gerbils aged 14 days). The input impedance of the adult gerbil cochlea, calculated from stapes vibrations and published measurements of pressure in scala vestibuli near the oval window [E. Olson, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 103, 3445-3463 (1998)], is principally dissipative at frequencies lower than 10 kHz. Conclusions: (a) middle-ear vibrations in adult gerbils do not limit the input to the cochlea up to at least 40 kHz, i.e., within 0.5 oct of the high-frequency cutoff of the behavioral audiogram; and (b) the results in both adult and neonatal gerbils are inconsistent with the hypothesis that mass reactance controls high-frequency ossicular vibrations and support the idea that the middle ear functions as a transmission line.
The establishment of a transdisciplinary research team, the Applied Developmental Neuroscience group, is described. The group, which initially included a physical therapist, occupational therapist, speech-language pathologist, and developmental pediatrician, is focused on linking theory and practice for intervention with children with disabilities. The group encountered challenges related to personal attributes such as trust, communication, time, and commitment; the task of finding a common theoretical perspective; and the autonomous academic environment. The strategies used to address these challenges and the benefits of a transdisciplinary model, such as cross-fertilization of theoretical perspectives and more powerful application and testing of theoretical frameworks in a research context, are described.
We studied auditory evoked responses to the apparent movement of a burst of noise in the horizontal plane. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were measured in three groups of participants: children in the age range from 9 to 12 years, young adults in the age range from 18 to 34 years, and seniors in the age range from 65 to 80 years. The topographic distribution of grand-averaged ERP activity was substantially greater over the right hemisphere in children and seniors but slightly greater over the left hemisphere in young adults. This finding may be related to age-related differences in the extent to which judgments of sound movement are based on displacement versus velocity information.


It is known that many male juvenile delinquents commit violent crimes while intoxicated with flunitrazepam (FZ), often in combination with alcohol or other drugs. We have also noted the combined abuse of FZ with, for example, alcohol in male forensic psychiatric patients. Our objective was to study violent behavior, impulsive decision-making, and amnesia in male forensic psychiatric patients who were intoxicated predominantly with FZ, to increase knowledge of the abuse of FZ in vulnerable subjects. We studied five forensic psychiatric patients, all of whom were assessed in 1998. All of the subjects reported earlier reactions to FZ, including hostility and anterograde amnesia. At the time of their crimes they were all intoxicated with FZ, often in combination with alcohol or other drugs, such as amphetamine or cannabis. In contrast to their behavior based on their ordinary psychological characteristics, their crimes were extremely violent, and the subjects lacked both the ability to think clearly and to have empathy with their victims. Our observations support the view that FZ abuse can lead to serious violent behavior in subjects characterized by vulnerable personality traits, and that this effect is confounded by the concurrent use of alcohol or other drugs. It is evident that FZ causes anterograde amnesia. Previous research and the results presented herein allow us to draw the following conclusion: on the basis of the neuropsychopharmacologic properties of FZ, legal decisions, such as declaring FZ an illegal drug, are needed in countries where it is now legal.
There is great interest in brain function as a result of the new laboratory and imaging techniques in the neurosciences. Psychoanalysis has embraced these contributions without adequate assessment of whether they bridge the mind/brain divide and provide answers to the questions psychoanalysts ask. A review and critique of the biological theories of dreaming highlights their limitations and points out they do not address the semantics, meaning, and content of dreaming nor the pragmatics of dreaming, its function. At best these theories attempt to provide the syntax of dreaming, the form dreaming takes. Brain biology cannot provide the transduction rules to go from neuronal firing to the psychological experience of dreaming or other mind states.
This article has two purposes. First, a rebuttal to those writers, including Irwin Hirsch, who criticize the current emphasis by relational analysts on the value of affective openness and affective honesty, particularly with regard to their use of clinical vignettes that vividly portray the analyst's use of self-revelation--as if these illustrations were revealing an endorsement of a naive and mindless invasion of the patient's psyche. The second, and perhaps more important purpose, is to illuminate something I feel is obscured by Hirsch's framing the topic of the analyst's &quot;spontaneity&quot; in the context of analytic politics--that an analyst's self-revelation in language is increasingly understood to be not simply &quot;allowable,&quot; but a necessary part of the clinical process. Language does not make it less spontaneous nor part of what Hirsch calls a &quot;standardized technique.&quot; Its most powerful therapeutic contribution is in facilitating linguistic symbolization of dissociated, enacted, subsymbolic experience that is immune to self-reflective cognition, immune to internal conflict, and thereby unavailable to interpretation until it becomes relationally accessible to language and thought. Both neuroscience and cognitive research support the need for a revised theory of therapeutic action consistent with the growing recognition of the human mind as a nonlinear, self-organizing dynamic system-a system in which normal maturation as well as therapeutic repair depends, developmentally, on an ineffable coming together of two minds in an unpredictable way. From this vantage point, the analyst's self-revelation contributes to the coconstruction of an alive intersubjective space through an ongoing process of engagement between two subjectivities, making the analyst's subjective openness as potentially negotiable as any other aspect of the patient/analyst relationship, rather than an unrepairable &quot;intrusion&quot; into a self-contained psyche.

An integration of psychoanalytic theory with contemporary developments in cognitive neuroscience offers a useful perspective on long-standing controversies about the nature of transference, and a better understanding of the precise mechanisms by which transferential processes occur. Contemporary psychoanalytic views of transference are reviewed, and the many processes that constitute transference are described. Two issues that have emerged in different guises for several decades-the role of the analyst in eliciting transference, and the nature of &quot;real&quot; and &quot;transferential&quot; components of the therapeutic relationship-are reconsidered in the light of concepts such as connectionist networks. Although a useful analytic stance is one that allows the patient's enduring dynamics to dominate the analytic field, it is suggested, anonymity is neither a cognitive possibility nor the driving force behind most transference reactions, and the distinction between &quot;real&quot; and &quot;transferential&quot; perceptions is one of therapeutic interest, not of mechanism. Certain features of the analytic situation make some dynamics more likely than others to enter the treatment relationship, notably those related to authority, intimacy and attachment, and sexuality. Transference reactions are best understood as constructed from a combination of the patient's enduring dispositions to react in particular ways under particular conditions; features of the analytic situation and of the analyst; and interactions between patient and analyst. These reactions do not unfold ineluctably from the patient's mind in the consulting room, nor are they cognitive constructions of the patient-analyst dyad or co-constructions of relatively equal partners exerting their influence on the analytic field.
The strength of psychoanalysis has always been its understanding of affect and motivation. Contemporary developments in cognitive neuroscience offer possibilities of integrating sophisticated, experimentally informed models of thought and memory with an understanding of dynamically and clinically meaningful processes. Aspects of contemporary theory and research in cognitive neuroscience are integrated with psychoanalytic theory and technique, particularly theories of conflict and compromise. After a description of evolving models of the mind in cognitive neuroscience, several issues relevant to psychoanalytic theory and practice are addressed. These include the nature of representations, the interaction of cognition and affect, and the mechanisms by which the mind unconsciously forges compromise solutions that best fit multiple cognitive and affective-motivational constraints.
A role for fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) has been proposed in mediating the glial response to injury in the central nervous system (CNS). We have tested this possibility in vivo, by injecting FGF-2 into the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of the brain ventricles of young rats and analysing glial cells in the anterior medullary velum (AMV), which partly roofs the IVth ventricle. FGF-2 was administered at two different doses, low FGF-2 (500 ng mL(-1) CSF) and high FGF-2 (10 microg mL(-1) CSF), and saline vehicle was injected in controls. Injections were performed twice daily for three days, commencing at postnatal day (P) 6, and AMV were analysed at P9, using immunohistochemistry and Western blotting. Glial cells were unaffected by treatment with saline or low FGF-2, whereas high FGF-2 induced reactive changes in glial cell types: (1) there was increased GFAP expression in astrocytes, demonstrated by Western blot and immunohistochemistry, and astrocytes appeared hypertrophic, with increased process thickness and number; (2) the number of ED1 labelled microglia/macrophages was doubled, from 47 +/- 6 to 114 +/- 17 cells per field (0.75 mm2; values are mean +/- SEM), and microglia appeared activated, with a multipolar and granular appearance; (3) NG2 positive glial cells appeared more fibrous and there was increased density of processes, although there was no significant increase in their number; (4) oligodendrocyte somata were enlarged and there was a loss of myelin sheaths. The results show that at high CSF titres of FGF-2 induce glial reactivity in vivo and support a role for FGF-2 in the pathology of CNS injury and EAE.

Increasing evidence has demonstrated striking sex differences in the outcome of neurological injury. Whereas estrogens contribute to these differences by attenuating neurotoxicity and ischemia-reperfusion injury, the effects of testosterone are unclear. The present study was undertaken to determine the effects of testosterone on neuronal injury in both a cell-culture model and a rodent ischemia-reperfusion model. Glutamate-induced HT-22 cell-death model was used to evaluate the effects of testosterone on cell survival. Testosterone was shown to significantly increase the toxicity of glutamate at a 10 microM concentration, whereas 17beta-estradiol significantly attenuated the toxicity at the same concentration. In a rodent stroke model, ischemia-reperfusion injury was induced by temporal middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) for 1 h and reperfusion for 24 h. To avoid the stress-related testosterone reduction, male rats were castrated and testosterone was replaced by testosterone pellet implantation. Testosterone pellets were removed at 1, 2, 4, or 6 h before MCAO to determine the duration of acute testosterone depletion effects on infarct volume. Ischemic lesion volume was significantly decreased from 239.6 +/- 25.9 mm(3) in control to 122.5 +/- 28.6 mm(3) when testosterone pellets were removed at 6 h before MCAO. Reduction of lesion volume was associated with amelioration of the hyperemia during reperfusion. Our in vitro and in vivo studies suggest that sex differences in response to brain injury are partly due to the consequence of damaging effects of testosterone.
Osteopontin (OPN) is primarily an extracellular glycosylated phosphoprotein capable of stimulating cell migration and cell attachment, predominantly to mineralized surfaces. Found in moderate levels in plasma, it acts as a cytokine able to modify gene expression via integrins and certain CD44 isoforms. In this work we show that soluble OPN inhibits apoptosis of adherent human umbilical vein endothelial cells incubated in medium lacking critical growth factors and cytokines. In a dose-dependent manner OPN reduced the formation of apoptotic bodies and suppressed DNA fragmentation. OPN also caused an increase in Bcl-X(L) mRNA levels, suppressed the apparent dispersion of Bcl-X(L) throughout the cytoplasm, and slightly enhanced IkappaB-alpha protein degradation. These data suggest that a function of OPN in homeostatic processes is to facilitate the survival of stressed endothelial cells, possibly by occupying unligated integrins and suppressing integrin-mediated death.
The authors compared the influence of environmental enrichment on intact and lesioned brain, and tested the hypothesis that postischemic exposure to an enriched environment can alter dendritic spine density in pyramidal neurons contralateral to a cortical infarct. The middle cerebral artery was occluded distal to the striatal branches in spontaneously hypertensive rats postoperatively housed either in a standard or in an enriched environment. Intact rats were housed in the same environment. Three weeks later the brains were perfused in situ. The dendritic and spine morphology was studied with three-dimensional confocal laser scanning microscopy after microinjection of Lucifer yellow in pyramidal neurons in layers II/III and V/VI in the somatosensory cortex. In intact rats, the number of dendritic spines was significantly higher in the enriched group than in the standard group in all layers ( P &lt; 0.05). Contralateral to the infarct, pyramidal neurons in layers II/III, which have extensive intracortical connections that may play a role in cortical plasticity, had significantly more spines in the enriched group than in the standard group ( P &lt; 0.05). No difference was observed in layers V/VI. They conclude that housing rats in an enriched environment significantly increases spine density in superficial cortical layers in intact and lesioned brain, but in deeper layers of intact brain.
Water compartmentalization was studied in a thick-slice (1000 microm) model of ischemia by combining water-content measurements with extracellular diffusion analysis. Thick slices bathed in artificial cerebrospinal fluid continually gained water. Total tissue water content was increased by 67% after 6 hours of the incubation. Diffusion measurements using the tetramethylammonium method showed that the extracellular space, typically occupying 20% of brain tissue in vivo, was decreased to 10% at 30 minutes and 15% at 6 hours in both deep and superficial layers of thick slices. Quantification of water compartmentalization revealed that water moved initially from the extracellular space into the cells. Later, however, both compartments gained water. The initial cell swelling was accompanied by dramatic shifts in potassium. An initial rise of extracellular potassium to about 50 mmol/L was measured with a potassium-selective microelectrode positioned in the center of the thick slice; the concentration decreased slowly afterwards. Potassium content analysis revealed a 63% loss of tissue potassium within two hours of the incubation. In thick slices, ionic shifts, water redistribution, and a loss of synaptic transmission occur in both deep and superficial layers, indicating the spread of ischemic conditions even to areas with an unrestricted supply of nutrients.
The neuropeptide hypocretin (HCRT, also called orexin) acts in the brain to increase arousal and inhibit REM sleep. There is also substantial evidence that disruption of the hypocretin system results in narcolepsy. The distribution of HCRT + fibers in nocturnal animals is consistent with its role in arousal; fibers are concentrated in brain areas important in arousal and the inhibition of REM sleep. The distribution of HCRT-like immunoreactive (HCRT +) cells and fibers has been described in nocturnal but not diurnal rodents. We therefore examined the anatomical distribution of HCRT + cells and fibers in the diurnal murid rodent Arvicanthis niloticus (unstriped Nile grass rat). Arvicanthis niloticus were perfused and brain sections were collected through the forebrain and midbrain and processed for HCRT immunocytochemistry. Hypocretin-like immunopositive cell bodies were located in the lateral hypothalamus, dorsomedial hypothalamus, and perifornical area. The densest staining for HCRT + neuronal fibers was seen in the paraventricular thalamic nucleus, the locus coeruleus, and the raphe nuclei. The distribution of HCRT + cells and fibers is consistent with that found in other rodents such as rats and Syrian hamsters. Although the pattern of HCRT-like immunostaining for cells and fibers is similar in nocturnal rodents and diurnal A. niloticus, it will be important to compare the pattern of HCRT release, as well as activity of HCRT cells, between nocturnal and diurnal species.
Thoracoabdominal aneurysm surgery carries an approximate 10% risk of intraoperative paraplegia. Abrupt cord ischemia and the confounding effects of systemic alterations and limb or cerebral ischemia challenges neurophysiologic spinal cord monitoring. This investigation sought a rapid differential monitoring approach to predict or help prevent paraplegia. Thirty-one patients were monitored with motor evoked potentials (MEPs) and median and tibial somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEPs). MEPs involved single-pulse transcranial electrical stimulation with D wave recording (n = 16), arm and leg muscle MEPs following multiple-pulse transcranial electrical stimulation (n = 12), or both (n = 3). D wave recordings required averaging, invasive epidural electrode insertion, and produced both false positives and false negatives. Muscle MEPs were instantaneous and reliably sensitive and specific for cord ischemia. Cortical and peripheral nerve SSEPs provided rapid detection of systemic alterations and cerebral or limb ischemia. Cord and subcortical SSEPs required excessive averaging time. In conclusion, bilateral arm and leg muscle MEPs with median and tibial peripheral nerve and cortical SSEPs provide sufficiently rapid detection and differentiation of cord ischemia from confounding factors. There were two predicted intraoperative spinal cord infarctions (6.5%) and nine circumstantial examples of possible contributions to deficit prevention.
Spinal epidural haematoma is a rare cause of spinal cord compression. It is most commonly attributed to trauma and coagulation disorders. We report a case of a 64 year-old man with thrombocytopaenia who presented with a traumatic epidural haematoma who p resented with right hemiparesis which progressed to complete tetraplegia. MR of the cervical spine showed an epidural collection on the posterior aspect of the cord throughout the cervical spine. The patient underwent C1-C7 laminectomy and decompression. Postoperatively, the patient has improved gradually and has power of grade 3 (Medical Research Council classification of power) in all 4 limbs at 2-month follow-up. MRI is an important modality in the early diagnosis of spinal epidural haematomas and can facilitate emergent decompressive surgery which offers the best chance of neurological improvement.

Substance P (SP)-neurokinin-1 (NK1) receptor pathways have been implicated in the pathophysiology of emesis and depression. Autoradiographic studies in monkey and human brains have shown a high expression of NK1 receptors in regions important for the regulation of affective behaviors and the neurochemical response to stress. Furthermore, clinical studies demonstrated that treatment with the SP (NK1 receptor) antagonist (SPA) aprepitant (also known as MK-0869) significantly improves depression symptoms and reduces the incidence of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting. An important objective of all neuroscience drug discovery and development programs is to establish the correlation between dose, receptor occupancy, and the observed clinical effect (the dose-response relationship). These goals can be achieved using radioactive receptor-specific tracers and dynamic noninvasive brain imaging modalities, such as positron emission tomography (PET). In the SPA program, a tracer [18F]SPA-RQ was chosen for PET studies on the basis of several criteria, including high affinity for the NK1 receptor, low nonspecific binding, and good blood-brain barrier penetration. PET imaging studies in rhesus monkeys and humans confirmed these tracer features and established the usefulness of this probe for in vivo NK1 receptor occupancy studies. Subsequent PET occupancy studies in humans predicted that very high levels of central NK1 receptor occupancy (&gt; 90%) were associated with therapeutically significant antidepressant and antiemetic effects. Future PET imaging studies will focus on quantification of NK1 receptor expression in depressed patients, both before and after successful treatment with antidepressants.
Substance P belongs to a group of neurokinins (NKs), small peptides that are broadly distributed in the central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral nervous system (PNS). The biological effects of substance P in the CNS, namely regulation of affective behavior and emesis in the brain and nociception in the spinal cord, are mediated by its binding to the NK1 receptor. The substance P-NK1 (SP-NK1) receptor system is the most extensively studied NK pathway, and in contrast to receptors for other neurotransmitters, such as glutamate, which have high expression throughout the CNS, only a minority of neurons (5% to 7%) in certain CNS areas express the NK1 receptor. The NK1 receptor is distributed in the plasma membrane of cell bodies and dendrites of unstimulated neurons, but upon substance P binding, the NK1 receptor undergoes rapid internalization, followed by rapid recycling to the plasma membrane. Release of substance P is induced by stressful stimuli, and the magnitude of its release is proportional to the intensity and frequency of stimulation. More potent and more frequent stimuli allow diffusion of substance P farther from the site of release, allowing activation of an approximately 3- to 5-times greater number of NK1 receptor-expressing neurons. Recent studies employing pharmacologic or genetic inactivation of NK1 receptors demonstrate the important role of the SP-NK1 receptor system in the regulation of affective behavior and suggest that inhibition of this pathway may be a useful approach to treatment of depression and associated anxiety.
The DSM-IV diagnostic criteria for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) have proved useful in providing a common language for diagnosing, treating, and researching the disorder. Despite the utility of current ADHD diagnostic criteria, sophisticated theoretical conceptualizations of the etiology of ADHD have described a much more complex disorder that includes a range of neuropsychological impairments (such as working memory deficits and other executive dysfunction) and underlying structural and functional neuropathology (e.g., caudate nucleus volume, frontal lobe activity). Inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity, the hallmark triumvirate symptoms of ADHD, may be better viewed as some of the many meaningful symptoms with roots in executive-functioning impairment. Outcomes of brain-imaging studies, public skepticism about diagnosis and treatment, and a demand for meaningful clinical outcomes of treatment point to a considerable need to broaden treatment-outcome criteria beyond the DSM-IV domains. The wide-ranging decrements in adaptive function and quality of life reported by parents of children diagnosed with ADHD further support core executive dysfunction. Emerging findings concerning medication-related improvements in adaptive functioning (e.g., social, emotional, academic), as well as the rapid search for the neuropathology that may underlie these improvements, are fueling interest in the assessment of adaptive function in clinical trials. In a series of ongoing clinical trials of a novel nonstimulant medication for ADHD, many parents reported significant improvements in the lives of their children beyond the DSM-IV criteria. These parental reports, despite their inherent sources of error, underscore the importance of including broader and more meaningful clinical outcome assessment in clinical trials. Research protocols that omit parental interviews that assess adaptive and executive function may well overlook several meaningful and consequential medication-related improvements.
Issue: Second only to depressed mood itself tiredness, low energy, and listlessness are the most common symptoms associated with depression. Recent understanding of interactions between monoaminergic neurons may help explain why some antidepressants may be more rapidly energy restoring than others.

Event-related fMRI was used to investigate lexical decisions to words of high and low frequency of occurrence and to pseudowords. The results obtained strongly support dual-route models of visual word processing. By contrasting words with pseudowords, bilateral occipito-temporal brain areas and posterior left middle temporal gyrus (MTG) were identified as contributing to the successful mapping of orthographic percepts onto visual word form representations. Low-frequency words and pseudowords elicited greater activations than high-frequency words in the superior pars opercularis [Brodmann's area (BA) 44] of the left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG), in the anterior insula, and in the thalamus and caudate nucleus. As processing of these stimuli during lexical search is known to rely on phonological information, it is concluded that these brain regions are involved in grapheme-to-phoneme conversion. Activation in the pars triangularis (BA 45) of the left IFG was observed only for low-frequency words. It is proposed that this region is involved in processes of lexical selection.
This study focuses on the synaptic output patterns of thalamocortical axons in mouse barrel cortex at postnatal day (P) 11. Axons were labeled by biotinylated dextran amine transported anterogradely following injection in vivo into the ventrobasal thalamus. Labeled axons in the posteromedial barrel subfield were examined by light and electron microscopy and then reconstructed in three dimensions to assess the spatial distribution of their synapses. Thalamocortical axons form asymmetrical synapses, both at varicosities and along cylindrical portions of the axons; usually, only one synapse occurs per site, contrasting with the case in the adult, in which multiple synapses are typical. At P11, varicosities without synapses are common. As in adult barrels, approximately 80% of synapses formed by thalamocortical axons are with dendritic spines; 20% are with dendritic shafts. The similarity in the distribution of thalamocortical synapses onto spines vs. dendrites in developing and mature barrels indicates that adult synaptic patterns already are specified at a very early stage of thalamocortical synaptogenesis.
Previous studies have suggested that heterotrimeric G proteins and tyrosine kinases may be involved in lipopolysacchaide (LPS) signaling events. Signal transduction pathways activated by LPS we examined in human pomonocytic THP-l cells. We hypothesized that Gi proteins and Src tyrosine kinase differentially affect mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases (MAPK) and nuclear factor kappa(NF-kappaB) activation. Post-receptor coupling to Ga, proteins were examined using pertussis toxin (PTx),which inhibits Galpha i receptor-coupling. The involvement of the Src family of tyrosine kinases was examined using the selective Src tyrosine kinase inhibitor pyrazolopyrimidine-2 (PP2). Pretreatment of THP-1 cells with PTx attenuated LPS-induced activation of c-Jun-N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 kinase, and production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TN-alpha) and thromboxane B2 (TXB2). Pretreatment with PP2 inhibited TNF-alpha and TxB2 production, but had no effect on p38 kinase or JNK signaling. Therefore, the Ga i-coupled signaling pathways and Src tyrosine kinase-coupled signaling pathways are necessary for LPS-induced TNF-alpha and TxB2 production, but differ in their effects on MAPK activation. Neither PTx nor PP2 inhibited LPS-induced activation of interleukin receptor activated kinase (IRAK) or inhibited translocation of NF-kappaB. However, PP2 inhibited LPS-induced NF-kappaB transactivation of a luciferase reporter gene construct in a concentration-dependent manner. Thus, LPS induction of Src tyrosine kinases may be essential in downstream NF-kappaB tansactivation of genes following DNA binding. PTx had no effect on NF-kaapaB activation of the reporter construct. These data suggest upstream divergence in signaling through Galpha i,pathways leading to MAPK activation and other signaling events leading to IkappaBalpha degradation and NF-kaapaB DNA binding.
P. F. Lovibond and D. R. Shanks (2002) suggested that expectancy of the unconditional stimulus and emotional ratings are valid indexes of awareness in Pavlovian conditioning and that participants are aware if they can discriminate the conditional stimuli. However, research suggests that processes that are irrelevant to awareness affect these measures. Further, as awareness refers to conscious experience, a valid measures needs to index subjective state rather than discrimination ability. In support, research using subjective measures has demonstrated qualitatively different effects depending on whether participants reported being aware or unaware of the stimuli. In this research, participants reported being unaware of the stimuli even though they were clearly able to discriminate the stimuli. These findings question the validity of Lovibond and Shanks' concept of awareness and their suggestion of a close association between conditioning and awareness.
Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is recognized as one of the most common forms of neurodegenerative dementia. Neuroimaging contributes to a better understanding of the pathophysiology of DLB by examining alterations in brain metabolism, neurochemisty, and morphology in living patients. Neuroimaging can provide objective and quantifiable antemortem markers for the presence of and the progression of DLB and permits differentiation from other dementias. This article reviews current neuroimaging findings in DLB with particular attention to occipital hypometabolism, dopaminergic and cholinergic deficits, and medial temporal lobe atrophy as measured by positron emission tomography, single-photon emission computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging.
In an open clinical trial, 15 patients diagnosed with DSM-IV dysthymic disorder were treated with GS-02, a herbal formulation containing extracts of four Indian herbs: Ashvatha, Kapikachu, Dhanvayasa, and Bhuriphali. Twelve patients completed the study. The medication was very well-tolerated. Among treatment completers, three (25%) patients showed no response, two (16.7%) showed partial response, and seven (58.3%) showed good response; these response rates are similar to what can be expected from an allopathic antidepressant trial. In an intent- to-treat analysis, significant improvement was observed on Hamilton depression ratings as well as on global measures. The results of this preliminary study encourage further clinical investigation of the GS-02 formulation.
This article examines the intellectual and institutional factors that contributed to the collaboration of neuropsychiatrist Warren McCulloch and mathematician Walter Pitts on the logic of neural networks, which culminated in their 1943 publication, &quot;A Logical Calculus of the Ideas Immanent in Nervous Activity.&quot; Historians and scientists alike often refer to the McCulloch-Pitts paper as a landmark event in the history of cybernetics, and fundamental to the development of cognitive science and artificial intelligence. This article seeks to bring some historical context to the McCulloch-Pitts collaboration itself, namely, their intellectual and scientific orientations and backgrounds, the key concepts that contributed to their paper, and the institutional context in which their collaboration was made. Although they were almost a generation apart and had dissimilar scientific backgrounds, McCulloch and Pitts had similar intellectual concerns, simultaneously motivated by issues in philosophy, neurology, and mathematics. This article demonstrates how these issues converged and found resonance in their model of neural networks. By examining the intellectual backgrounds of McCulloch and Pitts as individuals, it will be shown that besides being an important event in the history of cybernetics proper, the McCulloch-Pitts collaboration was an important result of early twentieth-century efforts to apply mathematics to neurological phenomena.


Using the video metadata descriptors and data model defined in the accompanying paper (Shotton, D. M. et al. (2002) A metadata classification schema for semantic content analysis of videos. J. Microsc. 205, 33-42), we discuss how analysis of the content of scientific videos, and subsequent query by content of the resulting semantic metadata, can be enhanced by the use of an object-relational database. We illustrate this by describing VANQUIS, a Web-based prototype video analysis and query interface system for the interactive spatio-temporal analysis and subsequent query by content of videos. Using VANQUIS to generate standard SQL (structured query language) statements that address complex data types stored in an object-relational database, relationships between characters and events contained within and between videos can be identified, and the appropriate video segments containing these characters and events can be retrieved for viewing. We give examples of analysis and query implementation by using VANQUIS to analyse a biological microscopy video, and discuss the wider potential of this methodology for the analysis and query by content of videos containing more general subject matter.
A gene, zyg1, was isolated by differential screening from Dictyostelium mucoroides-7 (Dm7) cells, as one preferentially expressed during their sexual development. The zyg1 gene encodes for a novel protein (ZYG1; deduced Mr 29.4 x 10(3)) consisting of 268 amino acids. Although the ZYG1 protein has predicted PKC phosphorylation sites, it has neither transmembrane domains nor specified signal sequences. The expression of zyg1 was initiated after 2 h of starvation and reached its maximum level at 8 h under submerged conditions. The expression pattern is quite similar to the temporal change of zygote formation during sexual development (macrocyst formation) with 1 h of precedence. The zyg1 mRNA in Dm7 cells developing on agar was retained until zygotes were formed. Zyg1-overexpressing cells derived from Dm7 cells eventually formed many loose mounds, in which giant cells were surrounded by normal-sized cells, in addition to mature macrocysts even under the conditions favouring for asexual sorocarp formation. Giant cells were found by DAPI-staining to be multinucleate, possibly because of the precocious overexpression of zyg1 mRNA. Western blottings using a specific antibody raised against the oligopeptide near the C-terminal region of ZYG1 also showed that ZYG1 was actually over-produced in the zyg1-overexpressing cells. From these results, it is evident that the zyg1 gene has an essential role in zygote formation by inducing sexual cell fusion.

We investigated the potential mechanisms through which Cerebrolysin, a neuroprotective noothropic agent, might affect Alzheimer's disease pathology. Transgenic (tg) mice expressing mutant human (h) amyloid precursor protein 751 (APP751) cDNA under the Thy-1 promoter (mThy1-hAPP751) were treated for four weeks with this compound and analyzed by confocal microscopy to asses its effects on amyloid plaque formation and neurodegeneration. In this model, amyloid plaques in the brain are found much earlier (beginning at 3 months) than in other tg models. Quantitative computer-aided analysis with anti-amyloid-beta protein (A beta) antibodies, revealed that Cerebrolysin significantly reduced the amyloid burden in the frontal cortex of 5-month-old mice. Furthermore, Cerebrolysin treatment reduced the levels of A beta(1-42). This was accompanied by amelioration of the synaptic alterations in the frontal cortex of mThy1-hAPP751 tg mice. In conclusion, the present study supports the possibility that Cerebrolysin might have neuroprotective effects by decreasing the production of A beta(1-42) and reducing amyloid deposition.
Brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) promotes cholinergic neuron function and survival. In Alzheimer's disease, BDNF mRNA and protein are decreased in basal forebrain cholinergic neuron target tissues such as cortex and hippocampus. Using RT-PCR, we demonstrate that BDNF is synthesized in basal forebrain, supplying cholinergic neurons with a local as well as a target-derived source of this factor. BDNF mRNA levels are decreased 50% in nucleus basalis of Alzheimer disease patients compared to controls. Thus, not only do the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons have a reduced supply of target-derived BDNF, but also of local BDNF. We also show by Western blotting that human CNS tissue contains both proBDNF and mature BDNF protein. Moreover, we demonstrate a significant (2.25-fold) deficit in proBDNF protein in Alzheimer's disease parietal cortex compared to controls. Thus, reduced BDNF mRNA and protein levels in Alzheimer's disease suggests that BDNF administration may be an effective therapeutic strategy for this disorder.
The characterisation of the borderline syndrome between normal cognitive function and Alzheimer's disease (AD), often mentioned as Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) has been a goal for recent research. However, a variety of definitions of MCI-like syndromes and the uncertainty about the final diagnosis have hampered progress. To overcome these problems, the present study will describe cognitive function in two healthy mutation carriers and two matched non-carriers of the Swedish double mutation family, during the time period when carriers convert to a symptomatic stage, i.e., true preclinical AD, and finally into the stage when a clinical diagnosis of AD is first possible. The findings question the generality of common MCI concepts and the commonly held beliefs about cognitive features in late preclinical stage of AD.
Agrin is a motoneuron-derived factor that initiates neuromuscular synapse formation; however, the signaling pathway underlying postsynaptic differentiation is not yet understood. We have investigated the role of calcium in agrin signaling through the MuSK receptor tyrosine kinase and in the intracellular signaling cascade that leads to AChR phosphorylation and clustering. We find that agrin- and neuramindase-induced MuSK activation in cultured myotubes is completely blocked by removal of extracellular calcium, but only slightly reduced by clamping of intracellular calcium transients with BAPTA. Following agrin's activation of MuSK, we find that the downstream tyrosine phosphorylation of the AChR beta-subunit was inhibited by BAPTA but not by a slower acting chelator, EGTA. Similarly, agrin-induced clustering of the AChR was blocked by BAPTA but not EGTA. These findings indicate that extracellular calcium is required for the formation of a MuSK signaling complex, and that intracellular calcium regulates phosphorylation and clustering of the AChR in the postsynaptic membrane.
The green anole lizard exhibits seasonal courtship behavior that is sexually dimorphic. This courtship consists of the extension of a bright red throat fan (dewlap) associated with head-bobbing display behavior. While males extend their dewlaps in aggressive encounters as well as in courtship, females use their considerably smaller dewlaps much less frequently and mainly in agonistic encounters. In parallel, a number of components of the neuromuscular system controlling dewlap extension are greater in males than in females during the breeding season, including dewlap motoneuron soma size and muscle fiber size and number. These features do not seem to change substantially in adulthood, despite a dramatic decline in dewlap use during the nonbreeding season. We explored the morphology of this neuromuscular system in more detail in the present experiment in males and females during both the breeding and nonbreeding seasons. Fiber and whole muscle length (approximately perpendicular to the fibers) were measured. Acetylcholinesterase histochemistry was used to visualize neuromuscular junctions (NMJs), and the surface area and density of NMJs were assessed for each animal. During the breeding season, NMJ size was larger in males than in females, but NMJ density along each fiber was equivalent between the sexes. In addition, whole muscle length and that of individual muscle fibers, was larger in males than in females. However, when corrected for body size, the sex difference in muscle fiber length disappeared. In the nonbreeding season, the sexual dimorphisms were maintained, suggesting that these features do not change substantially due to differences in circulating testosterone or a difference in use across seasons. Overall, these results are consistent with the idea that enhanced NMJ size is a relatively stable feature of the dewlap muscle in adulthood that either facilitates or is a consequence of using a larger muscle to extend a bigger dewlap in males compared to females.
The endogenous synthesis of morphine has been clearly demonstrated throughout the phylogenesis of the nervous system of mammals and lower animals. Endogenous morphine, serving as either a neurotransmitter or neurohormone, has been demonstrated in the nervous system of both vertebrates and invertebrates. As one of the effects of exogenous morphine is the modulation of pain perception, we investigated the effects that the depletion of endogenous morphine had on nociceptive transmission. The immunoneutralization of endogenous morphine from brain extracellular spaces was obtained through the intracerebroventricular administration of affinity purified anti-morphine IgG to mice, which then underwent the hot plate test. Endogenous morphine immunoneutralization decreased thermal response latency and attenuated the anti-nociceptive effect of the mu selective agonist DAMGO in hot plate test suggesting that endogenous morphine is involved in pain modulation.
Ca2+ influx through NMDA receptors can initiate molecular changes in neurones which may underlie synaptic plasticity, neuronal development, survival and excitotoxicity. Signalling through the MAP kinase (Erk1/2) cascade may be central to these processes. We previously demonstrated that Ca2+-permeable AMPA receptors activate Erkl/2 through a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase)-dependent mechanism. We now report that NMDA receptor activation of Erk1/2 was also blocked by inhibitors of PI 3-kinase (LY 294002, wortmannin). In addition, pre-treatment of neurones with pertussis toxin inhibited NMDA-induced Erk1/2 activation, indicating a role for heterotrimeric Gi/o proteins. PI 3-kinase directs activation of the serine-threonine kinase Akt (PKB). Treatment of striatal neurones with glutamate induced a rapid Ca2+-dependent and PI 3-kinase-dependent phosphorylation of Akt (Ser473), which was not blocked by the Mek inhibitors PD98059 or U0126. Targets for Erk1/2 and Akt pathways include transcription factors. Glutamate-induced phosphorylation of cAMP response element binding protein (CREB; Ser133) was partially blocked with either PD98059, U0126, LY294002 or wortmannin but was very strongly inhibited on co-application of LY294002 and PD98059. We propose that NMDA receptor stimulation can activate Erk1/2 and Akt signalling pathways in a PI 3-kinase dependent manner which may target CREB in the nucleus.
The mechanisms of Ca2+-induced release of Cytochrome c (Cyt c) from rat brain mitochondria were examined quantitatively using a capture ELISA. In 75 or 125 mm KCl-based media 1.4 micromol Ca2+/mg protein caused depolarization and mitochondrial swelling. However, this resulted in partial Cyt c release only in 75 mm KCl. The release was inhibited by Ru360, an inhibitor of the Ca2+ uniporter, and by cyclosporin A plus ADP, a combination of mitochondrial permeability transition inhibitors. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) revealed that Ca2+-induced swelling caused rupture of the outer membrane only in 75 mm KCl. Koenig's polyanion, an inhibitor of mitochondrial porin (VDAC), enhanced swelling and amplified Cyt c release. Dextran T70 that is known to enhance mitochondrial contact site formation did not prevent Cyt c release. Exposure of cultured cortical neurons to 500 microM glutamate for 5 min caused Cyt c release into the cytosol 30 min after glutamate removal. MK-801 or CsA inhibited this release. Thus, the release of Cyt c from CNS mitochondria induced by Ca2+ in vitro as well as in situ involved the mPT and appeared to require the rupture of the outer membrane.
Although the cause of Parkinson's disease (PD) is unknown, data suggest roles for environmental factors that may sensitize dopaminergic neurons to age-related dysfunction and death. Based upon epidemiological data suggesting roles for dietary factors in PD and other age-related neurodegenerative disorders, we tested the hypothesis that dietary folate can modify vulnerability of dopaminergic neurons to dysfunction and death in a mouse model of PD. We report that dietary folate deficiency sensitizes mice to MPTP-induced PD-like pathology and motor dysfunction. Mice on a folate-deficient diet exhibit elevated levels of plasma homocysteine. When infused directly into either the substantia nigra or striatum, homocysteine exacerbates MPTP-induced dopamine depletion, neuronal degeneration and motor dysfunction. Homocysteine exacerbates oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptosis in human dopaminergic cells exposed to the pesticide rotenone or the pro-oxidant Fe(2+). The adverse effects of homocysteine on dopaminergic cells is ameliorated by administration of the antioxidant uric acid and by an inhibitor of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase. The ability of folate deficiency and elevated homocysteine levels to sensitize dopaminergic neurons to environmental toxins suggests a mechanism whereby dietary folate may influence risk for PD.
Primary cortical neurones exposed to an oxidative insult in the form of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) for 30 min showed a concentration-dependent increase in oxidative stress followed by a delayed NMDA receptor-dependent cell death measured 24 h later. Extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK1/2), c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and the kinase Akt/PKB may regulate neuronal viability in response to oxidative insults. Using phospho-specific antibodies, a 15-min stimulation of neurones with H(2)O(2) (100 microm - 1 mm) produced a concentration-dependent phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and Akt/PKB that was partly dependent on extracellular Ca(2+) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K). Higher concentrations of H(2)O(2) (1 mm) also stimulated a phosphorylation of JNK which was totally dependent on extracellular Ca(2+) but not PI3-K. H(2)O(2)-induced phosphorylation of ERK1/2, Akt/PKB or JNK were unaffected by the NMDA channel blocker MK801. Blocking ERK1/2 activation with the upstream inhibitor U0126 (10 microm) enhanced H(2)O(2)-induced (100-300 microm range) neurotoxicity and inhibited H(2)O(2)-mediated phosphorylation of the cyclic AMP regulatory binding protein (CREB), suggesting that ERK1/2 signals to survival under these conditions. At higher concentrations (mm), H(2)O(2)-stimulated a phosphorylation of c-jun. It is likely, therefore, that subjecting neurones to moderate oxidative-stress recruits pro-survival signals to CREB but during severe oxidative stress pro-death signals through JNK and c-jun are dominant.


Presence of increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) has been observed in most high risk factors for brain tumor development. Our past study demonstrated that ROS could induce increased brain tumor cell proliferation. Growth effects of ROS may involve modifications of cellular proteins such as mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), which regulate cell proliferation. Here, we report effects of a ROS (hydrogen peroxide, H2O2) and an antioxidant (N-acetylcysteine, NAC) on MAPK activation in astrocytoma (U373-MG) cells. MAPKs are activated by phosphorylation that can be detected by Western blot analysis. The unphosphorylated/inactivated form of MAPK exhibits slower mobility on SDS-PAGE compared to the phosphorylated/activated form. Densitometric analysis was used to measure MAPK activation. Results indicate that H2O2 caused a dose and time-dependent increase in MAPK activation in astrocytoma cells. Furthermore, ROS-induced activation was almost completely suppressed by NAC. NAC also inhibited serum-induced MAPK activation indicating there may be an oxidant-sensitive component to serum-induced growth signaling. Modifications of MAPKs by H2O2 demonstrate that ROS-induced proliferation is via biochemical pathways similar to other known growth stimuli. Understanding of processes that link a proliferation signal (ROS) to cell proliferation can aid in the selection of therapy used to suppress brain tumor growth.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS). Most patients undergo an initial relapsing-remitting (RR-MS) course that transforms into a relentless neurodegenerative disorder, termed secondary progressive (SP)-MS. Reversible inflammation and demyelination account readily for the pattern of RR-MS but provide an unsatisfactory explanation for irrevocable decline in SP-MS. Axon loss is thought to be responsible for progressive, non-remitting neurological disability during SP-MS. There is considerable potential for neuroprotective therapies in MS, but their application awaits animal models in which axonal loss correlates with permanent neurological disability. In this report, we describe quantitative immunohistochemical methods that correlate inflammation and axonal loss with neurological disability in chronic-relapsing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). At first attack, CNS inflammation, but not axon loss, correlated with the degree of neurological disability. In contrast, fixed neurological impairment in chronic EAE correlated with axon loss that, in turn, correlated with the number of symptomatic attacks. As proposed for MS, these observations imply a causal relationship between inflammation, axon loss, and irreversible neurological disability. This chronic-relapsing EAE model provides an excellent platform for 2 critical objectives: investigating mechanisms of axon loss and evaluating efficacy of neuroprotective therapies.
Rhesus monkeys learned a series of conditional visuomotor associations involving two-dimensional &quot;objects&quot; that instructed one of three responses: tapping a touch screen, steady contact with the screen for a brief period, or steady contact for a longer period. Relative to controls, fornix-transected monkeys were impaired in the acquisition of new associations and in the retention of preoperatively learned ones. These findings challenge the view that the hippocampal system participates in associative learning only when spatial information is relevant to either the stimulus or the response.
Receptive fields have been characterized independently in the lemniscal auditory thalamus and cortex, usually with spectrotemporally simple sounds tailored to a specific task. No studies have employed naturalistic stimuli to investigate the thalamocortical transformation in temporal, spectral, and aural domains simultaneously and under identical conditions. We recorded simultaneously in the ventral division of the medial geniculate body (MGBv) and in primary auditory cortex (AI) of the ketamine-anesthetized cat. Spectrotemporal receptive fields (STRFs) of single units (n = 387) were derived by reverse-correlation with a broadband and dynamically varying stimulus, the dynamic ripple. Spectral integration, as measured by excitatory bandwidth and spectral modulation preference, was similar across both stations (mean Q(1/e) thalamus = 5.8, cortex = 5.4; upper cutoff of spectral modulation transfer function, thalamus = 1.30 cycles/octave, cortex = 1.37 cycles/octave). Temporal modulation rates slowed by a factor of two from thalamus to cortex (mean preferred rate, thalamus = 32.4 Hz, cortex = 16.6 Hz; upper cutoff of temporal modulation transfer function, thalamus = 62.9 Hz, cortex = 37.4 Hz). We found no correlation between spectral and temporal integration properties, suggesting that the excitatory-inhibitory interactions underlying preference in each domain are largely independent. A small number of neurons in each station had highly asymmetric STRFs, evidence of frequency sweep selectivity, but the population showed no directional bias. Binaural preferences differed in their relative proportions, most notably an increased prevalence of excitatory contralateral-only cells in cortex (40%) versus thalamus (23%), indicating a reorganization of this parameter. By comparing simultaneously along multiple stimulus dimensions in both stations, these observations establish the global characteristics of the thalamocortical receptive field transformation.
This study quantified the accuracy with which populations of neurons in the auditory cortex can represent aspects of electrical cochlear stimuli presented through a cochlear implant. We tested the accuracy of coding of the place of stimulation (i.e., identification of the active stimulation channel) and of the stimulus current level. Physiological data came from the companion study, which recorded spike activity of neurons simultaneously from 16 sites along the tonotopic axis of the guinea pig's auditory cortex. In that study, cochlear electrical stimuli were presented to acutely deafened animals through a 6-electrode animal version of the 22-electrode Nucleus banded electrode array (Cochlear). Cochlear electrode configurations consisted of monopolar (MP), bipolar (BP + N) with N inactive electrodes between the active and return electrodes (0 &lt; or = N &lt; or = 3), tripolar (TP) with one active electrode and two flanking return electrodes, and common ground (CG) with one active electrode and as many as five return electrodes. In the present analysis, an artificial neural network was trained to recognize spatiotemporal patterns of cortical activity in response to single presentations of particular stimuli and, thereby, to identify those stimuli. The accuracy of pair-wise discrimination of stimulation channels or of current levels was represented by the discrimination index, d', where d' = 1 was taken as threshold. In many cases, the threshold for discrimination of place of cochlear stimulation was &lt; 0.75 mm, and the threshold for discrimination of current levels was &lt; 1 dB. Cochlear electrode configurations varied in the accuracy with which they signaled to the auditory cortex the place of cochlear stimulation. The BP + N and TP configurations provided considerably greater sensitivity to place of stimulation than did the MP configuration. The TP configuration maintained accurate signaling of place of stimulation up to the highest current levels, whereas sensitivity was degraded at high current levels in BP + N configurations. Electrode configurations also varied in the dynamic range over which they signaled stimulus current level. Dynamic ranges were widest for the BP + 0 configuration and narrowest for the TP configuration. That is, the configuration that showed the most accurate signaling of cochlear place of stimulation (TP) showed the most restricted dynamic range for signaling of current level. These results suggest that the choice of the optimal electrode configuration for use by human cochlear-prosthesis users would depend on the particular demands of the speech-processing strategy that is to be employed.
This study examines patterns of auditory cortical activity elicited by single-pulse cochlear implant stimuli that vary in electrode configuration, cochlear place of stimulation, and stimulus level. Recordings were made from the primary auditory cortex (area A1) of ketamine-anesthetized guinea pigs. The spatiotemporal pattern of neural spike activity was measured simultaneously across 16 cortical locations spanning approximately 2-3 octaves of the tonotopic axis. Such a pattern, averaged over 40 presentations of any particular stimulus, was defined as the &quot;cortical image&quot; of that stimulus. Acutely deafened guinea pigs were implanted with a 6-electrode animal version of the 22-electrode Nucleus banded electrode array (Cochlear). Cochlear electrode configurations consisted of monopolar (MP), bipolar (BP + N) with N inactive electrodes between the active and return electrodes (0 &lt; or = N &lt; or = 4), tripolar (TP) with one active electrode and two flanking return electrodes, and common ground (CG) with one active electrode and as many as five return electrodes. Cortical images typically showed a focus of maximum spike probability and minimum latency. Spike probabilities tended to decrease, and latencies tended to increase, with increasing cortical distance from that focus. Cortical images of TP stimuli were the most spatially compact, followed by BP + N images, and then MP images, which were the broadest. Images of CG stimuli were rather variable across animals and stimulus channels. The locations of cortical images shifted systematically from caudal to rostral as the cochlear place of stimulation changed from basal to apical. At the most sensitive cortical site for each condition, the dynamic ranges over which spike rates increased with increased current level were restricted to about 1-2 dB, regardless of configuration. Dynamic ranges tended to increase with increasing cortical distance from the most sensitive site. Electrode configurations that produced compact cortical images (e.g., TP and BP + 0) showed the greatest range of thresholds within each cortical image and the largest dynamic range at cortical sites removed from the most sensitive site.
Dorsal spinocerebellar tract (DSCT) neurons transmit sensory signals to the cerebellum that encode global hindlimb parameters, such as the hindlimb end-point position and its direction of movement. Here we use a population analysis approach to examine further the characteristics of DSCT neuronal responses during continuous movements of the hind foot. We used a robot to move the hind paw of anesthetized cats through the trajectories of a step or a figure-8 footpath in a parasagittal plane. Extracellular recordings from 82 cells converted to cycle histograms provided the basis for a principal-component analysis to determine the common features of the DSCT movement responses. Five principal components (PCs) accounted for about 80% of the total variance in the waveforms across units. The first two PCs accounted for about 60% of the variance and they were highly robust across samples. We examined the relationship between the responses and limb kinematic parameters by correlating the PC waveforms with waveforms of the joint angle and limb axis trajectories using multivariate linear regression models. Each PC waveform could be at least partly explained by a linear relationship to joint-angle trajectories, but except for the first PC, they required multiple angles. However, the limb axis parameters more closely related to both the first and second PC waveforms. In fact, linear regression models with limb axis length and orientation trajectories as predictors explained 94% of the variance in both PCs, and each was related to a particular linear combination of position and velocity. The first PC correlated with the limb axis orientation and orientation velocity trajectories, whereas second PC with the length and length velocity trajectories. These combinations were found to correspond to the dynamics of muscle spindle responses. The first two PCs were also most representative of the data set since about half the DSCT responses could be at least 85% accounted for by weighted linear combinations of these two PCs. Higher-order PCs were unrelated to limb axis trajectories and accounted instead for different dynamic components of the responses. The findings imply that an explicit and independent representation of the limb axis length and orientation may be present at the lowest levels of sensory processing in the spinal cord.
We present here a comparison between the local field potentials (LFP) and multiunit (MU) responses, comprising 401 single units, in primary auditory cortex (AI) of 31 cats to periodic click trains, gamma-tone and time-reversed gamma-tone trains, AM noise, AM tones, and frequency-modulated (FM) tones. In a large number of cases, the response to all six stimuli was obtained for the same neurons. We investigate whether cortical neurons are likely to respond to all types of repetitive transients and modulated stimuli and whether a dependence on modulating waveform, or tone or noise carrier, exists. In 97% of the recordings, a temporal modulation transfer function (tMTF) for MU activity was obtained for gamma-tone trains, in 92% for periodic click trains, in 83% for time-reversed gamma-tone trains, in 82% for AM noise, in 71% for FM tones, and only in 53% for AM tones. In 31% of the cases, the units responded to all six stimuli in an envelope-following way. These particular units had significantly larger onset responses to each stimulus compared with all other units. The overall response distribution shows the preference of AI units for stimuli with short rise times such as clicks and gamma tones. It also shows a clear asymmetry in the ability to respond to AM noise and AM tones and points to a strong effect of the frequency content of the carrier on the subcortical processing of AM stimuli. Yet all temporal response properties were independent of characteristic frequency and frequency-tuning curve bandwidth. We show that the observed differences in the tMTFs for different stimuli are to a large extent produced by the different degree of phase locking of the neuronal firings to the envelope of the first stimulus in the train or first modulation period. A normalization procedure, based on these synchronization differences, unified the tMTFs for all stimuli except clicks and allowed the identification of a largely stimulus-invariant, low-pass temporal filter function that most likely reflects the properties of synaptic depression and facilitation. For nonclick stimuli, the low-pass filter has a cutoff frequency of approximately 10 Hz and a slope of approximately 6 dB/octave. For nonclick stimuli, there was a systematic difference between the vector strength for LFPs and MU activity that can likely be attributed to postactivation suppression mechanisms.
To investigate the specificity of fusimotor (gamma) drive during locomotion, gamma-efferents were recorded from the flexor digitorum longus (FDL) and flexor hallucis longus (FHL) nerves in a decerebrate cat preparation. These nerves innervate hindlimb muscles that differ in some aspects of their mechanical action. For both FHL and FDL two stereotyped patterns of gamma activity were distinguished. Tonic units fired throughout the step cycle and had less modulation, but higher minimum rates, than phasic units, which were mainly recruited with ankle extensor [soleus (SOL)] electromyogram (EMG) activity. Differences in the relative timing of these patterns were apparent. In FHL the activity of phasic and most tonic neurons peaked after EMG onset. With FDL, tonic units generally reached maximum rate before, while phasic units peaked after, the beginning of EMG activity. During locomotion FHL and FDL alpha activity were rhythmically recruited with SOL. However, consistent with previous reports, FHL and FDL differed in their patterns of alpha activity. FHL was stereotyped while FDL was variable. Both FHL and FDL had activity related to ankle extensor EMG, but only FDL exhibited a peak around the end of this phase. No corresponding gamma activity was observed in FDL. In conclusion, 1) FHL and FDL received tonic and phasic fusimotor drive; 2) there was no alpha/gamma linkage for the late FDL alpha burst; 3) phasic gamma-efferents in both muscles received similar inputs, linked to plantar flexor alpha activity; and 4) tonic gamma-efferents differed, to the extent that they were modulated at all. The FHL units peaked with the plantar flexor alphas. The FDL neurons generally peaked before alpha activity even began.
The present study investigated the adaptations made in motor behavior following a temporary reduction in ankle extensor activity in the walking cat. Temporary muscle weakness was induced by injecting botulinum toxin into the lateral gastrocnemius (LG), plantaris (PL), and soleus (SOL) muscles, or SOL alone. The medial gastrocnemius (MG) muscle was not injected. Adaptations in the level of muscle activity were recorded using chronically implanted electromyographic (EMG) electrodes. Serial recordings were made prior to botulinum toxin injections and for several days following the injections. Kinematic analysis of ankle joint movements was made from video records to assess the impact of the botulinum toxin injections on the function of the ankle joint during walking. Following injection of the LG, PL, and SOL muscles with botulinum toxin, the amplitude of the MG burst increased over a period of a few days to a week. This increase was similar to the previously reported changes produced in MG following transection of the nerves serving LG, PL, and SOL. Following the weakening of the ankle extensor muscles, there was a temporary deficit in ankle function during walking as evidenced by a marked increase in the amount of ankle flexion that occurred at stance onset. This functional deficit recovered relatively quickly and was not associated with a return of the EMG pattern to the preinjection pattern. After recovery from the initial injections, a second injection of botulinum toxin into SOL alone was performed. No functional deficits were observed in the ankle movements during walking following this second injection. However, weakening SOL produced increases in the burst amplitudes of the MG, LG, and PL muscles over a period of a few days. This suggests that normal movements at the ankle during walking can be generated with more than one pattern of ankle extensor activity and that there is flexibility in how the necessary torque is produced. A final procedure, transection of the nerves serving LG, PL, and SOL, failed to produce any functional deficits in ankle movements. The implication is that adaptations to the neural control of ankle extensor activity that were induced by the initial procedure persisted after the recovery of the injected muscles and were sufficient to compensate for the subsequent challenges.
AMPA and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated synaptic responses expressed differential paired-pulse plasticity when examined in the same cell using intracellular or whole cell voltage-clamp recordings. Electrical stimulation of corticostriatal afferents in brain slices bathed in artificial cerebrospinal fluid containing bicuculline produces excitatory postsynaptic potentials and excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) mediated primarily by AMPA receptors. Cell-to-cell variation existed in AMPA receptor paired-pulse plasticity, but within-cell plasticity was stable over a range of stimulation intensities. Addition of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxalene-2,3-dione blocked most of the synaptic response leaving behind a small AP-5-sensitive component. Increasing the stimulation intensity produced large, long-lasting NMDA receptor-mediated responses. In contrast to AMPA receptor-mediated responses, NMDA receptor responses consistently showed an increase in paired-pulse potentiation with increasing stimulation intensity. This relationship was restricted to interstimulus intervals shorter than 100 ms. Paired-pulse potentiation of NMDA receptor responses was voltage-dependent and reduced by removal of extracellular Mg(2+). Block of postsynaptic L-type Ca(2+) channels with nifedipine produced a voltage-dependent reduction of NMDA receptor excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) and a voltage-dependent reduction of NMDA receptor paired-pulse potentiation. These data indicate depolarization during the first NMDA receptor response causes facilitation of the second by removing voltage-dependent block of NMDA receptors by Mg(2+) and by activating voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels.
Short-lasting application (10 min) of tachykinin neuropeptides evokes long-lasting (&gt;24 h) modulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-evoked locomotor network activity in the lamprey spinal cord. In this study, the net effects of the tachykinin substance P on the isolated spinal cord have been examined by recording from motor neurons in the absence of NMDA and ongoing network activity. Brief bath application of substance P (30 s to 2 min) induced irregular membrane potential oscillations in motor neurons. These oscillations consisted of depolarizing and hyperpolarizing phases and were associated with phasic ventral-root activity. The oscillations were blocked by the tachykinin antagonist spantide II. They were also blocked by tetrodotoxin (TTX), suggesting that they were not dependent on intrinsic membrane properties of the motor neurons but were synaptically mediated. Substance P could also have a direct effect, however, because a membrane potential depolarization persisted in the presence of TTX. Protein kinase agonists and antagonists were used to investigate the intracellular pathways through which substance P acted. The oscillations were blocked by the selective protein kinase C (PKC) antagonist chelerythrine. However, the TTX-resistant membrane potential depolarization was not significantly affected by blocking PKC. The protein kinase A and G antagonist H8 did not affect either the oscillations or the direct TTX-resistant membrane potential depolarization. The glutamate receptor antagonist kynurenic acid abolished the substance-P-evoked oscillations, suggesting that they were dependent on glutamate release. The oscillations were abolished or reduced by the AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxalene-2,3-dione but were only reduced by the NMDA receptor antagonist D-AP5. The oscillations were thus mediated by glutamatergic inputs with a greater dependence on non-NMDA receptors. Blocking glycinergic inputs with strychnine resulted in large depolarizing plateaus and bursts of spikes. The glutamatergic and glycinergic inputs underlying the oscillations are apparently evoked through direct and indirect excitatory effects on inhibitory and excitatory premotor interneurons. Substance P thus has a distributed excitatory effect in the spinal cord. While it can activate premotor networks, this activation alone is not able to evoke a coordinated behaviorally relevant motor output.
Pain has a strong emotional dimension, and the amygdala plays a key role in emotionality. The processing of nociceptive mechanical and thermal information was studied in individual neurons of the central nucleus of the amygdala, the target of the spino-parabrachio-amygdaloid pain pathway and a major output nucleus of the amygdala. This study is the first to characterize nociceptive amygdala neurons with input from deep tissue, particularly the knee joint. In 46 anesthetized rats, extracellular single-unit recordings were made from 119 central amygdala neurons that were activated orthodromically by electrical stimulation in the lateral pontine parabrachial area and were tested for receptive fields in the knee joints. Responses to brief mechanical stimulation of joints, muscles, and skin and to cutaneous thermal stimuli were recorded. Receptive-field sizes and thresholds were mapped and stimulus-response functions constructed. Neurons in the central nucleus of the amygdala with excitatory input from the knee joint (n = 62) typically had large symmetrical receptive fields in both hindlimbs or in all four extremities and responded exclusively or preferentially to noxious mechanical stimulation of deep tissue (n = 58). Noxious mechanical stimulation of the skin excited 30 of these neurons; noxious heat activated 21 neurons. Stimulus-response data were best fitted by a sigmoid nonlinear regression model rather than by a monotonically increasing linear function. Another 15 neurons were inhibited by noxious mechanical stimulation of the knee joint and other deep tissue. Fifteen neurons had no receptive field in the knee but responded to noxious stimulation of other body areas; 27 nonresponsive neurons were not activated by natural somesthetic stimulation. Our data suggest that excitation is the predominant effect of brief painful stimulation of somatic tissue on the population of central amygdala neurons with knee joint input. Their large symmetrical receptive fields and sigmoid rather than monotonically increasing linear stimulus-response functions suggest a role of nociceptive central amygdala neurons in other than sensory-discriminative aspects of pain.
The mechanisms generating giant miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) were investigated at the hippocampal mossy fiber (MF) to CA3 pyramidal cell synapse in vitro. These giant mEPSCs have peak amplitudes as large as 1,700 pA (13.6 nS) with a mean maximal mEPSC amplitude of 366 +/- 20 pA (mean +/- SD; 5 nS; n = 25 cells). This is compared with maximal mEPSC amplitudes of &lt;100 pA typically observed at other cortical synapses. We tested the hypothesis that giant mEPSCs are due to synchronized release of multiple vesicles across the release sites of single MF boutons by directly inducing vesicular release using secretagogues. If giant mEPSCs result from simultaneous multivesicular release, then secretagogues should increase the frequency of small mEPSCs selectively. We found that hypertonic sucrose and spermine increased the frequency of both small and giant mEPSCs. The peptide toxin secretagogues alpha-latrotoxin and pardaxin failed to increase the frequency of giant mEPSCs, but the possible lack of tissue penetration of the toxins make these results equivocal. Because a multiquantal release mechanism is likely to be mediated by a spontaneous increase in presynaptic calcium concentration, a monoquantal mechanism is further supported by results that giant mEPSCs were not affected by manipulations of extracellular or intracellular calcium concentrations. In addition, reducing the temperature of the bath to 15 degrees C failed to desynchronize the rising phases of giant mEPSCs. Together these data suggest that the giant mEPSCs are generated via a monovesicular mechanism. Three-dimensional analysis through serial electron microscopy of the MF boutons revealed large clear vesicles (50 to 160 nm diam) docked presynaptically at the MF synapse in sufficient numbers to account for the amplitude and frequency of giant mEPSCs recorded electrophysiologically. It is concluded that release of the contents of a single large clear vesicle generates giant mEPSCs at the MF to CA3 pyramidal cell synapse.
A postural control system in the lamprey is driven by vestibular input and maintains the dorsal-side-up orientation of the animal during swimming. After a unilateral labyrinthectomy (UL), the lamprey continuously rolls toward the damaged side. Normally, a recovery of postural equilibrium (&quot;vestibular compensation&quot;) takes about 1 mo. However, illumination of the eye contralateral to UL results in an immediate and reversible restoration of equilibrium. Here we used eye illumination as a tool to examine a functional recovery of the postural network. Important elements of this network are the reticulospinal (RS) neurons, which are driven by vestibular input and transmit commands for postural corrections to the spinal cord. In this study, we characterized modifications of the vestibular responses in individual RS neurons caused by UL and the effect exerted on these responses by eye illumination. The activity of RS neurons was recorded from their axons in the spinal cord by chronically implanted electrodes, and spikes in individual axons were extracted from the population activity signals. The same neurons were recorded both before and after UL. Vestibular stimulation (rotation in the roll plane through 360 degrees ) and eye illumination were performed in quiescent animals. It was found that the vestibular responses on the UL-side changed only slightly, whereas the responses on the opposite side disappeared almost completely. This asymmetry in the bilateral activity of RS neurons is the most likely cause for the loss of equilibrium in UL animals. Illumination of the eye contralateral to UL resulted, first, in a restoration of vestibular responses in the neurons inactivated by UL and in an appearance of vestibular responses in some other neurons that did not respond to vestibular input before UL. These responses had directional sensitivity and zones of spatial sensitivity similar to those observed before UL. However, their magnitude was smaller than before UL. Second, the eye illumination caused a reduction of the magnitude of vestibular responses on the UL side. These two factors tend to restore symmetry in bilateral activity of RS neurons, which is the most likely cause for the recovery of equilibrium in the swimming UL lamprey. Results of this study are discussed in relation to the model of the roll control system proposed in our previous studies as well as in relation to the vestibular compensation.
The authors examined the relationship of three dimensions of behavioral change (Apathy, Depression, and Irritability) measured by the Problem Behaviors Assessment for Huntington's Disease (PBA-HD) to cognitive and motor indices of disease severity. The Apathy subscale was highly correlated with both cognitive and motor impairment; the Irritability and Depression subscales were not. The findings suggest that certain behavioral alterations are intrinsic to the evolution and progression of HD, whereas others are more variable and are independent of other indices of disease progression.
To estimate the prevalence of, and develop norms for, significant agitation in community-dwelling persons with Alzheimer's disease (AD), the authors applied three different criteria to persons with AD (n=235) and normal elderly control subjects (NEC; n=64). The criteria were used to identify the minimum total score on the Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory (CMAI) that represents significant or &quot;excessive&quot; agitation and to estimate its prevalence. The &quot;ultraliberal&quot; criterion resulted in 99.1% of persons with AD and 56.6% of NEC being classified as &quot;excessively&quot; disturbed. The &quot;liberal&quot; and &quot;conservative&quot; criteria classified 66.7% and 68.2% of persons with AD, and no NEC, as &quot;excessively&quot; disturbed. The authors conclude that the best estimate of prevalence of excessive agitation in this population is 67.5%, and that individuals with CMAI scores of 0 to 14 probably should not be considered to have excessive agitation.
The basolateral amygdala (BLA) is believed to be involved in schizophrenia, depression, and other disorders that display affective components. The neuronal activity of the BLA, and BLA-mediated affective behaviors, are driven by sensory stimuli transmitted in part from sensory association cortical regions. These same behaviors may be regulated by prefrontal cortical (PFC) inputs to the BLA. However, it is unclear how two sets of glutamatergic inputs to the BLA can impose opposing actions on BLA-mediated behaviors; specifically, it is unclear how PFC inputs exert inhibitory actions over BLA projection neurons. Dopamine (DA) receptor activation enhances BLA-mediated behaviors. Although we have demonstrated that DA suppresses medial PFC inputs to the BLA and enhances sensory cortical inputs, the precise cellular mechanisms for its actions are unknown. In this study we use in vivo intracellular recordings to determine the means by which glutamatergic inputs from the PFC inhibit BLA projection neurons, contrast that with glutamatergic inputs from the association sensory cortex (Te3) that drive BLA projection neurons, and examine the effects of DA receptor activation on neuronal excitability, spontaneous postsynaptic potentials (PSPs), and PFC-evoked PSPs. We found that PFC stimulation inhibits BLA projection neurons by three mechanisms: chloride-mediated hyperpolarization, a persistent decrease in neuronal input resistance, and shunting of PSPs; all effects are possibly attributable to recruitment of inhibitory interneurons. DA receptor activation enhanced neuronal input resistance by a postsynaptic mechanism (via DA D2 receptors), suppressed spontaneously occurring and PFC-evoked PSPs (via DA D1 receptors), and enhanced Te3-evoked PSPs.
The striosome and matrix compartments of the striatum are clearly identified by their neurochemical expression patterns and anatomical connections. To determine whether these compartments are distinguishable functionally, we used [14C]deoxyglucose metabolic mapping in the rat and tested whether neutral behavioral states (free movement, gentle restraint, and focal tactile stimulation under gentle restraint) were associated with regions of high metabolic activity in the matrix, in striosomes, or in both. We identified metabolic peaks in the striatum by means of image analysis, striosome-matrix boundaries by [3H]naloxone binding, and primary somatosensory corticostriatal input clusters by injections of anterograde tracer into electrophysiologically identified sites in SI. Peak metabolic activity was primarily confined to the matrix compartment under each behavioral condition. These findings show that during relatively neutral behavioral conditions the balance of activity between the two compartments favors the matrix and suggest that this balance is present in the striatum as part of normal behavior and processing of afferent activity.
The tonic influence of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors on the activity of striatal neurons in vivo was investigated by performing intracellular recordings concurrently with reverse microdialysis in chloral hydrate-anesthetized rats. Striatal neurons were recorded in the vicinity of the microdialysis probe to assess their activity during infusions of artificial CSF (aCSF), the D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (10 microm), or the D2 receptor antagonist eticlopride (20 microm). SCH 23390 perfusion decreased the excitability of striatal neurons exhibiting electrophysiological characteristics of spiny projection cells as evidenced by a decrease in the maximal depolarized membrane potential, a decrease in the amplitude of up-state events, and an increase in the intracellular current injection amplitude required to elicit an action potential. Conversely, a marked depolarization of up- and down-state membrane potential modes, a decrease in the amplitude of intracellular current injection required to elicit an action potential, and an increase in the number of spikes evoked by depolarizing current steps were observed in striatal neurons after local eticlopride infusion. A significant increase in maximal EPSP amplitude evoked by electrical stimulation of the prefrontal cortex was also observed during local eticlopride but not SCH 23390 infusion. These results indicate that in intact systems, ongoing dopaminergic neurotransmission exerts a powerful tonic modulatory influence on the up- and down-state membrane properties of striatal neurons and controls their excitability differentially via both D1- and D2-like receptors. Moreover, a significant component of D2 receptor-mediated inhibition of striatal neuron activity in vivo occurs via suppression of excitatory synaptic transmission.
Space-specific neurons in the owl's inferior colliculus have spatial receptive fields (RFs) computed from interaural time (ITD) and level (ILD) differences. Because of the shape of the owl's head, these cues vary with frequency in a manner specific for each location. We sought to determine the contribution of ILD to spatial selectivity. We measured the normal spatial receptive fields of space-specific neurons using virtual sound sources (i.e., noises filtered to simulate external sound sources, presented using headphones). The virtual-source filters were then altered so that ITD was fixed while frequency-specific ILDs varied according to location in the usual manner. The resulting &quot;ILD-alone&quot; RF typically revealed a horizontal band of excitation that included the normal RF. Above and below, the neurons were inhibited. Interestingly, the maxima of ILD-alone RFs were generally outside the normal RF, suggesting that space-specific neurons are not optimally tuned to the ILD spectrum occurring at the normal RF location. Congruously, frequency-specific ILD tuning, assessed with tones, better matched the ILDs at the peak of the ILD-alone RF than those at the peak of the normal RF. The firing evoked from the normal RF may thus reflect the balance of excitatory and inhibitory inputs needed to appropriately restrict the receptive field. Frequency-specific ILD tuning curves were combined with measured head-filtering characteristics to predict responses to the frequency-specific ILDs at each location. The predicted ILD-alone RFs, which are based on a simple sum of frequency-specific inputs, accounted for 56% of the variance in our measured ILD-alone RFs.
The neurotrophin receptor p75 can induce apoptosis both in vitro and in vivo. The mechanisms by which p75 induces apoptosis have remained mostly unknown. Here, we report that p75 activates Rac GTPase, which in turn activates c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), including an injury-specific JNK3, in an NGF-dependent manner. N17Rac blocks this JNK activation and subsequent NGF-dependent apoptosis, indicating that activation of Rac GTPase is required for JNK activation and apoptosis induced by p75. In addition, p75-mediated Rac activation is modulated by coactivation of Trk, identifying Rac GTPase as one of the key molecules whose activity is critical for cell survival and death in neurotrophin signaling. The crucial role of the JNK pathway in p75 signaling is further confirmed by the results that blocking p75 from signaling via the JNK pathway or suppressing the JNK activity itself led to inhibition of NGF-dependent death. Together, these results indicate that the apoptotic machinery of p75 comprises Rac GTPase and JNK.
Glutamate transport into synaptic vesicles is a prerequisite for its regulated neurosecretion. Here we functionally identify a second isoform of the vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT2) that was previously identified as a plasma membrane Na+-dependent inorganic phosphate transporter (differentiation-associated Na+/P(I) transporter). Studies using intracellular vesicles from transiently transfected PC12 cells indicate that uptake by VGLUT2 is highly selective for glutamate, is H+ dependent, and requires Cl- ion. Both the vesicular membrane potential (Deltapsi) and the proton gradient (DeltapH) are important driving forces for vesicular glutamate accumulation under physiological Cl- concentrations. Using an antibody specific for VGLUT2, we also find that this protein is enriched on synaptic vesicles and selective for a distinct class of glutamatergic nerve terminals. The pathway-specific, complementary expression of two different vesicular glutamate transporters suggests functional diversity in the regulation of vesicular release at excitatory synapses. Together, the two isoforms may account for the uptake of glutamate by synaptic vesicles from all central glutamatergic neurons.
We examined the role of SNAPs, soluble proteins that attach N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor (NSF), in regulating exocytosis in single rat adrenal chromaffin cells. Whole-cell dialysis of Ca2+-buffered solution or photolysis of caged-Ca2+ was used to manipulate cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i), whereas exocytosis was measured via carbon fiber amperometry or membrane capacitance. Buffering [Ca2+]i to approximately 170 nm produced a mean rate of exocytosis of approximately one amperometric event per minute. Including alpha-SNAP (60 or 500 nm) in the intracellular solution dramatically increased the mean rate of exocytosis. The stimulatory action of alpha-SNAP requires ATP hydrolysis mediated via NSF, because this action was blocked by intracellular dialysis of ATP-gamma-S (2 mm) and could not be mimicked by a mutant alpha-SNAP that does not stimulate the ATPase activity of NSF. This action of alpha-SNAP was significant only at [Ca2+]i between 100 and 300 nm and was not shared by beta-SNAP (500 nm), suggesting that alpha-SNAP enhanced a component of exocytosis that is regulated by a high-affinity Ca2+ sensor. In cells dialyzed with both alpha- and beta-SNAP, the rate of exocytosis was smaller than that produced by alpha-SNAP alone, suggesting that alpha- and beta-SNAP interact competitively. Although only alpha-SNAP stimulated exocytosis at [Ca2+]i between 100 and 300 nm, both alpha- and beta-SNAP isoforms equally slowed the time-dependent rundown of the exocytic response. Our results indicate that alpha- and beta-SNAP have different actions in exocytosis. Thus, the ratio of different isoforms of SNAPs can determine release probability at the levels of [Ca2+]i that are involved in regulation of exocytosis.
Sound stimuli vibrate the hair bundles on auditory hair cells, but the resulting motion attributable to the mechanical stimulus may be modified by forces intrinsic to the bundle, which drive it actively. One category of active hair bundle motion has properties similar to fast adaptation of the mechanotransducer channels and is explicable if gating of the channels contributes significantly to the mechanics of the hair bundle. To explore this mechanism, we measured hair bundle compliance in turtle auditory hair cells under different conditions that alter the activation range of the channel. Force-displacement relationships were nonlinear, possessing a maximum slope compliance when approximately one-half of the transducer channels were open. When the external calcium concentration was reduced from 2.8 to 0.25 mm, the position of maximum compliance was shifted negative, reflecting a comparable shift in the transducer channel activation curve. Assuming that the nonlinearity represents the compliance attributable to channel gating, a single-channel gating force of 0.25 pN was calculated. By comparing bundle displacements with depolarization with and without an attached flexible fiber, the force contributed by each channel was independently estimated as 0.47 pN. These results are consistent with fast active bundle movements resulting from changes in mechanotransducer channel gating. However, several observations revealed additional components of hair bundle motion, with slower kinetics and opposite polarity to the fast movement but also linked to transducer adaptation. This finding argues for multiple mechanisms for controlling hair bundle position in auditory hair cells.
Brain slice preparations preserving projections from nearby forebrain cholinergic neurons to the supraoptic nucleus (SON) were used to study synaptic potentials mediated by nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in the hypothalamus. Paired-pulse electrical stimulation in an area anterior to the SON that was rich in cholinergic cells confirmed the monosynaptic nature of the connections to putative oxytocin and vasopressin SON neurons. With ionotropic glutamate and GABA(A) transmission blocked, this stimulation evoked fast, atropine-insensitive EPSPs that were sensitive to nAChR antagonists. Evoked EPSPs were blocked by methyllycaconitine and alpha-bungarotoxin, antagonists that are selective for nAChRs containing the alpha7 subunit, but not by dihydro-beta-erythroidine at concentrations known to antagonize alpha4beta2 nAChRs. Although anatomical evidence exists for postsynaptic alpha4beta2 nAChRs in the SON, these results indicate that postsynaptic alpha7 nAChRs are primarily responsible for the cholinergically mediated EPSPs. Repetitive stimulation suggested partial desensitization of the receptors. With ionotropic glutamate transmission blocked, inhibition of AChE increased spontaneous EPSP frequency and amplitude, suggesting spontaneous ACh release. ACh, nicotine, and choline (a selective alpha7 nAChR agonist) were effective in evoking action potentials and repetitive firing with synaptic transmission blocked by low Ca2+, high Mg2+ medium. These agonists were also effective in evoking the type of phasic bursts characteristic of vasopressin neurons, long thought to be completely dependent on activation of NMDA receptors (NMDARs). Because phasic bursting is Ca2+-dependent, the functional equivalence of alpha7 nAChR and NMDAR activation in this regard is likely attributable to their large Ca2+ fluxing capacities. This is the first demonstration that synaptically released ACh results in fast, alpha7 nAChR-mediated EPSPs in hypothalamic neurons.
The increased production of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) in Alzheimer's disease is acknowledged to be a key pathogenic event. In this study, we examined the response of primary human and rat brain cortical cultures to Abeta administration and found a marked increase in the tyrosine phosphorylation content of numerous neuronal proteins, including tau and putative microtubule-associated protein 2c (MAP2c). We also found that paired helical filaments of aggregated and hyperphosphorylated tau are tyrosine phosphorylated, indicating that changes in the phosphotyrosine content of cytoplasmic proteins in response to Abeta are potentially an important process. Increased tyrosine phosphorylation of cytoskeletal and other neuronal proteins was specific to fibrillar Abeta(25-35) and Abeta(1-42). The tyrosine phosphorylation was blocked by addition of the Src family tyrosine kinase inhibitor 4-amino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-7(t-butyl)pyrazol(3,4-d)pyramide (PP2) and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor LY 294002. Tyrosine phosphorylation of tau and MAP2c was concomitant with an increase in the tyrosine phosphorylation and subsequent putative activation of the non-receptor kinase, focal adhesion kinase (FAK). Immunoprecipitation of Fyn, a member of the Src family, from Abeta(25-35)-treated neurons showed an increased association of Fyn with FAK. Abeta treatment of cells also stimulated the sustained activation of extracellular regulated kinase-2, which was blocked by addition of PP2 and LY 294002, suggesting that FAK/Fyn/PI3-kinase association is upstream of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase signaling in Abeta-treated neurons. This cascade of signaling events contains the earliest biochemical changes in neurons to be described in response to Abeta exposure and may be critical for subsequent neurodegenerative changes.
The tangential nucleus is a major part of the avian vestibular nuclear complex, and its principal cells are structurally distinctive neurons participating in the vestibuloocular and vestibulocollic reflexes. After unilateral peripheral vestibular lesion, a behavioral recovery of function defined as vestibular compensation is observed. Because sprouting and hypertrophy of synapses have been reported in other regions of immature animals after central nervous system injury, we investigated whether this also occurs in the vestibular nuclei during compensation. To test this hypothesis, unilateral vestibular ganglionectomy was performed on 4-6-day-old hatchlings and vestibular function was tested during the next 2 months. Degeneration and evidence for regeneration of synapses were studied in the tangential nucleus at 1, 3, 7, and 56 days after surgery. Spoon endings, large vestibular terminals on the principal somata, degenerated 1-3 days after surgery. However, the small synaptic terminals showed no significant change in the percentage or number covering the soma or in mean terminal lengths in the deafferented or contralateral tangential nucleus. Furthermore, there was no evidence of neuron death in the tangential nucleus. Vestibular compensation occurred in three stages: 0-3 days, when vestibular synapses degenerated and severe behavioral deficits were seen; 4-9 days, when primary vestibular fibers degenerated centrally and marked improvement in both the static and the dynamic symptoms were observed; and 10-56 days, when changes in neuronal morphology were not detected but the dynamic symptoms gradually improved. Accordingly, after unilateral vestibular ganglionectomy, vestibular compensation proceeded without ultrastructural evidence of sprouting or hypertrophy of axosomatic synapses in the hatchling tangential nucleus. This rapid behavioral recovery of function distinguishes the vestibular system from other sensory systems, which, in general, exhibit much less robust recovery after injury to their peripheral receptors.
The intrastriatal injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in newborn rats produces a marked striatal dopamine (DA) depletion, accompanied by a serotonin (5-HT) hyperinnervation and an up-regulation of 5-HT receptors. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether the increase in 5-HT(2) receptors could compensate for some of the DA lesion-induced effects, such as the increase in striatal preproenkephalin (PPE) and the decrease in preprotachykinin A (PPT-A) mRNA levels. Three months after the DA lesion, the effect of the selective 5-HT(2) antagonist SR46349B was investigated by a subacute treatment (10 mg/kg, IP, twice per day for 3.5 days). In sham-operated rats, the blockade of 5-HT(2) receptors decreased PPE mRNA levels in the striatum and, by contrast, had no effect on PPT-A mRNA levels. In rats with a unilateral neonatal DA lesion, SR46349B had no more effect on PPE mRNA levels in the intact striatum and was unable to modify the lesion induced-increase in PPE mRNA. The decrease in PPT-A mRNA levels induced by the neonatal DA lesion was not changed after SR46349B treatment in the posterior part of the lesioned striatum. Our results suggest that SR46349B indirectly decreases PPE mRNA levels in striatopallidal neurons in intact animals through a desinhibition of DA neuron activity. This is further evidenced by the lack of PPE mRNA changes in the DA lesioned striatum despite the up-regulation of 5-HT(2) receptor transmission induced in this model. Finally, the absence of any effect of 5-HT(2) antagonist on the expression of PPT-A mRNA in intact animals is discussed. The precise role of 5-HT(2) receptor on PPT-A mRNA biosynthesis after a neonatal lesion should be clarified by further experiments using 5-HT(2) agonists.


Behavioral and morphological changes were examined for up to 9 days after moderate cerebral ischemia caused by slow compression of a specific brain area in the sensorimotor cortex of Sprague-Dawley rats. Functional deficits after the cerebral ischemia were assessed by daily beam-walking tests, whereas morphological changes were verified using Nissl staining on day 1, 2, 3, 5, and 9, respectively. Rats exposed to cerebral ischemia displayed impaired beam walking performance. Mild hypothermia prevented both the compression-produced functional deficits and the brain damage. Younger (5 weeks) animals showed less neurological deficits than older (9 weeks) animals. Histological examination revealed a pronounced increase in the number of injured pyramidal neurons from day 1 to day 3 in the primarily damaged brain region. Between day 3 and day 5, the number of injured cells remained constant, whereafter there was a slow decline of thionin-positive neurons as examined on day 9. The noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist, dizocilpine (MK-801; 3 mg/kg, i.p.), did not alter the neurological impairment on day 1, but improved thereafter the rate of functional recovery and reduced the number of damaged cells. The AMPA receptor antagonist, LY326325 (15 or 30 mg/kg; i.p.), dose-dependently diminished the neurological deficits on day 1, enhanced the rate of recovery, and reduced the number of injured neurons over time. Our data suggest that short-lasting extradural compression of a well-defined brain area in the sensorimotor cortex is a highly reproducible model with a high success rate for the study of functional and morphological consequences after cerebral ischemia as well as for the evaluation of the therapeutic potential of novel, neuroprotective pharmacological agents.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) initiates a cascade of biochemical events that leads to an increase in extracellular excitatory amino acid (EAA) concentrations, which results in glutamate receptor-mediated excitotoxic events. An important division of these glutamate receptors is the metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) class, which is divided into three groups. Of these three groups, group I (mGluR1 and mGluR5) activation can initiate a number of intracellular pathways that lead to increased extracellular EAA concentrations. To evaluate subtypes of group I mGluRs in SCI, we administered AIDA (group I antagonist), LY 367385 (mGluR1 specific antagonist), or MPEP (mGluR5 specific antagonist) by interspinal injection to adult male Sprague-Dawley rats (175-200 g) immediately following injury at T10 with an NYU impactor (12.5-mm drop, 10-g rod, 2 mm in diameter). AIDA- and LY 367385-treated subjects had improved locomotor scores and demonstrated an attenuation in the development of mechanical allodynia as measured by von Frey stimulation of the forelimbs; however, LY 367385 potentiated the development of thermal hyperalgesia. MPEP had no effect on locomotor recovery or mechanical allodynia, but attenuated the development of thermal hyperalgesia. AIDA and LY 367385 treatment resulted in a significant increase in tissue sparing compared to the vehicle-treated group at 4 weeks following SCI. These results suggest that mGluRs play an important role in EAA toxicity and have different acute pathophysiological roles following spinal cord injury.
Demographic trends, together with improvements in general health and life expectancy, will greatly change the population structures of most industrialized and developing countries during the next 50 years. By 2050, approximately 30% of people in industrialized countries will be 65 years old or older. Aging is associated with increased risk for neurodegenerative disorders, which can cause significant cognitive and physical impairment and shortened lifespan, thereby causing a burden to society. Diets rich in fruits and vegetables have been shown to improve human well-being and to significantly delay the development of pathologic processes, including neurodegenerative disorders. Foods are important sources of micronutrients, including vitamins E and C, which play crucial roles in optimal cell function. Vitamin E is an important component of biologic membranes, and vitamin C acts as a cosubstrate for several enzymes. Both E and C are involved in the antioxidant defense of cells and actively contribute to the redox status of the cell. The levels of vitamins E and C provided by diet vary significantly. Vegetable oils, nuts and seeds are the main dietary sources of vitamin E, whereas fruits and vegetable are the primary sources of vitamin C. Human trials of varying doses of vitamins E and C, including low, supplemental, and pharmacologic, have found that these nutrients may improve immunity, vascular function, and brain performance. An optimal intake of these nutrients has been associated with decreased risk of developing cognitive impairments associated with aging. This paper will review the scientific literature on the sources, tissue levels and roles of vitamins E and C in cognitive performance and pathologic processes of the central nervous system in the elderly.
The purpose of this work is to investigate the light-scattering properties of excised eye lenses with intact lens capsules--more specifically, to compare light scattering with light transmission at different wavelengths in aging and cataractous lenses. A lens is positioned at its focal-length distance from an optical fiber end and collimates the light from one of five laser lines (458-633 nm). By use of an integrating sphere with an extra circular port, the collimated directly transmitted light can be separated from the scattered light. For lenses with low light-scattering levels, integrated scattering showed a dependence on wavelength, but when light scattering increased the wavelength difference tended to level out. Despite the higher percentage of lens light scattering at lower wavelengths, when calculated as an &quot;effective light scattering&quot; (compensated for light transmission), more scattered light actually falls toward the retina at longer wavelengths.
This paper discusses the role of oral medicine in the teaching of temporomandibular disorders (TMD) and orofacial pain. Education in orofacial pain and TMD has traditionally been managed in academic dental settings as 2 distinct processes separate from the teaching of diagnosis and management as applied to systemic diseases and oral conditions. The rationale for such a segmented approach appears to have been driven by the concept that orofacial pain usually reflects a localized disease rather than arising as a component of more generalized systemic disease or modulated in intensity or morbidity by systemic pathology, generalized neurobiological, or behavioral contributors. Conversely, oral disease and head and neck manifestations of systemic disease often provoke pain as a major symptom. Management of such conditions should include acute and long-term pain management strategies when the underlying condition has no definitive cure and the pain is disabling. An argument is made for integrating the teaching of oral medicine and orofacial pain to enhance a broad-based approach to the assessment and management of primary pain disorders and to assure appropriate management of pain that is associated with mucosal disease and other forms of regional or systemic pathology including behavioral disorders that present as somatic and painful complaints.
Mice deficient in the neurotensin (NT)-1 receptor (NTR1) were developed to characterize the NT receptor subtypes that mediate various in vivo responses to NT. F2 generation (C57BL6/Sv129J) NTR1 knockout (-/-) mice were viable, and showed normal growth and overt behavior. The -/- mice lacked detectable NTR1 radioligand binding in brain, whereas NTR2 receptor binding density appeared normal compared with wild-type (+/+) mice. The gene deletion also resulted in the loss of NTR1 expression as determined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridization. Intracerebroventricular injection of NT (1 microg) to +/+ mice caused a robust hypothermic response (5-6 degrees C) and a significant increase in hot-plate latency. These effects were absent in the -/- mice. Similar results were obtained with i.p. injections of the brain-penetrant NT analog NMe-Arg-Lys-Pro-Trp-Tle-Leu (NT-2, 1 mg/kg i.p.). NT-2 administration also impaired rotarod performance in wild-type mice, but had no effect on motor coordination in knockout mice. In vitro, NT and NT-2 at 30 nM caused predominantly contraction and relaxation in isolated distal colon and proximal ileum, respectively, from +/+ mice, but no responses were observed with tissues from -/- mice. A similar loss of the contractile effects of NT was observed in the isolated stomach fundus from the knockout mice. In vivo, NT-2 administration reduced colonic propulsion substantially in wild-type mice. In contrast, NT-2 had no effect in NTR1 null mice, whereas the hypomotility effect of clonidine was intact. These data indicate that NTR1 mediates several of the central and peripheral effects of NT.
Conscious squirrel monkeys were treated i.v. with cocaine and various dopamine agonist drugs. Cocaine produced a dose-dependent increase in blood pressure, heart rate, and the rate-pressure product (RPP). The dopamine D1 receptor agonist (+/-)-6-chloro-3-allyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrobromide (SKF 82958) produced effects comparable to cocaine. The D1 agonist (+/-)-6-chloro-7, 8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrobromide (SKF 81297) also produced increases in blood pressure and heart rate but was much less potent than either cocaine or SKF 82958. The partial D1 agonist (+/-)-7,8-dihydroxy-3-allyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (SKF 77434) did not significantly affect any cardiovascular parameters. The D2 agonist quinpirole slightly decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. As such, the RPP only slightly increased. The selective dopamine uptake inhibitor 1-[2-[bis-(4-fluorphenyl)methoxy]ethyl]-4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperazine (GBR 12909) produced increases in blood pressure, heart rate, and RPP, but again these effects were smaller and only seen at doses higher than cocaine. Effects similar to those with GBR 12909 were seen with the dopamine autoreceptor antagonist cis-(+)-5-methoxy-1-methyl-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (UH 232). The combination of GBR 12909, SKF 82958, or SKF 77434 with cocaine produced effects that were clearly subadditive. The effects of quinpirole in combination with cocaine were comparable to, or lower than, those of cocaine alone on blood pressure and RPP. The effects on heart rate were additive. Only UH 232 produced additive effects with cocaine for all three measures. As dopamine agonists have been proposed as potential treatments for cocaine abuse, these results suggest that dopamine D1 agonists and uptake inhibitors can be used safely in combination with cocaine. Caution may be warranted, however, with the use of dopamine autoreceptor antagonists in the treatment of cocaine abuse.
The regulation of extracellular glutamate in the nucleus accumbens by group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR2/3) was examined in vivo. Stimulation of mGluR2/3 with 2R,4R-4-aminopyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (APDC) or N-acetylaspartylglutamate reduced extracellular glutamate levels. Conversely, blockade of mGluR2/3 by LY143495 or (RS)-1-amino-5-phosphonoindan-1-carboxylic acid (APICA) increased extracellular glutamate, an effect antagonized by the coadministration of APDC. These effects likely involve both vesicular and nonvesicular glutamate, because the increase in glutamate by APICA or the decrease by APDC was prevented by blocking N-type calcium channels and the release of glutamate after potassium-induced membrane depolarization was antagonized by APDC. In addition, blockade of the cystine-glutamate exchange, a major nonvesicular source of extracellular glutamate, by (S)-4-carboxyphenylglycine blocked the effects induced by either APDC or APICA. However, blockade of Na(+) channels by tetrodotoxin or Na(+)-dependent glutamate transporters by DL-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate failed to affect the alterations in extracellular glutamate by APICA or APDC, respectively. Group II mGluRs are G(i)-coupled and coperfusion with the cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) activator Sp-cAMPS blocked the reduction in glutamate by APDC and the PKA inhibitor Rp-cAMPS prevented the elevation in glutamate by APICA. Taken together, these data support three conclusions: 1) group II mGluRs regulate both vesicular and nonvesicular release of glutamate in the nucleus accumbens, 2) there is tonic in vivo stimulation of mGluR2/3 by endogenous glutamate, and 3) modulation of group II mGluRs of extracellular glutamate is Ca(2+)- and PKA-dependent.
Activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors has been shown previously to be essential for the development of secondary thermal hyperalgesia. The present study assessed involvement of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGlu) in both the induction and maintenance phases of secondary thermal hyperalgesia initiated by knee joint inflammation in rats. The dose dependence of each drug in antagonism of thermal hypersensitivity was demonstrated in pre- and post-treatment paradigms. Knee joint inflammation was induced by injection of kaolin and carrageenan. Four hours later the paw withdrawal latencies were significantly shorter than baseline values. Rats were pretreated by spinal microdialysis infusion of group I mGlu receptor antagonists, LY393053 [(+/-)-2-amino-2-(3-cis and trans-carboxycyclobutyl-3-(9-thioxanthyl)propionic acid], LY367385 [(S)-(+)-alpha-amino-4-carboxy-2-methylbenzeneacetic acid], or AIDA [(R,S)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid/UPF 523] before knee joint injection. The paw withdrawal latencies measured 4 h after the injection were significantly longer in the presence of group I mGlu receptor antagonists than those of the artificial cerebrospinal fluid-treated arthritic control group. Post-treatment with the group I mGlu receptor antagonists LY367385 and AIDA allowed significant recovery of the paw withdrawal latencies after the onset of the knee joint inflammation. The knee joint inflammation itself was not affected by either treatment. The results of the present study indicate that secondary thermal hyperalgesia can be effectively attenuated during both the development and maintenance phases of acute knee joint inflammation by spinal application of specific group I mGlu receptor antagonists.
Head-down rotation (HDR), which activates the vestibulosympathetic reflex, increases leg muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) and produces calf vasoconstriction with no change in either cardiac output or arterial blood pressure. Based on animal studies, it was hypothesized that differential control of arm and leg MSNA explains why HDR does not alter arterial blood pressure. Fifteen healthy subjects were studied. Heart rate, arterial blood pressure, forearm and calf blood flow, and leg MSNA responses were measured during HDR in these subjects. Simultaneous recordings of arm and leg MSNA were obtained from five of the subjects. Forearm and calf blood flow, vascular conductances, and vascular resistances were similar before HDR, as were arm and leg MSNA. HDR elicited similar significant increases in leg (Delta 6 +/- 1 bursts min(-1); 59 +/- 16 % from baseline) and arm MSNA (Delta 5 +/- 1 bursts min(-1); 80 +/- 28 % from baseline). HDR significantly decreased calf (-19 +/- 2 %) and forearm vascular conductance (-12 +/- 2 %) and significantly increased calf (25 +/- 4 %) and forearm vascular resistance (15 +/- 2 %), with ~60 % greater vasoconstriction in the calf than in the forearm. Arterial blood pressure and heart rate were not altered by HDR. These results indicate that there is no differential control of MSNA in the arm and leg during altered feedback from the otolith organs in humans, but that greater vasoconstriction occurs in the calf than in the forearm. These findings indicate that vasodilatation occurs in other vascular bed(s) to account for the lack of increase in arterial blood pressure during HDR.
In order to elucidate the mechanisms underlying intracortical I-wave facilitation elicited by paired-pulse magnetic stimulation, we compared intracortical facilitation of I1-waves with that of I3-waves using single motor unit and surface electromyographic (EMG) recordings from the first dorsal interosseous muscle (FDI). We used a suprathreshold first stimulus (S1) and a subthreshold second stimulus (S2). In most experiments, both stimuli induced currents in the same direction. In others, S1 induced posteriorly directed currents and S2 induced anteriorly directed currents. When both stimuli induced anteriorly directed currents (I1-wave effects), an interstimulus interval (ISI) of 1.5 ms resulted in extra facilitation of the responses to S1 alone. The latency of this effect was equivalent to that of the I2-wave from S1. When S1 evoked posteriorly directed currents (I3-wave recruitment), facilitation occurred at a latency corresponding to the I3-wave from S1. This facilitation occurred at an ISI of 1.5 ms when both S1 and S2 flowed posteriorly, and at an ISI of approximately 3.5 ms when S1 was posteriorly and S2 was anteriorly directed. Based on these findings, we propose the following mechanisms for intracortical I-wave facilitation. When S1 and S2 induce currents in the same direction, facilitation is produced by summation between excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) elicited by S1 and subliminal depolarization of interneurones elicited by S2 directly. When S1 and S2 induce currents in the opposite direction, facilitation is produced by the same mechanism as above or by temporal and spatial summation of EPSPs elicited by two successive stimuli at interneurones or corticospinal neurones of the motor cortex.
Whole-cell N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-activated currents were recorded from cultured rat cortical neurons. We report here a powerful effect of changing permeant ion concentrations on the voltage-dependent inhibition by external Mg(2+) (Mg(2+)(o)) of these currents. Internal Cs(+) (Cs(+)(i)) affected Mg(2+)(o) inhibition of the NMDA-activated currents in a voltage-dependent manner. A decrease in Cs(+)(i) concentration ([Cs(+)](i)) from 125 to 8 mM reduced Mg(2+)(o) IC(50) by 1.4-fold at -105 mV and by 11.5-fold at -15 mV. A decrease in external Na(+) (Na(+)(o)) concentration ([Na(+)](o)) also reduced Mg(2+)(o) IC(50). This effect was voltage independent. A decrease in [Na(+)](o) from 140 to 70 mM reduced Mg(2+)(o) IC(50) by 1.4-fold at -105 mV and by 1.6-fold at -15 mV. Varying external Ca(2+) (Ca(2+)(o)) concentrations ([Ca(2+)](o)) from 0.1 to 1 mM did not affect Mg(2+)(o) inhibition, even though changing [Ca(2+)](o) in the same range strongly influenced the magnitude of NMDA-activated currents in the absence of Mg(2+)(o). However, increasing [Ca(2+)](o) to higher concentrations (2-20 mM) greatly increased Mg(2+)(o) IC(50) at hyperpolarized voltages. These data are consistent with a model in which Na(+)(i) and Cs(+)(i) modulate Mg(2+)(o) inhibition of NMDA-activated currents by occupying external permeant ion binding sites. The Mg(2+)(o) IC(50) values reported here are similar to Mg(2+)(o) K(D) values calculated from previous single-channel measurements of Mg(2+)(o) blocking kinetics. This similarity implies that Mg(2+)(o) does not affect gating while blocking the channel.
Great progress has been made in recent years in experimental strategies for spinal cord repair. In this review we describe two of these strategies, namely the use of neurotrophic factors to promote functional regeneration across the dorsal root entry zone (DREZ), and the use of synthetic fibronectin conduits to support directed axonal growth. The junction between the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and central nervous system (CNS) is marked by a specialized region, the DREZ, where sensory axons enter the spinal cord from the dorsal roots. After injury to dorsal roots, axons will regenerate as far as the DREZ but no further. However, recent studies have shown that this barrier can be overcome and function restored. In animals treated with neurotrophic factors, regenerating axons cross the DREZ and establish functional connections with dorsal horn cells. For example, intrathecal delivery of neurotrophin 3 (NT3) supports ingrowth of A fibres into the dorsal horn. This ingrowth is revealed using a transganglionic anatomical tracer (cholera toxin subunit B) and analysis at light and electron microscopic level. In addition to promoting axonal growth, spinal cord repair is likely to require strategies for supporting long-distance regeneration. Synthetic fibronectin conduits may be useful for this purpose. Experimental studies indicate that fibronectin mats implanted into the spinal cord will integrate with the host tissue and support extensive and directional axonal growth. Growth of both PNS and CNS axons is supported by the fibronectin, and axons become myelinated by Schwann cells. Ongoing studies are aimed at developing composite conduits and promoting axonal growth from the fibronectin back into the spinal cord.
Client-treatment matching assumes treatment outcome will be improved if characteristics of clients are matched to specific elements of treatment. Few empirical studies, however, have examined matching across different types of treatment settings. The present research examined differences in demographics and substance-related problems in populations admitted to three substance abuse treatment settings--outpatient (n = 1132), intensive outpatient (n = 1190), and residential (n = 149)--and tested whether interactions between client characteristics and type of setting predicted rates of 30-day retention and treatment completion. In addition, three specific hypotheses based on prior theoretical and empirical investigations were tested. Client characteristics included demographic information (e.g., sex, age, race) and Addiction Severity Index (ASI) composite scores. Client-setting interactions were found for both retention and completion. All three hypotheses received at least partial support. Implications for client assignment and future research are discussed.
The information gathered in a centralized intake unit (CIU) allows payers and administrators to examine if there are access issues for their population. For this study, the authors examined whether there were gender differences in the rate at which people are admitted to treatment within 30 days of assessment. Of the 5,004 individuals seeking publicly-funded substance abuse treatment in Detroit for the years 1996-97, 50.3% of those assessed at the CIU actually entered treatment. Women (31% of the people assessed) had a lower rate of admission (45% for women versus 53% for men) a difference that was maintained even after controlling for known risk factors. Women who were given priority for admission (i.e., those who were pregnant, had children, or injected drugs) had a higher rate of admission than other women (73% versus 39%), but only 17% of the women presenting were included in the priority groups. Men who were injecting drugs (a priority group) also had a higher rate of admission than other men (83% versus 49%). In multivariate analysis controlling for priority groups and known risk factors, women were still less likely to be admitted to treatment within 30 days of admission than men. Establishing priorities improves the rate of admission within 30 days of assessment for those groups, but more needs to be done to improve the admission rate for women. These results demonstrate that a CIU allows administrators to monitor for access issues.
Aspects of syntactic complexity and syntactic repair were investigated by comparing the event-related (brain) potentials (ERPs) for sentences of different syntactic complexity to those containing a syntactic violation. Previous research had shown that both aspects of syntactic processing are reflected in a late positivity (P600). Results from the present reading experiment demonstrate, however, that although both processing aspects elicit a late positivity, they are different in distribution. The repair-related positivity preceded by a negativity displayed a centroparietal distribution, whereas the complexity-related positivity showed a frontocentral scalp distribution. These data indicate that the P600 is not a unitary phenomenon. Moreover, the distributional differences strongly suggest that different neural structures underlie the two aspects of processing, namely syntactic repair and syntactic integration difficulties, most evident when processing syntactically complex sentences.
The aim was to evaluate whether the use of a client-centred instrument, the Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (COPM), affects the patients' perception of active participation in the rehabilitation process. The study included 155 patients in the experiment group and 55 in the control group, within geriatric, stroke, and home rehabilitation. The COPM was used in the experiment group. A structured interview was performed within 2-4 weeks after discharge with 88 patients in the experiment group and 30 patients in the control group. The results show significant differences between the groups. More patients in the experiment group perceived that treatment goals were identified, were able to recall the goals, felt that they were active participants in the goal formulation process, and perceived themselves better able to manage after completed rehabilitation compared with patients in the control group. The study indicates that the COPM improves client participation in the rehabilitation process.
The effect of functional electrical stimulation (FES) training on body composition, assessed by computed tomography, and the effect of spasticity, assessed by both objective and subjective measures, are evaluated. Fifteen motor-complete spinal-cord-injured men participated in the study. Eight of the 15 subjects undertook FES cycling 3 times weekly for 6 months. Whole body computed tomography scans evaluated changes in body composition. Simultaneous Modified Ashworth Scale and electromyography (EMG) measurements, resistive torque (Kin-Com) and EMG measurements, and self-ratings with Visual Analogue Scale during four consecutive days were used to evaluate changes in spasticity. Lower extremity muscle volume increased by an average of 1300 cm3 (p &lt; 0.001) in the training group compared to the control group, who experienced no change. Otherwise no changes in body composition were seen. Significant correlations (Spearman) were found between individual EMG activity recordings and movement-provoked Modified Ashworth Scale ratings in 26% of the test situations, irrespective of group and time. The objective and subjective evaluation of movement-provoked passive (viscoelastic) and active (spasticity-related) resistance remained unchanged.
We compared a computerized version of the Cognitive Drug Research (CDR) cognitive assessment test battery and a completely automated telephone version of the same battery. These assessed aspects of attention, working memory and long-term memory. Both methods were used to assess the cognitive performance of a cohort of 30 people with confirmed chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) and a group of 30 healthy controls matched for age and education. The CFS group had significantly slower reaction times on all four cognitive measures on both the computerized and telephone tests. The mood data followed similar patterns inthe computer and telephone assessments. The results from both forms of the test battery confirmed the pattern and severity of cognitive impairment in CFS. Furthermore, the two methods of testing were similarly sensitive in detecting cognitive deficits. The incapacitating nature of CFS may cause problems for researchers if the restrictions to mobility affect the representativeness of the study group. The findings of the present study support the use of a fully automated telephone cognitive testing system for detecting deficits in CFS.

As a countermeasure to the debilitating physiological effects of weightlessness, astronauts could live continuously in an artificial gravity environment created by slow rotation of an entire spacecraft or be exposed to brief daily &quot;doses&quot; in a short radius centrifuge housed within a non-rotating spacecraft. A potential drawback to both approaches is that head movements made during rotation may be disorienting and nauseogenic. These side effects are more severe at higher rotation rates, especially upon first exposure. Head movements during rotation generate aberrant vestibular stimulation and Coriolis force perturbations of the head-neck motor system. This article reviews our progress toward distinguishing vestibular and motor factors in side effects of rotation, and presents new data concerning the rates of rotation up to which adaptation is possible. We have studied subjects pointing to targets during constant velocity rotation, because these movements generate Coriolis motor perturbations of the arm but do not involve unusual vestibular stimulation. Initially, reaching paths and endpoints are deviated in the direction of the transient lateral Coriolis forces generated. With practice, subjects soon move in straighter paths and land on target once more. If sight of the arm is permitted, adaptation is more rapid than in darkness. Initial arm movement trajectory and endpoint deviations are proportional to Coriolis force magnitude over a range of rotation speeds from 5 to 20 rpm, and there is rapid, complete motor adaptation at all speeds. These new results indicate that motor adaptation to high rotation rates is possible. Coriolis force perturbations of head movements also occur in a rotating environment but adaptation gradually develops over the course of many head movements.
The effects of cross-coupled stimuli on the semicircular canals are shown to be influenced by the position of the subject's head with respect to gravity and the axis of rotation, but not by the subject's head position relative to the trunk. Seventeen healthy subjects made head yaw movements out of the horizontal plane while lying on a horizontal platform (MIT short radius centrifuge) rotating at 23 rpm about an earth-vertical axis. The subjects reported the magnitude and duration of the illusory pitch or roll sensations elicited by the cross-coupled rotational stimuli acting on the semicircular canals. The results suggest an influence of head position relative to gravity. The magnitude estimation is higher and the sensation decays more slowly when the head's final position is toward nose-up (gravity in the subject's head x-z-plane) compared to when the head is turned toward the side (gravity in the subject's head y-z-plane). The results are discussed with respect to artificial gravity in space and the possible role of pre-adaptation to cross-coupled angular accelerations on earth.
Short-radius centrifugation offers a promising and affordable countermeasure to the adverse effects of prolonged weightlessness. However, head movements made in a fast rotating environment elicit Coriolis effects, which seriously compromise sensory and motor processes. We found that participants can adapt to these Coriolis effects when exposed intermittently to high rotation rates and, at the same time, can maintain their perceptual-motor coordination in stationary environments. In this paper, we explore the role of inter-sensory conflict in this adaptation process. Different measures (vertical nystagmus, illusory body tilt, motion sickness) react differently to visual-vestibular conflict and adapt differently. In particular, proprioceptive-vestibular conflict sufficed to adapt subjective parameters and the time constant of nystagmus decay, while retinal slip was required for VOR gain adaptation. A simple correlation between the strength of intersensory conflict and the efficacy of adaptation fails to explain the data. Implications of these findings, which differ from existing data for low rotation rates, are discussed.
The goal of the present study was to determine how the multiple, interdependent full-body sensorimotor subsystems respond to a change in gaze stabilization task constraints during locomotion. Nine subjects performed two gaze stabilization tasks while walking at 6.4 km/hr on a motorized treadmill: 1) focusing on a central point target; 2) reading numeral characters; both presented at 2 m in front at the level of their eyes. While subjects performed the tasks we measured: temporal parameters of gait, full body sagittal plane segmental kinematics of the head, trunk, thigh, tibia and foot, accelerations along the vertical axis at the head and the tibia, and the vertical forces acting on the support surface. We tested the hypothesis that with the increased demands placed on visual acuity during the number recognition task, subjects would modify full-body segmental kinematics in order to reduce perturbations to the head in order to successfully perform the task. We found that while reading numeral characters as compared to the central point target: 1) compensatory head pitch movement was on average 22% greater despite the fact that the trunk pitch and trunk vertical translation movement control were not significantly changed; 2) coordination patterns between head and trunk as reflected by the peak cross correlation between the head pitch and trunk pitch motion as well as the peak cross correlation between the head pitch and vertical trunk translation motion were not significantly changed; 3) knee joint total movement was on average 11% greater during the period from the heel strike event to the peak knee flexion event in stance phase of the gait cycle; 4) peak acceleration measured at the head was significantly reduced by an average of 13% in four of the six subjects. This was so even when the peak acceleration at the tibia and the transmission of the shock wave at heel strike (measured by the peak acceleration ratio of the head/tibia and the time lag between the tibial and head peak accelerations) remained unchanged. Taken together these results provide further evidence that the full body contributes to gaze stabilization during locomotion, and that its different functional elements can be modified online to contribute to gaze stabilization for different visual task constraints.
We compared the mediolateral (M/L) responses to perturbations during locomotion of vestibulopathic (VP) subjects to those of controls. Eight subjects with unilateral vestibular loss (100% Reduced Vestibular Response from the caloric test) resulting from surgery for vestibular schwannoma and 11 controls were selected for this study. Despite their known vestibulopathy, all VP subjects scored within the normal range on computerized dynamic posturography Sensory Organization Tests. During gait, subjects were given surface perturbations of the right support-phase foot in two possible directions (forward-right and backward-left) at two possible magnitudes (5 and 10 cm) that were randomly mixed with trials having no perturbations. M/L stability was quantified by estimating the length of the M/L moment arm between the support foot and the trunk, and the M/L accelerations of the sternum and the head. The VP group had greater changes (p &lt; 0.05) in their moment arm responses compared to controls. The number of steps that it took for the moment arm oscillations to return to normal and the variability in the moment arms were greater for the VP group. Differences in the sternum and head accelerations between VP and control groups were not as consistent, but there was a trend toward greater response deviations in the VP group for all 4 perturbation types. Increased response magnitude and variability of the VP group is consistent with an increase in their sensory noise of vestibular inputs due to the surgical lesion. Another possibility is a reduced sensitivity to motion inputs. This perturbation approach may prove useful for characterizing subtle vestibulopathies and similar changes in the human orientation mechanism after exposure to microgravity.
Human orientation requires one to remember and visualize spatial arrangements of landmarks from different perspectives. Astronauts have reported difficulties remembering relationships between environmental landmarks when imagined in arbitrary 3D orientations. The present study investigated the effects of strategy training on humans' 1) ability to infer their orientation from landmarks presented ahead and below, 2) performance when subsequently learning a different array, and 3) retention of configurational knowledge over time. On the first experiment day, 24 subjects were tested in a virtual cubic chamber in which a picture of an animal was drawn on each wall. Through trial-by-trial exposures, they had to memorize the spatial relationships among the six pictures around them and learn to predict the direction to a specific picture when facing any view direction, and in any roll orientation. Half of the subjects (&quot;strategy group&quot;) were taught methods for remembering picture groupings, while the remainder received no such training (&quot;control group&quot;). After learning one picture array, the procedure was repeated in a second. Accuracy (% correct) and response time learning curves were measured. Performance for the second array and configurational memory of both arrays were also retested 1, 7, and 30 days later. Results showed that subjects &quot;learned how to learn&quot; this generic 3D spatial memory task regardless of their relative orientation to the environment, that ability and configurational knowledge was retained for at least a month, that figure rotation ability and field independence correlate with performance, and that teaching subjects specific strategies in advance significantly improves performance. Training astronauts to perform a similar generic 3D spatial memory task, and suggesting strategies in advance, may help them orient in three dimensions.
Previous studies established that vestibular reflexes can have two adapted states (e.g., gains) simultaneously, and that a context cue (e.g., vertical eye position) can switch between the two states. Our earlier work demonstrated this phenomenon of context-specific adaptation for saccadic eye movements: we asked for gain decrease in one context state and gain increase in another context state, and then determined if a change in the context state would invoke switching between the adapted states. Horizontal and vertical eye position and head orientation could serve, to varying degrees, as cues for switching between two different saccade gains. In the present study, we asked whether gravity magnitude could serve as a context cue: saccade adaptation was performed during parabolic flight, which provides alternating levels of gravitoinertial force (0 g and 1.8 g). Results were less robust than those from ground experiments, but established that different saccade magnitudes could be associated with different gravity levels.
Sopite syndrome, characterized by loss of initiative, sensitivity to normally innocuous sensory stimuli, and impaired concentration amounting to a sensory gating deficit, is commonly associated with Space Motion Sickness (SMS). The amplitude of the P50 potential is a measure of level of arousal, and a paired-stimulus paradigm can be used to measure sensory gating. We used the rotary chair to elicit the sensory mismatch that occurs with SMS by overstimulating the vestibular apparatus. The effects of rotation on the manifestation of the P50 midlatency auditory evoked response were then assessed as a measure of arousal and distractibility. Results showed that rotation-induced motion sickness produced no change in the level of arousal but did produce a significant deficit in sensory gating, indicating that some of the attentional and cognitive deficits observed with SMS may be due to distractibility induced by decreased habituation to repetitive stimuli.

We used biased random-dot dynamic test stimuli to measure the strength of the motion aftereffect (MAE) to evaluate the usefulness of this technique as a measure of motion adaptation strength. The stimuli consisted of noise dots whose individual directions were random and of signal dots moving in a unique direction. All dots moved at the same speed. For each condition, the nulling percentage (percentage of signal dots needed to perceptually null the MAE) was scaled with respect to the coherence threshold (percentage needed to perceive the coherent motion of signal dots without prior adaptation). The increase of these scaled values with the density of dots in the test stimulus suggests that MAE strength is underestimated when measured with low densities. We show that previous reports of high nulling percentages at slow speeds do not reflect strong MAEs, but are actually due to spatio-temporal aliasing, which dramatically increases coherence thresholds. We further show that MAE strength at slow speed increases with eccentricity. These findings are consistent with the idea that using this dynamic test stimulus preferentially reveals the adaptation of a population of high-speed motion units whose activity is independent of adapted low-speed motion units.
In the past 20 years, 43 patients with congenital hydrocephalus underwent surgical treatment for hydrocephalus in our clinic (Myelomeningocele, Dandy-Walker syndrome, holoprosencephaly and hydranencephaly, which are frequently associated with dysgenesis of the corpus callosum, were excluded). The gestational stage at the onset of hydrocephalus was assessed on the basis of the morphology of the corpus callosum. The patients were then divided into four groups according to stage of onset. A relation between the stage of onset and the long-term functional scores was demonstrated. The earlier the gestational stage at which the hydrocephalus occurred, the lower was the long-term functional score.

A total of 35 university-educated normal men (24 right handwriters and 11 left handwriters) and 36 age- and education-matched women (25 right handwriters and 11 left handwriters) underwent a proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy examination in seven 8 cm(3) voxels including the right and left frontal lobe tips, the right and left mid-temporal lobes, the right and left thalami, and the hypothalamus. Dependent measures were N-acetylaspartate (NAA), choline-containing compounds (Cho) and creatine/phosphocreatine (Cr) metabolite peak area ratios relative to total H(2)O. As expected, thalamic grey matter contained higher NAA ratios than telencephalic voxels (containing white and grey matter) (p &lt; .001). The thalamic Cr/ H(2)O ratio was higher on the right, but the opposite asymmetry was observed for the temporal lobe (p &lt; .05). Women had a higher left frontal NAA/ H(2)O ratio than men, but men had a higher hypothalamic NAA/ H(2)O ratio than women. Right-handers had a higher temporal lobe NAA/H(2)O ratio than left-handers, particularly in the left hemisphere. In addition, several significant 2- and 3-way interactions between writing hand preference, gender, and hemisphere were observed, but only in the frontal lobe.
Evidence indicates that prostanoids, such as prostaglandins, play a regulatory role in several forms of neural plasticity, including long-term potentiation, a cellular model for certain forms of learning and memory. In these experiments, the significance of the COX isoforms cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in post-training memory processes was assessed. Adult male Long-Evans rats underwent an eight-trial (30-sec intertrial interval) training session on a hippocampus-dependent (hidden platform) or dorsal striatal-dependent (visible platform) tasks in a water maze. After the completion of training, rats received an intraperitoneal injection of the nonselective COX inhibitor indomethacin, the COX-1-specific inhibitor piroxicam, the COX-2-specific inhibitor N-[2-cyclohexyloxy-4-nitrophenyl]-methanesulfonamide (NS-398), vehicle (45% 2-hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin in distilled water), or saline. On a two-trial retention test session 24 h later, latency to mount the escape platform was used as a measure of memory. In the hidden platform task, the retention test escape latencies of rats administered indomethacin (5 and 10 mg/kg) or NS-398 (2 and 5 mg/kg) were significantly higher than those of vehicle-treated rats, indicating an impairment in retention. Injections of indomethacin or NS-398 that were delayed 2 h post-training had no effect on retention. Post-training indomethacin or NS-398 had no influence on retention of the visible platform version of the water maze at any of the doses administered. Furthermore, selective inhibition of COX-1 via post-training piroxicam administration had no effect on retention of either task. These findings indicate that COX-2 is a required biochemical component mediating the consolidation of hippocampal-dependent memory.
In Aplysia, three distinct phases of memory for sensitization can be dissociated based on their temporal and molecular features. A single training trial induces short-term memory (STM, lasting &lt;30 min), whereas five trials delivered at 15-min intervals induces both intermediate-term memory (ITM, lasting &gt;90 min) and long-term memory (LTM, lasting &gt;24 h). Here, we explore the interaction of amount and pattern of training in establishing ITM and LTM by examining memory for sensitization after different numbers of trials (each trial = one tail shock) and different patterns of training (massed vs. spaced). Under spaced training patterns, two trials produced STM exclusively, whereas four or five trials each produced both ITM and LTM. Three spaced trials failed to induce LTM but did produce an early decaying form of ITM (E-ITM) that was significantly shorter and weaker in magnitude than the late-decaying ITM (L-ITM) observed after four to five trials. In addition, E-ITM was induced after three trials with both massed and spaced patterns of training. However, L-ITM and LTM after four to five trials require spaced training: Four or five massed trials failed to induce LTM and produced only E-ITM. Collectively, our results indicate that in addition to three identified phases of memory for sensitization--STM, ITM, and LTM--a unique temporal profile of memory, E-ITM, is revealed by varying either the amount or pattern of training.
Rabbits received lesions of the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus (MDN) or sham lesions and were subjected to classical eyeblink (EB) and heart rate (HR) conditioning. All animals received trace conditioning, with a.5-sec tone conditioned stimulus, a .5-sec trace period, and a 50-msec periorbital shock unconditioned stimulus. Animals with MDN lesions acquired the EB conditioned response (CR) more slowly than sham-lesioned animals. However, previous studies have shown that MDN damage does not affect delay conditioning using either .5-sec or 1-sec interstimulus intervals. The lesions had no significant effect on the HR CR. These results suggest that information processed by MDN and relayed to the prefrontal cortex is required for somatomotor response selection under nonoptimal learning conditions.

This article is done on the occasion of anniversary of 150th birth of Spanish histolog Santiago Ramn y Cajal (1852.-1934.) whom belongs position of founder neuroanatomy regarding that he gave wide descriptions cells organisation of central and peripheral nervous system for many animal species. Astonishing are his descriptions of different types of neurons, their links, and following glial cells, that are actual today. Special contribution of Cajal refers is to acts from domain of histological technique and micrography, and general pathology. He published more than 100 of scientific articles and a few books, that are classic works. In 1906 Santiago Ramn y Cajal and Camillo Golgi shared Nobel prize for medicine.

Basal/tonal nitric oxide (NO) production helps maintain particular microenvironments, i.e., vascular. Besides NO's function in controlling the activation state of various tissues such as immune cells, its presence appears to modulate other free radical levels, i.e., H2O2, in these same tissues and indeed these processes may be one and the same. Thus, by being a free radical, along with the ability to scavenge other free radicals, NO is placed in a pivotal regulatory position. We surmise that in the absence of adequate NO release other free radicals may go 'unchecked' and, therefore, initiate tissue damage. Furthermore, under these circumstances, proinflammatory events will occur due to heightened cell sensitivity and a diminished control of NF-kappaB. In an excess situation, and one without an appropriate circumstance, i.e., microbial action, NO may become the harmful agent. Hence, balancing basal NO production in body compartments may represent a fundamental process in maintaining general, long-term health.
Alterations in dopaminergic system are known to lie in the basis of such diseases as Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder, Tourette syndrome, schizophrenia and drug abuse. This induced broad investigations of dopaminergic system in nearly all the areas of neuroscience. New insights into the pathogenesis of neuropsychiatric diseases have emerged. Research in the field of dopaminergic neurotransmission and memory was awarded Nobel prize in the year 2000. New avenues for the development of more selective drugs have been opened. In their daily practice clinicians are often prescribing medications acting on presynaptic or postsynaptic sites of dopaminergic units. Thus the aim of this review was to renew some knowledge on the architecture of dopaminergic system and also to glance through some of the studies implying its modulating effect on cognitive functions.


We studied 101 growth-retarded children from the population of Ancona (Italy). Plasma growth hormone (GH) levels at the end of insulin and clonidine tests were considered for classification of children into 3 categories according to severity of GH deficit: total deficit of GH (TD), partial deficit (PD, and familiar short stature (FSS; no deficit of GH). The BGLIIA*2/BGLIIB*1 haplotype of GH cluster that was previously found to be negatively associated with severe glucose intolerance in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) is negatively associated with GH deficit in growth-retarded children. The hypothesis that intrauterine growth retardation and glucose intolerance in adult life could be phenotypes of the same underlying genotype has been recently put forward. The present observation suggests that genes influencing both growth and glucose tolerance are encoded in the GH cluster.





In conclusion, by taking advantage of the overall sequence homology and structural similarity of G alpha subunits, functional chimeric G alpha subunits can be generated and used as tools for the identification of sequence-specific factors that mediate receptor: G protein specificity. The [35S]GTP gamma S binding assay and the affinity shift activity assay are two sensitive biochemical approaches that can be used to assess receptor: G protein coupling in vitro. These in vitro assays limit confounding influences from cellular proteins and allow for the strict control of receptor: G protein ratios.






Synaptic neural (and neural system) functions are peculiarly sensitive to neuroactive compounds. Pharmacological interference/modulation is readily reflected by modifications in the organization of central nervous system (CNS), electrophysiologic signals occurring spontaneously in response to sensory stimulation (stimulus-related or evoked responses) or elicited in conjunction with sensory, motor or cognitive events (event-related potentials). Evoked responses reflect the basic physiology of sensory processes, while event-related potentials combine the time/space resolution of electrophysiologic signals with the specificity of eliciting neuropsychological conditions. The rationale for investigating drug effects on evoked and event-related potentials is manifold. Both are related to sensory and operant behavior and under suitable experimental conditions allow interpretation of drug-related changes in terms of CNS excitability. Some continuity between observations in man and in vivo or in vitro animal data is often possible. Proper handling of the stimulus physical properties or experimental/situational links may allow the responses to be related to sensory input or to neuropsychological manipulation of selectively activated CNS functions or functional subsystems and therefore to control spontaneous variability. This review summarizes today's knowledge of the application of electrophysiology to human neuropharmacology, with due reference to basic pharmacology and experimental evidence.
This workshop deals with the concept of quantitative electroencephalography (QEEG) to characterize the central effects of drugs. For proper interpretation, the circumstances under which data are obtained play an important role. To infer the size of variability in standard practice, we elaborated some computations for &quot;placebo-treatment&quot; in healthy volunteers, which helps to determine the threshold of drug effect detection. Simple rules for interpretation of multiple statistical comparisons were proposed and validation of dose effects were carried out with accepted reference compounds. Furthermore, psychotropic agents with comparable therapeutic indications often present similar modifications in EEG spectral composition (pharmaco-EEG profile). To extrapolate this concept, quantified wake-EEG is a rapid, validated technique for early psychopharmacological investigation of new psychotropic compounds (Phase I, healthy volunteers). Classification of drug-induced changes in cerebral activity at this stage forms a useful decision instrument in planning the long-term clinical scenario of drug development (Phases II and higher).
In order to place pharmaco-EEG within the clinical context, the distinction between biomarkers, surrogate endpoints, clinical endpoints and clinical outcomes is introduced. State-of-the-art applications of pharmaco-EEG, together with pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic modeling in everyday clinical practice in anesthesiology (semilinear canonical correlation), psychiatry (discrimination between responders and nonresponders to pharmacological treatment using the test dose), neurology (antiepileptic field) and neurophysiology (first-order Markov model of sleep stage transitions) are discussed. The combination of both procedures, although successfully used during some drug development programs (opioids or benzodiazepines), is not widely applied in the clinical scenario where the central nervous system (CNS) is concerned. Much work is still need to develop fully the potentials that pharmaco-EEG together with pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic modeling could bring to therapeutics in neuroscience.











Soft-tissue defects of the mouth floor need thin, foldable, and pliable tissues able to preserve local anatomy as well as chewing, phonation, and deglutition. The oral mucosa is made of a stratified, nonkeratinized, epithelium-secreting mucus, which lubricates the oral cavity and facilitates tongue movements. No flap exists that can reproduce the physiology of the oral mucosa better than the oral mucosa itself. Prefabrication of mucosal flaps may represent the best solution. Therefore, 10 consecutive cases of mouth floor cancer were treated with prelamination of the fascia antibrachialis with mucosal grafts obtained from the healthy cheek, and with subsequent transplantation 3 weeks later. A significant increase in mucosal graft surface was seen in all cases, with a mean size twice the original. All flaps healed uneventfully. Follow-up time ranged between 2-60 months (average, 26.6 months). Morphological and functional results were excellent. Tongue motility, speech intelligibility, and swallowing were reestablished in all treated cases. Mucosal prelamination of the forearm fascia is feasible and allows physiological reconstruction of oral cavity defects up to 6 x 4 cm.
Mimosine is a non-toxic plant aminoacid which is an effective inhibitor of DNA replication by acting at the S-phase. In this study we infected mice with T. spiralis, a nematode parasite, and studied the inflammatory response through the determination of MIP-2, a C-X-C chemokine and MCP-1, a C-C chemokine in the inflamed area around the parasitic cyst. The animals were infected and their diaphragms were tested for inflammatory response. MCP-1 and MIP-2 was tested after 1, 10, 20, 30, and 40 days post inoculation, before and after mimosine treatment. The inflammatory index was calculated by counting the white blood cells around the nematode cysts, while expression of MIP-2 and MCP-1 was calculated by ELISA method and transcription by Northern blot and RT-PCR. Here we found that mimosine strongly inhibited the inflammatory index in the diaphragmatic tissue at 10, 20, 30 and 40 days post-treatment. In these experiments, mimosine had no effect on the number of cysts produced. In addition, we found that MCP-1 transcription and translation was completely inhibited by mimosine, while MIP-2 transcription and translation was partially inhibited at 30 and 40 days; yet it was totally inhibited after 10 and 20 days in encysted diaphragm tissue infected by T. spiralis. Our studies suggest that mimosine has an inhibitory effect through the inhibition of cytoplasmatic serine hydroxymethyltransferase altering the cell cycle of white blood cells. This study suggests for the first time the premise that mimosine acts as an anti-inflammatory compound.
Previous studies from our laboratory have demonstrated that Bcl-2 has a proapoptotic effect on neocarzinostatin (NCS)-treated PC12 pheochromocytoma cells. In the present study, we examine the mechanisms of this effect and demonstrate its relevance for the in vivo situation. Four hours after NCS treatment, a 23-kDa cleavage product of Bcl-2 was detected in whole cell lysates of bcl-2-transfected PC12 cells. In contrast, bcl-2 transfection protected PC12 cells from cisplatin-induced apoptosis, and cisplatin treatment did not result in Bcl-2 cleavage. Similarly, Bcl-2 cleavage did not occur and Bcl-2-mediated protection from, rather than potentiation of apoptosis was observed after NCS treatment of MCF-7 breast cancer cells. The caspase 3-specific inhibitor Ac-DEVD-CHO prevented Bcl-2 cleavage and attenuated NCS-induced apoptosis in bcl-2-transfected PC12 cells, whereas it had no effect on NCS-induced apoptosis in mock-transfected PC12 cells. Furthermore, MCF-7 cells do not express caspase 3, a finding in concert with the lack of Bcl-2 cleavage in this line. In in vivo experiments, xenografts of bcl-2-transfected PC12 cells were more susceptible to NCS toxicity than were xenografts of mock-transfected PC12 cells. Caspase 3-mediated Bcl-2 cleavage therefore plays an important role in the potentiation by Bcl-2 of NCS-induced apoptosis.
Previous studies identified a new brain area, the marginal division (MrD), at the caudomedial border of the neostriatum in the brain of the rat, cat and monkey. The MrD was distinguishable from the rest of the striatum by the presence of spindle-shaped neurons, specific connections, and dense immunoreactivity for neuropeptides and monoamines in fibers, terminals and neuronal somata. Behavioral testing demonstrated that the MrD contributes to learning and memory in the rat. In the present study, the structure and the function of the MrD were investigated in the human brain. The presence of spindle-shaped neurons and the distribution of neurotransmitters in the MrD were evaluated by immunocytochemical methods. The function of the MrD was identified with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of healthy volunteers tested with an auditory digital working memory task. Highly active areas were observed in the prefrontal cortex and MrD with left sided predominance during performance of the task, but other parts of the neostriatum were not excited and the MrD was not activated in a control test of non-working memory. The results of the present investigation therefore indicate the existence of a new area associated with learning and memory function in the human brain. The MrD probably plays an important role in the execution of digital working memory and appears to link the limbic system and the basal nucleus of Meynert. The MrD may also be involved in the mechanism of Alzheimer's disease.
Interferon (IFN) therapy has been associated with the development of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) when given to patients with hepatitis C (HCV). The incidence, time course, risk factors, and treatment of IFN-induced MDD are poorly understood. The objectives of the present study were to determine the incidence of IFN-induced MDD, as well as to determine the efficacy of open-label antidepressant treatment, in particular selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) for IFN-induced MDD. Thirty-nine HCV patients on IFN therapy were monitored weekly using the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI). Those who became depressed were treated with citalopram, a SSRI antidepressant. Main outcome measures included the incidence of IFN-induced MDD, as well as response rates to antidepressants in those patients who developed IFN-induced MDD. Our results showed that 13 of 39 patients (33%) developed IFN-induced MDD. There were no differences in age, gender, past history of MDD, or substance use between those who became depressed and those who did not. However, there were significantly fewer African American patients in the depressed group. Patients who developed IFN-induced MDD were on IFN therapy for an average of 12.1 weeks prior to the development of MDD. Eleven of 13 patients (85%) were responsive to antidepressant treatment. We conclude that IFN-induced MDD is common in HCV patients. Health care providers should follow IFN-treated HCV patients for the development of MDD, particularly between the 2nd and 5th months of IFN therapy. SSRIs, in particular citalopram, are an effective treatment for IFN-induced depression in HCV patients.
Reduced central serotonergic activity has been implicated in poor impulse regulation and aggressive behaviour in animals, adults and also young children.(1,2) Two recently published studies have implicated variation at a polymorphism in the promoter of the serotonin transporter (5HTT; hSERT) in influencing susceptibility to ADHD.(3,4) Consistent with these results we have also found a trend for the long allele of the promoter polymorphism to influence susceptibility to ADHD in a sample of 113 ADHD parent proband trios (65 transmissions vs 49 non-transmissions, chi(2) = 2.25, P = 0.13). A pooled analysis of our, and these published results demonstrated a significant over representation of the long allele of the promoter in ADHD probands compared to controls (chi(2) = 7.14, P = 0.008). We have also examined two other 5HTT polymorphisms (the VNTR in intron 2 and the 3' UTR SNP). TDT analysis demonstrated preferential transmission of the T allele of the 3' UTR SNP (chi(2) = 4.06, P = 0.04). In addition, ETDT analysis of haplotypes demonstrated significant preferential transmission of haplotypes containing the T allele of the 3' UTR SNP with the long allele of the promoter polymorphism (chi(2) = 13.18, 3 df, P = 0.004) and the 10 repeat of the VNTR (chi(2) = 8.77, 3 df, P = 0.03). This study provides further evidence for the possible involvement of the serotonin transporter in susceptibility to ADHD.
Autism is a biologically-heterogeneous disease. Distinct subgroups of autistic patients may be marked by intermediate phenotypes, such as elevated serotonin (5-HT) blood levels, potentially associated with different underlying disease mechanisms. This could lead to inconsistent genetic association results, such as those of prior studies on serotonin transporter (5-HTT) gene promoter variants and autistic disorder. Contributions of 5-HTT gene promoter alleles to 5-HT blood levels were thus investigated in 134 autistic patients and 291 first-degree relatives. Mean 5-HT blood levels are 11% higher in autistic patients carrying the L/L genotype, compared to patients with the S/S or S/L genotype; this trend is not observed in first-degree relatives. The probability of inheriting L or S alleles is significantly enhanced in patients with 5-HT blood levels above or below the mean, respectively (P &lt; 0.05), but quantitative TDT analyses yield a non-significant trend (P = 0.10), as this polymorphism explains only 2.5% of the variance in 5-HT blood levels of autistic patients. In conclusion, 5-HTT gene promoter variants seemingly exert a small effect on 5-HT blood levels in autistic children, which largely does not account for hyperserotoninemia. Nonetheless, the inconsistent outcome of prior association studies could partly stem from a selection bias of hyper- or hypo-serotoninemic probands.


Epidemiological reports describe a strong association between prenatal human influenza viral infection and later development of schizophrenia. Postmodern human brain studies, however, indicate a lack of gliosis in schizophrenic brains presumably secondary to absence of glial cells during the second trimester viral infection in utero. We hypothesized that human influenza infection in day 9 pregnant mice would alter the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP, an important marker of gliosis, neuron migration, and reactive injury) in developing brains of postnatal days 0, 14 and 35 mice. Determination of cellular GFAP immunoreactivity (IR) expressed as cell density in cortex and hippocampus of control and experimental brains showed increases in GFAP-positive density in exposed cortical (P = 0.03 day 14 vs control) and hippocampal cells (P = 0.035 day 14, P = 0.034 day 35). Similarly, ependymal cell layer GFAP-IR cell counts showed increases with increasing brain age from day 0, to days 14 and 35 in infected groups (P = 0.037, day 14) vs controls. The GFAP-positive cells in prenatally exposed brains showed 'hypertrophy' and more stellate morphology. These results implicate a significant role of prenatal human influenza viral infection on subsequent gliosis, which persists throughout brain development in mice from birth to adolescence.
Impairment in social reciprocity is a central component of autism. In preclinical studies, arginine vasopressin (AVP) has been shown to increase a range of social behaviors, including affiliation and attachment, via the V(1a) receptor (AVPR1A) in the brain. Both the behavioral effects of AVP and the neural distribution of the V1a receptor vary greatly across mammalian species. This difference in regional receptor expression as well as differences in social behavior may result from a highly variable repetitive sequence in the 5' flanking region of the V1a gene (AVPR1A). Given this comparative evidence for a role in inter-species variation in social behavior, we explored whether within our own species, variation in the human AVPR1A may contribute to individual variations in social behavior, with autism representing an extreme form of social impairment. We genotyped two microsatellite polymorphisms from the 5' flanking region of AVPR1A for 115 autism trios and found nominally significant transmission disequilibrium between autism and one of the microsatellite markers by Multiallelic Transmission/Disequilibrium test (MTDT) that was not significant after Bonferroni correction. We also screened approximately 2 kb of the 5' flanking region and the coding region and identified 10 single nucleotide polymorphisms.
The evidence for the involvement of cholinergic muscarinic receptors in mania and depression is reviewed. Small pilot trials with cholinesterase inhibitors and muscarinic agonists suggest that stimulation of muscarinic receptors may produce an antimanic effect, possibly by activation of muscarinic M(4) receptors. It is concluded that it is not likely that currently used mood stabilizers, such as lithium, valproic acid and carbamazepine, work directly through muscarinic receptor mechanisms. Furthermore, the evidence indicates that antipsychotic agents used for mania are working through the common mechanism of antagonism of dopamine D(2) receptors, and interactions with muscarinic receptors do not play a key role. Finally, it is hypothesized that olanzapine has robust antimanic activity, due to blockade of dopamine D(2) receptors and antagonism of other monoaminergic receptors. Olanzapine may normalize mood due to antidepressant-like activities, such as 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonism and increasing cortical norepinephrine and dopamine.
Darier's disease is a rare autosomal dominantly inherited keratosis.(1) We have previously reported a family in which major affective disorder co-segregated with Darier's disease, consistent with linkage between the Darier gene and a susceptibility locus for affective illness (max lod = 2.1).(2) The Darier gene has been mapped to 12q 23-q24.1 and identified as ATP2A2, a gene encoding SERCA2-a sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum calcium pump that plays a role in intracellular calcium signalling.(3) A number of groups have reported independent evidence of linkage between bipolar disorder and markers in this region.(4) We here describe a further Caucasian family of European origin in which there is co-occurrence of Darier's disease and major affective disorder including bipolar disorder and report the results of linkage analysis employing genetic markers flanking the Darier's gene. The pedigree includes two individuals with mood disorder from a branch of the family not affected with Darier's disease. However, there is a new mutation in the Darier (ATP2A2) gene in this family and all individuals affected by mood disorder show co-segregation with a haplotype in the region of the Darier's gene (max lod = 3.58). The family provides strong evidence against the Darier-causing mutation itself playing a major role in affective disorder but strongly supports the existence of a bipolar disorder susceptibility gene in the Darier region.
Previous work has demonstrated associations between lower cognitive ability and childhood and adult non-psychotic psychopathology. As both cognitive ability (CA) and child psychopathology (CP) are influenced by genetic factors, one explanation for the association is that they are the pleiotropic manifestations of the same underlying genetic factors. The present paper examines three possible causes of the association: additive genetic factors, common environmental factors and individual-specific environmental factors. Three hundred and seventy-six twin pairs from the East Flanders Prospective Twin Survey were examined with the Child Behaviour Checklist and the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised. The cross-twin within-variable, within-twin cross-variable and cross-twin cross-variable correlations were calculated. Using structural equation modelling, bivariate models were fitted. The best fitting model was chosen, based on likelihood and parsimony. The observed phenotypic correlation between CP and CA was -0.19 (95% CI: -0.09, -0.27), with genetic factors accounting for about 84% of the observed correlation. Bivariate model fitting quantified the genetic correlation between CP and CA at -0.27 (95% CI: -0.12, -0.42) and the individual-specific environmental correlation at -0.17 (95% CI: -0.03, -0.31). In children, three different genetic factors may exist: one that solely affects the liability to CP, one that has only an effect on CA and one that influences both CP and CA. While individual-specific environmental factors can influence the liability to both traits, our results suggest that most of the environmental factors that increase the risk of CP do not influence CA and vice versa.
The serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4, MIM 182138) is a candidate gene in autistic disorder based on neurochemical, neuroendocrine studies and the efficacy of potent serotonin transporter inhibitors in reducing ritualistic behaviors and related aggression. An insertion/deletion polymorphism (5-HTTLPR) in the promoter region and a variable number of tandem repeat polymorphism (VNTR) in the second intron, were previously identified and suggested to modulate transcription. Six previous family-based association studies of SLC6A4 in autistic disorder have been conducted, with four studies showing nominally significant transmission disequilibrium and two studies with no evidence of nominally significant transmission disequilibrium. In the present study, TDT was conducted in 81 new trios. A previous finding of transmission disequilibrium between a haplotype consisting of the 5-HTTLPR and intron 2 VNTR was replicated in this study, but not preferential transmission of 5-HTTLPR as an independent marker. Because of inconsistent transmission of 5-HTTLPR across studies, SLC6A4 and its flanking regions were sequenced in 10 probands, followed by typing of 20 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and seven simple sequence repeat (SSR) polymorphisms in 115 autism trios. When individual markers were analyzed by TDT, seven SNP markers and four SSR markers (six SNPs, 5-HTTLPR and the second intron VNTR from promoter 1A through intron 2 of SLC6A4, one SSR from intron 7 of SLC6A4, one SNP from the bleomycin hydrolase gene (BLMH, MIM 602403) and one SSR telomeric to BLMH) showed nominally significant evidence of transmission disequilibrium. Four markers showed stronger evidence of transmission disequilibrium (TDT(max) P = 0.0005) than 5-HTTLPR.
We have completed the first stage of a two-stage genome wide screen designed to identify chromosomal regions that may harbour susceptibility genes for bipolar affective disorder. The first stage screening sample included 509 subjects from 151 nuclear families recruited within the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland. This sample contained 154 narrowly defined affected sibling pairs (DSM-IV BPI) and 258 broadly defined affected sibling pairs (DSM-IV BPI, SABP, BPII, BPNOS or MDD(R)), approximately two thirds of all families contained at least one other additional typed individual. All individuals were genotyped using 398 highly polymorphic microsatellite markers from Applied Biosystems's Linkage Mapping Set Version 2. The average inter-marker distance was 9.6 cM and the mean heterozygosity was 0.78. Analysis of these data using non-parametric linkage methods (MAPMAKER/SIBS) found no evidence for loci of major effect and no regions reached genome-wide significance for either suggestive or significant linkage. We identified 19 points across the genome where the MLS exceeded a value set for follow up in our second stage screen (MLS &gt; or = 0.74 (equivalent to a nominal pointwise significance of 5%) under the narrowest diagnostic model). These points were on chromosomes 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 9, 10, 12, 17, 18 &amp; X. Some of these points overlapped with previous linkage reports both within bipolar affective disorder and other psychiatric illnesses. Under the narrowest diagnostic model, the single most significant multipoint linkage was on chromosome 18 at marker D18S452 (MLS=1.54). Overall the highest MLS was 1.70 on chromosome 2 at marker D2S125, under the broadest diagnostic model.
Myo-inositol exerts behavioral effects in animal models of psychiatric disorders and is effective in clinical trials in psychiatric patients. Interestingly, epi-inositol exerts behavioral effects similar to myo-inositol, even though epi-inositol is not a substrate for synthesis of phosphatidylinositol. We postulated that the behavioral effects of epi-inositol may be due to its effects on gene expression. Yeast INO1expression was measured in northern blots. INM1 was determined by beta-galactosidase activity in a strain containing the fusion gene INM1-lacZintegrated into the genome. Epi-inositol affects regulation of expression of the INO1 gene (encoding inositol-1-P synthase), even though it cannot support growth of an inositol auxotroph (suggesting that, as in mammalian cells, it is not incorporated into phosphatidylinositol). Like myo-inositol, although to a lesser extent, epi-inositol causes a significant reduction in INO1 expression, and reverses the lithium- or valproate-induced increase in INO1 expression. However, it does not affect regulation of INM1 (encoding inositol monophosphatase), the expression of which is up-regulated by myo-inositol. The observed regulatory effects of epi-inositol on expression of the most highly regulated gene in the inositol biosynthetic pathway may help to explain how this inositol isomer can exert behavioral effects without being incorporated into phosphatidylinositol.
Bombesin (BN)-like peptides are involved in the regulation of a wide variety of behaviors, such as spontaneous activity and feeding. We assessed the role of BN-like peptides/receptors in emotional and/or anxiety-related behavior using three strains of knockout mice, each deficient in a single BN-like peptide receptor (gastrin-releasing peptide receptor, bombesin receptor subtype-3, or neuromedin B receptor). Two representative behavioral paradigms, the light-dark (L-D) box test and the elevated plus maze test, were chosen for this purpose. In these two tests, the level of anxiety can be measured as the preference for exploring the light box, or the length of time spent in the open arms, respectively. By conventional parameters, the only significant finding was that BRS-3-deficient mice exhibited a longer duration of remaining in the open arms compared to the wild-type cohort (P &lt; 0.01). However, analyses of risk assessment behavior revealed that BRS-3-deficient mice exhibited increased 'stretched attend posture' behavior (P &lt; 0.01, compared to wild-type mice in both the L-D box and elevated plus maze tests) while NMB-R-deficient mice exhibited decreased behavior (P &lt; 0.05, compared to wild-type mice in both tests). These results suggest that BN-like peptides/receptors may play a role in modulating emotion including some forms of anxiety (e.g., risk assessment behavior). Further, we found that the type of emotional behavior to which each of the peptide/receptor pathways contributes can be clearly specified.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a disorder characterised by a progressive deterioration in memory and other cognitive functions. Neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) are a major pathological hallmark of AD, these are aggregations of paired helical filaments (PHF) comprised of the hyperphosphorylated microtubule associated protein tau. Several kinases, such as glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3beta) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), phosphorylate tau at sites that are phosphorylated in PHF. Dishevelled 1 (DVL1) is thought to act as a positive regulator of the wnt signalling pathway, and inhibits GSK3beta activity preventing beta-catenin degradation and thus allowing wnt target gene expression. JNK activation is also regulated by DVL1, however it is unclear if this is via the wnt signalling pathway. These observations suggest a central role for DVL1 in tau phosphorylation and AD and led us to investigate DVL1 as a candidate gene for this disorder. We determined the genomic structure of the DVL1 gene by sequencing and data mining and searched for sequence variations in the coding sequences and flanking introns. The DVL1 gene spans a region of approximately 13.8 kb (not including the 5' untranslated region) and is encoded by 15 exons. Analysis of over 4.3 kb of sequence, including 98% of exonic sequences and introns 2, 3, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11 and 12, revealed there to be six rare (&lt; or =6%) sequence variations. None of these had any association with late onset AD. This would suggest that polymorphic variations in the coding sequences of DVL1 are not important in AD. However further analysis of regulatory regions may lead to the identification of other sequence variations which may be implicated in AD.
The dynorphin system has been associated with the regulation of mood. The expression of the prodynorphin mRNA was currently studied in the amygdaloid complex, a brain region critical for emotional processing, in subjects (14-15 per group) diagnosed with major depression, bipolar disorder, or schizophrenia and compared to normal controls. In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to characterize the anatomical distribution and expression levels of the prodynorphin mRNA within the amygdaloid complex. High prodynorphin mRNA levels were expressed in the parvicellular division of the accessory basal, posterior cortical, periamygdaloid cortex, and amygdalohippocampal area in normal subjects. Individuals with major depression had significantly reduced (41-68%) expression of the prodynorphin mRNA in the accessory basal (both parvicellular and magnocellular divisions; P &lt; 0.01) and amygdalohippocampal area (P &lt; 0.001) as compared to controls. The bipolar disorder group also showed a significant reduction (37-38%, P &lt; 0.01) of the mRNA expression levels in the amygdalohippocampal area and in the parvicellular division of the accessory basal. No other amygdala nuclei studied showed any significant differences for the prodynorphin mRNA levels measured in the major depression and bipolar disorder subjects. Additionally, the prodynorphin mRNA expression levels did not differ significantly between the schizophrenic and normal control subjects in any of the amygdala areas examined. These findings indicate specific prodynorphin amygdala impairment in association with mood disorder.
The postoperative neurologic management of patients with deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) for Parkinson' s disease is a complex dynamic process that involves a progressive increase in stimulation intensity and a parallel decrease in antiparkinsonian medication while assessing the interactions of both treatments. Neurologists responsible for postoperative management of patients receiving STN DBS must have expert knowledge of the electroanatomy of the subthalamic area and be familiar with the medical treatment of motor and nonmotor symptoms, including the management of long-term complications of levodopa treatment. Neurosurgeons who perform DBS need to understand the principles that guide the postoperative adaptation of treatment. This article defines guidelines for setting stimulation parameters, adapting drugs and managing adverse effects.
Studying the clinical effects induced by electrical stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) area in a parkinsonian patient under local anesthesia is a mandatory step to determine the precise location of the final chronic electrode. Using multiple microelectrodes, preferably in a concentric parallel array allows a precise mapping of the STN region. The most reliable features to determine the suitable target are stimulation-induced dyskinesias and rigidity decrease at a low intensity without adverse effects or only at far higher intensities. New skills are needed to assess all stimulation-induced effects and interpret them in anatomo-functional terms.
Microelectrode recordings of single unit neuronal activity were used during stereotactic surgery to define the subthalamic nucleus for chronic deep brain stimulation in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. By using five parallel trajectories, often two to three microelectrodes allow us to recognize subthalamic nucleus (STN) neuronal activity. STN neurons were easily distinguished from cells of the overlying zona incerta and the underlying substantia nigra. During a typical exploratory track, we can observe a very low background noise in the zona incerta and almost complete absence of single cell recording. Penetration of the electrode tip into the STN is characterized by a sudden increase in background activity and single cell activity of spontaneously active neurons. The exit of electrode tip out of the STN corresponds to a decrease in background noise and a loss of single cell activity. Spontaneous neuronal activity increases again when the electrode tips enters the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr); however, the activity is less rich than in the STN, indicating a more cell-sparse nucleus. STN neurons are characterized by a mean firing rate of 42.30 +/- 22.00 spikes/sec (mean +/- SD). The STN cells exhibited irregular or bursty discharge pattern. The pattern of single cell activity in the SNr is a more regular tonic activity that can easily be distinguished from the bursting pattern in the STN. The most useful criteria to select a trajectory are (1) the length of an individual trajectory displaying typical STN activity, (2) the bursting pattern of activity, and (3) motor responses typical of the sensorimotor part of the nucleus. In conclusion, microelectrode recording of the subthalamic area improves the accuracy of targeting the STN.
The techniques of targeting the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and the ventralis intermedius nucleus (Vim) are similar, only the coordinates are different. Targeting ideally consists of gathering all data about a target and positioning the electrode correctly within that target. The electrode should be positioned within a statistical range of coordinates, where the neuronal firing fits a given pattern and responds to external stimuli, particularly to proprioceptive inputs, in a somatotopically organized manner. Moreover, final placement should provide the best clinical improvement of symptoms under the stimulation parameters expected to be used in the long term. This latter criterion is by far the most important, because intraoperative findings indicate the functional benefit for the patient, which is the ultimate purpose of this surgery. A variety of radiological modalities are available to provide data for electrode placement, but each type has its drawbacks. Ventriculography, although safe when performed accordingly to strict technical procedure, is the most precise method but provides more indirect targeting and is more invasive than magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). MRI is the best method for visualizing the STN and, to some extent, for discerning the Vim, but it is plagued with unpredictable and nonreproducible deformations that induce a systematic distortion. These shortcomings no doubt will be corrected in the near future, and the technologies will better assist us in the proper placement of electrodes, which will provide the patient with the highest possible benefit.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is a neurosurgical treatment of Parkinson's disease that is applied to three targets: the ventral intermediate nucleus of the thalamus (Vim), the globus pallidus internas (GPi) and the subthalamic nucleus (STN). Vim DBS mainly improves contralateral tremor and, therefore, is being supplanted by DBS of the two other targets, even in patients with tremor dominant disease. STN and GPi DBS improve off-motor phases and dyskinesias. There is little comparative data between these procedures. The magnitude of the motor improvement seems more constant with STN than GPi DBS. STN DBS allows a decrease in antiparkinsonian drug doses and consumes moderate current. These advantages of STN over GPi DBS are offset by the need for more intensive postoperative management. The DBS procedure has the unique advantage of reversibility and adjustability over time. Patients with young-onset Parkinson's disease suffering from levodopa-induced motor complications but still responding well to levodopa and who exhibit no behavioral, mood, or cognitive impairment benefit the most from STN DBS. Adverse effects more specific of the DBS procedure are infection, cutaneous erosion, and lead breaking or disconnection. Intracranial electrode implantation can induce a hematoma or contusion. Most authors agree that the benefit to risk ratio of DBS is favorable.
The mechanism of action of high frequency deep brain stimulation is still unknown. However, in all circumstances and in all target nuclei so far stimulated, the effects mimic those of lesions previously made during thalamotomies, pallidotomies or even subthalamotomies, suggesting an inhibition of at least the neuronal network containing the target, if not of the target itself. On the contrary, fiber bundles are consistently activated at low or high frequencies. The hypothetical mechanisms envisioned should therefore be compatible and even produce these observed effects, to be acceptable as hypotheses. The mechanism could be either one or a combination of several causes: jamming of a feedback loop, activation of inhibitory structures included in a more complex network, blockade of membrane ion channels, deplorisation blockade, synaptic exhaustion, induction of early genes, changes in local blood flow, neuroplasticity, etc. It is probable that some are more involved in the acute effects and others in the long term changes, close to neuroplasticity. It is clear that the understanding of this strange and powerful phenomenon will profit from both clinical observation and well designed animal experiments.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by motor and nonmotor (cognitive and limbic) deficits. The motor signs of PD include hypokinetic signs such as akinesia/bradykinesia, rigidity and loss of normal postural reflexes, and hyperkinetic signs such as tremor. Dopamine depletion in the striatum is the hallmark of PD and of its animal models, still the pathophysiology of the parkinsonian symptoms and especially of parkinsonian tremor are under debate. The most extreme hypotheses argue about peripheral versus central nervous system origin, intrinsic cellular oscillator versus network oscillators, and basal ganglia-based pathophysiology versus cerebellar-thalamic based pathophysiology. Recent studies support the view that parkinsonian symptoms are most likely due to abnormal synchronous oscillating neuronal activity within the basal ganglia. Peripheral factors do only play a minor role for the generation, maintenance, and modulation of PD tremor and other signs. The most likely candidates producing these neuronal oscillations are the weakly coupled neural networks of the basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical loops. However, the present evidence supports the view that the basal ganglia loops are influenced by other neuronal structures and systems and that the tuning of these loops by cerebello-thalamic mechanisms and by other modulator neurotransmitter systems entrain the abnormal synchronized oscillations. Neurosurgical procedures, such as lesions or high-frequency stimulation of different parts of the loop, might resume the normal unsynchronized activity of the basal ganglia circuitry, and, therefore, ameliorate the clinical symptoms of Parkinson's disease.
The increasing understanding of the structural complexity of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ), and the processes that are important in its development, suggests many possible new disease targets. Here, we summarize briefly the genetic and autoimmune disorders that affect neuromuscular transmission, and the identified targets, including new evidence that antibodies to muscle-specific receptor tyrosine kinase (MuSK) are involved in the pathogenesis of acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody-negative myasthenia gravis. We then review the development of the NMJ, focusing on the important roles of nerve-derived agrin and MuSK in clustering of AChRs and other essential components of the NMJ.

The future role of clinical neurophysiology is considered in the light of its achievements. It is argued that there is a need to develop methods for specific diagnosis, especially in neuropathies. There is also an unmet requirement for the development of techniques for the prediction of treatment outcomes and for the measurement of changes during the natural history of neuromuscular disorders and their treatment. These issues are not addressed by currently available clinical test methods.
It all started in 1950 with the introduction of the first commercially available electromyography (EMG) system. From 1950 to 1973 was the era of the analog EMG systems: EMG signals were recorded, and subsequent analyses were carried out manually on film or paper. From 1973 to 1982, the first modular digital EMG systems were introduced. Dedicated analysis modules were introduced, but detailed analysis was still done on paper. In 1982, the first system controlled by a microprocessor was introduced. From 1982 to 1993, many new ways of analyzing EMG signals and basic reporting features were implemented in the EMG systems. Since 1993, personal computer technology has been used in EMG systems. Standard software and hardware components are used to record, analyze, and document EMG examinations. Since 1950, many people have influenced the development of new features in commercial EMG systems. However, within the last 3 decades, Erik Stlberg has always been in the forefront and has shown ways of implementing new methods for analyzing EMG activity or nerve signals. The development of new commercial EMG systems has been dependent on the technology introduced to the market at that particular period of time. This article only refers to systems that have been sold or are now being sold worldwide.
The Department of Clinical Neurophysiology in Uppsala, Sweden, has reached a high degree of computerization. Patient booking, administration, recording equipment, reporting, and telemedicine are linked components forming an integrated laboratory. Today's configuration is a result of the continuous development and implementation of new technologies. During the 1960s and 1970s, the focus was set on the development of signal analysis procedures. The introduction of personal computers and a local network was the main interest during the 1980s. The 1990s were devoted to the Internet and the development of Keypoint electromyography/evoked potential equipment.
This is a review of the activities at the Department and Institution of Clinical Neurophysiology at Uppsala University Hospital from 1967 to 2001. The most important routine clinical methods are briefly described, and a summary of some of the research projects is given.
The author recounts the lessons taught by single-fiber electromyography that reached him through the medium of low-frequency attenuation and a small concentric needle electrode. He concludes that it is difficult to imagine practicing electromyography today without the benefits that have flowed from the work of Erik Stlberg and his colleagues.
The development of single-fiber electromyography is described. This method, introduced in 1963, was met with doubts, and there were strong arguments that subunits, 10-30 synchronized muscle fibers, were in fact being recorded. The dispute ended in 1971, and single-fiber electromyography is now generally accepted.


Axon outgrowth during development and neurotransmitter release depends on exocytotic mechanisms, although what protein machinery is common to or differentiates these processes remains unclear. Here we show that the neural t-SNARE (target-membrane-associated-soluble N-ethylmaleimide fusion protein attachment protein (SNAP) receptor) SNAP-25 is not required for nerve growth or stimulus-independent neurotransmitter release, but is essential for evoked synaptic transmission at neuromuscular junctions and central synapses. These results demonstrate that the development of neurotransmission requires the recruitment of a specialized SNARE core complex to meet the demands of regulated exocytosis.

Although long-term potentiation (LTP) is long-lasting, it is not permanent and decays within weeks after its induction. Little is known about the processes underlying this decay. Here we assessed the contribution of synaptic activity to LTP decay by determining the effect of the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist CPP on the decay of perforant path-dentate LTP. CPP blocked decay over a one-week period when administered daily following the induction of LTP, and blocked decay of the late, protein-synthesis-dependent phase of LTP when administered two days after LTP induction. CPP administered for a five-day period following spatial memory training enhanced subsequent memory retention. These data suggest that LTP is normally a persistent process that is actively reversed by NMDA receptor activation, and that both the early and late phases of LTP are dynamic processes regulated by NMDA receptors. These data also support the view that LTP is involved in maintaining spatial memory.
Ricardo Miledi has made significant contributions to our basic understanding of how synapses work. Here I discuss aspects of Miledi's research that helped to establish the requirement of presynaptic calcium for neurotransmitter release, from his earliest scientific studies to his classic experiments in the squid giant synapse.
An enduring question in cognitive neuroscience is how the physical properties of the world are represented in the brain to yield conscious perception. In most people, a particular physical stimulus gives rise to a unitary, unimodal perceptual experience. So, light energy leads to the sensation of seeing, whereas sound waves produce the experience of hearing. However, for individuals with the rare phenomenon of synaesthesia, specific physical stimuli consistently induce more than one perceptual experience. For example, hearing particular sounds might induce vivid experiences of colour, taste or odour, as might the sight of visual symbols, such as letters or digits. Here we review the latest findings on synaesthesia, and consider its possible genetic, neural and cognitive bases. We also propose a neurocognitive framework for understanding such anomalous perceptual experiences.

The present study investigates the influence of attention modulation on neural tuning functions under a Gaussian correlation structure. Recent experiments have shown that attention modulates the tuning curve via its height and base rate. Inspired by this experimental finding, we previously showed the effective size of attention modulation (i.e. the critical length) on the neural population that enhances encoding accuracy. The previous result, however, was obtained under the assumption of uncorrelated firing, i.e. stimulus-conditional independence of neural responses. A question still remains whether the above findings can be applied to correlated firing. It is important to investigate this issue partly because neural firings are usually correlated but even more so because common attentional inputs may cause correlated firings. The present study first provides the general framework of attention modulation in relation to an attended stimulus and an actual stimulus and then shows the existence of a critical length under a Gaussian correlation structure. In order to improve encoding accuracy, measured by the Fisher information, the height and the base rate should be increased when the attended stimulus is in the critical length from the peak of the tuning curve and decreased otherwise. Furthermore, we confirm that a similar nature of the critical length also holds even when the neural decoder uses an uncorrelated unfaithful model. Thus, the existence of the critical length seems to be a ubiquitous phenomenon in attention modulation, and so its implications are discussed.

The present study investigated the atrophy of aged perivascular sympathetic axons and the response of these cerebrovascular neurons to the neurotrophin nerve growth factor (NGF). Using high performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrochemical detection (HPLC-ECD) to quantify catecholamines and immunohistochemical methods to quantify the density of TH immunoreactive fibers, we found a significant decrease in norepinephrine (NE) and TH in aged sympathetic axons. However, following in vivo administration of exogenous neurotrophin, aged neurons exhibited a robust response to NGF that was similar to the young adult, suggesting little decline in the capability of aged neurons to utilize exogenous neurotrophin. These results suggest that the age-related atrophy of aged sympathetic axons may result primarily from reduced availability of target-derived neurotrophin rather than from intrinsic alterations of neuronal function.
Normal aging is associated with declines in neurologic function. Uncompensated visual and vestibular problems may have dire consequences including dangerous falls. Visuo-motor plasticity is a form of behavioral neural plasticity, which is important in the process of adapting to visual or vestibular alteration, including those changes due to pathology, pharmacotherapy, surgery or even entry into microgravity or an underwater environment. To determine the effects of aging on visuo-motor plasticity, we chose the simple and easily measured paradigm of visual-motor rearrangement created by using visual displacement prisms while throwing small balls at a target. Subjects threw balls before, during and after wearing a set of prisms which displace the visual scene by twenty degrees to the right. Data obtained during adaptation were modeled using multilevel modeling techniques for 73 subjects, aged 20 to 80 years. We found no statistically significant difference in measures of visuo-motor plasticity with advancing age. Further studies are underway examining variable practice training as a potential mechanism for enhancing this form of behavioral neural plasticity.
Chronic neuroinflammatory processes including glial activation may play a role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The immune and inflammatory mediator CD40 ligand (CD40L) can augment the activation of cultured microglia by amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) and promote neuron death. We investigated whether CD40L is increased in AD and in animal models of AD and neuroinflammation. In the frontal cortex of elderly, non-AD controls, CD40L immunoreactivity was found in the glial limiting membrane, astrocytes, and vascular profiles in gray and white matter. In AD, intense CD40L immunoreactivity occurred in hypertrophied astrocytes throughout the frontal cortex. The majority of CD40L-immunoreactive astrocytes in the gray matter occurred within, or at the periphery of, Abeta(1-42)-immunoreactive plaques. A semiquantitative analysis revealed a three-fold elevation in the number of CD40L-immunoreactive astrocytes in AD compared to controls. The cortex and hippocampus from 6 and 12 month-old amyloid precursor protein/presenilin 1 transgenic mice exhibited numerous neuritic plaques and CD40L-positive astrocytes, which were not detected in non-transgenic controls. In adult rats, little or no CD40L staining occurred in astrocytes of the intact brain, whereas intrastriatal excitotoxic or stab wound lesions produced a strong CD40L immunoreactivity that was more segregated than glial fibrillary acidic protein. These findings indicate that astrocytes are the predominant source of CD40L in brain, and are consistent with the proposed role of CD40L-mediated neurotoxic inflammation in AD.
The regional specificity and functional significance of learning-dependent synaptogenesis within physiologically defined regions of the adult motor cortex are described. In comparison to rats in a motor activity control group, rats trained on a skilled reaching task exhibited an areal expansion of wrist and digit movement representations within the motor cortex. No expansion of hindlimb representations was seen. This functional reorganization was restricted to the caudal forelimb area, as no differences in the topography of movement representations were observed within the rostral forelimb area. Paralleling the physiological changes, trained animals also had significantly more synapses per neuron than controls within layer V of the caudal forelimb area. No differences in the number of synapses per neuron were found in either the rostral forelimb or hindlimb areas. This is the first demonstration of the co-occurrence of functional and structural plasticity within the same cortical regions and provides strong evidence that synapse formation may play a role in supporting learning-dependent changes in cortical function.
The medium spiny neurons of the nucleus accumbens receive a unique convergence of dopaminergic and glutamatergic inputs from regions associated with motivational, cognitive, and sensory processes. Long-term forms of plasticity in the nucleus accumbens associated with such processes as appetitive learning and drug addiction may require coactivation of both dopamine D1 and glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. This notion implies that an intracellular mechanism is likely to be involved in these long-term neuroadaptive processes. The present series of experiments examined the effects of intra-accumbens microinfusion of protein kinase inhibitors on acquisition of an instrumental task, lever-pressing for food. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were bilaterally implanted with chronic indwelling cannulae aimed at the nucleus accumbens core. Following recovery, animals were food-restricted and subsequently trained for operant responding. The broad-based serine/threonine kinase inhibitor H-7 (5 or 27 nmol per side) dose-dependently impaired learning when infused immediately after testing on days 1-4. Rp-cAMPS, a cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) inhibitor, also impaired learning regardless of whether it was infused immediately before (5 or 20 nmol) or immediately after (10 nmol) testing on days 1-4. Rp-cAMPS (10 nmol) also inhibited learning when infused 1 h after testing, though to a lesser extent than when administered before or immediately after testing. The PKA stimulator Sp-cAMPS (5 or 20 nmol) also impaired learning when infused before testing, suggesting that there is an optimal level of PKA activity required for learning. None of the drugs used produced nonspecific motor or feeding effects. These results provide evidence supporting the involvement of nucleus accumbens PKA in appetitive learning and suggest that this kinase may be involved in long-term changes associated with this and other motivationally based neuroadaptive processes.
Using a radial maze task and different postoperative recovery periods, this experiment assessed and compared the reference and working memory performances of adult Long-Evans male rats subjected to entorhinal cortex, fimbria-fornix, and hippocampus lesions. Sham-operated rats were used as controls. In order to see whether the duration of the postsurgical recovery period would influence acquisition of the complex radial maze task, training began 1 month following surgery (Delay 1) for half the rats in each group, while for the other half training was started 6.5 months following surgery (Delay 2). The results indicated that at both recovery periods the entorhinal cortex lesions failed to affect either working or reference memory in the spatial task. Conversely, both fimbria-fornix and hippocampus lesions impaired both reference and working memory. While the reference memory deficit was generally similar in both fimbria-fornix and hippocampal lesion groups, analysis of the results for working memory indicated that at the longer delay rats with fimbria-fornix lesions were still impaired but in animals that had the hippocampus removed, working memory did not differ from that of controls. These results suggest that there was some recovery in those rats with hippocampal lesions (e.g., on the working memory task) but both hippocampal and fimbria-fornix animals were still impaired compared to controls when training was delayed 6.5 months following the operations.
We report a 12-year longitudinal case study on a 60-year-old male patient (DW) with category-specific agnosia. The extent to which DW's impairment has changed over time was evaluated using identical tests at time 1 (1988) and time 2 (2000). In particular, we assessed his ability to identify pictures and real objects, to draw from memory, and to access stored semantic information about living and non-living things. The principal findings were: (i). DW was significantly better at identifying real objects in comparison with line drawings. (ii). DW presented with a category-specific impairment for living things that remained consistent over the 12-year period. (iii). He significantly improved in his ability to identify real non-living objects over the 12-year period but real living objects remained at floor. (iv). His ability to access stored visual knowledge declined over time. On the basis of these data, we suggest that visual perception is required to maintain intact visual memories over a period of time. We also suggest that integrative visual agnosia co-occurs with a category-specific impairment for living things because the recognition of these items requires more global processing than for non-living things. In addition, we suggest that degradation to stored visual knowledge can cause category-specific naming impairments for living compared with non-living things because naming living things requires access to more detailed visual knowledge.
After a unilateral brain lesion, patients may show cross-modal, visual-tactile extinction. Such patients may fail to report tactile stimuli on the contralesional hand when presented together with competing visual stimuli near the ipsilesional hand. In this work we tested the hypothesis that this cross-modal extinction may be reduced when a patient has used a tool with the contralesional hand to reach for objects in the ipsilesional visual field. Consistent with previous work, we hypothesize that active use of a tool may extend cross-modal interactions between visual stimuli at the tip of the tool and tactile stimuli on the hand wielding the tool. In the new situation of a tool connecting the contralesional hand with ipsilesional visual space, competition between stimuli on these opposite sides may be reduced, so that extinction decreases. We studied patient BV, who showed reliable cross-modal, visual-tactile extinction after right-hemisphere stroke. In two separate sessions we showed that prolonged tool use (10-20 min) with the contralesional hand in ipsilesional space reduced cross-modal extinction for up to 60-90 min post-training. We propose that an actively used tool may be effective in linking cross-modal stimuli presented along its extension. This can then overcome competition between stimuli presented on opposite sides of the body midline, thus modulating extinction.
Brain areas activated by stimuli in the left visual field of a right parietal patient suffering from left visual extinction were identified using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging. Left visual field stimuli that were extinguished from awareness still activated the ventral visual cortex, including areas in the damaged right hemisphere. An extinguished face stimulus on the left produced robust category-specific activation of the right fusiform face area. On trials where the left visual stimulus was consciously seen rather than extinguished, greater activity was found in the ventral visual cortex of the damaged hemisphere, and also in frontal and parietal areas of the intact hemisphere. These findings extend recent observations on visual extinction, suggesting distinct neural correlates for conscious and unconscious perception.
Using the method of positron emission tomography, combined with word-generation tasks, we had the opportunity to examine the cerebral representation of multiple languages in the brain in a right-handed patient, RA, with known right-hemisphere speech representation as determined by intracarotid sodium amobarbital testing. Similar patterns of cerebral blood flow were observed across all three languages (French, Spanish and English), when synonym generation was compared with a silent resting baseline. In particular, several regions in the right inferior frontal cortex were activated. These foci are in locations corresponding to those observed in the left hemisphere in normal right-handed volunteers with presumed left-hemisphere dominance, and in patients known to be left-hemisphere dominant for speech. The lack of anatomical separation of the three languages within the same individual, who acquired two languages early and one language later in life, suggests that at least at this single-word level of analysis, age of acquisition was not a significant factor in the determining of functional organization in the brain.
We summarize two case studies as a context for discussing the use of neuroimaging as a convergent methodology in the study of neuroplasticity in single subjects. Throughout this paper we argue for a different approach for including neuroimaging in these types of study. Previous case studies of neuroplasticity in patients (ours as well as others reported elsewhere) have added neuroimaging to the traditional neuropsychological framework of comparing patient results with matched control groups, and synthesized results through descriptions of anatomical and behavioral dissociations. This type of approach is referred to as the comparison approach. We advocate a different approach that builds on findings from previous behavioral skill learning research. Specifically, we propose adding neuroimaging throughout learning or recovery of the ability of interest and making inferences from systematic changes in activation topography and intensity that occur within the context of predicted behavioral changes. We dub this approach the online approach. This approach should allow future investigators to circumvent many of the interpretation pitfalls that are common in comparison studies.
Functional imaging studies of neuropsychologically impaired patients have not enjoyed the immediate success that was attained by functional imaging studies of normal subjects. This is largely because it has taken time to appreciate some of the deeper issues surrounding study design, analysis and interpretation. The most significant limitation is that functional imaging experiments with patients need tasks that the patients can perform. This precludes direct investigations of the physiological correlates of cognitive deficits. Nevertheless, functional imaging studies of brain-damaged patients who retain task competence can provide information that is not available from structural imaging, behavioural assessments or functional imaging with normal subjects. This is because intact task performance, following a brain lesion, does not necessarily entail normal neuronal responses in undamaged cortical areas. Abnormal neuronal responses, in the context of normal performance, can indicate alternative neuronal and cognitive mechanisms for supporting the same task. This, in turn, has important implications for understanding the mechanisms that mediate recovery and the organizational principles that underlie functional architectures in the human brain.
We have previously reported the performance of a patient (NL) who could recognize objects, but appeared to lack knowledge of their orientation. These results were interpreted as evidence that NL had isolated access to a viewpoint-independent (ventral stream) object recognition system. However, because NL's responses on naming tasks were not timed, it was not possible to establish whether he showed the same pattern of reaction time performance generally accepted as evidence of a 'mental rotation' strategy in neurologically normal subjects. Here we report NL's performance on two reaction time tasks, testing his ability to transform images when naming, and discriminating between rotated mirror image objects. As predicted, and in contrast to normal volunteers, NL showed no 'mental rotation' effect in his naming of misoriented objects. Paradoxically, he performed well on a traditional Shepard and Metzler mental rotation task. He also showed a normal orientation effect when dealing with misoriented faces. These findings offer further support for viewpoint-independent theories of object recognition, and bolster the claim that object orientation knowledge can be regarded as, in some respects, a special class of spatial information.
We present a single case study of a patient, FK, who was severely impaired on routine, everyday tasks, such as preparing a cup of tea. We used the action coding system developed by Schwartz et al. to provide quantitative and qualitative measures of his performance in a number of experimental manipulations. In section A, we established FK's baseline performance on a range of tasks with (a) task-congruent objects only and (b) task-congruent objects and semantic distracters. In section B, we aimed to facilitate FK's performance by (a) giving him a pictorial representation of the goal, (b) giving him a set of written commands to follow, (c) giving him one command at a time, (d) demonstrating how the task should be performed and (e) dividing the task into smaller subgoals. We compared FK's performance with another patient, HG, to establish if there are qualitative differences between patients with 'action disorganization syndrome'. In section C, we aimed to hinder FK's performance by interrupting his execution of routine tasks. By comparing the factors that facilitated and impaired FK's performance in sections B and C, we hoped to isolate the key cognitive processes required to generate and control routine behaviour. In section D, we investigated how task demands impact on our ability to complete different everyday activities. The results of these experiments have important clinical implications for rehabilitation programmes for patients with action disorganization syndrome and can also help to distinguish between contemporary theoretical accounts of routine behaviour. In particular, we propose that patients who can be classified under the umbrella term of 'action disorganization syndrome' do not all have a reduction to 'non-specific cognitive resources' but can have qualitatively different impairments to a specialized action production system.
Frontal lobe patients carried out temporal sequencing tasks related to actions that differed in terms of their abstractness using both verbal and pictorial presentations. A generalized impairment was found: neither a type of action effect nor a modality of item presentation effect was present. The patients also carried out a corresponding action production task and produced actions quickly and without errors. The frontal lobe patients were also spared in generating verbal descriptions of actions: they were as accurate as normal controls both in terms of the details reported and in maintaining the temporal sequence. It has been argued that the difficulty in processing the temporal dimensions of actions following frontal lobe lesions is due to some form of disruption of the action representation. However, no action representational deficits were present in our frontal lobe patients. Thus, they cannot account for our findings. On the contrary, we suggest that the action sequencing deficit was a consequence of the difficulties patients experienced in rejecting wrong alternatives presented by the stimulus situation.

AL, a woman with an acquired disturbance of auditory processing beginning in the second decade, was originally diagnosed as having pure word deafness. Recent analysis with a wide range of stimuli suggests that her comprehension deficit also extends to a subset of musical and non-verbal environmental sounds. The perceptual demands of the different auditory stimuli appear to account for part of the apparent material specificity. Additionally, over the years, the presumed temporal lobe cortical pathology has been supplemented by a mild to moderate, peripheral low-frequency hearing loss and evidence of dysfunction in lower level auditory processing pathways. The current peripheral dysfunction closely resembles cases recently labeled as auditory neuropathy. The diagnosis of pure word deafness should not be based on a limited set of auditory stimuli; additionally, a careful assessment using modern audiological techniques should be performed to evaluate peripheral auditory functions.
In this paper we examine the role of stored semantic knowledge in recall from short-term memory. We assessed the performance of a patient (FK), who showed a consistent lack of semantic knowledge for some words ('unknown') but not others ('known') on a range of serial recall tasks using both spoken and written words. Overall, FK was significantly better at recalling lists of known compared with unknown words. His recall of unknown words was characterized by numerous phonological errors, such as repeating 'bear skunk' as 'bunk scare'. FK showed a relatively normal primacy effect in immediate recall, but a striking lack of a recency effect. This pattern of performance is useful for constraining theoretical accounts of language production and verbal short-term memory and for understanding the role that long-term semantic knowledge may play in maintaining information in short-term memory.

The present study addresses the functional role of the temporal and frontal lobes in auditory change detection. Prior event-related potential (ERP) research suggested that the mismatch negativity (MMN) reflects the involvement of a temporofrontal network subserving auditory change detection processes and the initiation of an involuntary attention switch. In the present study participants were presented with repetitive spectrally rich sounds. Infrequent changes of either small (10% change), medium (30% change), or large (100% change) magnitude were embedded in the stimulus train. ERPs and fMRI measures were obtained in the same subjects in subsequent sessions. Significant hemodynamic activation in the superior temporal gyri (STG) bilaterally and the opercular part of the right inferior frontal gyrus was observed for large and medium deviants only. ERPs showed that small deviants elicited MMN when presented in silence but not when presented with recorded MR background noise, indicating that small deviants were hardly detected under fMRI conditions. The MR signal change in temporal lobe regions was larger for large than for medium deviants. For the right fronto-opercular cortex the opposite pattern was observed. The strength of the temporal activation correlated with the amplitude of the change-related ERP at around 110 ms from stimulus onset while the frontal activation correlated with the change-related ERP at around 150 ms. These results suggest that the right fronto-opercular cortex is part of the neural network generating the MMN. Three alternative explanations of these findings are discussed.
We introduce a new method for detecting differences in the latency of blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) responses to brief events within the context of the General Linear Model. Using a first-order Taylor approximation in terms of the temporal derivative of a canonical hemodynamic response function, statistical parametric maps of differential latencies were estimated via the ratio of derivative to canonical parameter estimates. This method was applied to two example datasets: comparison of words versus nonwords in a lexical decision task and initial versus repeated presentations of faces in a fame-judgment task. Tests across subjects revealed both magnitude and latency differences within several brain regions. This approach offers a computationally efficient means of detecting BOLD latency differences over the whole brain. Precise characterization of the hemodynamic latency and its interpretation in terms of underlying neural differences remain problematic, however.
This study explored the possible use of caffeine as an agent to improve the BOLD (blood oxygen level-dependent) signal response in fMRI. Previous research has demonstrated that caffeine has the ability to reset the level of coupling between blood flow and neuronal activity. In the present study, it has been shown that caffeine causes a decrease in cerebral perfusion by as much as 13.2% without a change in performance. Caffeine is a cerebral vasoconstrictor that causes an increase in the concentration of deoxyhemoglobin and thus a decrease in the BOLD baseline resting signal by 4.4%. During activation, the vasculature responds from below-normal baseline levels with a normal increase in blood flow and volume, resulting in an overall increase in the BOLD contrast. This increase can be as large as 22-37% during the performance of a visually cued motor task. The benefit of such a large increase in the BOLD contrast could be used to improve the image resolution, the acquisition scheme, or the task design of fMRI experiments. Caffeine has the potential to be used as a contrast booster for fMRI experiments.
Among neurodegenerative diseases, Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a leading cause of death in elderly individuals. AD is characterized, among other clinical findings, by unexplained weight loss, cachexia and altered immune function. To explore whether any relationship between gender and circulating levels of several eating-controlling metabolites exist, we evaluated leptin, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, triiodothyronine (T(3)), free (F) thyroxine (T(4)), TSH, PRL, insulin (INS), and cortisol in 15 AD-treated patients (age range 55-82 years): 9 postmenopausal females (without hormone replacement therapy) and 6 males. The results (mean +/- SEM) indicated that circulating leptin levels were significantly (p &lt; 0.05) higher in female AD (40.34 +/- 11.1 ng/ml) than in male AD (6.07 +/- 1.39 ng/ml) patients. The difference found in circulating leptin levels was noticed regardless of BMI (26.75 +/- 1.77 and 24.55 +/- 1.93 kg/m(2), in females and males, respectively) and waist:hip ratios (0.91 +/- 0.03 and 0.94 +/- 0.02, in females and males, respectively). Moreover, serum TNF-alpha concentrations were also significantly (p &lt; 0.02) higher in AD females (12.24 +/- 1.47 pg/ml) than in AD males (6.62 +/- 1.44 pg/ml), regardless of TNF-alpha:BMI ratios (0.50 +/- 0.09 and 0.28 +/- 0.08, in females and males, respectively; p &gt; 0.05). Finally, no differences were observed between gender (in female and male AD patients, respectively) in circulating levels of T(3) (151.33 +/- 9.91 vs. 116 +/- 17.04 ng/dl), FT(4) (1.26 +/- 0.08 vs. 1.24 +/- 0.06 ng/dl), TSH (1.28 +/- 0.16 vs. 2.46 +/- 0.67 microIU/ml), PRL (10.53 +/- 2.47 vs. 12.61 +/- 2.37 ng/ml), INS (11.76 +/- 1.95 vs. 8.59 +/- 1.34 microIU/ml) and cortisol (15.71 +/- 1.23 vs. 12.63 +/- 1.47 microg/dl). These results indicate that our AD group of patients, with normal corticoadrenal and thyroid functions and normoprolactinemia, displayed a gender-related characteristic in the circulating levels of two very important anorectic signals, leptin and TNF-alpha, being both higher in female than in male AD patients, regardless of BMI. Our study suggests that increased circulating levels of both anorexigenic adipokines may contribute to the metabolic changes observed in AD females.


Treatment for acute ischemic stroke has for years been frustrated by lack of efficacy. Despite a plethora of seemingly promising treatments from animal research, clinical application never came to fruition. Experience seems to indicate that the only truly effective treatment is the rapid restoration of perfusion to ischemic tissue prior to frank infarction. Unfortunately, every agent designed to achieve this goal met with the same ironic limitation; the ability to dissolve clot was coupled with the risk of causing intracerebral hemorrhage. Accordingly, stroke was addressed primarily through modification of risk factors and rehabilitation of the neurological sequelae. However, following the randomized trial of intravenous tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) sponsored by the National Institutes of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) in 1995, the first proven effective therapy for acute stroke became available. The door was finally open to emergency treatment of stroke in the acute phase. Moreover, the positive results of the NINDS trial appear to be independent of age. Nevertheless, intravenous thrombolysis remains ineffective in the majority of patients treated and is withheld from an even larger population because of presentation outside of the 3-hour therapeutic window. As a result, effective therapy is not available for most patients presenting with acute stroke. Recent advancements in the evaluation and treatment of acute ischemic stroke, including intra-arterial thrombolysis, mechanical thrombolysis, and combination therapies, hold significant promise for a larger proportion of patients. New imaging technology may also improve our ability to identify patients with viable brain tissue who may derive the greatest benefit from these therapies.
The tumor suppressor phosphatase PTEN can promote apoptosis of mitotic cells by inhibiting activation of the cell survival kinase Akt. PTEN is essential for normal embryonic development, PTEN expression is associated with neuronal differentiation, and deletion of PTEN in the mouse brain results in seizures, ataxia, and other abnormalities. However, the possible roles of PTEN in regulating neuronal survival are not known. We provide evidence that PTEN sensitizes hippocampal neurons to excitotoxic death in culture and in vivo. Overexpression of wild-type PTEN decreased, while a dominant-negative PTEN increased, levels of activated Akt in cultured hippocampal neurons. Wild-type PTEN promoted, while dominant-negative PTEN prevented, apoptotic death of neurons exposed to the excitatory amino acid neurotransmitter glutamate. Hippocampal neurons of mice with reduced PTEN levels were more resistant to seizure-induced death compared to wild-type littermates. These findings demonstrate a cell death function of PTEN in hippocampal neurons and identify PTEN as a potential therapeutic target for neurodegenerative disorders that involve excitotoxicity and apoptosis. The ability of PTEN to modify neuronal sensitivity to glutamate also suggests possible roles for PTEN in regulating developmental and synaptic plasticity.
Strategies for cell replacement therapy have been guided by the success in the hematopoietic stem cell field. In this review, we discuss the basis of this success and examine whether this stem cell transplant model can be replicated in other systems where stem cell therapy is being evaluated. We conclude that identifying the most primitive stem cell and using it for transplant therapy may not be appropriate in all systems. We suggest alternative strategies such as progenitor cell replacement, inductive factors, bioengineering organs, in utero transplants, or any approach that takes advantage of the unique properties of the tissue and the stem cell type which, are more likely to provide effective functional replacement.
As in other cells, neurons use adenosine triphosphate (ATP) as an energy source to drive biochemical processes involved in various cell functions, and produce reactive oxygen species (ROS) as &quot;by products&quot; of oxidative phosphorylation. However, the electrical excitability and structural and synaptic complexity of neurons present unusual demands upon cellular systems that produce or respond to ATP and ROS. Mitochondria in axons and presynaptic terminals provide sources of ATP to drive the ion pumps that are concentrated in these structures to rapidly restore ion gradients following depolarization and neurotransmitter release. Mitochondria may also play important roles in the regulation of synaptic function because of their ability to regulate calcium levels and ROS production. ROS generated in response to synaptic activity are now known to contribute to the regulation of long-term structural and functional changes in neurons, and the best-known example is the nitric oxide radical. The high-energy demands of synapses, together with their high levels of ROS production, place them at risk during conditions of increased stress, which occur in aging, neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, and after acute traumatic and ischemic insults. Energy depletion and/or increased oxidative damage to various synaptic proteins can result in a local dysregulation of calcium homeostasis and synaptic degeneration. Accordingly, recent studies have shown that dietary and pharmacological manipulations that improve energy efficiency and reduce oxyradical production can prevent synaptic degeneration and neuronal death in experimental models of neurodegenerative disorders. A better understanding of the molecular control of subcellular energy production and utilization, and of the functional relationships between energy metabolism, ion homeostasis, and cytoskeletal and vesicular dynamics, will provide novel insight into mechanisms of neuronal plasticity and disease.
Signals between neurons are transduced primarily by receptors, and second messenger and kinase cascades, located in pre- and postsynaptic terminals. Such synaptic signaling pathways include those activated by neurotransmitters, cytokines, neurotrophic factors, and cell-adhesion molecules. Many of these signaling systems are also localized in the growth cones of axons and dendrites, where they control pathfinding and synaptogenesis during development. Although it has been known for decades that such signaling pathways can affect the survival of neurons, by promoting or preventing a form of programmed cell death known as apoptosis, we have discovered that apoptotic biochemical cascades can exert local actions on the functions and structural dynamics of growth cones and synapses. In this article, we provide a brief background on apoptotic biochemical cascades, and present examples of studies in this laboratory that have identified novel apoptotic and anti-apoptotic signaling mechanisms that are activated and act locally in synapses, growth cones, and dendrites to modify their structure and function. Apoptotic synaptic cascades that may play roles in neuronal plasticity include activation of caspases that can cleave certain types of ionotropic glutamate-receptor subunits and thereby modify synaptic plasticity. Caspases may also cleave cytoskeletal protein substrates in growth cones of developing neurons and may thereby regulate neurite outgrowth. Par-4 and the tumor-suppressor protein p53 are pro-apoptotic proteins that may also function in synaptic and developmental plasticity. Examples of anti-apoptotic signals that regulate the plasticity of growth cones and synapses include neurotrophic factor-activated kinase cascades, calcium-mediated actin depolymerization, and activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB. The emerging data strongly suggest that many of the signaling mechanisms that control apoptosis are also involved in regulating the structural and functional plasticity of neuronal circuits under physiological conditions.
Spinophilin is enriched in dendritic spines, small protrusions of the postsynaptic membrane along the length of the dendrite that contain the majority of excitatory synapses. Spinophilin binds to protein phosphatase 1 with high affinity and targets it to dendritic spines, therefore placing it in proximity to regulate glutamate receptor activity. Spinophilin also binds to and bundles f-actin, the main cytoskeletal constituent of dendritic spines, and may therefore serve to regulate the structure of the synapse. In this study, we sought to determine the structural basis for the targeting of spinophilin to dendritic spines. Our results show that the actin-binding domain of spinophilin is necessary and sufficient for targeting of spinophilin to dendrites and dendritic spines.
Inflammatory processes involving glial cell activation are associated with amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, the cardinal neuropathological lesions in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, However, it is unclear whether these inflammatory processes occur as a response to neuronal degeneration or might represent more seminal events in the disease process. Some cases of AD are caused by mutations in presenilin-1 (PS1), and it has been shown that PS1 mutations perturb neuronal calcium homeostasis, promote increased production of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta), and render neurons vulnerable to synaptic dysfunction, excitotoxicity, and apoptosis. Although glial cells express PS1, it is not known if PS1 mutations alter glial cell functions. We now report on studies of glial cells in PS1 mutant knockin mice that demonstrate an adverse effect PS1 mutations in microglial cells. Specifically, PS1 mutant mice exhibit an enhanced inflammatory cytokine response to immune challenge with bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). LPS-induced levels of mRNAs encoding tumor necrosis fctor-alpha (TNFalpha), interleukin (IL)-1alpha, IL-1beta, IL-1 receptor antagonist, and IL-6 are significantly greater in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex of PS1 mutant mice as compared to wild-type mice. In contrast, the cytokine responses to LPS in the spleen is unaffected by the PS1 mutation. Studies of cultured microglia from PS1 mutant and wild-type mice reveal that PS1 is expressed in microglia and that the PS1 mutation confers a heightened sensitivity to LPS, as indicated by superinduction of inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). These findings demonstrate an adverse effect of PS1 mutations on microglial cells that results in their hyperactivation under pro-inflammatory conditions, which may, together with direct effects of mutant PS1 in neurons, contribute to the neurodegenerative process in AD. These findings also have important implications for development of a &quot;vaccine&quot; for the prevention or treatment of AD.
The adult mammalian brain contains populations of stem cells that can proliferate and then differentiate into neurons or glia. The highest concentration of such neural progenitor cells (NPC) is located in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and these cells can produce new olfactory bulb and cerebral cortical neurons. NPC may provide a cellular reservoir for replacement of cells lost during normal cell turnover and after brain injury. However, neurogenesis does not compensate for neuronal loss in age-related neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), suggesting the possibility that impaired neurogenesis contributes to the pathogenesis of such disorders. We now report that amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta), a self-aggregating neurotoxic protein thought to cause AD, can impair neurogenesis in the SVZ/cerebral cortex of adult mice and in human cortical NPC in culture. The proliferation and migration of NPC in the SVZ of amyloid precursor protein (APP) mutant mice, and in mice receiving an intraventricular infusion of Abeta, were greatly decreased compared to control mice. Studies of NPC neurosphere cultures derived from human embryonic cerebral cortex showed that Abeta can suppress NPC proliferation and differentiation, and can induce apoptosis. The adverse effects of Abeta on neurogenesis were associated with a disruption of calcium regulation in the NPC. Our data show that Abeta can impair cortical neurogenesis, and suggest that this adverse effect of Abeta contributes to the depletion of neurons and the resulting olfactory and cognitive deficits in AD.
Cysteine proteases of the caspase family play central roles in excecuting the cell death process in neurons during development of the nervous system and in neurodegenerative disorders. Recent findings suggest that caspases may also play roles in modulating neuronal plasticity in the absence of cell death. We previously reported that caspases can be activated in dendrites and synapses in response to activation of glutamate receptors. In the present study we demonstrate that the GluR1 subunit of the AMPA subtype of glutamate receptor is directly cleaved by caspase-3, and provide evidence that the cleavage of this subunit modulates neuronal excitability in ways that suggest important roles for caspases in regulating synaptic plasticity and cell survival. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in cultured rat hippocampal neurons showed that caspase activation in response to apoptotic stimuli selectively decreases AMPA channel activity without decreasing NMDA channel activity. Perfusion of neurons with recombinant caspase-3 resulted in a decreased AMPA current, demonstrating that caspase-3 activity is sufficient to suppress neuronal responses to glutamate. Exposure of radiolabeled GluR1 to recombinant caspase-3 resulted in cleavage of GluR1, demonstrating that this glutamate receptor protein is a direct substrate of this caspase. Our findings suggest roles for caspases in the modulation of neuronal excitability in physiological settings, and also identify a mechanism whereby caspases ensure that neurons die by apoptosis rather than excitotoxic necrosis in developmental and pathological settings.
Increased production of neurotoxic forms of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) and abnormalities in neuronal calcium homeostasis play central roles in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Notch, a membrane receptor that controls cell-fate decisions during development of the nervous system, has been linked to AD because it is a substrate for the gamma-secretase enzyme activity that involves the presenilin-1 (PS1) protein in which mutations cause early-onset inherited AD. The actions of Notch can be antagonized by Numb, an evolutionarily conserved protein that exists in four isoforms that differ in two functional domains: a phosphotyrosine-binding (PTB) domain and a proline-rich region (PRR). We now report that Numb isoforms containing a short PTB domain increase the vulnerability of PC12 cells to death induced by Abeta1-42 and by 4-hydroxynonenal, a lipid peroxidation product previously shown to mediate neurotoxic effects of Abeta. Dysregulation of cellular calcium homeostasis occurs in cells expressing Numb isoforms with a short PTB domain, and the death-promoting effect of Numb is abolished by pharmacological inhibition of calcium release. The levels of Numb are increased in cultured primary hippocampal neurons exposed to Abeta, suggesting a role for endogenous Numb in the neuronal death process. Furthermore, higher levels of Numb were detected in the cortex of mice expressing mutant amyloid precursor protein (APP) relative to age-matched wild-type mice. Our data identify a novel isoform-specific effect of Numb on neuronal life and death cell fate decisions potentially relevant to the pathogenesis of AD. Our findings also suggest that the effects of Numb on cell fate decisions, both during development of the nervous system and in neurodegenertive disorders, are mediated by changes in cellular calcium homeostasis.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive senile dementia characterized by deposition of a 4 kDa peptide of 39-42 residues known as amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) in the form of senile plaques and the microtubule associated protein tau as paired helical filaments. Genetic studies have identified mutations in the Abeta precursor protein (APP) as the key triggers for the pathogenesis of AD. Other genes such as presenilins 1 and 2 (PS1/2) and apolipoprotein E (APOE) also play a critical role in increased Abeta deposition. Several biochemical and molecular studies using transfected cells and transgenic animals point to mechanisms by which Abeta is generated and aggregated to trigger the neurodegeneration that may cause AD. Three important enzymes collectively known as &quot;secretases&quot; participate in APP processing. An enzymatic activity, beta-secretase, cleaves APP on the amino side of Abeta producing a large secreted derivative, sAPPbeta, and an Abeta-bearing membrane-associated C-terminal derivative, CTFbeta, which is subsequently cleaved by the second activity, gamma-secretase, to release Abeta. Alternatively, a third activity, alpha-secretase, cleaves APP within Abeta to the secreted derivative sAPPalpha and membrane-associated CTFalpha. The predominant secreted APP derivative is sAPPalpha in most cell-types. Most of the secreted Abeta is 40 residues long (Abeta40) although a small percentage is 42 residues in length (Abeta42). However, the longer Abeta42 aggregates more readily and was therefore considered to be the pathologically important form. Advances in our understanding of APP processing, trafficking, and turnover will pave the way for better drug discovery for the eventual treatment of AD. In addition, APP gene regulation and its interaction with other proteins may provide useful drug targets for AD. The emerging knowledge related to the normal function of APP will help in determining whether or not the AD associated changes in APP metabolism affect its function. The present review summarizes our current understanding of APP metabolism and function and their relationship to other proteins involved in AD.
The selective alpha2-adrenoreceptor antagonist, atipamezole, improves behavioural performance of rats subjected to focal cerebral ischemia. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether the facilitatory effect of atipamezole on behaviour is related to altered neuronal activity in specific brain areas. The right middle cerebral artery of rats was occluded for 120 min using the intraluminal filament method. Starting on day 2 after induction of ischemia, atipamezole (1mg/kg, s.c.) or 0.9% NaCl was administered to ischemic or sham-operated rats once a day 30 min before the limb-placing test. [14C]Deoxyglucose ([14C]DG) uptake was used to measure neuronal activity 30 min after atipamezole or 0.9% NaCl administration on day 6 after ischemia. Ischemia induced a significant decrease in [14C]DG uptake in several cortical areas ipsilateral and contralateral to the lesion, in the ipsilateral thalamus, and bilaterally in the cerebellum and spinal cord. Administration of atipamezole normalised [14C]DG uptake particularly in the cerebellum and spinal cord both in sham-operated and ischemic rats and to a lesser extent in the thalamus in sham-operated rats. The pattern of altered cerebral [14C]DG uptake following alpha2-adrenoceptor blockade suggests that plasticity in the cerebellum and spinal cord contributes to the improved performance of ischemic rats in tests assessing tactile/proprioceptive limb-placing reactions.
In the CA3 region of rat hippocampal slices gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA)(A/B) receptor antagonists induce low frequency bursting activity that was either inhibited (in 21% of slices) or increased by the selective 5-HT receptor agonists 5-carboxy-tryptamine (0.1-1 microM) and 8-hydroxydipropylaminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT). The selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist N-(2-(4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl)ethyl)-N-(2-pyridinyl)cyclohexane carboxamide (WAY 100635) reversed the depression of bursting activity whereas the 5-HT7 receptor antagonist, (R)-3-(2-(2-(4-methylpiperidin-1-yl)-ethyl)pyrrolidine-1-sulfonyl)phenol (SB-269970; 1-10 microM), but not the 5-HT1A, 4 or 6 receptor antagonists WAY100635 (10 microM), SB-204070 (10 microM) and SB-271046 (10 microM), reversed the increase in bursting activity. The apparent -log10 K(D) value (8.4) for the effect of SB-269970 was consistent with a selective action at 5-HT7 receptors. Accompanying the 5-CT-induced increase in bursting frequency there was a shortening of the burst event waveform and a reduction in the after-hyperpolarization following each bursting event both of which were inhibited by SB-269970. These effects appeared to result predominantly from a direct 5-HT(7) receptor-mediated inhibition of a Ca2+ activated K+ channel.
In order to investigate a role for the extracellular-signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) on hippocampal neurotransmitter release, we studied the effect of commonly used MEK (mitogen-activated protein kinase [MAPK]/ERK kinase) inhibitors, PD098,059 and U0126, on depolarization-induced glutamate release. PD098,059 inhibited glutamate release from hippocampal synaptosomes stimulated with 15 mM KCl in a concentration-dependent manner. At the same range of concentrations, PD098,059 inhibited basal and KCl-stimulated ERK1/2 phosphorylation. U0126, however, did not significantly affect KCl-evoked glutamate release at concentrations shown to inhibit ERK activity. Nonetheless, U0126 unspecifically potentiated depolarization-induced Ca2+-independent glutamate release, which masked a small dose-dependent inhibitory effect on the Ca2+-dependent release. PD098,059 reduced the [Ca2+]i response to KCl by partially inhibiting Ca2+ entry through N- and P-/Q-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channels, whereas U0126 did not affect depolarization-induced Ca2+ influx. To overcome the unspecific effect of PD098,059 on Ca2+ entry, we studied the effect of both MEK inhibitors on glutamate release stimulated by a Ca2+ ionophore. PD098,029 and U0126 showed a small dose-dependent inhibitory effect on ionomycin-induced glutamate release, at concentrations shown to inhibit ionomycin-stimulated ERK phosphorylation. These findings uncover new unspecific actions for both MEK inhibitors and suggest a minor role for ERK in modulating glutamate release in the hippocampus.

Monoamine oxidase type A (MAOA) has been implicated to be part of mechanisms underlying human temperament and psychiatric disorders. We hypothesised that a functional polymorphism in the 5' untranslated region of the MAOA gene is associated with specific personality traits. In 371 healthy Caucasians, we estimated personality traits by the use of the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP), Scandinavian Universities Scales of Personality, Health-Relevant 5-Factor Personality inventory, Temperament and Character Inventory and the revised NEO Personality Inventory. In the same subjects, we analysed the genotype of a polymorphic region consisting of a variable number of a 30-bp repeat sequence located approximately 1.2 kb upstream of the MAOA gene. After correction for multiple testing, no statistically significant differences between MAOA genotype and personality were observed in men (n = 206) nor in women (n = 165). We conclude that the structure of this MAOA promoter region does not have a large impact on the expression of personality characteristics in the present Swedish population.
Depression is associated with increased cardiovascular mortality in patients with preexisting cardiac illness. A decrease in cardiac vagal function as suggested by a decrease in heart rate variability (HRV) or heart period variability has been linked to sudden death in patients with cardiac disease as well as in normal controls. Recent studies have shown decreased vagal function in cardiac patients with depression as well as in depressed patients without cardiac illness. In this study, we compared 20 h awake and sleep heart period nonlinear measures using quantification of nonlinearity and chaos in two groups of patients with major depression and ischemic heart disease (mean age 59-60 years) before and after 6 weeks of treatment with paroxetine or nortriptyline. Patients received paroxetine, 20-30 mg/day or nortriptyline targeted to 190-570 nmol/l for 6 weeks. For HRV analysis, 24 patients were included in the paroxetine treatment study and 20 patients in the nortriptyline study who had at least 20000 s of awake data. The ages of these groups were 60.4 +/- 10.5 years for paroxetine and 60.8 +/- 13.4 years for nortriptyline. There was a significant decrease in the largest Lyapunov exponent (LLE) after treatment with nortriptyline but not paroxetine. There were also significant decreases in nonlinearity scores on S(netPR) and S(netGS) after nortriptyline, which may be due to a decrease in cardiac vagal modulation of HRV. S(netGS) and awake LLE were the most significant variables that contributed to the discrimination of postparoxetine and postnortriptyline groups even with the inclusion of time and frequency domain measures. These findings suggest that nortriptyline decreases the measures of chaos probably through its stronger vagolytic effects on cardiac autonomic function compared with paroxetine, which is in agreement with previous clinical and preclinical reports. Nortriptyline was also associated with a significant decrease in nonlinearity scores, which may be due to anticholinergic and/or sympatholytic effects. As depression is associated with a strong risk factor for cardiovascular mortality, one should be careful about using any drug that adversely affects cardiac vagal function.

In this study, we characterized cognitive functioning in patients with major depression and silent cerebral infarction (SCI), as detected by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), after they had recovered from depression. Thirty-five patients with unipolar depression who experienced the onset of depression after the age of 50 underwent MRI and were classified as SCI(+) (n = 17) or SCI(-) (n = 18). The Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R) and the Uchida-Kraepelin psychodiagnostic test were administered after the patients had recovered from depression. In addition, the intelligence quotient (IQ) and mental speed of the patients in the two groups were compared. The total, verbal and performance IQ scores, as determined by the WAIS-R, were significantly lower in the SCI(+) group than in the SCI(-) group. The mental speed of patients in the SCI(+) group, as assessed by the Uchida-Kraepelin psychodiagnostic test, was almost half that of the SCI(-) group. Our findings provide further evidence that a comprehensive impairment of cognitive functioning, especially a severe reduction in mental speed, remains after recovery from depression in patients with major depression and SCI.
In order to investigate the neurobiological mechanisms accompanying emotional valence judgements during listening to complex auditory stimuli, cortical direct current (dc)-electroencephalography (EEG) activation patterns were recorded from 16 right-handed students. Students listened to 160 short sequences taken from the repertoires of jazz, rock-pop, classical music and environmental sounds (each n=40). Emotional valence of the perceived stimuli were rated on a 5-step scale after each sequence. Brain activation patterns during listening revealed widespread bilateral fronto-temporal activation, but a highly significant lateralisation effect: positive emotional attributions were accompanied by an increase in left temporal activation, negative by a more bilateral pattern with preponderance of the right fronto-temporal cortex. Female participants demonstrated greater valence-related differences than males. No differences related to the four stimulus categories could be detected, suggesting that the actual auditory brain activation patterns were more determined by their affective emotional valence than by differences in acoustical &quot;fine&quot; structure. The results are consistent with a model of hemispheric specialisation concerning perceived positive or negative emotions proposed by Heilman [Journal of Neuropsychiatry and Clinical Neuroscience 9 (1997) 439].
This study examined whether differential neural responses are evoked by emotional stimuli with and without conscious perception, in a patient with visual neglect and extinction. Stimuli were briefly shown in either right, left, or both fields during event-related fMRI. On bilateral trials, either a fearful or neutral left face appeared with a right house, and it could either be extinguished from awareness or perceived. Seen faces in left visual field (LVF) activated primary visual cortex in the damaged right-hemisphere and bilateral fusiform gyri. Extinguished left faces increased activity in striate and extrastriate cortex, compared with right houses only. Critically, fearful faces activated the left amygdala and extrastriate cortex both when seen and when extinguished; as well as bilateral orbitofrontal and intact right superior parietal areas. Comparison of perceived versus extinguished faces revealed no difference in amygdala for fearful faces. Conscious perception increased activity in fusiform, parietal and prefrontal areas of the left-hemisphere, irrespective of emotional expression; while a differential emotional response to fearful faces occurring specifically with awareness was found in bilateral parietal, temporal, and frontal areas. These results demonstrate that amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex can be activated by emotional stimuli even without awareness after parietal damage; and that substantial unconscious residual processing can occur within spared brain areas well beyond visual cortex, despite neglect and extinction.
Right brain damaged patients affected by left unilateral neglect (N+) typically fail to explore the contralesional space. For the first time, this study investigates the dynamic and spatial features of the horizontal vestibular-ocular response (VOR), the optokinetic response (OKR) and the VOR-OKR interaction in six N+ and in five right brain damaged patients without neglect (N-). No lateral asymmetry of the gain (i.e. eye velocity to head velocity ratio) of VOR slow phases was found in either group. In the VOR, N+ had higher frequency of slow-rightward/fast-leftward phases and higher contralesional shift of the beating field (i.e. orbital position of fast phases). In the VOR-OKR, there was an increase of gain in both lateral directions and in both groups even though in N-, there was a lower phase shift between eye and head velocity. In contrast to the VOR, in the VOR-OKR, N+ had higher frequency of slow-leftward/fast-rightward phases. The VOR-OKR interaction also introduced an ipsilesional shift of the beating field in both N+ and N-. In the OKR, N+ showed a drop in the velocity, amplitude and frequency of slow-rightward/fast-leftward phases. These findings potentially suggest that each hemisphere modulates VOR with contralaterally directed slow phases and OKR with ipsilaterally directed slow phases. This organisation could facilitate maintenance or fast recovery of combined VOR + OKR after unilateral brain damage. The same findings suggest that by inducing slow-leftward phases, vestibular and optokinetic stimulation improve left side neglect through the activation of different hemispheric pathways. No ipsilesional deviation of the subjective &quot;straight ahead&quot; was found in N+. These results show that chronic unilateral neglect can be dissociated both from deficits of ipsilesionally directed VOR and from ipsilesional deviation of the subjective midsagittal plane of the body.
This study investigates the performance of psychopathic individuals on tasks believed to be sensitive to dorsolateral prefrontal and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) functioning. Psychopathic and non-psychopathic individuals, as defined by the Hare psychopathy checklist revised (PCL-R) [Hare, The Hare psychopathy checklist revised, Toronto, Ontario: Multi-Health Systems, 1991] completed a gambling task [Cognition 50 (1994) 7] and the intradimensional/extradimensional (ID/ED) shift task [Nature 380 (1996) 69]. On the gambling task, psychopathic participants showed a global tendency to choose disadvantageously. Specifically, they showed an impaired ability to show learning over the course of the task. On the ID/ED task, the performance of psychopathic individuals was not significantly different from incarcerated controls on attentional set-shifting, but significant impairments were found on response reversal. These results are interpreted with reference to an OFC and amygdala dysfunction explanation of psychopathy.
Recent accounts have proposed that orbitofrontal cerebral cortex mediates the control of behavior based on emotional feedback and its somatic correlates. Here, we describe the performance of a patient with circumscribed damage to orbitofrontal cortex during a task that requires switching between sensory-motor mappings, contingent on the occurrence of positive and negative reward feedbacks. In this test, normal subjects and other patients with prefrontal damage show an increase in latencies for eye movements towards locations at which a negative feedback was presented on the preceding trial. In contrast, our patient does not show this reward-dependent inhibition of return effect on saccades. She was also found to make an increased rate of ocular refixations during visual search and used a disorganized search strategy in a token foraging task. These findings suggest that orbital regions of the prefrontal cortex mediate an inhibitory effect on actions directed towards locations that have been subject to negative reinforcement. Further, this mechanism seems to play a role in controlling natural search and foraging behavior.
Abnormalities in visuo-motor control have repeatedly been reported in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. In the more recent studies, tasks measuring visuo-motor performance are usually computerised tasks requiring the use of a mouse-like manipulandum. In healthy subjects, previous computer mouse experience can influence performance in computerised visuo-motor tasks. We, therefore, investigated the potential confounding effect of mouse experience in a visuo-motor task used in PD patients, the visuo-motor testing (VMT) system, and its concurrent usefulness in the diagnosis of PD. Our study population included 49 early PD patients and 31 controls. The VMT system involves moving a pointer over a sinusoidal path displayed on a computer screen by moving an unseen digitiser mouse over a tablet. In both PD patients and controls, subjects with low mouse experience scored worse than subjects with high mouse experience on variables measuring movement accuracy, direction and speed. After correction for mouse experience the aforementioned deficits were still present in PD patients with low mouse experience. However, PD patients with high mouse experience only showed deficits in movement accuracy. It would seem that previous mouse experience can at least partly compensate for deficits in directional control and speed in PD patients, implying a possible role for training in the treatment of functional motor impairments in PD. Future studies using computerised psychomotor tasks should take sufficient precautions to avoid potential confounding effects of mouse experience. The present data further suggest that only accuracy of visuo-motor control might be a useful parameter in the (early) diagnosis of PD.
In the antisaccade paradigm, subjects are instructed to fixate a central point, and then move their eyes towards a position in space in the opposite direction but equidistant to a peripheral, sudden onset target. Antisaccade errors occur when subjects are &quot;distracted&quot; by the target and make a saccade towards it. These errors are more common in patients with schizophrenia but the underlying cause remains unclear. To determine whether antisaccade errors simply reflect a general inability to maintain fixation or are the consequence of a more specific deficit in the strategic control of internally generated actions, patients with first-episode schizophrenia and healthy controls performed three saccadic paradigms which shared the core feature of requiring a prepotent saccade to be suppressed, but varied in their concurrent cognitive demands. We found that both groups showed an increase in errors as the cognitive demands increased across task. However, this increase was significantly steeper in the schizophrenic patients than in the controls. We also found that schizophrenic patients were as able as controls to inhibit prepotent saccades towards a target in a paradigm with no other cognitive demands. Possible explanations of these results include reduced working memory resources and impaired motor preparation in schizophrenia.
Semantic dementia is a degenerative disorder of temporal neocortex characterised by loss of word and object concepts. There is limited evidence that temporary relearning of lost vocabulary may be possible, attributed to sparing of hippocampal structures. However, learning is variable across patients and factors underlying learning success are poorly understood. The study investigated relearning of object names in two severely anomic semantic dementia patients. Following memory models that assume that hippocampal memories require some neocortical representation to underpin them it was predicted that relearning would be influenced by patients' residual semantic information about stimuli. Experiment 1 confirmed that residual knowledge influenced learning success. On the assumption that neocortical knowledge encompasses concepts of space and time, as well as words and objects, it was predicted that learning would be affected by the availability of contextual (temporo-spatial) information. Experiment 2 demonstrated effective learning of object names, attributed to the patient's use of temporal order and spatial position knowledge. Retention of object names over months was linked to the patient's capacity for autobiographical experiential (temporo-spatial contextual) association. The findings indicate that relearning of lost vocabulary is possible in semantic dementia, indicating a role of the medial temporal lobes in the acquisition of semantic information. Effective learning does not imply reinstatement of lost concepts, but, it is argued, does involve some reacquisition of meaning. The findings challenge the traditional semantic-episodic memory dichotomy and are consistent with a &quot;levels of meaning&quot; account of semantic memory.
The present study, investigates interhemispheric integration in the split brain. Four split-brained, two acallosal and 14 normal subjects carried out a simple reaction time task in which they responded to stimuli presented either singly in the left visual field, singly in the right visual field, or simultaneously in both visual fields. Stimuli were white against a black background and bilateral stimuli were either symmetrical or asymmetrical around the central vertical meridian. For unilateral stimuli, the difference in response time (RT) between crossed and uncrossed hand-field combinations (crossed-uncrossed difference, or CUD) measured interhemispheric transfer time. RTs to bilateral and unilateral stimulus displays were compared to provide a measure of redundancy gain (RG). Normal subjects exhibited small CUDs and RGs. Split-brained and acallosal subjects were found to have much longer CUDs, and to show enhanced RGs which could not be explained by a probability (race) model, implying subcortical neural summation. This summation did not depend on the preservation of symmetry, suggesting that it may not occur at the retinotopically organized superior colliculus, but at another site such as the pons or reticular formation.
Perceived gaze in faces is an important social signal that may influence orienting of attention in normal observers. Would such effects of gaze still occur in patients with right parietal damage and left neglect who usually fail to attend to contralesional space? Two experiments tested for effects of perceived gaze on visual extinction. Face or shape stimuli were presented in the right, left, or both hemifields, with faces looking either straight ahead or toward the opposite field. On bilateral trials, patients extinguished a left shape much less often when a concurrent right face looked leftward rather than straight ahead. This occurred, even though gaze was not relevant to the task and processing of facial signals implied attention to a competing ipsilesional stimulus. By contrast, rightward gaze in faces presented on the left side had no effect on extinction, suggesting that gaze cues are not extracted without attention. Two other experiments examined effects of perceived gaze on the detection of peripheral targets. Targets appeared at one of four possible locations to the right or left of a central face looking either toward the target location, another location on the same side, the opposite side, or straight ahead. Face and gaze were not relevant to the task and not predictive of target location. Patients responded faster when the face looked toward the target on both the contralesional and ipsilesional sides. In contralesional space, gaze allowed shifting of attention in a specific quadrant direction, but only to the first target along the scan path when there were different possible locations on the same side. By contrast, in intact ipsilesional space, attention was selectively directed to one among different eccentric locations. Control experiments showed that symbolic arrow cues did not produce similar effects. These results indicate that even though parietal damage causes spatial neglect and impairs the representation of location on the contralesional side, perceived gaze in faces can still trigger automatic shifts of attention in the contralesional direction, suggesting the existence of specific and anatomically distinct attentional mechanisms.
Functional brain asymmetries in semantic activation were studied by presenting categorically related (e.g. TABLE-BED) or unrelated primes and targets to the left visual field (LVF)/right hemisphere or to the right visual field (RVF)/left hemisphere in the single word presentation lexical decision task. The results showed that the primes in the RVF/left hemisphere primed lexical decisions to the targets both in the RVF and in the LVF. However, the primes in the LVF/right hemisphere did not induce any priming in the LVF or RVF. These results suggest that the left hemisphere automatically activates categorically related meanings in both hemispheres. The role of the right hemisphere in automatic semantic processing may be very limited.
The originality of this study is to examine the processing of pitch and duration in music reading, using both electrophysiological and behavioral methods. Specifically, it was of interest to determine whether pitch and duration in music reading are processed independently or jointly. A probe, comprising a key and time signature was presented, and participants were required to compute the tonic and/or the best fitting duration. A target note followed the probe and participants made a match/mismatch judgment on the dimension they were required to analyze (i.e. pitch or duration). We hypothesized that, if pitch and duration are processed independently results should show no interference of the irrelevant dimension on the relevant. Results showed that early differences emerged in the ERPs as a function of the task to be performed on the target in block 1. Moreover, RTs were shorter in the pitch than in the duration task and for congruous than incongruous targets. In the ERPs, this congruity effect was reflected by a negative component, to incongruous targets. Most importantly, the congruency of the target note on the irrelevant dimension did not have any effect on the ERPs, suggesting that pitch and duration are processed independently.
Previous work has found a left visual field (LVF) advantage for various judgements on faces, including identity and emotional expression. This has been related to possible right-hemisphere specialisation for face processing, and it has been proposed that this might reflect configural processing. We sought to determine whether a similar LVF advantage may also exist for gaze perception. In two experiments, normal adult subjects made judgements for seen gaze direction (left, right or straight). To assess how visual field may influence perception of gaze direction, eye stimuli were briefly presented unilaterally or bilaterally. In the latter case, the gaze direction of the two seen eyes could be congruent or incongruent (i.e. the two eyes could gaze in the same or different directions). For unilateral displays, performance was more accurate for LVF stimuli than RVF. With bilateral incongruent gaze, the LVF eye influenced judgements more strongly than the RVF eye. No such LVF advantage was found in a control experiment, in which subjects judged pupil size for similar eye stimuli. Taken together, these results reveal a LVF advantage for perception of gaze direction. Since only the eye region was visible, our results cannot be due to a LVF bias in processing the entire face context. Instead they suggest lateralisation specifically in processing the direction of seen gaze.
Studies of young children with early unilateral brain injury have suggested that while hemispheric differences in visuospatial processing appear to be present early in development, the young brain is better able to compensate for injury than when the injury occurs later, after networks have been established. The aim of this study was to determine if this pattern continues later in development when these children are given a challenging task: the Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure. Experiment 1 included longitudinal data from ten children with early left hemisphere (LH) injury and nine children with early right hemisphere (RH) injury. Injury was presumed to be due to a prenatal or perinatal stroke. Compared with typically developing children, both groups were poorer in copying the figure. With development, these children produced reasonably accurate drawings but continued to use the most immature and piecemeal strategy. In Experiment 2, copy and immediate memory drawings from the 19 children with early unilateral brain injury were collected at a single age (11-14 years). Eight of the ten children with LH injury organized their memory reproductions around the core rectangle but included relatively few additional details. In contrast, only two of the nine children with RH injury organized their memory reproductions around the core rectangle and all but one produced the figure in a piecemeal manner. The results from both studies demonstrate the continuation of subtle deficits in visuospatial analysis with development but also the continued capacity for compensation.
In 1968, Milner (Neuropsychologia 6 (1968) 191) demonstrated a face-memory impairment in patients with right, but not left, temporal-lobe excisions. Because all the removals included lateral and inferior temporal neocortex together with amygdala, parahippocampal gyrus and varying amounts of hippocampus, a combined-lesion effect could not be ruled out. We therefore examined the contribution of right temporal structures to recognition of previously unfamiliar faces by repeating Milner's original study, testing patients who had undergone selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy (AH), in addition to those with anterior temporal-lobectomy (TL). The paradigm involved selecting 12 previously studied faces from an array of 25 photographs. The Mooney Closure Faces Test was also administered. Subjects included 29 AH patients (14 left (LAH) and 15 right (RAH)) and 59 TL patients (30 L and 29 R) who were categorized further based on extensive (18 LTH and 21 RTH) or minimal (12 LTh and 8 RTh) hippocampal encroachment. Twenty age- and education-matched normal control subjects (NC) were also tested. For the face-memory task, one-way ANOVA revealed a strong group effect (P&lt;0.001), and post-hoc tests confirmed that both the RTH and RAH groups recognized fewer faces than the NC and LAH groups; the RAH group also differed from the LTh, LTH and RTh groups. No group differences were found for the closure test. Our findings suggest that right medial temporal-lobe structures are critically involved in the retention, but probably not in the perception, of new faces.
Fifty-eight normal subjects carried out a simple reaction-time task in which they responded unimanually to stimuli presented either singly in the left visual field, singly in the right visual field, or in both visual fields at once. The stimuli were white against a dark background on half the trials and gray against an equiluminant yellow background on the other half. For the unilateral stimuli, the difference in RT between crossed and uncrossed hand-field combinations (crossed-uncrossed difference, or CUD) yielded a measure of interhemispheric transfer time. The difference in RT between bilateral and unilateral stimuli was also measured in different ways to provide measures of redundancy gain (RG). The CUD and RG were uncorrelated, suggesting that they depended on independent processes. Component analysis further suggested that there may have been different processes underlying RG, depending on whether the stimuli were brighter than the background, or equiluminant with it.
We have taken a novel approach to the study of problem solving involving the detailed analysis of natural scanning eye movements during the 'one touch' Tower of London task. Control subjects and patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PDs) viewed a series of pictures depicting two arrangements of coloured balls in pockets within the upper and lower halves of a computer display. The task was to plan (but not execute) the shortest movement sequence required to rearrange the balls in one half of the display (the Workspace) to match the arrangement in the opposite half (the Goalspace) and indicate the number of moves required for problem solution. As problem complexity increased, control subjects spent proportionally more time fixating the Workspace region. This pattern was found regardless of whether subjects were instructed to solve problems by rearranging balls in the lower or upper visual fields. The distribution of gaze within the Workspace was also found to be problem dependent, with gaze being selectively directed towards the problem critical balls. In contrast, PDs were found to make more errors in the task and failed to show any dissociation in the amount of time fixating the two halves of the display. This pattern suggests that the patients had difficulty in encoding and/or maintaining current goals during problem solving, consistent with a role for fronto-striatal circuits in mechanisms of working memory and attention.
While it is commonly noted that the right cerebral hemisphere is specialized for visuospatial processing, the scope and nature of this specialization remain somewhat ill defined. Our previous research with callosotomy ('split-brain') patients has suggested that the asymmetry may be limited to conditions that have an explicit spatial component. To investigate this we compared the performance of the divided hemispheres of two callosotomy patients on four simple visual-matching tasks. These tasks were orientation discrimination, vernier offset discrimination, size discrimination, and luminance discrimination. In each task, two stimuli were presented briefly to one visual hemifield and the patient was asked to discriminate whether they were the same or different. The first three tasks (orientation, vernier, and size) were all spatial in nature and were performed better by the right hemisphere. The luminance discrimination task, which is non-spatial, was performed equivalently by the two hemispheres. These results support the view that the fundamental difference in visual function between the hemispheres is in the ability to perform spatial discriminations.
Possible auditory deficits in neglect were examined by comparing the performance of four right brain-damaged (RBD) patients with left visuospatial neglect, versus four RBD patients without neglect, in three auditory tasks. The first task required speeded discrimination of sound elevation, by moving a central lever up or down according to the vertical position of a peripheral target sound, regardless of its side. The other two auditory tasks were non-spatial, requiring either speeded pitch discrimination (moving the central lever up for high pitch, down for low pitch) or speeded target detection. Neglect patients' performance was impaired with respect to RBD controls only when the auditory task required spatial coding of the target sound (the up/down spatial discrimination). This demonstrates a selective deficit of auditory space perception in neglect patients. This auditory spatial deficit was more pronounced for left than right sounds. Since auditory space perception was impaired in the vertical dimension, the observed deficit cannot be attributed to a systematic rightward shift in sound localisation. Instead, the results suggest increased spatial uncertainty in sound localisation by neglect patients, particularly for auditory targets on the contralesional side. These findings are related to multimodal coding of space in the parietal cortex, which was damaged in the neglect patients, but not in the RBD controls.
It is known that the adult visual memory system is fractionable into functionally independent cognitive subsystems, selectively susceptible to brain damage. In addition, there have been hints from studies with individuals with autism that these cognitive subsystems can fractionate developmentally. However, there has been a paucity of systematic investigations. The present study involves the analysis of visual memory of a population of individuals with autism and age- and VIQ-matched comparison individuals. The individuals with autism presented selective impairments in face recognition in comparison to both the age- and VIQ-matched comparison populations. In addition, they were impaired relative to the age-matched comparison group on recognition memory for potential agents (i.e. objects capable of self-propelled motion) whether they were living (cats and horses) or non-living (motorbikes). In contrast, they were selectively superior relative to the VIQ-matched comparison group on recognition memory for such objects as topographical stimuli (buildings) and leaves that clearly do not have agency. The data is interpreted in terms of reduced sensitivity to agency cues in individuals with autism and general information processing capacity.
Focal retrograde amnesia is an unusual and theoretically challenging form of memory disorder. The case of a 65-year-old woman presenting with focal retrograde amnesia is reported. Following a cardiac arrest and subsequent hypoxia she remained in a coma for 24 h with evidence of epileptiform activity during the early recovery period. MR scans, 4 and 7 months post-onset, showed mild bifrontal atrophic changes mainly affecting white matter areas. An [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose resting PET scan 1-year post-onset demonstrated right occipito-temporo-parietal hypometabolism. We were able to document the patient's performance on an extensive range of anterograde and retrograde tests and to monitor her recovery of function by assessing her performance at 4, 12 and 24 months post-onset. Spared anterograde memory was observed on a range of verbal and non-verbal tests, including matched tasks that compared pre-illness and post-illness onset recollections. In contrast, her performance on retrograde memory tests, using detailed autobiographical and public events verbal and photographic tasks, showed a temporally-graded retrograde amnesia, more particularly affecting memory for autobiographical episodes. Possible mechanisms underlying CH's focal retrograde amnesia are discussed in terms of Damasio's time-locked multiregional retroactivation model.
The authors found splenial lesions to be associated with left ear suppression in dichotic listening of consonant-vowel syllables. This was found in both a rapid presentation dichotic monitoring task and a standard dichotic listening task, ruling out attentional limitations in the processing of high stimulus loads as a confounding factor. Moreover, directed attention to the left ear did not improve left ear target detection in the patients, independent of callosal lesion location. The authors' data may indicate that auditory callosal fibers pass through the splenium more posterior than previously thought. However, further studies should investigate whether callosal fibers between primary and secondary auditory cortices, or between higher level multimodal cortices, are vital for the detection of left ear targets in dichotic listening.

The sensitizing properties of drugs of abuse have been proposed to play an important role in the persistence of drug seeking behavior. We decided to evaluate the temporal relationship of dopamine D2 receptor-mediated drug seeking behavior and behavioral sensitization in animals with a history of cocaine and heroin self-administration. During early phases of withdrawal (&lt;1 week), activation of dopamine D2 receptors with quinpirole resulted in robust, dose-dependent, reinstatement of (non-reinforced) responding in both cocaine- and heroin-trained rats. Cocaine and heroin seeking induced by quinpirole was associated with a dramatic enhancement of the psychomotor stimulant effects of the D2 agonist, indicating that sensitization to D2-mediated events had developed. During the late phase of withdrawal (&gt;3 weeks), reinstatement of cocaine seeking by quinpirole was still apparent, but less robust. In heroin-trained rats, increases of responding were no longer observed. Interestingly, behavioral sensitization to quinpirole was still observed in cocaine-trained rats, but was absent in heroin-trained rats. Thus, it appears that dopamine D2 receptors have a time-dependent role in relapse to cocaine and heroin seeking which is strongly associated with a behaviorally sensitized state.
We previously reported that ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine neurons are supersensitive to AMPA when recorded three days after discontinuing repeated amphetamine or cocaine administration. By increasing dopamine cell activity, this may contribute to the induction of behavioral sensitization. The goal of this study was to determine if increased sensitivity to AMPA reflects increased AMPA receptor expression in the midbrain. Immunolabeling for GluR1, GluR2, GluR2/3, and GluR4 was quantified by immunohistochemistry with 35S-labeled secondary antibodies in VTA, substantia nigra, and a transitional area. First, rats were treated for five days with saline or amphetamine (5 mg/kg) and killed three or 14 days after the last injection. No significant changes in immunolabeling were observed for any subunit at either withdrawal time. GluR1 immunolabeling was further examined in rats killed 16-18 hrs or 24 hrs after a single injection of amphetamine or repeated injections of saline, amphetamine (5 mg/kg x 5 days) or cocaine (20 mg/kg x 7 days). No significant differences were observed in any region. Finally, neither repeated amphetamine or cocaine administration significantly altered GluR1 mRNA levels as quantified by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Our results suggest that enhanced responsiveness of VTA dopamine neurons to AMPA after withdrawal from repeated stimulant administration involves mechanisms more complex than increased expression of AMPA receptor subunits.
Kainate-type ionotropic glutamate receptors (KARs) distribute widely and heterogenously throughout the central nervous system (CNS). There is now increasing evidence showing that, in addition to conventional action to mediate postsynaptic excitation, KAR also exerts presynaptic action modulating the amount of transmitter release at certain synapses in the CNS. The mechanism and physiological function of presynaptic KARs have been studied most extensively at the hippocampal mossy fiber (MF)-CA3 synapse, one of the CNS regions where the highest density of KAR subunits is expressed. One unique feature of presynaptic KARs is that their activation modulates transmitter release bi-directionally; weak activation enhances glutamate release, while strong activation leads to inhibition. These findings may be explained by their possible ionotropic action leading to axonal depolarization, which in turn regulates several voltage-dependent channels involved in action potential-dependent Ca2+ entry processes. Furthermore, physiological activation of presynaptic KAR involves an activity-dependent process. Large frequency facilitation, a form of short-term plasticity characteristic of the MF-CA3 synapse, is mediated, at least partly, by presynaptic KAR. Bi-directional and activity-dependent regulation of transmitter release by kainate autoreceptors might have physiological significance in information processing in the hippocampus and other CNS regions, as well as its well-known pathological action contributing to epileptogenesis.

Obesity is a major risk factor associated with a variety of human disorders. While its involvement in disorders such as diabetes, coronary heart disease and cancer have been well characterized, it remains to be determined if obesity has a detrimental effect on the nervous system. To address this issue we determined whether obesity serves as a risk factor for neurotoxicity. Model neurotoxicants, methamphetamine (METH) and kainic acid (KA), which are known to cause selective neurodegeneration of anatomically distinct areas of the brain, were evaluated using an animal model of obesity, the ob/ob mouse. Administration of METH and KA resulted in mortality among ob/ob mice but not among their lean littermates. While METH caused dopaminergic nerve terminal degeneration as indicated by decreased striatal dopamine (49%) and tyrosine hydroxylase protein (68%), as well as an increase in glial fibrillary acidic protein by 313% in the lean mice, these effects were exacerbated under the obese condition (96%, 86% and 602%, respectively). Similarly, a dosage of KA that did not increase glial fibrillary acidic protein in lean mice increased the hippocampal content of this protein (93%) in ob/ob mice. KA treatment resulted in extensive neuronal degeneration as determined by Fluoro-Jade B staining, decreased hippocampal microtubule-associated protein-2 immunoreactivity and increased reactive gliosis in ob/ob mice. The neurotoxic outcome in ob/ob mice remained exacerbated even when lean and ob/ob mice were dosed with METH or KA based only on a lean body mass. Administration of METH or KA resulted in up-regulation of the mitochondrial uncoupling protein-2 to a greater extent in the ob/ob mice, an effect known to reduce ATP yield and facilitate oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction. These events may underlie the enhanced neurotoxicity seen in the obese mice. In summary, our results implicate obesity as a risk factor associated with chemical- and possibly disease-induced neurodegeneration.
The aim of this study is to characterize calbindin-positive photoreceptors and their opsin content in the retina of nocturnal prosimians (Microcebus murinus), New World monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), Old World monkeys (Macaca fascicularis), and humans. To identify the calbindin and opsin content of cones, combined multiple labeling with different fluorescent probes, antibodies directed against calbindin, short, and mid-long wavelength opsins, and lectin peanut agglutinin cytochemistry were used. With the exception of Microcebus, calbindin is present in the cones of all primates but is absent from rods. The distribution of calbindin is similar in human and macaque cones, with dense label in the inner segment, cell body, axon and cone pedicle. Cones in marmoset also show dense staining in the cell body, axon and pedicle but only light label in the inner segment. Primate cone outer segments do not contain calbindin. In the primates studied, three patterns of calbindin and opsin localization are observed. In macaque and marmoset all short and mid-long wavelength cones contain calbindin. In humans, all mid-long wavelength cones contain calbindin whereas all short wavelength cones are devoid of calbindin as confirmed by confocal microscopy. In the nocturnal prosimian Microcebus none of the mid-long or short wavelength cones contain calbindin. In addition to primates, calbindin is absent in cones of other nocturnal species but is present in cones of diurnal species suggesting a difference in the role of calbindin possibly related to the adaptational states or other photoreceptor properties.
Substance P is the preferred ligand for the neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor. In vertebrate retinas, substance P is expressed by amacrine, interplexiform and ganglion cells. Substance P influences the activity of amacrine and ganglion cells and it is reported to evoke dopamine release. We investigated NK1 receptor expression in the rabbit retina using affinity-purified NK1 receptor antibodies. NK1 receptors were expressed by two distinct populations of retinal neurons. One is a population of ON-type bipolar cells characterized by axonal arborizations that ramified in the inner plexiform layer near the ganglion cell layer. Double-label studies showed that NK1 receptor-expressing bipolar cells were distinct from rod bipolar cells and from other immunocytochemically identified types of cone bipolar cells. Their density was about 2250 cells/mm2 in the visual streak and 1115 cells/mm2 in ventral mid-periphery. They were distributed in a non-random pattern. In the outer plexiform layer, the dendrites of these bipolar cells converged into heavily immunostained clusters having a punctate appearance. The density of these clusters in mid-peripheral ventral regions (about 13000 clusters/mm2) was similar to the reported cone density [Famiglietti and Sharpe (1995) Vis. Neurosci. 12, 1151-1175], suggesting these dendrites contact all cone photoreceptors. The second NK1 receptor expressing cell population corresponds to the tyrosine hydroxylase-containing amacrine cell population. NK1 receptor immunostaining was localized to the cell body and processes, but not to the processes that form the 'rings' that are known to encircle somata of AII amacrine cells. These findings show that NK1 receptor immunoreactivity is localized to a population of ON-type cone bipolar cells and to dopaminergic amacrine cells, suggesting that substance P acting on NK1 receptors influences multiple retinal circuits in the rabbit retina.
Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), a member of the neurotrophin family of neurotrophic factors, is important for cell survival, axonal growth and neuronal plasticity. Epileptiform activation can regulate the expression of neurotrophins, and increases or decreases in neurotrophins can affect both epileptogenesis and seizure-related axonal growth. Interestingly, the expression of nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor is rapidly up-regulated following seizures, while NT-3 mRNA remains unchanged or undergoes a delayed down-regulation, suggesting that NT-3 might have a different function in epileptogenesis. In the present study, we demonstrate that continuous intraventricular infusion of NT-3 in the absence of kindling triggers mossy fiber sprouting in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus and the stratum oriens of the CA3 region. Furthermore, despite this NT-3-related sprouting effect, continuous infusion of NT-3 retards the development of behavioral seizures and inhibits kindling-induced mossy fiber sprouting in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. We also show that prolonged infusion of NT-3 leads to a decrease in kindling-induced Trk phosphorylation and a down-regulation of the high-affinity Trk receptors, TrkA and TrkC, suggesting an involvement of both cholinergic nerve growth factor receptors and hippocampal NT-3 receptors in these effects. Our results demonstrate an important inhibitory role for NT-3 in seizure development and seizure-related synaptic reorganization.
The aims of this study were to determine (1) whether mesolimbic and nigrostriatal DA cell bodies degenerate to different extents after 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) is administered into their respective terminal fields and (2) whether hypothermia, associated with sodium pentobarbital anesthesia, protects DA neurons from the toxic effects of 6-OHDA. To address these questions, 6-OHDA or vehicle was infused into either the ventral or dorsal striatum or into the medial forebrain bundle, under conditions of brain normothermia or hypothermia. Two weeks post-surgery, tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cell bodies were counted in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and substantia nigra. In addition, autoradiographic labeling of tyrosine hydroxylase protein and dopamine transporter was quantified in dopamine terminal fields and cell body areas. Overall, DA cell bodies in the VTA were substantially less susceptible than those in the substantia nigra to depletion of dopaminergic markers. Hypothermia provided two types of neuroprotection. The first occurred when 6-OHDA was administered into the dorsal striatum, and was associated with a 30-50% increase in residual dopaminergic markers in the lateral portion of the VTA. The second neuroprotective effect of hypothermia occurred when 6-OHDA was given into the medial forebrain bundle. This was associated with a 200-300% increase in residual dopaminergic markers in the mesolimbic and nigrostriatal terminal fields; no significant protection occurred in the cell body regions.Collectively, these findings show that (1) the dopaminergic somata in the substantia nigra are more susceptible than those in the VTA to 6-OHDA-induced denervation, and (2) hypothermia can provide anatomically selective neuroprotection within the substantia nigra-VTA cell population. The continued survival of mesolimbic dopamine cell bodies after a 6-OHDA lesion may have functional implications relating to drugs of abuse, as somatodendritic release of dopamine in the VTA has been shown to play a role in the effectiveness of cocaine reward.
The amygdala has been implicated in processing information about the emotional significance of the environment and in the expression of emotions, through robust pathways with prefrontal, anterior temporal areas, and central autonomic structures. We investigated the anatomic organization and intersection of these pathways in the amygdala in rhesus monkeys with the aid of bidirectional, retrograde and anterograde tracers. Connections of the amygdala with orbitofrontal and medial prefrontal areas were robust and bidirectional, whereas connections with lateral prefrontal areas were sparse, unidirectional and ascending. Orbitofrontal axons terminated densely in a narrow band around the borders of the magnocellular basolateral nucleus, surrounded by projection neurons along a continuum through the nuclei of the basal complex. In contrast, the input and output zones of medial prefrontal areas were intermingled in the amygdala. Moreover, medial prefrontal axonal terminations were expansive, spreading into the parvicellular basolateral nucleus, which is robustly connected with hypothalamic autonomic structures, suggesting that they may influence the expressive emotional system of the amygdala. On the other hand, orbitofrontal axons heavily targeted the intercalated masses, which issue inhibitory projections to the central nucleus, at least in rats and cats. The central nucleus, in turn, issues a significant inhibitory projection to hypothalamic and brainstem autonomic structures. This evidence suggests that orbitofrontal areas exercise control on the internal processing of the amygdala. In addition, the results provided direct evidence that the connections of anterior temporal visual and auditory association cortices occupy overlapping territories with the orbitofrontal cortices particularly in the posterior half of the amygdala, and specifically within the intermediate sector of the basolateral nucleus and in the magnocellular part of the basomedial nucleus (also known as accessory basal), suggesting a closely linked triadic network. This intricate network may be recruited in cognitive tasks that are inextricably linked with emotional associations.
Respiration-related membrane potential fluctuations were recorded in hypoglossal (XII) motoneurons and pre-Btzinger complex (pre-BtC) interneurons in medullary slices from perinatal rats. Bath application of serotonin (5-HT) evoked a ketanserine-sensitive depolarization (approximately 11 mV) and tonic spike discharge in XII motoneurons, whereas pre-BtC neurons responded with a &lt;6 mV depolarization and no tonic discharge. The membrane effects were accompanied by an increase in respiratory frequency by up to 260% in 64% of preparations. A frequency decrease leading to block of respiratory activity could also occur (20%) as well as an initial acceleration that turned into a frequency depression (16%). In contrast, iontophoresis of 5-HT into the pre-BtC exclusively increased respiratory frequency by 30-220%, whereas iontophoresis into the XII nucleus did not change respiratory frequency but induced tonic nerve discharge. The effects of local iontophoretic administration of 5-HT on membrane properties of XII and pre-BtC cells were very similar to those upon bath application. Bath application and iontophoresis of the 5-HT2 receptor agonist -methyl-hydroxytryptamine mimicked the effects of 5-HT. Bath application of the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxydipropylaminotetralin hydrobromide did not affect XII nerve bursting or pre-BtC neurons. Iontophoresis of 8-hydroxydipropylaminotetralin hydrobromide had almost no effect on respiratory frequency and induced in the interneurons either a depolarization or hyperpolarization (&lt;5 mV) which was blocked by the 5-HT1A receptor antagonist N-(2-(4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl)ethyl)N-2-pyridinylcyclohexane carboxamide. In conclusion, 5-HT-evoked tonic excitation of respiratory XII motoneurons is mediated by postsynaptic 5-HT2 receptors. The excitatory effects on respiratory rhythm are also primarily attributable to postsynaptic 5-HT2 receptors of pre-BtC neurons. Additional modulatory effects on the interneurons appear to be mediated by postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors.
To elucidate the formation of early thalamocortical synapses we recorded optical images with voltage-sensitive dyes from the cerebral cortex of prenatal rats by selective thalamic stimulation of thalamocortical slice preparations. At embryonic day (E) 17, thalamic stimulation elicited excitation that rapidly propagated through the internal capsule to the cortex. These responses lasted less than 15 ms, and were not affected by the application of glutamate receptor antagonists, suggesting that they might reflect presynaptic fiber responses. At E18, long-lasting (more than 300 ms) responses appeared in the internal capsule and in subplate. By E19, long-lasting responses increased in the cortical subplate. By E21, shortly before birth, the deep cortical layers were also activated in addition to the subplate. These long-lasting responses seen in the internal capsule and subplate were blocked by the antagonist perfusion, but the first spike-like responses still remained. The laminar location of the responses was confirmed in the same slices by Nissl staining and subplate cells were labeled by birthdating with bromodeoxyuridine at E13. Our results demonstrate that there is a few days delay between the arrival of thalamocortical axons at the subplate at E16 and the appearance of functional thalamocortical synaptic transmission at E19. Since thalamocortical connections are already functional within the subplate and in the deep cortical plate at embryonic ages, prenatal thalamocortical synaptic connections could influence cortical circuit formation before birth.
Synaptophysin, an integral membrane glycoprotein of synaptic vesicles, has been widely used to investigate synaptogenesis in both animal models and human patients. Kindling is an experimental model of complex partial seizures with secondary generalization, and a useful model for studying activation-induced neural growth in adult systems. Many studies using Timm staining have shown that kindling promotes sprouting in the mossy fiber pathway of the dentate gyrus. In the present study, we used synaptophysin immunohistochemistry to demonstrate activation-induced neural sprouting in non-mossy fiber cortical pathways in the adult rat. We found a significant kindling-induced increase in synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the stratum radiatum of CA1 and stratum lucidum/radiatum of CA3, the hilus, the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, and layer II/III of the piriform cortex, but no significant change in layer II/III of the entorhinal cortex, 4 weeks after the last kindling stimulation. We also found that synaptophysin immunoreactivity was lowest in CA3 near the hilus and increased with increasing distance from the hilus, a reverse pattern to that seen with Timm stains in stratum oriens following kindling. Furthermore, synaptophysin immunoreactivity was lowest in dorsal and greatest in ventral sections of both CA3 and dentate gyrus in both kindled and non-kindled animals. This demonstrates that different populations of sprouting axons are labeled by these two techniques, and suggests that activation-induced sprouting extends well beyond the hippocampal mossy fiber system.
The effects of 21-day exposure to restraint stress on mRNA levels of the cell adhesion molecules NCAM and L1 were evaluated in different hippocampal regions (CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus) and other structures (thalamus, prefrontal and frontal cortices, and striatum) of the rat brain. A general decrease in gene expression of the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) was found throughout the brain, particularly in all hippocampal subregions. On the contrary, transcripts for the adhesion molecule L1 were specifically increased at the level of the hippocampus, especially in the dorsal dentate gyrus and area CA3. mRNA for the NCAM180 isoform was detected unchanged in all brain areas examined after chronic stress. A second experiment explored whether there would be cognitive alterations associated with this stress procedure and molecular regulation. Thus, after exposure to the same restraint regimen, performance in the water maze was evaluated. Although stressed rats displayed the ability to learn the task throughout the training session, they showed a transient deficit in the initial phase of the acquisition. In conclusion, our findings indicate that chronic stress interferes with the mechanisms involved in the synthesis of cell adhesion molecules of the immunoglobulin superfamily. Furthermore, they suggest that these effects might be involved in the mechanisms by which stress induces structural and functional alterations in the central nervous system and, particularly, in the hippocampus.
Glutamate-gated ion channels are widely expressed in neurons where they serve a host of cellular functions. An appealing, but yet unexplored, way to delineate the functions of particular glutamate receptor subtypes is to direct the expression of dominant-negative and gain-of-function mutant subunits. We tested the ability of two dominant-negative subunits, an alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazolproprionic acid receptor subunit and a kainate receptor subunit, to silence recombinant and neuronal glutamate receptors. Co-expression studies in non-neuronal cells indicated that the inclusion of a single mutant subunit was sufficient to silence the receptor. When expressed in cerebellar granule cells, the dominant-negative subunits silenced native channels in a subtype-specific fashion. Immunocytochemical staining of control and transfected neurons, as well as studies with a gain-of-function glutamate receptor-1 mutant, indicated that the mutant subunits were expressed at levels roughly equal to the total abundance of related native subunits, and both dominant-negatives suppressed native channel expression 60-65% when tested 24 h post-transfection. If co-assembly of the mutant subunits with related native subunits is combinatorial, this level of suppression gives receptor half-lives of approximately 20 h.
The effects of Ptychodiscus brevis toxin (PbTx) on the Ia-alpha motoneuron synaptic transmission in neonatal rat spinal cord in vitro was examined. The stimulation of a dorsal root evoked monosynaptic (MSR) and polysynaptic reflex (PSR) potentials in the segmental ventral root in Mg2+-free medium. Superfusion with PbTx (2.8-84 microM) depressed the MSR and the PSR in a concentration-dependent manner. At 2.8 microM of PbTx, the depression of MSR and PSR was 24+/-8.3% and 37+/-9.7%, respectively. The maximal depression was seen at 84 microM of the toxin (78% for MSR and 96% for PSR). The concentration of toxin required to produce 50% depression was 28.3+/-6.4 microM for MSR and 5.5+/-1.1 microM for PSR. The PbTx (28 microM) did not alter the magnitude of the dorsal root or the ventral root potentials. Addition of MgSO4 (1.3 mM) or DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV; 10 microM) to the physiological solution abolished the PSR totally and decreased the MSR by about 30%. In both the conditions, the PbTx-induced depression of the MSR was attenuated significantly. The PbTx-induced depression was blocked completely in the presence of APV+6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (0.1 microM). NMDA (1 microM) by itself did not alter the magnitude of MSR or PSR but enhanced the PbTx-induced depression (28 microM) of PSR significantly. 7-Chlorokynurenic acid (3 microM; glycine(B) antagonist) did not block the PbTx-induced depression of MSR. D-serine (glycine(B) agonist) did not reverse the PbTx-induced depression of reflexes although it reversed the 7-chlorokynurenic acid-induced depression of PSR. The results indicate that the PbTx depressed the spinal reflexes without altering the magnitude of dorsal root or ventral root activity. The depression of the PSR involved NMDA receptors while that of the MSR involved NMDA and non-NMDA receptors. The PbTx actions did not involve the glycine(B) site of the NMDA receptor.
Dissociated embryonic ventral mesencephalic tissue is a source of dopaminergic neurones in both cell culture and neural transplantation studies. Around 90% of grafted dopaminergic neurones die within 1 week after transplantation. Little is known about when the cell death is triggered and what forms of cell death predominate. Using electron microscopy, we characterised ultrastructural changes in dissected embryonic day 14 rat mesencephalic tissue before and after tissue dissociation. In addition, cell viability was evaluated using Trypan Blue and Hoechst/Ethidium Homodimer. Several cells exhibited leaky outer membranes (permitting entry of vital stains) and ultrastructural degeneration already immediately after the mesencephalon was dissected, and before it was mechanically disrupted. After 2 h at room temperature, 90% of the remaining cells had intact outer membranes. However, when estimating cells lost acutely in the tissue dissociation, in addition to cells exhibiting condensed chromatin and organellar changes, we suggest that only around 14% of the cells initially dissected in the mesencephalic tissue pieces remained healthy after 2 h. There was a peak in calpain activity (specific cleavage of fodrin) immediately following tissue dissociation, and it subsided during the next few hours. Caspase-3 activity was initially low, but increased almost 20-fold 4 h after tissue disruption. Interestingly, extensive degradation of caspase-3 occurred already directly after dissection and was at least partly calpain-dependent. Our data suggest that, in addition to cells undergoing primary necrosis, some cells undergo apoptotic or related changes soon after tissue harvesting, and eventually undergo a secondary necrosis. In summary, embryonic mesencephalic cells exhibit multiple degenerative changes very early on in the neural transplant/tissue culture preparation protocol.
The ventral part of the oral pontine reticular nucleus (vRPO) is an important region for the generation and maintenance of REM sleep. Firing activity and synaptic response properties of morphologically identified vRPO neurons have been investigated in urethane-anaesthetized cats. Extracellular recordings were performed through recording micropipettes and neurons were extracellularly stained with biocytin. Two types of neurons were identified under spontaneous conditions: type I neurons (77%) are characterized by non-rhythmic firing; type II neurons (23%) display single spikes firing rhythmically at between 7 and 22 Hz. Type I neurons displayed ellipsoid somata with thick dendritic trunks and axons that arose from either the soma or the initial dendritic segment; these axons could not be clearly followed. Type II neurons showed polygonal somata with radial dendrites; their axons branched at a small distance from the soma. Electrical stimulation of the contralateral vRPO elicited responses in both neuron types (57% and 31%, respectively); this effect was blocked by the non-NMDA glutamatergic receptor antagonist CNQX. Electrical stimulation of the PpT evoked orthodromic responses in type I neurons (41%) and inhibited the firing rate of all type II neurons for 50-100 ms. Both effects were blocked by the muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine. The cholinergic agonist, carbachol, increased the firing rate in most type I neurons and inhibited most type II neurons in these animals. The results demonstrated that the activity of vRPO neurons is modulated through the postsynaptic activation exerted by extrinsic afferents on cholinergic and glutamatergic receptors.
This study reports how hippocampal individual cells and cell assemblies cooperate for neural coding of pitch and temporal information in memory processes for auditory stimuli. Each rat performed two tasks, one requiring discrimination of auditory pitch (high or low) and the other requiring discrimination of their duration (long or short). Some CA1 and CA3 complex-spike neurons showed task-related differential activity between the high and low tones in only the pitch-discrimination task. However, without exception, neurons which showed task-related differential activity between the long and short tones in the duration-discrimination task were always task-related neurons in the pitch-discrimination task. These results suggest that temporal information (long or short), in contrast to pitch information (high or low), cannot be coded independently by specific neurons. The results also indicate that the two different behavioral tasks cannot be fully differentiated by the task-related single neurons alone and suggest a model of cell-assembly coding of the tasks. Cross-correlation analysis among activities of simultaneously recorded multiple neurons supported the suggested cell-assembly model.Considering those results, this study concludes that dual coding by hippocampal single neurons and cell assemblies is working in memory processing of pitch and temporal information of auditory stimuli. The single neurons encode both auditory pitches and their temporal lengths and the cell assemblies encode types of tasks (contexts or situations) in which the pitch and the temporal information are processed.
First-order interneurons that project to hypoglossal motoneurons are distributed within reticular formation subdivisions in the pons and medulla in areas thought to control licking, swallowing, chewing, and respiration. Movement of the tongue in each of these functions is achieved by the coordinated action of both intrinsic and extrinsic lingual muscles. Interneuron populations that project to these different lingual motoneuronal pools appear to be largely overlapping in the reticular formation. Because of the functional coupling between intrinsic and extrinsic muscles during most tongue movements, one might predict that individual pre-hypoglossal interneurons project to multiple motoneuronal pools. To test this hypothesis, one strain of pseudorabies virus was injected into the styloglossus muscle (an extrinsic lingual muscle) and a second strain of pseudorabies virus was injected into the intrinsic lingual muscles of the anterior tongue in the same preparation. Rats were perfused with fixative 84-96 h later, and dual-labeling immunohistochemistry was performed to reveal populations of single- and double-labeled brainstem neurons. Motoneurons innervating the different lingual muscles were spatially segregated within the hypoglossal motor nucleus, and no double-labeled motoneurons were observed. In contrast, pre-hypoglossal neurons projecting to each lingual motoneuron pool were highly overlapping in the reticular formation, and many were double-labeled. These observations suggest that coactivation of lingual muscles can be achieved, at least in part, through divergent projections of first-order interneurons to anatomically and functionally distinct pools of lingual motoneurons in the hypoglossal nucleus.
Fast rhythmic bursting pyramidal neuron or chattering neuron is a promising candidate for the pacemaker of coherent gamma-band (25-70 Hz) cortical oscillation. It, however, still remains to be clarified how the neuron generates such high-frequency bursts. Here, we demonstrate in a single-compartment model neuron that the fast rhythmic bursts (FRBs) can be achieved through Ca2+-activated channels in the entire gamma frequency range. In a previous in vitro study, a subset of rat cortical pyramidal cells displayed a long-lasting depolarizing afterpotential (DAP) following a plateau-type action potential when K+ conductances were suppressed with Cs+, and this DAP was found to be mediated by a Ca2+-dependent cationic current. This current appeared also suitable for producing a hump-like DAP, a characteristic of the chattering neurons, because of its reversal potential being approximately -40 mV. In the present theoretical study, we show that the enhancement of such a DAP leads to generation of doublet/triplet spikes seen during FRBs. The firing pattern during FRBs is primarily determined by a Ca2+-dependent cationic current and a small-conductance Ca2+-dependent potassium current, which are differentially activated by a biphasically decaying Ca2+ transient produced by fast buffering and a slow pump extrusion after each spike. With varying intensities of injected current pulses, the interburst frequencies of the FRBs range over the entire gamma frequency band (25-70 Hz) in our model, while the intraburst frequencies remain higher than 300 Hz. Our model suggests that FRBs are essentially generated in the soma, unlike the model based on a persistent sodium current, and that the alteration of Ca2+ sensitivity of Ca2+-dependent cationic current plays an essential role in controlling the FRB pattern.
Elevation of circulating corticosterone levels, either through exogenous administration of the hormone or following stress exposure, is known to reduce hippocampal synaptic potentiation in rodents. It is presently debated whether this reduction is due to activation of hippocampal glucocorticoid receptors or is primarily caused in other brain structures projecting to the hippocampus. To address this issue, we examined whether synaptic potentiation in hippocampal slices from mice with low basal corticosterone levels was altered 1-4 h after a brief in vitro administration of 100 nM corticosterone. Population spike and field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) were recorded in the cell and dendritic layers, respectively, of the CA1 area, in response to Schaffer collateral/commissural fiber stimulation. Basal characteristics of the stimulus-response relationship were not affected by corticosterone treatment, except that after corticosterone treatment the maximal fEPSP slope was reduced while the excitability ratio was increased. For studies on potentiation of the fEPSP and population spike, stimulus intensities were chosen to evoke half maximal responses before potentiation; this intensity was significantly lower for the fEPSP than for the population spike. Primed burst potentiation of the fEPSP but not population spike was significantly attenuated after corticosterone treatment. When using a more rigorous stimulation paradigm, i.e. theta burst potentiation, synaptic potentiation was not affected by corticosterone. Raising corticosterone levels in mice by exposure to a psychosocial stressor led to comparable results in subsequent in vitro experiments; stress reduced primed burst potentiation only of the fEPSP. These data support that corticosterone affects synaptic potentiation in the mouse via direct activation of hippocampal glucocorticoid receptors but only when using mild stimulation conditions.
The subthalamic nucleus participates in the control of movement and is considered a surgical target in the treatment of parkinsonian symptoms. Using the rat brain in vitro slice technique we show that sustained high-frequency (&gt;100 Hz) electrical stimulation (i.e., 'tetanic stimulation') of the nucleus, as used in humans to treat Parkinson's disease, silenced subthalamic neurons. Two main cell types were identified. 'Tonic cells' (68%) showed delayed inward rectification, fired continuously, switched to bursting and stopped firing when strongly depolarized with injected current. Tetanic stimulation of the nucleus induced a steady depolarization (approximately 18 mV) that triggered action potentials at a high rate followed by bursts and finally (approximately 25 s) totally silenced tonic cells. The control tonic activity was recovered rapidly (&lt;10 s) after ending stimulation. 'Phasic cells' (25%) discharged a single initial brief burst of action potentials both when depolarized by prolonged current injection and tetanic stimulation and did not show inward rectification. An infrequent cell type called 'phasic-tonic' (7%) showed a mixed discharge. We suggest that the silencing effect of tetanic stimulation is not a frequency-dependent presynaptic depression and could result from the gradual inactivation of Na+-mediated action potentials. These findings suggest that the remission of parkinsonian symptoms by treatment with high-frequency electrical stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus in humans may primarily reside on its capacity to suppress the action potential activity of subthalamic neurons.
The role of the common neurotrophin receptor p75 (p75NTR) in neuronal survival and cell death remains controversial. On the one hand, p75NTR provides a positive modulatory influence on nerve growth factor (NGF) signaling through the high affinity neurotrophin receptor TrkA, and hence increases NGF survival signaling. However, p75NTR may also signal independently of TrkA, causing cell death or cell survival, depending on the cell type and stage of development. Here we demonstrate that TrkA is expressed in primary cultures of hippocampal neurons and is activated by NGF within 10 min of exposure. In primary hippocampal cultures neuroprotection by NGF against glutamate toxicity was mediated by NF-kappaB and accompanied by an increased expression of neuroprotective NF-kappaB target genes Bcl-2 and Bcl-xl. In mouse hippocampal cells lacking p75NTR (p75NTR-/-) activation of TrkA by NGF was not detectable. Moreover, neuroprotection by NGF against glutamate toxicity was abolished in p75NTR-/- neurons, and the expression of bcl-2 and bcl-xl was markedly reduced as compared to wildtype cells. NGF increased TrkA phosphorylation in hippocampal neurons and provided protection that required phosphoinositol-3-phosphate (PI3)-kinase activity and Akt phosphorylation, whereas the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK), extracellular-regulated kinases (Erk) 1/2, were not involved. P75NTR signaling independent of TrkA, such as increased neutral sphingomyelinase (NSMase) activity causing enhanced levels of ceramide, were not detected after exposure of hippocampal neurons to NGF. Interestingly, inhibition of sphingosine-kinase blocked the neuroprotective effect of NGF, suggesting that sphingosine-1-phosphate was also involved in NGF-mediated survival in our cultured hippocampal neurons. Overall, our results indicate an essential role for p75NTR in supporting NGF-triggered TrkA signaling pathways mediating neuronal survival in hippocampal neurons.
One of the essential requirements even in the most ancient life forms is to be able to preserve body fluid medium. In line with such requirement, animals need to perform different behaviors to cope with water shortages. As angiotensin II (ANGII) is involved on a widespread range of functions in vertebrates, including memory modulation, an integrative role, in response to an environmental water shortage, has been envisioned. Previous work on the semi-terrestrial and brackish-water crab Chasmagnathus granulatus showed that endogenous ANGII enhanced an associative long-term memory and, in addition, that high salinity environment induces both an increase of brain ANGII levels and memory improvement. Here, we show that in the crab Chasmagnathus air exposure transiently increases blood sodium concentration, significantly increases brain ANGII immunoreactivity, and has a facilitatory effect on memory that is abolished by a non-selective ANGII receptor antagonist, saralasin. Furthermore, Rel/NF-kappaB, a transcription factor activated by ANGII in mammals and during memory consolidation in Chasmagnathus brain, is induced in the crab's brain by air exposure. Moreover, nuclear brain NF-kappaB is activated by ANGII, and this effect is reversed by saralasin. Our results constitute the first demonstration in an invertebrate that cognitive functions are modulated by an environmental stimulus through a neuropeptide and give evolutionary support to the role of angiotensins in memory processes. Moreover, these results suggest that angiotensinergic system is preserved across evolution not only in its structure and molecular mechanisms, but also in its capability of coordinating specific adaptative responses.
In the present study we have investigated the possible role of gap junctions in the induction and manifestation of 4-aminopyridine-induced acute seizure activity both at the primary focus and at the mirror focus in anaesthetized rats by combining electrophysiological, pharmacological and molecular biological techniques. In the course of the intracellular recordings, unusual firing patterns that are assumed to be mediated by electrical coupling and appearing either randomly or in close time-locked manner with the ictal discharges were observed. In another series of experiments, a significant decrease in the intensity of seizure activity of the already active epileptic foci was detected when electrical synaptic transmission was blocked by carbenoxolone either at the primary focus or at the mirror focus. When electrical synaptic transmission was depressed relative to the initial baseline prior to the induction of epileptic focus, only a mild influence on the induction of seizure discharges occurred. The role of the gap junctional communication in the epileptiform activity was further investigated by following the expression pattern of two connexin genes. Both, connexin-32 and connexin-43 mRNA levels were significantly elevated at the primary focus as well as at the mirror focus, after 60 min of repeated ictal discharges. We conclude that gap junction communication probably became a part of the neuronal synchronization both in the primary and in the secondarily-induced acute epileptiform activity in the neocortex in vivo. These results, together with earlier observations, indicate a direction for the development of new drugs targeting gap junctions for therapeutic intervention.
Noradrenaline (NA) plays an important role in compensating for the loss in dopaminergic (DA) function following lesions of the DA neurones of the substantia nigra (SN). Alpha2-adrenoceptors are largely expressed in these neurones, but the cellular response to their activation is unknown. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made from DA neurones of rat SN. At a holding potential of -60 mV, bath application of NA (50 microM) induced an inward current (-20.3+/-10.0 pA) in 50% of the recorded neurones. This effect was mimicked by UK-14304 (50 microM), a specific alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist, whereas alpha1-adrenoceptor and beta-adrenoceptor agonists failed to induce a response. Surprisingly, alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonists (idazoxan, RX-811059, SKF-86466 and yohimbine) also induced an inward current that could occlude the one induced by UK-14304, suggesting that they may act as alpha2-adrenoceptor agonists. The inward current results from an increase in cationic conductance identical to the one previously described in these neurones, as neurotensin (1 microM), known to activate it, occluded the inward current induced by UK-14304. In addition, GABAergic miniature inhibitory postsynaptic current frequency was increased by activation of presynaptic alpha2-adrenoceptors. We conclude that the effects of NA on alpha2-adrenoceptors can contribute to the previously described composite action of NA on DA neurone firing and can be pharmacologically differentiated from the effect of NA on DA and neighbouring neurones known to be mediated through alpha1-adrenoceptors.
Chronic administration of L-DOPA to MPTP-treated common marmosets induces marked dyskinesia while repeated administration of equivalent antiparkisonian doses of ropinirole and bromocriptine produces only mild involuntary movements. The occurrence of dyskinesia has been associated with an altered balance between the direct and indirect striatal output pathways. Using in situ hybridisation histochemistry, we now compare the effects of these drug treatments on striatal preproenkephalin-A (PPE-A) and adenosine A(2a) receptor mRNA expression as markers of the indirect pathway and striatal preprotachykinin (PPT) mRNA and preproenkephalin-B (PPE-B, prodynorphin) mRNA expression as markers of the direct pathway.The equivalent marked losses of specific [3H]mazindol binding in the striatum of all drug treatment groups confirmed the identical nature of the nigral cell loss produced by MPTP treatment. MPTP-induced destruction of the nigro-striatal pathway markedly increased the level of PPE-A mRNA in the caudate nucleus and putamen and decreased the levels of PPT and PPE-B mRNA relative to normal animals. Repeated treatment with L-DOPA for 30 days produced marked dyskinesia but had no effect on the MPTP-induced increase in PPE-A mRNA in the caudate nucleus and putamen. In contrast, L-DOPA treatment normalised the MPTP-induced decrease in the level of PPT and PPE-B mRNA. Repeated treatment with ropinirole produced little or no dyskinesia but markedly reversed the MPTP-induced elevation in PPE-A mRNA in the caudate nucleus and putamen. However, it had no effect on the decrease in PPT or PPE-B mRNA. Similarly, bromocriptine treatment which induced only mild dyskinesia attenuated the MPTP-induced elevation in PPE-A mRNA in the caudate nucleus and putamen with no effect on reduced striatal PPT or PPE-B mRNA. Neither MPTP treatment nor treatment with L-DOPA, bromocriptine or ropinirole had any effect on adenosine A(2a) receptor mRNA in the striatum. These patterns of alteration in striatal PPE-A and PPT and PPE-B mRNA produced by L-DOPA, bromocriptine and ropinirole show differential involvement of markers of the direct and indirect striatal output pathways related to improvement of locomotor activity and mirror the relative abilities of the drugs to induce dyskinesia.
The anti-convulsive effects of neuropeptide Y have been suggested in several animal models of epilepsy. We have found the sustained increase of neuropeptide Y contents and the seizure-induced elevation of hippocampal messenger RNA in a novel spontaneous epileptic mutant rat: Noda epileptic rat. In the present study, we investigated the change of neuropeptide Y Y1 and Y2 receptor messenger RNA expressions and binding sites in the hippocampus following a spontaneous generalized tonic-clonic seizure of Noda epileptic rat. Furthermore, the binding sites of a more recently isolated receptor subtype, neuropeptide Y Y5 receptors, were also evaluated by receptor autoradiography. A marked elevation of neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity in the mossy fiber, and Y2-receptor up-regulation in the dentate gyrus were observed in the hippocampus of Noda epileptic rat, which coincided with the previous results of the other epileptic models. In contrast, Y1-receptor down-regulation was not found after a spontaneous seizure of Noda epileptic rat while this occurs in kindling and after kainic acid-induced seizures. [125I][Leu31, Pro34]peptide YY/BIBP 3226-insensitive (Y5 receptor) binding sites in CA1 stratum radiatum were significantly decreased following a spontaneous seizure of Noda epileptic rat. The present results suggest that a spontaneous seizure of Noda epileptic rat induces significant changes in neuropeptide Y-mediated transmission in the hippocampus via Y2 and Y5 receptors, but not Y1 receptors. Therefore, specific subset of neuropeptide Y receptor subtypes might be involved in the epileptogenesis of Noda epileptic rat.
Neurokinins (substance P, neurokinin A and neurokinin B) and the neurokinin receptors, the NK1 and NK3 receptors, are largely expressed in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) where they are involved in the central regulation of visceral function. Studying the mechanisms that control neurokinin release can provide valuable information concerning the control of autonomic functions subserved by the NST. Glutamate is the principal excitatory neurotransmitter in the NST and the main neurotransmitter of afferent vagal fibers. Neurokinins and glutamate may interact within the NST. In the present study, we have examined the contribution of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) subtypes of glutamate receptors on the release of the endogenous neurokinins in the NST. We used internalization of the NK1 or NK3 receptor as an index of endogenous neurokinin release assessed by immunocytochemical visualization of the NK1 or NK3 receptor endocytosis. Experiments were performed in vitro using rat brainstem slices. A first series of experiments were done in order to validate our in vitro preparation. Application of substance P, neurokinin A or neurokinin B induced dose-dependent internalization of NK1 and NK3 receptor. This was blocked by the endocytosis inhibitor, phenylarzine oxide. The NK1 receptor antagonist SR140333 blocked internalization of NK1 receptor induced by the three neurokinins. In addition, the internalization NK1 or NK3 receptor was reversible. These results demonstrate that internalization and recycling mechanisms of NK1 or NK3 receptor were preserved in in vitro brainstem slices. Application of NMDA or AMPA induced internalization of NK1 receptor. This was blocked by the application of SR140333 suggesting that NK1 receptor internalization is due to the binding of endogenous neurokinin released under the effects of NMDA and AMPA. Application of NMDA or AMPA had no effect on NK3 receptor. Application of tetrodotoxin blocked NK1 receptor internalization induced by NMDA, demonstrating that the release of neurokinins is dependent of axon potential propagation. This result excludes the hypothesis of a release on neurokinins via pre-synaptic NMDA receptors located on neurokinin-containing axon terminals. NMDA or AMPA may directly induce neurokinin release in the NST by acting on receptors located on the cell bodies and dendrites of neurokinin-containing neurons. Release of neurokinins may also be the result of a general activation of neuron networks of the NST by NMDA or AMPA. To conclude, our results suggest that glutamate, through activation of post-synaptic NMDA and AMPA receptors, contributes to neurokinin signaling in the NST.
Delta-catenin (or neural plakophilin-related arm-repeat protein/neurojungin) is primarily a brain specific member of the p120(ctn) subfamily of armadillo/beta-catenin proteins that play important roles in neuronal development. Our previous studies have shown that the ectopic expression of delta-catenin induces the formation of dendrite-like extensions and that the overexpression of delta-catenin promotes dendritic branching and increases spine density. Here we demonstrate that delta-catenin displays a dendritic distribution pattern in the adult mouse brain and is co-enriched with postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95) in the detergent insoluble postsynaptic scaffolds. Delta-catenin forms stable complexes with excitatory neurotransmitter receptors including ionotropic N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor 2A (NR2A), metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha (mGluR1alpha), as well as PSD-95 in vivo. In cultured primary embryonic neurons, delta-catenin clusters co-distribute with filamentous actin and resist detergent extraction. In dissociated hippocampal neurons overexpressing delta-catenin, glutamate stimulation leads to a rapid redistribution of delta-catenin that can be attenuated by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and dizocilpine, selective inhibitors of ionotropic glutamate receptors. Upon glutamate receptor activation, delta-catenin becomes down-regulated and its association with NR2A and mGluR1alpha in cultured neurons is diminished. These findings support a possible functional connection between delta-catenin and the glutamatergic excitatory synaptic signaling pathway during neuronal development.
Clinical and preclinical research suggests a major role of mesocortical dopamine (DA) in psychopathology through regulation of subcortical, especially mesoaccumbens, DA functioning. In these experiments we demonstrate that the high vulnerability to stress-induced 'despair' and mesoaccumbens DA inhibition, exhibited by mice of the inbred strain C57BL/6 (C57) in a common animal model of depression, depends on their being highly susceptible to stress-induced mesocortical DA activation. Thus, C57 mice but not mice of the DBA/2 strain showed an extremely high level of immobility on their first experience with the forced swimming test (FST) as well as immediate and strong activation of mesocortical DA metabolism and inhibition of mesoaccumbens DA metabolism and release. In addition, the behavioral and the mesoaccumbens DA responses to FST in C57 mice were reduced and reversed, respectively, by bilateral mesocortical DA depletion. Finally, chronic treatment with the antidepressant clomipramine reduced immobility and eliminated both mesocortical DA activation and mesoaccumbens DA inhibition in response to FST. These results suggest that a genetically determined susceptibility to stress by the mesocortical DA system may favor the development of pathological behavioral responses through inhibition of subcortical DA transmission.
Cyclosporine A (CsA) neurotoxicity is a common cause of seizures in transplant patients and others receiving immunosuppressive therapy. CsA at concentrations higher than the levels estimated for cerebrospinal fluid of the patients suffering from seizure attacks was ineffective to induce epileptiform field potentials (EFP) in in vitro brain-slice preparation. The aim of this study was to test the effect of CsA at lower concentrations on neuronal activity. Guinea-pig hippocampal slices were exposed to artificial cerebrospinal fluid containing CsA (0.1-2 microM). Furthermore, the effects of CsA (0.25-10 microM) were tested on EFP elicited by omission of Mg2+ from superfusate. Low concentrations of CsA (0.1-0.25 microM) induced EFP while higher doses (0.5-2 microM) failed to decrease the seizure threshold. CsA at concentrations of 0.25 and 1 microM had no significant effect on the low Mg2+-induced EFP. Higher CsA concentration (10 microM) strongly suppressed EFP. The results indicate that CsA at doses that are probably clinically relevant increases the neuronal excitability.
Previous studies have shown that hypoxia results in increased phosphorylation of CREB protein that mediates gene expression including that of the pro-apoptotic gene bax. We also have shown that hypoxia-induced expression of Bax protein is prevented by blocking nitric oxide synthase (NOS). The present study tests the hypothesis that inhibition of NOS by N-nitro-L-arginine (NNLA) will prevent the hypoxia-induced increased phosphorylation of CREB protein in neuronal nuclei of newborn piglets. To test this hypothesis, phosphorylation of CREB protein was assessed by immunoblotting neuronal nuclear proteins from five normoxic (Nx), 10 hypoxic (Hx) and five Hx-NNLA-treated 3-5-day-old piglets. NNLA (40 mg/kg) or saline was infused over 60 min prior to induction of hypoxia. Hypoxia was achieved by reducing the FiO(2) (0.15 to 0.05) for 60 min and documented biochemically by ATP and phosphocreatine (PCr) levels. Neuronal nuclei were isolated using discontinuous sucrose gradient centrifugation and purified. Nuclear proteins were separated on 12% sodium dodecylsulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, transferred to nitrocellulose membranes, reacted with anti-phosphorylated CREB protein antibody and conjugated with horseradish peroxidase antibody. Protein bands were detected using the enhanced chemiluminescence method and quantitated by imaging densitometry. Protein density was expressed as absorbance (OD)xmm(2). ATP levels (micromol/g brain) were 4.3+/-0.6 in the Nx group, 1.3+/-0.5 in the Hx group (P&lt;0.001) and 1.1+/-0.2 in the Hx-NNLA group (P&lt;0.001 vs. Nx and Hx). Similarly, PCr levels (micromol/g brain) were 3.8+/-0.6 in the Nx group, 0.7+/-0.2 in the Hx group (P&lt;0.001) and 0.6+/-0.1 in the Hx-NNLA group (P&lt;0.001 vs. Nx and Hx). Density of phosphorylated CREB protein (ODxmm(2)) was 134.2+/-52.4 in the Nx group compared to 746.0+/-76.8 in the Hx group (P&lt;0.05) and 491.1+/-40.9 in the Hx-NNLA group (P&lt;0.05 Hx). The data show that NOS inhibition attenuates the hypoxia-induced increase in CREB protein phosphorylation in the cerebral cortex of newborn piglets.
The similarity of mode of action, behavior, and gene response between Drosophila melanogaster and mammalian systems, combined with the power of genetics, have recently made the fly an attractive system to study underlying mechanisms of drug abuse, addiction, and mental disorders. The present studies define the behavioral and molecular effects of the powerful hallucinogen lysergic acid diethylamide in Drosophila. Pharmacological activation of serotonin receptors in the fly by lysergic acid diethylamide induces behaviors not unlike those observed in mammalian systems. These include alterations in visual processing abilities, reduced locomotor activity, and altered gene expression within the brain. Many of these effects are due to activation of the same serotonin receptor subtypes that are thought to be the primary mediators of hallucinogenic drug effects in humans as well as the acute symptoms of schizophrenia.We suggest that Drosophila can be used as a genetically tractable model system to define the molecular events leading from serotonin receptor activation to behavior, possibly revealing new targets for hallucinogenic agents and for the treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia.
The distribution, morphology, synaptic coverage and postsynaptic targets of calbindin-containing interneurons and afferent pathways have been analyzed in the control and epileptic CA1 region of the human hippocampus. Numerous calbindin-positive interneurons are preserved even in the strongly sclerotic CA1 region. The morphology of individual cells is altered: the cell body and dendrites become spiny, the radially oriented dendrites disappear, and are replaced by a large number of curved, distorted dendrites. Even in the non-sclerotic epileptic samples, where pyramidal cells are present and calbindin-immunoreactive interneurons seem to be unchanged, some modifications could be observed at the electron microscopic level: they received more inhibitory synaptic input, and the calbindin-positive excitatory afferents - presumably derived from the CA1, the CA2 and/or the dentate gyrus - are sprouted. In the strongly sclerotic tissue, with the death of pyramidal cells, calbindin-positive terminals (belonging to interneurons and the remaining excitatory afferents) change their targets. Our data suggest that an intense synaptic reorganization takes place in the epileptic CA1 region, even in the non-sclerotic tissue, before the death of considerable numbers of pyramidal cells. Calbindin-positive interneurons participate in this reorganization: they show plastic changes in response to epilepsy. The enhanced inhibition of inhibitory interneurons may result in the disinhibition of pyramidal cells or in an abnormal synchrony in the output region of the hippocampus.
Fe65 is a multimodular adaptor protein expressed mainly in the nervous system. Fe65 binds to the Alzheimer's disease amyloid precursor protein (APP) and the interaction is mediated via a phosphotyrosine binding domain in Fe65 and the carboxy-terminal cytoplasmic domain of APP. Fe65 modulates trafficking and processing of APP, including production of the beta-amyloid peptide that is believed to be central to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Fe65 also facilitates translocation of a carboxy-terminal fragment of APP to the nucleus and is required for APP-mediated transcription events. In addition, Fe65 functions in regulation of the actin cytoskeleton and cell movement. Here we report the distribution profile of Fe65 immunoreactivity in adult mouse brain. Fe65 expression was found to be widespread in neurones in adult brain. The areas of highest expression included regions of the hippocampus in which the earliest abnormalities of Alzheimer's disease are detectable. Fe65 was also highly expressed in the cerebellum, thalamus and selected brain stem nuclei. Fe65 was evident in a sub-set of astrocytes within the stratum oriens and radiatum in the hippocampus. Expression of Fe65 was found to be developmentally regulated with levels reducing after embryonic day 15 and increasing again progressively from post-partum day 10 up to adulthood, a developmental pattern that partially parallels that of APP. These data indicate a widespread distribution of Fe65 in neurones throughout mouse brain and also suggest that Fe65 may have functions independent of APP and any potential role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
It has previously been suggested that anabolic-androgenic steroids may affect neuromuscular function through their potential action as glucocorticoid receptor antagonists. Alternatively, androgens may regulate the sensitivity of neuromuscular systems to glucocorticoids by modulating GR levels. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of chronic pharmacologic testosterone treatment of gonadally intact male rats on glucocorticoid receptor alpha immunoreactivity (GRalpha-IR) of motor neurons in the lumbosacral spinal cord. Circulating testosterone levels were chronically increased by subcutaneous Silastic capsules containing crystalline testosterone propionate (TP) for 7, 14, and 28 days. Age-matched sham-operated gonadally intact males served as controls. Relative cytoplasmic and nuclear GRalpha-IR of motor neurons located in the lateral motor column of spinal cord segments L(3) and L(4) (L(Lat); innervating rat hindlimb muscles) and the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB; innervating the external anal sphincter, bulbocavernosus and levator ani muscles) was measured densitometrically. TP treatment duration had a significant impact on the mean GRalpha levels of both cellular compartments regardless of motor column (two-way ANOVA, P&lt;0.001). The mean nuclear GRalpha-IR of lumbar motor neurons was significantly reduced after 7 days (OD: 0.239+/-0.013 S.E.M.; P&lt;0.016) and 14 days (OD: 0.196+/-0.013; P&lt;0.001) from the GRalpha-IR levels observed among the control group (OD: 0.296+/-0.012) by 20 and 40%, respectively. Interestingly, nuclear GRalpha-IR levels were similar to control levels after 28 days of TP treatment (OD: 0.307+/-0.010). Treatment-dependent changes in cytoplasmic GRalpha-IR paralleled the observed changes in nuclear GRalpha-IR. These data suggest that pharmacologic testosterone treatment effects on motor neuron gene expression may be mediated by testosterone-induced temporal fluctuations of GRalpha-dependent gene regulation.
Previous studies have shown that pretreatment with neurotrophins can potentiate the vulnerability of cultured neurons to excitotoxic and free radical-induced necrosis, in contrast to their well known neuroprotective effects against apoptosis. Here we tested the hypothesis that this unexpected injury-potentiating effect of neurotrophins would also take place in the adult rat spinal cord. Fe(3+)-citrate was injected stereotaxically into spinal cord gray matter in adult rats in amounts sufficient to produce minimal tissue injury 24 h later. Twenty-four-hour pretreatment with brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3, or neurotrophin-4/5, but not nerve growth factor, markedly enhanced tissue injury in the gray matter as evidenced by an increase in the damaged area, as well as the loss of neurons and oligodendrocytes. Consistent with maintained free radical mediation, the neurotrophin-potentiated iron-induced spinal cord damage was blocked by co-application of the antioxidant N-tert-butyl-(2-sulfophenyl)-nitrone. These data support the hypothesis that the overall neuroprotective properties of neurotrophins in models of acute injury to the spinal cord may be limited by an underlying potentiation of free radical-mediated necrosis.
The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that under prolonged global ischemic injury, the somatosensory thalamus and the cortex would manifest differential susceptibility leading to varying degrees of thalamo-cortical dissociation. The thalamic electrical responses displayed increasing suppression with longer durations of ischemia leading to a significant thalamo-cortical electrical dissociation. The data also point to a selective vulnerability of the network oscillations involving the thalamic relay and reticular thalamic neurons. An adult rat model of asphyxial cardiac arrest involving three cohorts with 3 min (G1, n=5), 5 min (G2, n=5) and 7 min (G3, n=5) of asphyxia respectively was used. The cortical evoked response, as quantified by the peak amplitude at 20 ms in the cortical evoked potential, recovers to more than 60% of baseline in all the cases. The multi-unit responses to the somatosensory stimuli recorded from the thalamic ventral posterior lateral (VPL) nuclei consists typically of three components: (1). the ON response (&lt;30 ms after stimulus), (2). the OFF response (period of inhibition, from 30 ms to 100 ms after stimulus) and (3). rhythmic spindles (beyond 100 ms after stimulus). Asphyxia has a significant effect on the VPL ON response at 30 min (P&lt;0.025), 60 min (P&lt;0.05) and 90 min (P&lt;0.05) after asphyxia. Only animals in G3 show a significant suppression (P&lt;0.05) of the VPL ON response when compared to the sham group at 30 min, 60 min and 90 min after asphyxia. There was no significant reduction in somatosensory cortical N20 (negative peak in the cortical response at 20 ms after stimulus) amplitude in any of the three groups with asphyxia indicating a thalamo-cortical dissociation in G3. Further, rhythmic spindle oscillations in the thalamic VPL nuclei that normally accompany the ON response recover either slowly after the recovery of ON response (in the case of G1 and G2) or do not recover at all (in the case of G3).We conclude that there is strong evidence for selective vulnerability of thalamic relay neurons and its network interactions with the inhibitory interneurons in the somatosensory pathway leading to a thalamo-cortical dissociation after prolonged durations of global ischemia.
The melanin-concentrating hormone and neuropeptide glutamic acid-isoleucine are expressed in neurons located mainly in the hypothalamus that project widely throughout the CNS. One of the melanin-concentrating hormone main targets is the medial mammillary nucleus, but the exact origin of these fibers is unknown. We observed melanin-concentrating hormone and neuropeptide glutamic acid-isoleucine immunoreactive fibers coursing throughout the mammillary complex, showing higher density in the pars lateralis of the medial mammillary nucleus, while the lateral mammillary nucleus showed sparse melanin-concentrating hormone innervation. The origins of these afferents were determined by using implant of the retrograde tracer True Blue in the medial mammillary nucleus. Double-labeled neurons were observed in the lateral hypothalamic area, rostromedial zona incerta and dorsal tuberomammillary nucleus. A considerable population of retrogradely labeled melanin-concentrating hormone perikaryal profiles was also immunoreactive to neuropeptide glutamic acid-isoleucine (74+/-15% to 85+/-15%). The afferents from the lateral hypothalamic area, rostromedial zona incerta and dorsal tuberomammillary nucleus to the medial mammillary nucleus were confirmed using implant of the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin. In addition, using double-labeled immunohistochemistry, we found no co-localization between neurons expressing melanin-concentrating hormone and adenosine deaminase (histaminergic marker) in the dorsal tuberomammillary nucleus. We hypothesize that these melanin-concentrating hormone projections participate in spatial memory process mediated by the medial mammillary nucleus. These pathways would enable the animal to look for food during the initial moments of appetite stimulation.
Microsomal glutathione S-transferase type 3 (MGST3) is a recently identified member of a large superfamily of enzymes involved in biotransformation of xenobiotics and biosynthesis of eicosanoids, including prostaglandins and leukotrienes. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, we characterized the expression of MGST3 mRNA in the rat nervous system based on the cloned rat MGST3 gene, under normal conditions and after systemic administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The MGST3 mRNA seemed to be confined to neurons. The broad distribution in the brain was characterized by a strong signal in the hippocampal formation and in the nuclei of the cranial nerves. A moderate signal was found in the cortex, thalamus, amygdala and substantia nigra and a weak signal in the hypothalamus. Motoneurons in the spinal cord and sensory neurons in dorsal root ganglia displayed strong MGST3 mRNA signal. No significant changes in the level of expression of MGST3 mRNA in the brain were found 1, 3 or 6 h after LPS administration. The pattern of distribution of MGST3 mRNA in the rat nervous system and the lack of response to LPS do not support a role for MGST3 in the biosynthesis of proinflammatory eicosanoids but rather suggest other functions, perhaps in metabolic detoxication and neuroprotection.
Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a multifunctional cytokine that may have a role in energy regulation. Using a recombinant adeno-associated viral vector expressing murine interleukin-6 (rAAV-IL-6), we examined the chronic effects of centrally expressed IL-6 on food intake, body weight and adiposity in male Sprague-Dawley rats, and investigated the underlying mechanisms. Direct delivery of rAAV-IL-6 into rat hypothalamus suppressed weight gain and visceral adiposity without affecting food intake over a 5-week period. rAAV-IL-6 enhanced uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) protein levels in interscapular brown adipose tissue (BAT). To investigate if the induction of UCP1 and the reduction in body weight are dependent on sympathetic innervation of BAT, we administered rAAV-IL-6 or a control vector into the hypothalamus of rats in which the interscapular BAT was unilaterally denervated. Over 21 days, there was no difference in food consumption or body weight between rAAV-IL-6- and control vector-treated rats. rAAV-IL-6 delivery increased UCP1 mRNA and protein levels in innervated BAT pads but not denervated BAT pads. Hypothalamic IL-6 signal transduction, indicated by phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (P-STAT3) levels, was elevated by 2.6-fold at day 21, but returned to control levels by day 35. However, the suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 mRNA level was significantly elevated both at day 21 and day 35. These data demonstrate that chronic elevation of IL-6 in the CNS reduces body weight gain and visceral adiposity without affecting food intake. The mechanism involves sympathetic induction of UCP1 in BAT and, presumably, enhanced thermogenesis in BAT. Furthermore, chronic central IL-6 stimulation desensitizes IL-6 signal transduction characterized by reversal of elevated P-STAT3 levels.
Excess release of chelatable zinc (Zn(2+)) from central synaptic vesicles may contribute to the pathogenesis of selective neuronal cell death following transient forebrain ischemia, but a role in neurodegeneration after focal ischemia has not been defined. Adult male Long-Evans rats subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) for 30 min followed by reperfusion developed delayed cerebral infarction reaching completion 3 days after the insult. One day after the insult, many degenerating cerebral neurons exhibited increased intracellular Zn(2+), and some labeled with the antibody against activated caspase-3. I.c.v. administration of the Zn(2+) chelator, EDTA saturated with equimolar Ca(2+) (CaEDTA), 15 min prior to ischemia attenuated subsequent Zn(2+) translocation into cortical neurons, and reduced infarct volume measured 3 days after ischemia. Although the protective effect of CaEDTA at this endpoint was substantial (about 70% infarct reduction), it was lost when insult severity was increased (from 30 to 60 min MCAO), or when infarct volume was measured at a much later time point (14 days instead of 3 days after ischemia). These data suggest that toxic Zn(2+) translocation, from presynaptic terminals to post-synaptic cell bodies, may accelerate the development of cerebral infarction following mild transient focal ischemia.
Hypoglossal motoneurons (HMNs), which innervate the tongue muscles, are involved in several important physiological functions, including the maintenance of upper airway patency. The neural mechanisms that affect HMN excitability are therefore important determinants of effective breathing. Obstructive sleep apnea is a disorder characterized by recurrent collapse of the upper airway that is likely due to decline of pharyngeal motoneuron activity during sleep. Because cholinergic neuronal activity is closely coupled to wake and sleep states, we tested the effects and pharmacology of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) activation on HMNs. We made intracellular recordings from HMNs in medullary slices from neonatal rats and found that local application of the nicotinic agonist, 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium iodide, excited HMNs by a Ca(2+)-sensitive, and TTX-insensitive inward current that was blocked by dihydro-beta-erythroidine (IC(50): 19+/-3 nM), methyllycaconitine (IC(50): 32+/-7 nM), and mecamylamine (IC(50): 88+/-11 nM), but not by alpha-bungarotoxin (10 nM). This is consistent with responses being mediated by postsynaptic nAChRs that do not contain the alpha7 subunit. These results suggest that nAChR activation may contribute to central maintenance of upper airway patency and that the decline in firing rate of cholinergic neurons during sleep could potentially disfacilitate airway dilator muscle activity, contributing to airway obstruction.
Agonists of the mu-opioid receptor (MOR) can modulate the activity of visceral premotor neurons, including cardiac premotor neurons. Neurons in brainstem regions containing these premotor neurons also contain dense concentrations of the MOR1. This study examined the distribution of MOR1 within two populations of visceral premotor neurons: one located in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus and the other in the nucleus ambiguus. Visceral premotor neurons contained the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold following injections of the tracer into the pericardiac region of the thoracic cavity. MOR1 was localized using immunogold detection of an anti-peptide antibody. Visceral premotor neurons in both regions contained MOR1 at somatic and dendritic sites, although smaller dendrites were less likely to contain the receptor than larger dendrites, suggesting there may be selective trafficking of MOR1 within these neurons. MOR1 labeling in nucleus ambiguus neurons was more likely to be localized to plasma membrane sites, suggesting that ambiguus neurons may be more responsive to opioid ligands than neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. In addition, many of the dendrites of visceral premotor neurons were in direct apposition to other dendrites. MOR1 was often detected at these dendro-dendritic appositions that may be gap junctions. Together these findings indicate that the activity of individual visceral premotor neurons, as well as the coupling between neurons, may be regulated by ligands of the MOR.
We previously demonstrated that the concentration of peroxynitrite significantly increases following impact spinal cord injury (SCI). The aim of this study was to test whether the SCI-induced elevation of peroxynitrite induces neuronal death and consequent neurological deficits. Peroxynitrite was generated by administering 5 mM S-morpholinosydnonimine, a donor of peroxynitrite, through a microdialysis fiber into the gray matter of the rat spinal cord for 5 h. This mimics the concentration and duration of peroxynitrite elevation after SCI. Neuron death was assessed by counting the neurons along the fiber track in Cresyl Violet-stained sections removed at different times post-peroxynitrite exposure. Peroxynitrite induced significantly more neuron death than did the artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) control, with the percentage of neuronal loss being 17+/-2%, 28+/-2%, 39+/-3%, and 43+/-4% at 6, 12, 24 and 48 h post-peroxynitrite exposure (P=0.01-&lt;0.001). The losses of total neurons or motoneurons immuno-stained with anti-neuron-specific enolase or anti-choline acetyltransferase antibodies was significantly higher in the peroxynitrate-exposed group than in ACSF controls at 24 h post-exposure, further confirming peroxynitrate damage to neurons. The susceptibility to oxidative damage in motoneurons was similar to that of other neurons characterized at 24 h post-peroxynitrite exposure. Peroxynitrite-induced neurological deficits were examined by the Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan test (BBB test), the inclined-plane test and footprint analysis. Peroxynitrite significantly (P&lt;0.001) reduced the locomotor rating score (BBB test) and the maximum angle of inclined plane compared to sham and ACSF-exposed animals (repeated measures analysis of variance). The footprint analysis revealed that peroxynitrite significantly increased the distance between the feet and the angle of hindlimb rotation compared to sham (P=0.01 and P&lt;0.001) or ACSF controls (P=0.01 and P=0.005) and significantly shortened the stride length compared to sham (P&lt;0.001) and ACSF control (P=0.005) treatments. Therefore the SCI-produced level of peroxynitrite induced neuron loss and neurological dysfunction, strong evidence that peroxynitrite is a secondary damage agent in SCI.
Microtubule-associated protein tau is abnormally hyperphosphorylated, glycosylated, and aggregated in affected neurons in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We recently found that the aberrant tau glycosylation precedes tau hyperphosphorylation in AD brain. In the present study, we developed assays to determine phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of tau at specific phosphorylation sites by using glycosylated tau purified from AD brain as a substrate. We then studied the effects of the aberrant glycosylation on phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of tau at each specific phosphorylation site. We found that deglycosylation of the aberrantly glycosylated tau decreased the subsequent phosphorylation of tau at Ser214, Ser262, and Ser356 in vitro by protein kinase A. On the other hand, deglycosylation of tau positively modulated the subsequent dephosphorylation by protein phosphatase 2A and protein phosphatase 5 in vitro at the phosphorylation sites Ser198, Ser199, and Ser202. Our results suggest that the aberrant glycosylation may modulate tau protein at a substrate level so that it is easier to be phosphorylated and more difficult to be dephosphorylated at some phosphorylation sites in AD brain. The combined impact of this modulation may be to make tau more susceptible to becoming abnormally hyperphosphorylated.
Distributions of somata and neurites of cholinergic neurons were studied after seeding dissociated cells onto organotypic slice cultures. Slice cultures were made from hippocampal formation and adjacent cortical regions from rats or mice. Dissociated cell suspensions of basal forebrain tissue from rat or mouse fetuses were seeded onto the slice cultures. Combined cultures were maintained for 1-21 days in vitro. Cultures processed for acetylcholinesterase (AChE) histochemistry demonstrated non-random patterns of cholinergic cells and their neurites. Labeled cells appeared most frequently in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, and in the deeper layers of cortical regions adjacent to the hippocampus. Neurites extending from these labeled cells appeared to target the dentate molecular layer and the cortical subplate layer. By 4 days in vitro, AChE-positive basal forebrain cells display several short and thick neurites that appear to be dendrites, and one long process that appears to be an axon. By 5 days in vitro, dendrites are well developed; by 7 days the presumed axon has extended widely over the cortical target zone. These neurites are maintained through 3 weeks in culture. Distributions of cells varied with the age of the slice. AChE-labeled cells were not seen overlying hippocampal tissue when dissociated cells were seeded on slice cultures made from day 0 rats, but a few labeled cells were seen when seeded on slices from day 2 rats. Clear non-random patterns of labeled cells and neurite outgrowth were seen on slice cultures from day 5 or older pups. The non-random distribution seen with AChE-positive neurons was not seen using other techniques that labeled all cells (non-selective fluorescent labels) or all neurons; these techniques resulted in labeled cells scattered apparently homogenously across the slice culture.These studies demonstrate a non-random pattern of attachment or differentiation of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons when these cells are seeded onto cultured cortical slices; this pattern mimics the normal patterns of basal forebrain cholinergic projections to these cortical regions. These data suggest that the factors that normally guide basal forebrain-derived cholinergic axons to their target cells in vivo are present and detectable in this model system.
Capsaicin acting on the vanilloid type 1 receptor (VR1) excites a subset of primary sensory neurons. Systemic capsaicin treatment of adult or neonatal rats results in selective damage of the B-type neurons in the rat sensory ganglia by causing a long-lasting mitochondrial lesion that has been described in detail in previous studies. The endocannabinoid, anandamide, exhibits an agonist effect on VR1 receptors. The physiological role of anandamide as a VR1 agonist is still uncertain. This study addresses whether high doses of anandamide induce similar ultrastructural changes to those described for capsaicin. The effect of neonatally administered anandamide (1 mg/kg) on neurons of the trigeminal ganglia and the hippocampal formation was examined in the light and electron microscope from the first day after injections to the 20th week after treatment. Anandamide was found to cause mitochondrial damage of the B-type neurons of trigeminal ganglia similar to what has been described for capsaicin. The time course of damage was also comparable. In addition to the cells of the trigeminal ganglia, B-type cells of dorsal root ganglia were also damaged. A-type neurons and satellite glial cells were not affected either in the trigeminal or in the dorsal root ganglia. In the hippocampal formation, where a subpopulation of local circuit neurons is known to contain cannabinoid type 1 (CB1) but not VR1 receptors, anandamide did not cause morphological changes of mitochondria either in the dentate gyrus or in Ammon's horn. At 3 weeks of age, all VR1-immunoreactive neurons in the trigeminal ganglia of animals treated neonatally with anandamide displayed swollen mitochondria. The results suggest that anandamide, at pharmacologically relevant doses, acts on the VR1 receptor and causes prolonged and selective mitochondrial damage of B-type sensory neurons, as has previously been described for capsaicin.
Effects of C-fiber activation on type I slowly adapting mechanoreceptor responses were investigated in a rat in vitro nerve-skin preparation using controlled mechanical stimuli. Two changes in behavior were evoked by antidromic C-fiber stimulation: (1). The type I response to mechanical stimuli was modulated in a graded fashion by antidromic C-fiber activation. The average decrease in mechanoresponse from baseline discharge was 53% at 20-Hz, 51% at 5-Hz, and 30% at 1-Hz stimulation rate. The type I response recovered to baseline levels following termination of antidromic electrical stimulation. (2). Antidromic C-fiber activation generated a spontaneous ongoing activity in many skin units; this was independent of mechanical stimulation and outlasted electrical stimulation. The fact that neither antidromic electrical stimulation of the crushed nerve trunk nor selective A-fiber activation elicited these reactions suggests that they were mediated via action potentials of slowly conducting (C-fiber) axons. Immunohistochemical staining revealed both substance P- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity in small unmyelinated nerve fibers entering the touch dome. These results support the concepts that (1). the type I slowly adapting mechanoreceptor in rat receives input from nociceptive terminals within the touch dome. (2). The function of type I slowly adapting mechanoreceptors is modulated by axon reflex activation of nociceptor terminals, which may play a role in altering the type I response during states of mechanical allodynia and have paracrine and autocrine influences on maintenance of touch dome structure.
Galanin immunoreactive fibers hyperinnervate remaining cholinergic basal forebrain neurons in Alzheimer's disease, perhaps exacerbating the cholinergic deficit. The purpose of our study is to determine whether a similar phenomenon occurs following intraparenchymal injection of 192 IgG-saporin, a specific cholinergic neurotoxin, within the nucleus of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca. Immunotoxic lesion produced on average a 31% reduction in cholinergic cell counts ipsilateral to the lesion, compared to the contralateral side. Increased galanin immunoreactivity, suggestive of increased fiber density, was observed within and adjacent to the lesion in 28 out of 36 rats, and this effect persisted across time up to 6 months (the longest time examined). We observed a parallel increase in the number of galanin positive neurons ipsilateral to the lesion, compared to the contralateral side. No correlative change could be detected in the number of galaninergic neurons in the amygdala or the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. There was no statistically significant correlation between the extent of cholinergic cell loss and the increase in galanin immunoreactivity surrounding the lesion. Yet, since both of these changes persist over time, we suggest that galanin plasticity is triggered by neuronal damage. Our model can be useful to test the role that galanin plays in the regulation of acetylcholine and the efficacy of galanin inhibitors as potential therapeutic interventions in Alzheimer's disease.
Protein phosphorylation is a major mechanism for regulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor function. The NMDA receptor 1 subunit (NR1) is phosphorylated by protein kinase A (PKA) on serine 890 and 897. We have recently reported that there is enhanced phosphorylation of NR1 on serine 897 in dorsal horn and spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons after intradermal injection of capsaicin (CAP) in rats [Zou et al. (2000) J. Neurosci. 20, 6989-6997]. Whether or not this phosphorylation, which develops during central sensitization following CAP injection, is mediated by PKA remains to be determined. In this study, western blots and immunofluorescence staining were employed to observe if pretreatment with a PKA inhibitor, N-[2-((p-bromocinnamyl)amino)ethyl]-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide, HCl (H89), blocks the enhanced phosphorylation of NR1 on serine 897 following injection of CAP into the glabrous skin of one hind paw of anesthetized rats. Western blots showed that pretreatment with H89 caused a decrease in CAP-induced phosphorylation of NR1 protein in spinal cord segments L(4)-S(1). In experiments using immunofluorescence staining, the numbers of phospho-NR1-like immunoreactive (p-NR1-LI) neurons seen after CAP injection were significantly decreased in the dorsal horn of the L(4)-L(5) segments on the side ipsilateral to the injection after PKA was inhibited. When STT cells were labeled by microinjection of the retrograde tracer, fluorogold, we found that the proportion of p-NR1-LI STT cells on the side ipsilateral to the injection in the superficial laminae of spinal cord segments L(4)-L(5) was markedly reduced when H89 was administered intrathecally before CAP injection. However, the proportion of p-NR1-LI STT cells in deep laminae was unchanged unless the PKC inhibitor, chelerythrine chloride, was co-administered with H89. Combined with our previous findings, the present results indicate that NR1 in spinal dorsal horn neurons, including the superficial dorsal horn STT cells, is phosphorylated following CAP injection and that this phosphorylation is due to the action of PKA. However, the phosphorylation of deep STT cells involves both PKA and PKC.
Principal neurons in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex of the rat have been identified as targets for glucocorticoids involved in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical stress response. Alterations in mRNA expression for glucocorticoid receptors in each of these regions have been shown to affect the negative feedback response to corticosterone following an acute stressor. Both decreases in forebrain glucocorticoid receptors and in the efficiency of adrenocortical feedback have been observed in normal aging, and have been selectively induced with experimental lesions or manipulations in neurotransmitter systems. The current study investigated the possibility that a loss of cholinergic support from cells in the basal forebrain, a hallmark of aging, contributes to the selective age-related loss of glucocorticoid receptor mRNA expression at cholinoceptive target sites that include the hippocampus and medial prefrontal cortex. Lesions of the basal forebrain cholinergic system in young adult rats were made by microinjections of the immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin into the medial septum/vertical limb of the diagonal band and substantia innominata/nucleus basalis. Basal levels of circulating glucocorticoids were unaffected by the lesions. Analysis of both mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptor mRNA expression revealed a significant decrease in glucocorticoid receptor mRNA in the hippocampus and medial prefrontal cortex, with spared expression at subcortical sites and no detectable change in mineralocorticoid receptor mRNA in any of the examined regions. Thus, rats with lesions of the basal forebrain cholinergic system recapitulate some of the detrimental effects of aging associated with glucocorticoid-mediated stress pathways in the brain.
Raised levels of serotonin cause alterations in the development of the barrelfield of the primary somatosensory cortex (S1) in rodents. We examined the development of S1 in genetic mouse models in which the levels of serotonin and/or dopamine and noradrenaline are drastically reduced. Mice lacking the vesicular monoamine transporter type 2 (VMAT2 KO) are hypomorphic with rare pups surviving until postnatal day (P) 6. Serotonin, dopamine and noradrenaline are almost undetectable in the brain. In S1 we find that the segregation of thalamocortical axons into whisker patterns is delayed by 1 day and that layer IV granular neurons fail to form normal barrels. Moreover, the growth of cortical layers II-IV is reduced. Despite severe malnutrition, we show that these alterations are not caused by increased cell death in the thalamus or S1. Moreover, the maturation of cortical neurons is not altered as reflected by calcium-binding protein immunolabeling. Mice lacking both VMAT2 and monoamine oxidase type A (MAOA) were generated. VMAT2-MAOA DKO mice are hypomorphic but survive until P13. Increased levels of serotonin but profoundly reduced dopamine and noradrenaline levels are found in the brains. In S1, alterations are similar to those observed in MAOA KO mice: thalamocortical axons and granular neurons failed to form barrels. In addition there is a severe reduction in the thickness of the upper cortical layers as in the VMAT2 KO mice. These results show that monoamines have no instructive effect per se on the formation of thalamocortical patterning in S1. However, monoamines appear to be essential for the normal cytoarchitectonic maturation of the granular (IV) and supragranular cortical layers (II-III). Since developmental cell death and chemoarchitectonic differentiation of these neurons are not modified, it is possible that these alterations result from migration defects and/or from altered synaptic maturation.
Abnormalities in dopaminergic control of basal ganglia function play a key role in Parkinson's disease. Adenosine appears to modulate the dopaminergic control in striatum, where an inhibitory interaction between adenosine and dopamine receptors has been demonstrated. However the interaction has not been established in substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) where density of both receptors is high. Here we have explored the interaction between A1/D1 receptors in SNr. In SNr slices, SKF 38393, a selective D1 receptor agonist, produced a stimulation of depolarization-induced Ca(2+)-dependent [(3)H]GABA release that was inhibited by adenosine. The adenosine inhibition was abolished by 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX), a selective adenosine A1 receptor antagonist. DPCPX per se enhanced GABA release, indicating inhibition of the release by endogenous adenosine. When D1 receptors were blocked with SCH 23390 or the slices were depleted of dopamine, the effect of DPCPX was suppressed, showing that activation of dopamine receptors was necessary for the adenosine inhibition. In normal slices, 2-chloro-n(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CCPA), a selective A1 agonist, inhibited GABA release, but the inhibition was prevented by the blockade of D1 receptors with SCH 23390. Superperfusion with 8-bromo-cAMP produced a stimulation of GABA release that was not blocked by CCPA: this finding indicates that the blockade of D1 effects caused by activation of A1 receptors is specific. To see if these actions on GABA release were correlated with changes in motor behavior we studied the effect of unilateral intranigral injections of modifiers of adenosine A1 and dopamine D1 receptors in rats challenged with systemic methamphetamine. Both the A1 agonist CCPA and the D1 antagonist SCH 23390 produced ipsilateral turning whereas the A1 antagonist DPCPX caused contralateral turning. These motor effects are consistent with the findings on GABA release. The results indicate the presence of an inhibitory A1/D1 receptor interaction in SNr. The inhibition exerted by A1 adenosine receptors on GABAergic striatonigral transmission would be due exclusively to blockade of the facilitation resulting from activation of D1 dopamine receptors. The data permit to better understand the action of adenosine antagonists in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
The aim of the study was to examine the effects of alpha(2)-adrenoreceptor agonists on the excitability of trigeminal root ganglion (TRG) neurons using the perforated patch-clamp technique, and to determine whether these neurons express mRNA for alpha(2)-adrenoreceptors. In current-clamp mode, the resting membrane potential was -57.4+/-1.2 mV (n=26). Most neurons (71%) were hyperpolarized by clonidine (5-50 microM) in a concentration-dependent manner. The response was associated with an increase of cell input resistance. In addition, clonidine reduced the repetitive firing evoked by depolarizing current pulses. An alpha(2)-adrenergic agonist, UK14,304, (10-20 microM) also hyperpolarized TRG neurons. The clonidine- and UK14,304-induced hyperpolarization was blocked by idazoxan (alpha(2)-adrenoreceptor antagonist). In voltage-clamp, clonidine (1-50 microM) reversibly reduced the hyperpolarization- and time-dependent cationic current. The effect was mimicked by UK14,304 (10-20 microM), and antagonized by idazoxan. Hyperpolarization-activated cationic current was blocked by extracellular Cs(+) (2 mM) or a specific blocker, ZD7288 (20 microM). Analysis of tail currents revealed that a reversal potential of the clonidine-sensitive component of hyperpolarization-activated cationic current was -46 mV. Single-cell reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis demonstrated the expression of mRNA for alpha(2A)- and alpha(2C)-adrenoreceptors. These results demonstrate that activation of alpha(2)-adrenoreceptors can hyperpolarize TRG neurons, and that the inhibitory effect is associated with inhibition of hyperpolarization-activated cationic current. Our results suggest that activation of alpha(2)-adrenoreceptors in the absence of nerve injury may have an inhibitory effect on nociceptive transmission in the trigeminal system at the level of both TRG neuronal cell bodies and primary afferent terminals.
In neuronal cells, excessive activation of glutamate receptors causes excitotoxic damage culminating in apoptotic and necrotic cell death. The molecular mechanism of excitotoxicity has been associated with excessive Ca(2+) influx and overload, triggering biochemical events that lead to cell death and tissue degeneration. Following mild insults via NMDA-receptor activation, central neurons undergo several biochemical modifications recognizable as early events in apoptotic machinery.Tissue transglutaminase, the most ubiquitous among cell transglutaminases, catalyzes the Ca(2+)-dependent protein cross-linking probably associated with morphological changes in several neurodegenerative disorders. The possible involvement of this enzyme in excitotoxicity-mediated events was investigated in primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells exposed for 30 min to NMDA (100 microM) in Locke's buffer. Under these conditions time-dependent increases in transglutaminase activity were observed. Tissue transglutaminase expression reached the highest levels within 3-4 h of NMDA exposure. Similarly, high levels of incorporation of fluorescent substrates were observed in living cells. Confocal laser microscopy analysis showed that fluorescein-labelled structures were distributed within the cytoplasm and close to the membranes of NMDA-exposed cells. These effects were dependent on the Ca(2+) influx triggered by the excitotoxic stimulus. Morphological changes in NMDA-treated cells gave evidence of significant cell damage which appeared within 5-6 h of NMDA exposure. These results suggest that increases in tissue transglutaminase may be associated to the effects of NMDA-induced excitotoxicity. Therefore, it is reasonable to hypothesize that if tissue transglutaminase levels and activity are up-regulated under such conditions, the protein cross-linking could be likely involved in excitotoxic response.
beta-Endorphin is a non-selective opioid peptide which binds mu-, delta- and putative epsilon (beta-endorphin-sensitive non-mu-, non-delta- and non-kappa(1)-)-opioid receptors. We have previously reported that beta-endorphin-produced G-protein activation is mediated by the stimulation of both mu- and putative epsilon-opioid receptors. The present study was designed to further characterize this putative epsilon-opioid receptor-mediated G-protein activation in the pons/medulla membrane obtained from mice lacking mu-opioid receptor, using a guanosine-5'-O-(3-[(35)S]thio)triphosphate ([(35)S]GTPgammaS)-binding assay. beta-Endorphin and the mu-opioid receptor agonist [D-Ala(2),N-MePhe(4),Gly-ol(5)]enkephalin (DAMGO) increased the [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding in a concentration-dependent manner (0.001-10 microM), and at 10 microM beta-endorphin and DAMGO produced approximately 250 and 120% increases of [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding in the pons/medulla membrane obtained from wild-type mice, respectively. In the pons/medulla membrane obtained from mu-opioid receptor knockout mice, beta-endorphin-stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding was only partially attenuated and a more than 100% increase by 10 microM beta-endorphin still remained, while DAMGO failed to produce any increase in [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding. The residual increase in [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding by 10 microM beta-endorphin in mu-opioid receptor knockout mice was partially but significantly attenuated by the putative epsilon-opioid receptor partial agonist beta-endorphin (1-27), but not by the delta-opioid receptor antagonist naltrindole or the kappa(1)-receptor antagonist norbinaltorphimine. Furthermore, buprenorphine significantly attenuated the residual increase in [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding by 10 microM beta-endorphin in mu-opioid receptor knockout mice. The present results indicate that beta-endorphin activates G-protein by stimulation of putative epsilon-opioid receptors in the condition lacking the mu-opioid receptor, and buprenorphine acts as an antagonist for putative epsilon-opioid receptors in this condition.
Hypocretin 2 (orexin B) is a hypothalamic neuropeptide thought to be involved in regulating energy homeostasis, autonomic function, arousal, and sensory processing. Neural circuits in the caudal nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) integrate viscerosensory inputs, and are therefore implicated in aspects of all these functions. We tested the hypothesis that hypocretin 2 modulates fast synaptic activity in caudal NTS areas that are generally associated with visceral sensation from cardiorespiratory and gastrointestinal systems. Hypocretin 2-immunoreactive fibers were observed throughout the caudal NTS. In whole-cell recordings from neurons in acute slices, hypocretin 2 depolarized 48% and hyperpolarized 10% of caudal NTS neurons, effects that were not observed when Cs(+) was used as the primary cation carrier. Hypocretin 2 also increased the amplitude of tractus solitarius-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in 36% of neurons and significantly enhanced the frequency of spontaneous EPSCs in most (59%) neurons. Spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) were relatively unaffected by the peptide. The increase in EPSC frequency persisted in the presence of tetrodotoxin, suggesting a role for the peptide in regulating glutamate release in the NTS by acting at presynaptic terminals. These data suggest that hypocretin 2 modulates excitatory, but not inhibitory, synapses in caudal NTS neurons, including viscerosensory inputs. The selective nature of the effect supports the hypothesis that hypocretin 2 plays a role in modulating autonomic sensory signaling in the NTS.
The excitability change of the brainstem was investigated before and during the conspicuous epileptic discharge in six patients with generalized convulsive seizures. The discharge consisted of a short duration of recruiting rhythm, which was considered equivalent to the seizure discharge on electroencephalogram. The excitability of the brainstem was measured with the parameters (amplitude and area) of component waves (wave-III and -V) of brainstem auditory evoked potentials. The theoretical background of the analysis is that brainstem auditory evoked potentials are 'far-field' potentials, by which they convey the information on the activity change of the brainstem even during the paroxysmal discharge within the cortex. The excitability of both the ventral (parameters of wave-III) and the dorsal brainstem (parameters of wave-V) exhibited a synchronized change (activation-inactivation). They were enhanced from -2.4+/-0.4 s, reaching the maxima before the onset of the seizure discharge, and decayed corresponding to the emergence of the recruiting rhythm. The results suggest the possibility that the widespread (ventral and dorsal) and synchronized activation of the brainstem triggers the seizure discharge in human generalized epilepsy. During the widespread activation of the brainstem, both the thalamus and the cortex probably undergo a suppressed inhibitory state through the cholinergic activation, precipitating the seizure discharge.
Gonadal hormones are important regulators of sexual differentiation of the CNS. Exposure to testosterone and estrogen during development causes permanent organizational differences between males and females. We previously described functional sex-related differences of the GABA(A)ergic circuits of the rat substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNR) involved in the control of flurothyl seizures. This sexual differentiation of the SNR is regulated by postnatal testosterone. To assess whether the organizing effects of testosterone in the SNR are mediated via the androgen receptor (AR) and/or estrogen receptors (ER), we used immunohistochemistry to study the ontogeny of AR, ERalpha and ERbeta expression in SNR and substantia nigra pars compacta (SNC) of male and female rats. Rats on the day of birth [postnatal day (PN) 0] and at PN1, PN5, PN15 and PN30 were used. AR- and ERbeta-immunopositive cells were present in SNR and SNC in both sexes and at all ages. ERalpha was not detected in male and female SNC at PN0-PN1. In both substantia nigra (SN) regions, there were developmentally regulated sex differences in AR, ERalpha and ERbeta immunoreactivity. In the SN, each receptor showed specific intracellular localization: AR was present in the nucleus, ERalpha and ERbeta were present both in nuclear and extranuclear compartments. ERalpha was detected also in processes. At PN0-PN1, quantitative analysis revealed sex and regional differences in the distribution of SN cells expressing AR and ERalpha, while ERbeta were equally present in both sexes. The presence of gonadal steroid receptors in the SN suggests that the biological effects of gonadal hormones in the CNS extend beyond reproduction-related functions and may affect and modify motor behaviors (including seizures) in a sex-specific manner. Based on the ontogeny of SNR ERbeta, we hypothesize that postnatal injections of testosterone may regulate the nigral GABA(A) system through the aromatization pathway and activation of ERbeta.
Repeated flurothyl-induced generalized forebrain seizures result in a progressive and permanent lowering of the generalized seizure threshold in mice and an increase in the percentage of animals expressing forebrain-brainstem seizures, when rechallenged with flurothyl, after a stimulation-free period. Since this seizure paradigm serves as an excellent model for examining changes in seizure threshold and seizure propagation, we were interested in examining mitotic activity in hippocampal progenitors following flurothyl-induced epileptogenesis. In the present studies, we investigated (1). the effect of one or eight flurothyl-induced seizures on mitotic activity in the hippocampal dentate gyrus of adult mice measured by 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine incorporation, (2). the time course of change in hippocampal mitotic activity, (3). the cellular phenotype of these mitotically active cells, and (4). the relationship of changes in mitotic activity to changes in seizure threshold and phenotype. Significant increases in hippocampal mitotic activity were observed in mice exposed to either one or eight flurothyl-induced seizures. Increases were observed at 1 and 3 days following one seizure, and at 0, 1, 3, and 7 days following eight seizures. Confocal analyses, using neuronal and glial markers, suggest that the majority of these mitotic cells are neurons. In addition, no correlation was observed between hippocampal mitotic activity and the final seizure type that animals expressed following incubation and flurothyl retest. A significant correlation was observed between hippocampal mitotic activity and seizure threshold in flurothyl-kindled mice. Overall, these results indicate that both one and eight flurothyl-induced seizures are potent inducers of hippocampal neurogenesis in adult mice. Results further suggest that the increases in hippocampal neurogenesis are not directly related to the processes that underlie the shift in behavioral seizure phenotype, but may be involved in either the establishment or the maintenance of seizure threshold in this flurothyl model of epileptogenesis.
Knock-out Otx1 mice show brain hypoplasia, spontaneous epileptic seizures and abnormalities of the dorsal region of the neocortex. We investigated structural alterations in excitatory and inhibitory circuits in somatosensory cortex of Otx1(-/-) mice by immunocytochemistry using light, confocal and electron microscopy. Immunostaining for non-phosphorylated neurofilament SMI311 and subunit 1 of the NMDA receptor - used as markers of pyramidal neurons - showed reduced layer V pyramidal cells and ectopic pyramidal cells in layers II and III of the mutant cortex. Immunostaining for calcium-binding proteins calbindin, calretinin and parvalbumin - markers of non-overlapping types of GABAergic interneurons - showed no differences between wild-type and knock-out cortex for calbindin and calretinin neurons, while parvalbumin neurons were only patchily distributed in Otx1(-/-) cortex. The pattern of positivity of the GABAergic marker glutamic acid decarboxylase in Otx1(-/-) cortex was also altered and similar to that of parvalbumin. GABA transporter 1 immunoreactivity was greater in Otx1(-/-) than wild-type; quantitation of structures immunoreactive for this transporter in layer V showed that they were increased overall in Otx1(-/-) but the density of inhibitory terminals on pyramidal neurons in the same layer labeled with this transporter was similar to that in wild-type mice. No differences in the distribution or intensity of the glial markers GABA transporter 3 or glial fibrillary acidic protein were found. The defects found in the cortical GABAergic system of the Otx1(-/-) mouse can plausibly explain the cortical hyperexcitability that produces seizures in these animals.
Neuroglobin is a respiratory protein which was reported to be preferentially expressed in the vertebrate brain. Here we present the first detailed analysis of the expression of neuroglobin in mouse and rat tissues. Neuroglobin mRNA was detected in all brain areas studied. Most, but not all, nerve cells were labeled, suggesting differential expression of Ngb. Neuroglobin mRNA was detected in the peripheral nervous system, explaining previous northern hybridization signals in organs other than the brain. Substantial neuroglobin expression was also found in metabolically active endocrine tissues such as the adrenal and pituitary glands. The granule localization of neuroglobin transcripts in various neuronal extensions let us speculate that peripheral translation of neuroglobin protein occurs. This could have important functional consequences for synaptic plasticity, an active metabolic process that needs large amounts of oxygen. The hybridization signals suggest that the local concentration of neuroglobin is sufficient for its putative primary function as an oxygen-supplying protein.
Orphanin FQ (Nociceptin) has been reported to stimulate food intake in satiated rats and to stimulate corticosterone release. A large body of evidence exists to link central feeding systems with the regulation of corticosterone. In this study, we sought to determine whether or not circulating corticosterone is necessary for the induction of food intake by Orphanin FQ. We found that intracerebroventricular injection of Orphanin FQ (0.64-5 nmoles) dose dependently stimulated food intake and plasma corticosterone within 30 min of injection. Removal of corticosterone, by adrenalectomy, abolished the hyperphagic effect of Orphanin FQ. The stimulatory effect of Orphanin FQ on food intake was still negated following a low dose of corticosterone replacement (corresponding to a plasma corticosterone concentration of 1.86+/-0.99 microg/dl). However, following a larger dose of corticosterone replacement (corresponding to a plasma corticosterone concentration of 8.92+/-0.55 microg/dl) the feeding effect was fully restored. We concluded this study by testing the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist, RU486 (Mifepristone, 80 microg/2 microl) on Orphanin FQ-induced feeding. Central injection of RU486, 30 min prior to injection of Orphanin FQ, significantly reduced Orphanin FQ-induced food intake in comparison to vehicle-treated controls. Overall, these data demonstrate the necessity for circulating corticosterone in the mediation of Orphanin-FQ-induced feeding and suggest that the mechanism through which the hyperphagic effect is obtained involves activation of central glucocorticoid receptors.
Neurons in Rexed's laminae III-V of an isolated spinal cord-skin patch preparation from hamsters were recorded in whole-cell mode and stained intracellularly with biocytin. Evidence of inhibitory synaptic function was obtained via post-hoc immunofluorescent labeling with a monoclonal antibody directed against an axon terminal isoform of brain glutamic acid decarboxylase. For a subset of neurons, examination with laser scanning confocal microscopy revealed punctate accumulations of glutamic acid decarboxylase immunoreactivity within axon enlargements (1-3 microm diameter), as imaged in single optical sections and confirmed by subsequent optical scans in the orthogonal plane. Axons of glutamic acid decarboxylase-immunoreactive neurons were found to exhibit dense local terminations overlapping the soma and dendrites or bifurcated into lengthy rostrocaudal daughter branches ventral to the cell body. The degree and uniformity of immunolabeling in axonal enlargements varied considerably, even amongst boutons belonging to the same cell. Glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive neurons received input from myelinated (A) afferent fibers and responded to natural stimuli appropriate for activating responses in low threshold mechanoreceptors. These results provide evidence that two different populations of GABAergic inhibitory interneurons are involved in local and intersegmental circuits that mediate integration of mechanosensory information in the deep spinal dorsal horn.
CB1 receptors have been localized to primary afferent neurons, but little is known about the direct effect of cannabinoids on these neurons. The depolarization-evoked increase in the concentration of free intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)), measured by microfluorimetry, was used as a bioassay for the effect of cannabinoids on isolated, adult rat primary afferent neurons 20-28 h after dissociation of dorsal root ganglia. Cannabinoid agonists CP 55,940 (100 nM) and WIN 55,212-2 (1 microM) had no effect on the mean K(+)-evoked increase in [Ca(2+)](i) in neurons with a somal area&lt;800 microm(2), but the ligands attenuated the evoked increase in [Ca(2+)](i) by 35% in neurons defined as intermediate in size (800-1500 microm(2)). The effects of CP 55,940 and WIN 55,212-2 were mediated by the CB1 receptor on the basis of relative effective concentrations, blockade by the CB1 receptor antagonist SR141716A and lack of effect of WIN 55,212-3. Intermediate-size neurons rarely responded to capsaicin (100 nM). Although cannabinoid agonists generally did not inhibit depolarization-evoked increases in [Ca(2+)](i) in small neurons, immunocytochemical studies indicated that CB1 receptor-immunoreactivity occurred in this population. CB1 receptor-immunoreactive neurons ranged in size from 227 to 2995 microm(2) (mean somal area of 1044 microm(2)). In double labeling studies, CB1 receptor-immunoreactivity co-localized with labeling for calcitonin gene-related peptide and RT97, a marker for myelination, in some primary afferent neurons. The decrease in evoked Ca(2+) influx indicates that cannabinoids decrease conductance through voltage-dependent calcium channels in a subpopulation of primary afferent neurons. Modulation of calcium channels is one mechanism by which cannabinoids may decrease transmitter release from primary afferent neurons. An effect on voltage-dependent calcium channels, however, represents only one possible effect of cannabinoids on primary afferent neurons. Identifying the mechanisms by which cannabinoids modulate nociceptive neurons will increase our understanding of how cannabinoids produce anti-nociception in normal animals and animals with tissue injury.
Evidence suggests that insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) plays an important role during brain development and in the maintenance of normal as well as activity-dependent functioning of the adult brain. Apart from its trophic effects, IGF-I has also been implicated in the regulation of brain neurotransmitter release thus indicating a neuromodulatory role for this growth factor in the central nervous system. Using in vitro slice preparations, we have earlier reported that IGF-I potently inhibits K(+)-evoked endogenous acetylcholine (ACh) release from the adult rat hippocampus and cortex but not from the striatum. The effects of IGF-I on hippocampal ACh release was sensitive to the Na(+) channel blocker tetrodotoxin, suggesting that IGF-I might act indirectly via the release of other transmitters/modulators. In the present study, we have characterized the possible involvement of GABA in IGF-I-mediated inhibition of ACh release and measured the effects of this growth factor on choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity and high-affinity choline uptake in the hippocampus of the adult rat brain. Prototypical agonists of GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors (i.e. 10 microM muscimol and 10 microM baclofen) inhibited, whereas the antagonists of the respective receptors (i.e. 10 microM bicuculline and 10 microM phaclofen) potentiated K(+)-evoked ACh release from rat hippocampal slices. IGF-I (10 nM) inhibited K(+)- as well as veratridine-evoked ACh release from rat hippocampal slices and the effect is possibly mediated via the activation of a typical IGF-I receptor and the subsequent phosphorylation of the insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1). The inhibitory effects of IGF-I on hippocampal ACh release were not additive to those of either muscimol or baclofen, but were attenuated by GABA antagonists, bicuculline and phaclofen. Additionally, in contrast to ACh release, IGF-I did not alter either the activity of the enzyme ChAT or the uptake of choline in the hippocampus. These results, taken together, indicate that IGF-I, under acute conditions, can decrease hippocampal ACh release by acting on the typical IGF-I/IRS receptor complex while having no direct effect on ChAT activity or the uptake of choline. Furthermore, the evidence that effects of IGF-I could be modulated, at least in part, by GABA antagonists suggest that the release of GABA and the activation of its receptors may possibly be involved in mediating the inhibitory effects of IGF-I on hippocampal ACh release.
Cardiolipin, a lipid of the mitochondrial inner membrane, is lost from many types of cells during apoptotic death. Here we show that the cardiolipin content of nerve growth factor (NGF)-deprived rat sympathetic neurons undergoing apoptotic death in cell culture decreased before extensive loss of mitochondria from the cells. By 18-24 h after NGF deprivation, many neurons did not stain with the cardiolipin-specific dye, Nonyl Acridine Orange, suggesting complete loss of cardiolipin. Gas chromatography confirmed the decline of cardiolipin content in NGF-deprived neurons. Electron microscopy and immunoblots for the mitochondrial-specific protein, heat shock protein 60 (HSP60), revealed that there was only a slight decrease in mitochondrial mass at this time. Cardiolipin loss after NGF deprivation was concurrent with increased production of mitochondrial-derived reactive oxygen species [Kirkland, R.A., Franklin, J.L., 2001. J. Neurosci. 21, 1949-1963] and increased lipid peroxidation. Compounds having antioxidant effects blocked peroxidation, loss of cardiolipin, and the decrease of mitochondrial mass in NGF-deprived neurons. These compounds also blocked an increase in the number of lysosomes and autophagosomes in NGF-deprived cells. The findings reported here show that the important mitochondrial inner membrane lipid, cardiolipin, is lost from mitochondria during neuronal apoptosis and that this loss occurs before significant loss of mitochondria from cells. They suggest that the loss of cardiolipin is mediated by free radical oxygen.
We have previously shown that activation of neurokinin-1 receptors reduces acutely provoked epileptiform activity in rat entorhinal cortex in vitro, and suggested that this may result from an increase in GABA release from inhibitory interneurones. In the present study we have made whole cell patch clamp recordings of spontaneous GABA-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents as an indicator of GABA release in slices of rat entorhinal cortex, and determined the effects of neurokinin receptor activation on this release. The neurokinin-1 receptor agonists septide and GR73632 provoked a robust increase in the frequency of GABA-mediated currents, and an increase in mean amplitude. The effects were mimicked by substance P, and blocked by a neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist. High concentrations of neurokinin A had similar effects, which were also blocked by the neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist, but agonists at neurokinin-2 or neurokinin-3 receptors were ineffective. The increases in amplitude and frequency of events provoked by septide were prevented by prior blockade of action potential-dependent release with tetrodotoxin. In current clamp recordings from putative interneurones, GR73632 evoked depolarisation and a prolonged discharge of action potentials. Finally, recordings from pyramidal neurones and oriens-alveus interneurones in CA1 of the hippocampus showed that application of GR73632 caused an increase in frequency and amplitude of GABA-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents in the former and persistent firing of action potentials in the latter. The results demonstrate that neurokinin-1 receptor activation promotes the release of GABA at synapses on principal neurones in both entorhinal cortex and hippocampus. The abolition of this effect by tetrodotoxin and the excitatory responses seen in interneurones clearly suggest that the neurokinin-1 receptor is localised on the soma-dendritic domain of the inhibitory neurones. Thus, substance P inputs to inhibitory neurones may have a widespread influence on cortical network excitability and could play a role in epileptogenesis and its control.
Cyclic AMP (cAMP)-responsive element-binding protein (CREB) is a transcription factor important in developing nervous system cells and is activated by a variety of signaling molecules. Aroclor 1254 (A1254), a polychlorinated biphenyl mixture, perturbs Ca(2+) homeostasis and increases CREB phosphorylation in rat neonatal cortical cell cultures in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. The present experiments determined that the cell type responding to A1254 with Ca(2+) increases and phosphorylated CREB (phospho-CREB) was predominantly of neuronal morphology and microtubule-associated protein (MAP2)-positive phenotype. Similarly, glutamate (100 microM) increased phospho-CREB immunoreactivity selectively in MAP2-immunopositive cells. Using Western blotting and immunocytochemical techniques, we identified key signal transduction pathways operative in phosphorylating CREB in cortical cell cultures and examined their participation in 3 ppm A1254-induced CREB activation. Cortical cultures treated with glutamate, forskolin or the phorbol ester phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate exhibited robust increases in phospho-CREB. Tetrodotoxin (1 microM) completely inhibited CREB phosphorylation by A1254, suggesting that synaptic activity is involved in A1254-induced CREB activation. Buffering [Ca(2+)](i) with bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid tetrakis(acetoxymethyl) ester in the absence of extracellular Ca(2+) partially inhibited A1254-induced CREB phosphorylation. Inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinase (10 microM U0126) or protein kinase C (PKC; bisindoylmaleimide, 5 microM) activation did not inhibit A1254-induced CREB phosphorylation. By contrast, inhibition of protein kinase A (PKA) with 100 microM PKA inhibitor peptide, PKI, blocked A1254-induced CREB phosphorylation. Thus, we examined whether A1254 activates PKA by increasing cAMP; 10 microM forskolin, but not A1254, elevated intracellular cAMP levels. These results indicate that in neocortical cells in culture, CREB phosphorylation occurs via Ca(2+)-, PKA-, and PKC-dependent pathways. Furthermore, A1254-induced CREB phosphorylation occurs predominantly in neurons, is dependent on synaptic activity and mediated by Ca(2+)- and PKA-dependent pathways.
Estrogen deficiency during menopause is often associated with memory dysfunction. However, inconsistencies regarding the ability of estrogen to improve memory in menopausal women highlight the need to evaluate, in a controlled animal model, the potential for estrogen to alleviate age-related mnemonic decline. The current study tested whether estrogen could ameliorate spatial reference memory decline in aged female mice. At the conclusion of testing, levels of the presynaptic protein synaptophysin, and activities of the synthetic enzymes for acetylcholine and GABA, were measured in the hippocampus and neocortex. Aged (27-28-month-old) female C57BL/6 mice were given daily subcutaneous injections of 1 microg or 5 microg of beta-estradiol-3-benzoate dissolved in sesame oil. Control mice received daily injections of sesame oil or no injections. Estradiol treatment began 5 days prior to behavioral testing and continued throughout testing. Spatial and non-spatial memory were assessed in the Morris water maze. The 5 microg dose of estradiol significantly improved spatial learning and memory in aged females. The performance of 5 microg females improved significantly more rapidly than that of control females; estradiol-treated females performed at asymptotic levels by session 2. Furthermore, 5 microg females exhibited a more robust spatial bias than controls during probe trials. In contrast, 1 microg of estradiol did not improve spatial task performance. Neither dose affected performance of the non-spatial task. In the hippocampus, synaptophysin was increased in 5 microg females relative to controls. Estrogen did not affect enzyme activities in either brain region. This study is the first to examine the effects of estrogen replacement on spatial reference memory and synaptophysin expression in aged post-estropausal female rodents. The results suggest that: (1) estrogen can profoundly improve spatial reference memory in aged females, and (2) this improvement may be related to increased hippocampal synaptic plasticity, but not modulation of the synthetic enzymes for acetylcholine and GABA.
Previous attempts to reproduce striatonigral degeneration, the core pathology underlying Parkinsonism in multiple system atrophy, have been impeded by interactions in the neurotoxins used to replicate striatal and nigral degeneration in rodents. To overcome these interactions, we have developed a new model of striatonigral degeneration which uses a single unilateral administration of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP(+)) into the rat striatum. Spontaneous and drug-induced rotational behaviour, thigmotactic scanning, stepping adjusting steps and paw reaching deficits were compared in four groups of animals: group 1 (control), group 2 (20 microg quinolinic acid), group 3 (20 microg 6-hydroxydopamine), and group 4 (90 nmol MPP(+)). MPP(+) administration resulted in the absence of the amphetamine-induced ipsilateral bias observed in the 6-hydroxydopamine group and of the apomorphine-induced ipsilateral bias observed in the quinolinic acid group. There was no thigmotactic scanning asymmetry in the MPP(+)-injected rats compared to the quinolinic acid- and the 6-hydroxydopamine-injected rats. MPP(+) elicited a bilateral stepping adjustment deficit similar to that found in the quinolinic acid group when compared to controls. MPP(+) also elicited a more severe and significant contralateral deficit in paw reaching compared to controls, 6-hydroxydopamine and quinolinic acid groups. Histopathology revealed a significant reduction of the lesioned striatal surface (-47.53%) with neuronal loss and increased astrogliosis in the MPP(+) group grossly similar to that found in the quinolinic acid group. Contrary to the latter group, however, loss of intrastriatal and striatal-crossing fibre bundles was observed in the MPP(+) group as there was also some retrograde degeneration in the ipsilateral thalamic parafascicular nucleus. The mean loss of dopaminergic cells in the ipsilateral substantia nigra pars compacta in MPP(+) rats was less marked (-48.8%) than in the 6-hydroxydopamine rats (-63.6%) and was not significant in quinolinic acid rats (-5.2%). This study shows that a single unilateral intrastriatal administration of MPP(+) induces a unique motor behaviour resulting from both nigral and striatal degeneration, but also from possible extrastriatal damage. This 'single toxin-double lesion' paradigm may thus serve as a rat model of striatonigral degeneration.
It has been reported that both urotensin II precursor (pro UII) mRNA and androgen receptors (ARs) are highly expressed in rat brainstem motor nuclei and ventral horn of the spinal cord. In order to determine the possible involvement of androgens in regulation of pro UII mRNA expression, we have studied the co-localization of pro UII mRNA and AR immunoreactivity and the effect of castration and dihydrotestosterone (DHT) replacement therapy on pro UII mRNA in the rat facial nucleus and ventral horn of the spinal cord. By in situ hybridization, pro UII mRNA was only detected in motoneurons in both the facial nucleus and ventral horn of the spinal cord. Double-labelling studies revealed that the vast majority (over 95%) of motoneurons immunostained for AR also expressed pro UII mRNA in both areas examined. Three weeks after castration, pro UII mRNA expression, as measured by semi-quantitative in situ hybridization, was increased by 17% and 58% in the ventral horn of the spinal cord and the facial nucleus, respectively. The administration of DHT completely prevented the stimulating effect of castration. These results indicate that circulating androgens are exerting a down-regulation of pro UII expression possibly by a direct action at the level of motoneurons. The physiological relevance of these new findings remains to be fully explored.
We have examined how transient cerebral ischemia affects the mRNA expression of a family of methyl CpG-binding domain (MBD)-containing factors in the rat hippocampus. Our results show that each member of this family is affected by cerebral ischemia challenge, but with differing patterns of responsiveness. At 3, 6 and 12 h following reperfusion, MeCP2 and MBD1 expression is maintained at control levels throughout the hippocampus. At 24 h, MeCP2 and MBD1 are induced in both the CA1 and CA3 subfields. This delayed pattern of induction is in contrast to the responses of MBD2 and MBD3. Both MBD2 and MBD3 display significant changes in expression at early times following reperfusion, although their changes are opposite in direction. MBD2 expression is induced throughout the hippocampal formation at 6 h, and remains elevated at 12 and 24 h. MBD3 expression decreases as early as 3 h following insult in the CA3 and dentate gyrus, and the decreased expression remains in the vulnerable CA1 subfield at 6, 12, and 24 h. Taken together, these results are the first to illustrate that the expression of methyl DNA-binding factors are affected by challenges to the brain, and they also illustrate that each methyl DNA-binding factor responds differently to cerebral ischemic challenge. As each of these family members is associated either directly or indirectly with the inhibition of gene transcription, our results suggest that following cerebral ischemia the normal pattern of transcriptional inhibition provided by these factors may be altered in the hippocampus.
In spite of the available information about the development of Drosophila neuromuscular junctions, the correlation between nerve terminal morphology and maintenance of synaptic strength has still not been systematically addressed throughout larval development. We characterized the growth of the abdominal longitudinal muscle 6 (m6) and the motor terminals Ib and Is that innervate it within segment 4. In addition, we measured the evoked excitatory junction potential (EJP) amplitudes while the Ib and Is axons were selectively recruited. Regression analysis with natural log transformation of response variables indicated that the developmental curves for m6 and the motor axons Ib and Is were best fitted as second order polynomial regressions during larval development. Initially Is terminals are longer and possess more synaptic varicosities at the first instar stage. The Is terminals also grow faster in subsequent developmental stages. The growth of nerve terminals and their target m6 are not proportional although tightly correlated. This results in a larger average muscle area innervated by a single varicosity as the animal develops. The amplitudes of the EJPs of Ib and Is neurons show no developmental difference in their amplitudes from the first to the late third larval instar. The Is axon consistently produced larger EJPs than the Ib axon at each developmental stage. The time constants for both rising and decay phases of EJPs increase exponentially throughout larval development. The results presented not only help in quantifying the normal development of Drosophila neuromuscular junctions, but also provide a framework for future investigations to properly interpret developmental abnormalities that may occur in various mutants.
We have examined the role of the indirect pathway of antigen recognition and T cells in neural xenografts rejection by using major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II-deficient mice as xenograft recipients. Dissociated embryonic ventral mesencephalic tissue from Sprague-Dawley rats was stereotaxically injected as a cell suspension into the striatum of MHC class II-deficient adult mice as well as MHC class I-deficient and wild-type mice as controls. All of the MHC class II-deficient mice had surviving grafts in the striatum 4 weeks post-grafting. In contrast, only a few of the MHC class I-deficient mice exhibited very small grafts and none of the wild-type mice had any surviving grafts. The mean number of surviving transplanted dopamine neurons in the MHC class II-deficient group was significantly larger than that observed in the other two groups. Moderate levels of MHC class I antigen expression were seen in the transplantation sites of some animals in the MHC class II-deficient group. No helper or cytotoxic T cells were observed infiltrating into the graft sites of this group. However, there were markedly increased levels of expression of MHC class I and class II antigens, and a number of T cells infiltrating in the graft sites in both the MHC class I-deficient and wild-type groups. These results show that rat embryonic nigral tissue can survive transplantation in the brain of the MHC class II-deficient mice for at least 4 weeks without any overt signs of rejection, suggesting that the indirect pathway of foreign antigen recognition mediated by host MHC class II molecules and helper T cells plays an important role in the rejection responses to intracerebral xenografts.
We examined the cholinergic synapses between protraction phase interneurons (SO or N1L) and their targets (N1M interneuron, B1 motoneuron) in the buccal ganglia of the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis. We have tested the hypothesis that the OC (octopamine-containing) interneuron, an intrinsic modulator of the feeding network, can increase the synaptic efficacy from the SO or N1L to their targets. Prestimulation of the OC interneuron, 4 s before the activation of the SO or N1L increases the strength of their output synapses by 75% (SO)-110% (N1L). The individual excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked by SO or N1L stimulation increase in size. OC prestimulation also produces an increase in the firing rate of these presynaptic interneurons: SO 40%; N1L 33%. The facilitation lasts up to 6 s after the end of the OC burst. The enhancement of PSPs is seen at all the output synapses (both excitatory and inhibitory) of the SO and N1L interneurons. The output synapses of the non-cholinergic swallowing phase N3p interneuron are not affected, even when the same postsynaptic target is selected. The SO--&gt;N1M, SO--&gt;B1 and N1L--&gt;N1M synapses are also strengthened by bath application of 1-5 microM octopamine (average increase 60%). The major effect is an increased excitability of the SO; the B1 motoneuron response to the main transmitter of the SO, acetylcholine, is unaffected. Increased synaptic outputs of the protraction phase SO and N1L interneurons is functionally significant for generation of feeding pattern in the Lymnaea CNS. Strengthening the connections of SO and N1L to the central pattern generator (N1M) interneurons enhances their ability to drive fictive feeding. Thus heterosynaptic facilitation by the octopaminergic OC interneurons in the central pattern generator network may contribute to the behavioral plasticity of feeding in the intact animal.
Vitamin A and its derivatives (retinoids) play important roles in many physiological processes. The recent finding of high levels of cellular retinol-binding protein type 1 immunoreactivity, cellular retinoic acid-binding protein type 1 immunoreactivity and the presence of nuclear retinoid receptors in the central nervous system of adult rodents suggests that retinoids may carry out important roles in the adult brain. In consideration of the role of the hippocampus in spatial learning and memory we evaluated the effect of vitamin A deprivation in adult rats on these functions. Following 12 weeks of vitamin A-free diet, rats were trained to acquire a radial-arm maze task. Results show that this diet induced a severe deficit in the spatial learning and memory task. The cognitive impairment was fully restored when vitamin A was replaced in the diet. We also found a significant decrease in hippocampal acetylcholine release induced by scopolamine, assessed using microdialysis technique, and a reduction in the size of hippocampal nuclei of CA1 region in vitamin-deficient rats, compared to rats fed with a vitamin A-sufficient diet. These results demonstrate that vitamin A has a critical role in the learning and memory processes linked to a proper hippocampal functioning.
One of us showed previously [Cuajungco and Lees (1998) Brain Res. 799, 188-129] that nitric oxide injected into the cerebrum in vivo causes zinc staining to appear in the somata of neurons and suggested that this staining of somata might be accompanied by a depletion (release) of zinc from axon terminals. In the present study, we confirm earlier results and report that there is a dramatic loss (apparent release) of histologically reactive zinc from the boutons of zinc-containing axons induced by infusion of nitric oxide into the brain in vivo. Rats were anesthetized with halothane and a cannula was inserted into the hippocampus. Either nitric oxide donor (spermineNONOate, 100 mM/2 microl) or control (spermine, 100 mM/2 l) was infused into the hippocampus or the cerebellar cortex. Two hours after infusion, N-(6-methoxy-8-quinolyl)-para-toluenesulfonamide (TSQ) staining for zinc in the brains revealed that sperminenitric oxide, but not control (spermine only) produced up to 95% depletion of zinc staining from the zinc-containing boutons. TSQ-positive neurons were also conspicuous throughout injection sites, in both the cerebral cortex and in the cerebellar cortex, where the Purkinje neurons were especially vivid, despite the scarcity of zinc-containing axonal boutons. It is suggested that the TSQ-stainable zinc in somata might represent intracellular stores mobilized from within or permeating extracellular stores.
Physical dependence is a widely known consequence of morphine intake. Although commonly associated with prolonged or repeated morphine administration, withdrawal symptoms can be elicited even after a single prior morphine exposure. What remains contentious is the extent to which physical dependence following acute and chronic morphine treatment is mediated by common physiological substrates and, accordingly, represent distinct syndromes. The genetic relationship between acute and chronic morphine dependence was thus presently studied by comparing mice of 11 inbred strains (129P3, A, AKR, BALB/c, C3H/He, C57BL/6, CBA, DBA/2, LP, SJL, and SWR) for naloxone-precipitated withdrawal jumping responses using three subcutaneous morphine administration paradigms: acute (single injection) or chronic (three daily morphine injections for 4 days) injection, or chronic infusion (7 days via implanted osmotic minipumps). Although there were differences in the magnitude of withdrawal jumping between the three different morphine administration paradigms, large and significant strain differences were observed for each. In addition, the same strains were unusually sensitive or, conversely, altogether refractory to withdrawal jumping across all morphine treatment conditions. Overall, strain jumping means between acute and chronic dependence paradigms displayed a high degree of genetic correlation (r=0.87-0.95). The significant correlation between chronic morphine injection and continuous morphine infusion discounts the possible confounding effect of contextual learning and spontaneous withdrawal between chronic injections on the assessment of naloxone-precipitated withdrawal. Substantial heritability was also observed for acute and both paradigms of chronic dependence, with estimates ranging from h(2)=0.53 to 0.70. The present demonstration of a strong genetic correlation between physical dependence to morphine following acute and chronic treatment implies that genes associated with variable sensitivity in the two traits are the same, and is suggestive of shared physiological substrates. The data also demonstrate that the differential genetic liability to morphine physical dependence begins with, and is predicted by, the first morphine exposure.
Classical fear conditioning is believed to result from potentiation of conditioned synaptic inputs in the basolateral amygdala. That is, the conditioned stimulus would excite more neurons in the central nucleus and, via their projections to the brainstem and hypothalamus, evoke fear responses. However, much data suggests that extinction of fear responses does not depend on the reversal of these changes but on a parallel NMDA-dependent learning that competes with the first one. Because they control impulse traffic from the basolateral amygdala to the central nucleus, GABAergic neurons of the intercalated cell masses are ideally located to implement this second learning. Consistent with this hypothesis, the present study shows that low- and high-frequency stimulation of basolateral afferents respectively induce long-term depression (LTD) and potentiation (LTP) of responses in intercalated cells. Moreover, induction of LTP and LTD is prevented by application of an NMDA antagonist. To determine how these activity-dependent changes are expressed, we tested whether LTD and LTP induction are associated with modifications in paired-pulse facilitation, an index of transmitter release probability. Only LTP induction was associated with a change in paired-pulse facilitation. Depotentiation of previously potentiated synapses did not revert the modification in paired pulse facilitation, suggesting that LTP is associated with presynaptic alterations, but that LTD and depotentiation depend on postsynaptic changes. Taken together, our results suggest that basolateral synapses onto intercalated neurons can express NMDA-dependent LTP and LTD, consistent with the possibility that intercalated neurons are a critical locus of plasticity for the extinction of conditioned fear responses. Ultimately, these plastic events may prevent conditioned amygdala responses from exciting neurons of the central nucleus, and thus from evoking conditioned fear responses.
The mechanisms involved in morphine tolerance are poorly understood. It was reported by our group that calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-like immunoreactivity (IR) was increased in the spinal dorsal horn during morphine tolerance [Mnard et al. (1996) J. Neurosci. 16, 2342-2351]. More recently, we observed that it was possible to mimic these results in cultured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons allowing for more detailed mechanistic studies [Ma et al. (2000) Neuroscience 99, 529-539]. The aim of the present series of experiments was to further validate the DRG cell culture model by establishing which subtypes of opioid receptors are involved in the induction of CGRP in cultured rat DRG neurons, and to examine the signaling pathway possibly involved in the induction of CGRP-like IR following repeated opiate treatments. Other neuropeptides known to be expressed in DRG neurons, such as substance P (SP), neuropeptide Y (NPY) and galanin, were investigated to assess specificity. Following treatment with any of the three opioid agonists (mu, DAMGO; delta, DPDPE; kappa, U50488H), the number of CGRP- and SP-IR cultured DRG neurons increased significantly, and in a concentration-dependent manner, with the effects of kappa agonist being less pronounced. NPY and galanin were not affected.Double-immunofluorescence staining showed that the three opioid receptors were co-localized with both CGRP- and SP-like IR.Protein kinase C (PKC)-like IR was found to be significantly increased following a repetitive treatment with DAMGO. Double-immunofluorescence staining showed the co-localization of PKCalpha with CGRP- and SP-IR in cultured DRG neurons. Moreover, a combined treatment with DAMGO and a PKC inhibitor (chelerythrine chloride or G 6976) was able to block the effects of the opioid on increased CGRP-like IR. These data suggest that the three opioid receptors may be involved in the induction of CGRP and SP observed following chronic exposure to opiates, and that PKC probably plays a role in the signaling pathway leading to the up-regulation of these neuropeptides. These findings further validate the DRG cell culture as a suitable model to study intracellular pathways that govern changes seen following repeated opioid treatments possibly leading to opioid tolerance.
We have previously reported the formation of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) clusters approximately 110 nm in diameter in hippocampal neurons in culture and in the intact adult brain, under conditions that simulate ischemic stress and increase [Ca(2+)](i) [Dosemeci et al. (2000) J. Neurosci. 20, 3076-3084; Tao-Cheng et al. (2001) Neuroscience 106, 69-78]. These observations suggest that ischemia-like conditions that prevail during the dissection of brain tissue for the preparation of hippocampal slices could lead to the formation of CaMKII clusters. We now show by pre-embedding immuno-electron microscopy that, indeed, CaMKII clusters are present in the CA1 pyramidal neurons in hippocampal slices from adult rats fixed immediately after dissection, and that the number of CaMKII clusters increases with the delay time between decapitation and fixation. Moreover, CaMKII clusters are typically localized near the endoplasmic reticulum. When acute slices are allowed to recover in oxygenated medium for 2 h, CaMKII clusters mostly disappear, indicating that clustering is reversible. Also, the postsynaptic density, another site for CaMKII accumulation under excitatory conditions, becomes thinner upon recovery. Treatment of recovered slices with high potassium for 90 s causes the re-appearance of CaMKII clusters in nearly all CA1 pyramidal cells examined. On the other hand, when dissociated hippocampal neurons in primary culture are exposed to the same depolarizing conditions, only approximately 25% of neurons exhibit CaMKII clusters, indicating a difference in the susceptibility of the neurons in culture and in acute slices to excitatory stimuli. Altogether these observations indicate that the effect of CaMKII clustering should be considered when interpreting experimental results obtained with hippocampal slices.
ATP released in the extracellular space by neuronal injury can influence neighboring neurons via activation of purinergic receptors. In vitro data suggest the involvement of ATP and purinergic receptors as trophic agents in different biological events such as neuritogenesis and cell survival. Recently, in vivo studies have demonstrated modifications in the glial expression of ionotropic purinergic receptors after CNS lesions. In the present study, we investigated the effects of CNS lesion on the neuronal expression of P2X(1) and P2X(2) receptor subunits by immunohistochemistry and western blotting techniques. In the precerebellar structures of normal animals the expression of P2X(1) and P2X(2) was lower than previously reported. P2X(1) immunostaining was confined only to fibers, while P2X(2) immunostaining demonstrated a neuronal expression. After unilateral cerebellar lesion (hemicerebellectomy) axotomized precerebellar neurons underwent marked cell loss; however, some precerebellar neurons did not degenerate. Seven to 35 days after hemicerebellectomy, a transient, time-dependent, marked increase in the number of immunopositive P2X(1) and P2X(2) neurons was observed in the precerebellar nuclei of the experimental side. An even distribution of immunopositive neurons was present in almost all precerebellar nuclei examined, except for the inferior olive. In this latter structure, differences in the distribution of immunopositive neurons were evident among the subnuclei. Up-regulation of immunoreactivity over relatively long time periods, distribution selectivity and absence of degenerating morphological features in immunopositive neurons suggest that purinergic receptors may have a role in mediating the survival of neuronal responses to axotomy. The present findings are the first report in the CNS of P2X(1) and P2X(2) receptor subunit involvement in neuronal reaction to axotomy. They provide in vivo evidence of a correlation between purinergic receptor subunit up-regulation and survival of injured neurons.
The effects of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), dehydroepiandrosterone-sulfate (DHEA-S), alpha-estradiol and beta-estradiol on the main functions of purified rat brain mitochondria were investigated in basal conditions and after being submitted to various stresses including anoxia-reoxygenation, uncoupling and apoptosis. In basal conditions, DHEA (1 microM) and alpha-estradiol (1 microM) inhibited the respiratory control ratio (RCR) from 3.1 to 2.3 (25%). After anoxia-reoxygenation, DHEA (1 microM) and alpha-estradiol (1 microM) reversed significantly (P&lt;0.01) the RCR decrease from 1.4 to 2.0 (21.5%) by restoring the state 4. This effect was observed when DHEA was added either before anoxia or before reoxygenation and when alpha-estradiol was added before anoxia. The mitochondrial membranes damaged after the anoxia-reoxygenation were 70 and 50%, respectively, protected by DHEA and alpha-estradiol at 1 microM. They also limited by about 50%, the cytochrome c release induced by the anoxia-reoxygenation. The oxygen consumption of mitochondria in presence of NADH (130 microM) and cytochrome c (5 microM) was significantly inhibited by DHEA and alpha-estradiol with high EC(50) of 30 and 22 pM, respectively. At 1 microM, they also inhibited the 10 microM carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone-induced uncoupling to about 35% whereas beta-estradiol only decreased it to 9%. Our results indicated that DHEA and alpha-estradiol partly preserved the mitochondrial functions altered by an anoxia-reoxygenation with a concentration-dependent effect. The mechanism involved was independent of the classical genomic effect of steroids, the antioxidant properties but implicated a direct action on the mitochondrial membranes.
Despite conflicting clinical and experimental evidence, textbook description of somatic sensations continues to follow a rigid dichotomy based on the concept that pain sensation is transmitted cephalad primarily through anterolateral pathways, while touch is mediated through the dorsal column pathway. This study provides an example of the dynamic rerouting in the transmission of the nociceptive signals following injuries to the peripheral and central processes of sensory neurons. In two rat models for mononeuropathy, the chronic constriction injury model [Bennett, G.J., Xie, Y.K., Pain 33 (1988) 87-107] and the spared nerve injury model [Decosterd, I., Woolf, C.J., Pain 87 (2000) 149-158], we demonstrate that selective dorsal columns lesion produced significant decrease of tactile and cold allodynias and thermal hyperalgesia which were assessed by the Von Frey hair filaments, the acetone drop test and the heat-induced paw withdrawal, respectively. These manifestations, however, can reappear 2 weeks after bilateral dorsal column lesion in rats subjected to spared nerve injury mononeuropathy and appear also in animals sustaining chronic bilateral dorsal column lesion followed by either model of mononeuropathy. Lesion of the dorsal column on the side opposite to the neuropathic leg did not alter the neuropathic manifestations in both animal models. Changes in the sequence of timing of the dorsal column lesion and induction of mononeuropathy, suggest that the effects of the former last for 1 to 2 weeks. The results of this study show that the dorsal columns are involved in neuropathic manifestations and at the same time are not necessary for their full development and persistence. Furthermore, these results shade doubts on the validity of the concept of segregation of pathways involved in the transmission of neuropathic manifestations. Therefore, principles governing acute pain transmission are not necessarily applicable to chronic pain situations. The latter conditions seem to engage other available pathways to reestablish the pain signaling system.
The striatum is a key structure of basal ganglia controlling extrapyramidal motor activity and processing addictive plasticity of abused substances. Glutamatergic transmission that is enriched in the striatum regulates a variety of striatal neuronal activities via selective activation of ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). In this study, the interaction between N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and group I mGluRs (mGluR1 and mGluR5 subtypes) in activating a phosphorylation cascade to a transcription factor cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) was investigated in primary cultures of E18 or postnatal day 1 striatal neurons. We found that activation of NMDA receptors with NMDA rapidly and concentration-dependently increased the number of neurons expressing phosphorylated CREB (pCREB) as revealed by immunocytochemistry. The increased pCREB expression by NMDA was sensitive to an NMDA antagonist MK801. Co-incubation of a subthreshold dose of a group I mGluR agonist 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) that itself did not alter basal pCREB expression augmented NMDA-induced CREB phosphorylation. The mGluR5 antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine hydrochloride blocked the DHPG augmentation of NMDA-induced CREB phosphorylation, while the mGluR1 antagonist 7-(hydroxyimino)cyclopropa[b]chromen-1a-carboxylate ethyl ester did not. Interestingly, the protein kinase C inhibitors chelerythrine and G6983 also prevented DHPG from enhancing CREB phosphorylation induced by NMDA. Whereas a low dose of the protein kinase C activator phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate mimicked the DHPG potentiation. These results indicate a facilitatory regulation of an NMDA cascade to CREB phosphorylation by concurrent glutamatergic tone on mGluR5, which is probably processed via an intracellular signaling pathway involving protein kinase C.
We investigated the nature of afterdepolarizing potentials in AH neurons from the guinea-pig duodenum using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in intact myenteric ganglia. Afterdepolarizing potentials were minimally activated following action-potential firing under normal conditions, but after application of charybdotoxin (40 nM) or tetraethyl ammonium (TEA; 10-20 mM) to the bathing solution, prominent afterdepolarizing potentials followed action potentials. The whole-cell current underlying afterdepolarizing potentials (I(ADP)) in the presence of TEA (10-20 mM) reversed at -38 mV and was not voltage-dependent. Reduction of NaCl in the bathing (Krebs) solution to 58 mM shifted the reversal potential of the I(ADP) to -58 mV, suggesting that the current underlying the afterdepolarizing potential was carried by a mixture of cations. The relative contributions of Na(+) and K(+) to this current were estimated to be about 1:5. Substitution of external Na(+) with N-methyl D-glucamine blocked the current while replacement of internal Cl(-) with gluconate did not block the I(ADP). The I(ADP) was also inhibited when CsCl-filled patch pipettes were used. The I(ADP) was blocked or substantially decreased in amplitude in the presence of N-type Ca(2+) channel antagonists, omega-conotoxin GVIA and omega-conotoxin MVIIC, respectively, and was eliminated by external Cd(2+), indicating that it was dependent on Ca(2+) entry. The I(ADP) was also inhibited by ryanodine (10-20 microM), indicating that Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release was involved in its activation. Niflumic acid consistently inhibited the I(ADP) with an IC(50) of 63 microM. Using antibodies against the pore-forming subunits of L-, N- and P/Q-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, we have demonstrated that myenteric AH neurons express N- and P/Q, but not L-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. We conclude that the ADP in myenteric AH neurons, in the presence of an L-type Ca(2+)-channel blocker, is generated by the opening of Ca(2+)-activated non-selective cation channels following action potential-mediated Ca(2+) entry mainly through N-type Ca(2+) channels. Ca(2+) release from ryanodine-sensitive stores triggered by Ca(2+) entry contributes significantly to the activation of this current.
We describe here, in Golgi-impregnated rat cerebellar cortex, a new group of large granular layer neurons. These cells have a globular soma located at variable depths in the granular layer, and three to four long radiating dendrites coursing through the three layers of the cortex. The axon projects more or less directly into the molecular layer, where it expands in a local plexus of oblique and tortuous thick collaterals ascending through the major part of the layer. Interestingly, the axons of several of these cells give off a collateral that courses for a long distance in the transverse direction, just above the Purkinje cell somata, parallel to the parallel fibers. While the granular layer location and the polymorphous somato-dendritic pattern of these cells is reminiscent of that of Golgi cells, their axonal pattern is clearly of the same type as that of another large granular layer interneuron, the Lugaro cell. Moreover, double anti-calretinin and anti-calbindin immunolabellings show that Lugaro cells as well as some globular somata dispersed in the granular layer are both calretinin-positive and in close apposition with numerous calbindin-positive varicosities of Purkinje cell axon recurrent collaterals. These latter are known from previous ultrastructural studies to be pre-synaptic to Lugaro cells. The common granular layer location and calretinin labelling, the striking similarity in axonal projection pattern, and the important common recurrent afferentation by Purkinje cell axons strongly argue in favor of the classification of these globular interneurons as a subgroup of a widened Lugaro cell type.
The selectivity of two new radioligands, [(125)I]YVP ([(125)I]YVPNLPQRF-NH(2)) and [(125)I]EYF ([(125)I]EYWSLAAPQRF-NH(2)), for neuropeptide FF (NPFF) receptor subtypes was determined using HEK293 cells expressing hNPFF(1) and CHO cells expressing hNPFF(2) receptors. Saturation binding and displacement experiments showed that [(125)I]YVP and [(125)I]EYF bound selectively with a very high affinity, K(D)=0.18 nM and 0.06 nM, to NPFF(1) and NPFF(2) receptors respectively. By using in vitro autoradiography with these radioligands and frog pancreatic polypeptide (PP) as selective unlabelled competitor of NPFF(2) binding sites, NPFF(1) and NPFF(2) receptor distribution was analyzed throughout the rat CNS. The highest densities of [(125)I]EYF binding sites were seen in the most external layers of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, the parafascicular thalamic nucleus, laterodorsal thalamic nucleus and presubiculum of hippocampus. All specific binding of this radioligand was inhibited by 200 nM frog PP. The density of 0.1 nM [(125)I]YVP binding was much smaller in all brain areas and frog PP-insensitive binding sites (NPFF(1) receptor subtype) were detected in septal, thalamic and hypothalamic areas but were absent in the spinal cord. The restricted distribution of NPFF(1) receptors in the CNS supports its specific role in a limited number of neuronal functions. In contrast to the rat spinal cord where the NPFF(1) system is absent, there is no strict separation between NPFF(1) and NPFF(2) system at the supraspinal level.
Sleep deprivation has been shown to affect the production of steroid hormones in peripheral steroidogenic organs, but little is known about the influence of sleep disturbance on the metabolism of steroid hormones in the brain. To elucidate a possible association of the sleep-wake cycle with brain neurosteroid metabolism, the influence of short-term sleep disturbance on the expression of mRNA encoding steroid 5alpha-reductase, the enzyme converting progesterone and other steroid hormones to their neuroactive 5alpha-reduced metabolites, was investigated. Rats were first subjected to non-selective disturbance of the sleep-wake cycle, and the expression of steroid 5alpha-reductase mRNA in rat hippocampus and brainstem was determined using a semi-quantitative one-step RT-PCR technique. Non-selective disturbance of the sleep-wake cycle resulted in the elevation of 5alpha-reductase mRNA levels in the brainstem, but not in the hippocampus, and the elevated mRNA expression returned to the basal levels after a short period of the sleep recovery. Further studies showed that selective REM sleep deprivation significantly elevated 5alpha-reductase mRNA levels in both hippocampus and brainstem, thus proposing the possibility that REM sleep reduction may largely contribute to the elevation of steroid 5alpha-reductase mRNA levels observed during short-term disturbance of the sleep-wake cycle. Since the enhancement of steroid 5alpha-reductase gene expression may result in the elevation of neuroactive 5alpha-reduced steroid production in the brainstem, the findings presented here provide further evidence for suggesting that neuroactive steroids may play a physiologically important role in the neuronal network for REM sleep initiation and maintenance.
We have examined the effect of acrolein, an aldehyde product of lipid peroxidation, on axons in isolated guinea-pig spinal cord white matter. We found that 200 microM acrolein, but not 50 microM, induced a time-dependent loss of compound action potential conduction. Such conduction loss was irreversible within 1 h after acrolein perfusion. Parallel anatomical assessment indicates membrane integrity breakdown based on a horseradish peroxidase-exclusion assay. This is the first report to suggest that acrolein inflicts severe axonal damage. Since axonal damage within white matter plays a key role in the pathology of traumatic spinal cord injury, we suggest that acrolein may be a critical factor in mediating secondary functional loss.
In transgenic mice carrying the G93A human mutation of Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1), which provide a model of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, we investigated, before the onset of symptoms, two parameters of the response of facial motoneurons to nerve transection, i.e. nitric oxide synthase induction and motoneuron loss. Axotomy elicited after 2 and 3 weeks high nitric oxide synthase expression in facial motoneurons of wild-type mice, whereas the induction was very weak or absent in transgenic mice. At 1 month post-axotomy, loss of facial motoneurons was significantly higher in mutant mice than in wild-type littermates. Thus, SOD1 mutation interferes with the oxidative cascade elicited by axonal injury in cranial motoneurons. The results also indicate that the adverse gain of function of the mutant SOD1 enhances the vulnerability of motoneurons to peripheral stressful conditions.
Following injury to a peripheral nerve, changes in the behavior of Schwann cells help to define the subsequent microenvironment for regeneration. Such changes, however, have almost exclusively been considered in the context of Wallerian degeneration distal to an injury, where loss of axonal contact or input is thought to be critical to the changes that occur. This supposition, however, may be incorrect in the proximal stumps where axons are still in contact with their cell bodies. In this work, we studied aspects of in vivo Schwann cell behavior after injury within the microenvironment of proximal stumps of transected rat sciatic nerves, where axons are preserved. In particular we studied this microenvironment proximal to the outgrowth zone, in an area containing intact myelinated fibers and a perineurial layer, by using double immunolabelling of Schwann cell markers and 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling of proliferating cells. In normal sciatic nerve, Schwann cells were differentiated, in an orderly fashion, into those associated with unmyelinated fibers that labeled with glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and those associated with myelinated fibers that could be identified by individual axons and myelin sheaths. After sciatic nerve transection, there was rapid and early expansion in the population of GFAP-labeled cells in proximal stumps that was generated in part, by de novo expression of GFAP in Schwann cells of myelinated fibers. Schwann cells from this population also underwent proliferation, indicated by progressive rises in BrdU and GFAP double labeling. Finally, this Schwann cell pool also developed the property of migration, traveling to the distal outgrowth zone, but also with lateral penetration into the perineurium and epineurium, while in intimate contact with new axons. The findings suggest that other signals, in the injured proximal nerve stumps, beyond actual loss of axons, induce 'mature' Schwann cells of myelinated axons to dedifferentiate into those that up-regulated their GFAP expression, proliferate and migrate with axons.
Enhanced expression of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines has long been linked to neuronal and glial responses to brain injury. Indeed, inflammation in the brain has been associated with damage that stems from conditions as diverse as infection, multiple sclerosis, trauma, and excitotoxicity. In many of these brain injuries, disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) may allow entry of blood-borne factors that contribute to, or serve as the basis of, brain inflammatory responses. Administration of trimethyltin (TMT) to the rat results in loss of hippocampal neurons and an ensuing gliosis without BBB compromise. We used the TMT damage model to discover the proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines that are expressed in response to neuronal injury. TMT caused pyramidal cell damage within 3 days and a substantial loss of these neurons by 21 days post dosing. Marked microglial activation and astrogliosis were evident over the same time period. The BBB remained intact despite the presence of multiple indicators of TMT-induced neuropathology. TMT caused large increases in whole hippocampal-derived monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1 mRNA (1,000%) by day 3 and in MCP-1 (300%) by day 7. The mRNA levels for tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1beta and IL-6, cytokines normally expressed during the earliest stage of inflammation, were not increased up to 21 days post dosing. Lipopolysaccharide, used as a positive control, caused large inductions of cytokine mRNA in liver, as well as an increase in IL-1beta in hippocampus, but it did not result in the induction of astrogliosis. The data suggest that enhanced expression of the proinflammatory cytokines, TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and IL-6, is not required for neuronal and glial responses to injury and that MCP-1 may serve a signaling function in the damaged CNS that is distinct from its role in proinflammatory events.
The cerebellar external granular layer (EGL) is an unusually long-lasting neural proliferative zone positioned immediately beneath the pial surface. Its position and stability critically depend on meningeal cells, as their selective destruction leads to its rapid dispersal, creating massive cortical ectopia. Similar ectopias have recently been described as a side effect of deficiency for stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1), a chemoattractant for haematopoietic precursor cell migration. Here we show that SDF-1 is present in meningeal cells in vivo and in vitro, where it is secreted in functionally relevant concentrations into the medium. Correspondingly, the SDF-1 receptor (termed CXCR4) can be demonstrated on stem cells of the external granular layer, but is absent on postmitotic cells commencing their final inward migration. We show that SDF-1 is concentrated by heparan sulphate proteoglycans highly expressed in the EGL in a laminar fashion, which thus might act to locally restrict SDF-1 action to the EGL in a kind of step gradient. In vitro, SDF-1 chemotactically attracts neuronal cells isolated from the external, but not from the internal granular layer, in a Boyden chamber assay in concentrations found in meningeal cell-conditioned medium. Selective removal of SDF-1 from conditioned media by immunoprecipitation abolishes their chemoattractive action, which can be reconstituted again by the addition of recombinant SDF-1. Meningeal cells are thus an important source for the expression of SDF-1 during brain development, which--comparable to its role in haematopoiesis--appears to be a key factor attracting precursor cells to their proliferative compartment.
The ventrolateral preoptic nucleus (VLPO) is a group of sleep-active neurons that has been identified in the hypothalamus of rats and is thought to inhibit the major ascending monoaminergic arousal systems during sleep; lesions of the VLPO cause insomnia. Identification of the VLPO in other species has been complicated by the lack of a marker for this cell population, other than the expression of Fos during sleep. We now report that a high percentage of the sleep-active (Fos-expressing) VLPO neurons express mRNA for the inhibitory neuropeptide, galanin, in nocturnal rodents (mice and rats), diurnal rodents (degus), and cats. A homologous (i.e. galanin mRNA-containing cell group) is clearly distinguishable in the ventrolateral region of the preoptic area in diurnal and nocturnal monkeys, as well as in humans. Galanin expression may serve to identify sleep-active neurons in the ventrolateral preoptic area of the mammalian brain. The VLPO appears to be a critical component of sleep circuitry across multiple species, and we hypothesize that shrinkage of the VLPO with advancing age may explain sleep deficits in elderly humans.
Endothelin 1 (ET-1) exerts normally a powerful vasoconstrictor role in the control of the brain microcirculation. In altered states, such as following traumatic brain injury (TBI), it may contribute to the development of ischemia and/or secondary cell injury. Because little is known of ET-1's cellular compartmentalization and its association to vulnerable neurons after TBI, we assessed its expression (both mRNA and protein) in cerebral cortex and hippocampus using correlative in situ hybridization and immunocytochemical techniques.Sprague-Dawley male rats were killed at 4, 24 or 48 h after TBI (450 g from 2 m, Marmarou's model). Semiquantitative analysis of our in situ hybridization results indicated a 2.5- and a 2.0-fold increase in ET-1 mRNA content in the hippocampus and cortex respectively which persisted up to 48 h post TBI. At 4 and 24 h after TBI enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay showed a tendency for increased ET-1 synthesis. In animals subjected to TBI, qualitative immunocytochemical analysis revealed a shift in ET-1 expression from astrocytes (in control animals) to endothelial cells, macrophages and neurons. Astrocytes and macrophages were identified unequivocally by using double immunofluorescence revealing ET-1 and glial fibrillary acidic protein or ED-1, respectively, the markers being specific for these cellular types. While this redistribution was most prominent at 4 and 24 h post TBI, at 48 h the endothelial cells remained strongly ET-1 immunopositive. The results suggest that cellular types which in the intact animal synthesize little or no ET-1 provide novel sources of the peptide after TBI. These sources may contribute to the sustained cerebrovascular hypoperfusion observed post TBI.
Lithium is an established mood stabilizer and neuroprotective agent frequently used in the treatment of bipolar disorder and as an adjuvant in drug-resistant unipolar depression. The mechanisms underlying both the therapeutic efficacy of lithium and the exacerbation of symptoms following rapid withdrawal are not understood. From previous studies showing antidepressant and neuroprotective activities of thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) and TRH-related neuropeptides we hypothesized that lithium may have substantial effects on the expression and secretion of these peptides and/or their receptors in various rat brain regions involved in the regulation of mood. Chronic lithium effect on TRH receptor binding studies: The effect of 1 and 2 weeks of dietary lithium on [(3)H]3-Me-His-TRH binding to plasma membranes of nucleus accumbens, amygdala and pituitary of young adult male Wistar and the endogenously 'depressed' Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rats was measured by the method of Burt and Taylor [Burt, D.R., Taylor, R.L., Endocrinology 106 (1980) 1416-1423]. Acute, chronic and withdrawal effect of lithium on TRH and TRH-like peptide levels in young, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats: Rats were divided into four lithium treatment groups. Control animals received a standard laboratory rodent chow. The acute group received a single i.p. injection of 1.5 milli-equivalents of LiCl 2 h prior to killing. The chronic and withdrawal groups received standard rodent chow containing 1.7 g/kg LiCl for 2 weeks. Withdrawal rats were returned to standard chow 48 h prior to killing while the chronic animals continued on the LiCl diet. TRH, TRH-Gly (pGlu-His-Pro-Gly, a TRH precursor), EEP (pGlu-Glu-Pro-NH(2), a TRH-like peptide with antidepressant activity) and Ps4 (a prepro-TRH-derived TRH-enhancing decapeptide) immunoreactivity (IR) were measured in 13 brain regions. The remaining samples were pooled and fractionated by high-pressure liquid chromatography followed by EEP radioimmunoassay. Chronic lithium treatment increased [(3)H]3Me-TRH binding in the nucleus accumbens and amygdala about two-fold in both Wistar and WKY rats but no change was observed in pituitary binding. The most widespread changes in TRH and TRH-related peptide levels were observed in the withdrawal group compared to the controls. The direction of change for the total IR was consistent for all TRH-IR and TRH-related peptide-IR within a given tissue. For example, withdrawal increased all peptide levels in the pyriform cortex and striatum but decreased these levels in the anterior cingulate and lateral cerebellum. Both acute injection and chronic treatment with LiCl decreased TRH and TRH-related peptide levels in the entorhinal cortex. Acute injection and withdrawal both increased EEP-IR in striatum by more than two-fold. The acute effects are most likely due to changes in the release of these peptides since 2 h is not sufficient time for alterations in peptide biosynthesis. Chronic treatment increased levels of pGlu-Phe-Pro-NH(2) levels in hippocampus, pGlu-Leu-Pro-NH(2), and peak '2' in septum by more than four-fold. The present results are consistent with a component role for TRH and related peptides in the mood-altering effects of lithium administration and withdrawal frequently observed during treatment for depression and bipolar disorder.
The effect of quinine on pyramidal cell intrinsic properties, extracellular potassium transients, and epileptiform activity was studied in vitro using the rat hippocampal slice preparation. Quinine enhanced excitatory post-synaptic potentials and decreased fast- and slow-inhibitory post-synaptic potentials. Quinine reduced the peak potassium rise following tetanic stimulation but did not affect the potassium clearance rate. Epileptiform activity induced by either low-Ca(2+) or high-K(+) artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) was suppressed by quinine. The frequency of spontaneous inter-ictal bursting induced by picrotoxin, high-K(+), or 4-aminopyridine was significantly increased. In normal ACSF, quinine did not affect CA1 pyramidal cell resting membrane potential, input resistance, threshold for action potentials triggered by intracellular or extracellular stimulation, or the orthodromic and antidromic evoked population spike amplitude. The main effects of quinine on intrinsic cell properties were to increase action potential duration and to reduce firing frequency during sustained membrane depolarizations, but not at normal resting membrane potentials. This attenuation was enhanced at increasingly depolarized membrane potentials. These results suggest that quinine suppresses extracellular potassium transients and ictal activity and modulates inter-ictal activity by limiting the firing rate of cells in a voltage-dependent manner. Because quinine does not affect 'normal' neuronal function, it may merit consideration as an anticonvulsant.
Feedback controlling is an important element in the sensory processing in the auditory system. It has been long recognized that the inferior colliculus (IC) sends direct ascending projections to the medial geniculate body (MGB), but receives feedback regulation from the auditory cortex. In the present study we probed the shorter extracortical projections to the IC, including the direct descending pathway from the MGB. In the rat, the fluorescence retrograde tracers Fluorogold, True Blue or Rhodamine latex microspheres were injected into the IC, and the auditory thalamus and surrounding regions were examined for fluorescent neurones. We did not find any retrograde labelling in the ventral division of the MGB. However, retrogradely labelled neurones were found in the medial and suprageniculate nuclei of the MGB. We also observed densely packed groups of fluorescent neurones in the peripeduncular nucleus and numerous labelled neurones in the nucleus of the brachium of the IC. The existence of a direct descending pathway to the IC from at least some auditory thalamic nuclei challenges the perception of the colliculo-thalamic relationship as one-way traffic and suggests more direct involvement of the auditory thalamus in the feedback regulation of the incoming acoustic signals.
The brain noradrenergic system is activated by stress, modulating the activity of forebrain regions involved in behavioral and neuroendocrine responses to stress. In this study, we characterized brain noradrenergic reactivity to acute immobilization stress in three rat strains that differ in their neuroendocrine stress response: the inbred Lewis (Lew) and Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats, and outbred Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. Noradrenergic reactivity was assessed by measuring tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA expression in locus coeruleus, and norepinephrine release in the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Behavioral measures of arousal and acute stress responsivity included locomotion in a novel environment, fear-potentiated startle, and stress-induced reductions in social interaction and open-arm exploration on the elevated-plus maze. Neuroendocrine responses were assessed by plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone. Compared to SD, adrenocorticotropic hormone responses of Lew rats were blunted, whereas those of WKY were enhanced. The behavioral effects of stress were similar in Lew and SD rats, despite baseline differences. Lew had similar elevations of tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA, and initially greater norepinephrine release in the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis during stress, although both noradrenergic responses returned toward baseline more rapidly than in SD rats. WKY rats showed depressed baseline startle and lower baseline exploratory and social behavior than SD. However, unlike the Lew or SD rats, WKY exhibited a lack both of fear potentiation of the startle response and of stress-induced reductions in exploratory and social behavior, indicating attenuated stress responsivity. Acute noradrenergic reactivity to stress, measured by either tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA levels or norepinephrine release, was also attenuated in WKY rats. Thus, reduced arousal and behavioral responsivity in WKY rats may be related to deficient brain noradrenergic reactivity. This deficit may alter their ability to cope with stress, resulting in the exaggerated neuroendocrine responses and increased susceptibility to stress-related pathology exhibited by this strain.
Classic cadherins are multifunctional adhesion proteins that play roles in tissue histogenesis, neural differentiation, neurite outgrowth and synapse formation. Several lines of evidence suggest that classic cadherins may establish regional or laminar recognition cues by virtue of their differential expression and tight, and principally homophilic, cell adhesion. As a first step toward investigating the role this family plays in generating limbic system connectivity, we used RT-PCR to amplify type I and type II classic cadherins present in rat hippocampus during the principal period of synaptogenesis. We identified nine different cadherins, one of which, cadherin-9, is novel in hippocampus. Using in situ hybridization, we compared the cellular and regional distribution of five of the cadherins (N, 6, 8, 9 and 10) during the first two postnatal weeks in hippocampus, subiculum, entorhinal cortex, cingulate cortex, anterior thalamus, hypothalamus and amygdala. We find that each cadherin is differentially distributed in distinct, but highly overlapping fields that largely correspond to known anatomical boundaries and are often coordinately expressed in interconnected regions. For example, cadherin-6 expression defines CA1 and its principal target, the subiculum; cadherin-10 is differentially expressed in CA1 and CA3 in a manner correlating with the organization of interconnecting Schaffer collateral axons; and cadherin-9 shows a striking concentration in CA3. Some cadherin mRNAs are highly restricted to particular anatomical fields over the entire time course, while others are more broadly expressed and become concentrated within particular domains coincident with the timing of afferent ingrowth. Our data indicate that classic cadherins are sufficiently diverse and differentially distributed to support a role in cell surface recognition and adhesion during the formation of limbic system connectivity.
The neuropathological features associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain include the presence of extracellular neuritic plaques composed of amyloid beta protein (Abeta), intracellular neurofibrillary tangles containing phosphorylated tau protein and the loss of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons which innervate regions such as the hippocampus and the cortex. Studies of the pathological changes that characterize AD and several other lines of evidence indicate that Abeta accumulation in vivo may initiate phosphorylation of tau protein, which by disrupting neuronal network may trigger the process of neurodegeneration observed in AD brains. However, the underlying cause of degeneration of the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and their association, if any, to Abeta peptides or phosphorylated tau remains mostly unknown. In the present study, using rat primary septal cultures, we have shown that aggregated Abeta peptides, in a time (18-96 h)- and concentration (0.7-60 microM)-dependent manner, induce toxicity and decrease choline acetyltransferase enzyme activity in cultured neurons. Using immunocytochemistry and immunoblotting, we have also demonstrated that Abeta treatment can significantly increase the phosphorylation of tau protein in septal cultures. At the cellular level, hyperphosphorylated tau is mostly apparent in the somatodendritic compartment of the neurons. Abeta peptide (10 microM), in addition to tau phosphorylation, also activates mitogen-activated protein kinase and glycogen synthase kinase-3beta, the two kinases which are known to be involved in the formation of hyperphosphorylated tau in the AD brain. Exposure to specific inhibitors of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (i.e. PD98059) or glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (i.e. LiCl) attenuated the hyperphosphorylation of the tau protein in cultured neurons. Given the evidence that tau phosphorylation can induce cell loss by disrupting neuronal cytoskeleton, it is likely that aggregated Abeta peptide triggers degeneration of septal neurons, including those expressing the cholinergic phenotype, by phosphorylation of the tau protein activated by mitogen-activated protein kinase and glycogen synthase kinase-3beta. These results, taken together, suggest that cultured septal cholinergic neurons are vulnerable to Abeta-mediated toxicity and tau phosphorylation may play an important role in Abeta-induced neurodegeneration.
Locomotor stimulation in response to ethanol in mice may model human ethanol-induced euphoria. The associated neural substrates, possibly relevant to alcoholism, have not been fully elucidated. Systemic injection of baclofen, a GABA(B) receptor agonist, attenuates ethanol's stimulant effects. GABA(B) receptors on dopamine cell bodies in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) may modulate ethanol-induced dopamine release, a postulated mechanism for ethanol's stimulant effects. However, baclofen's attenuating effects could be associated with peripheral receptor actions. Baclofen was injected i.c.v. or into the VTA of FAST mice, bred for extreme sensitivity to ethanol-induced locomotor stimulation, to test the hypotheses that (1) central GABA(B) receptors influence baclofen's effects on ethanol-stimulated activity, and (2) VTA GABA(B) receptors specifically modulate ethanol's stimulant effects. I.c.v. baclofen dose-dependently attenuated ethanol stimulation, supporting a central locus for baclofen's effects. Anterior VTA baclofen also attenuated ethanol stimulation. However, more posterior VTA infusions unexpectedly potentiated ethanol stimulation. In SLOW mice, bred for resistance to ethanol stimulation, posterior intra-VTA baclofen did not alter EtOH response. However, anterior VTA baclofen alone produced a locomotor depressant effect in SLOW mice, not seen in FAST mice. GABA(B) receptor autoradiography using [(3)H]CGP 54626, a potent GABA(B) receptor antagonist, did not reveal line differences in binding density in the VTA, or in the substantia nigra pars compacta, a nearby brain structure associated with motor control. These results suggest that anterior VTA GABA(B) receptors play a role in baclofen's attenuation of ethanol's stimulant effects, and that posterior VTA GABA(B) receptors serve an opposite role that is normally masked. Selection for differential ethanol stimulant sensitivity has altered VTA GABA(B) systems that influence locomotor behavior. However, differences in GABA(B) receptor densities in the VTA or substantia nigra pars compacta cannot explain the selected line difference.
Central neurons exposed to several types of sublethal stress, including ischemia, acquire resistance to injury induced by subsequent ischemic insults, a phenomenon called ischemic preconditioning. We modeled this phenomenon in vitro, utilizing exposure to 45 mM KCl to reduce the vulnerability of cultured murine cortical neurons to subsequent oxygen-glucose deprivation. Twenty-four hours after preconditioning, cultures exhibited enhanced depolarization-induced, tetanus toxin-sensitive GABA release and a modest decrease in glutamate release. Total cellular GABA levels were unaltered. Inhibition of GABA degradation with the GABA transaminase inhibitor (+/-)-gamma-vinyl GABA, or addition of low levels of GABA, muscimol, or chlormethiazole to the bathing medium, mimicked the neuroprotective effect of preconditioning against oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced death. However, neuronal death was enhanced by higher levels of these manipulations, as well as by prior selective destruction of GABAergic neurons by kainate. Finally, selective blockade of GABA(A) receptors during oxygen-glucose deprivation or removal of GABAergic neurons eliminated the neuroprotective effects of prior preconditioning. Taken together, these data predict that presynaptic alterations, specifically enhanced GABA release together with reduced glutamate release, may be important mediators of ischemic preconditioning, but suggest caution in regard to interventions aimed at increasing GABA(A) receptor activation.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are located in both plexiform layers in the retina and may modulate transmission between photoreceptors and bipolar cells and between bipolar and ganglion cells. We investigated whether mGluR activation modulates excitatory synaptic input to bipolar cells and ganglion cells in the salamander retinal slice preparation. The group III mGluR agonist L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (AP4) inhibited monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in ganglion cells evoked by electrical stimuli, whereas group I and group II agonists had no significant effect. AP4 reduced the frequency but not the amplitude of ganglion cell miniature EPSCs, suggesting a presynaptic action at bipolar cell terminals. AP4 also reduced ganglion cell EPSCs evoked by the offset of a light stimulus, suggesting that group III mGluRs modulate release from OFF bipolar cells. Comparison of light-evoked EPSCs in OFF bipolar cells and ganglion cells indicated that AP4 reduced ganglion cell EPSCs by acting primarily at bipolar cell terminals, and to a lesser extent at photoreceptor terminals. The group II/III mGluR antagonist (RS)-alpha-cyclopropyl-4-phosphonophenylglycine (CPPG) blocked the effect of AP4 at bipolar cell terminals, consistent with localization of group III mGluRs at these sites. However, CPPG did not increase EPSCs at light offset, indicating that activation of group III mGluRs by synaptic glutamate does not play a large role in modulating transmission from bipolar cells to ganglion cells.
Cocaine blocks uptake by neuronal plasma membrane transporters for dopamine, serotonin and norepinephrine, producing subjective effects in humans that are both euphoric/rewarding and also fearful, jittery and aversive. Mice with gene knockouts of each of these transporters display cocaine reward, manifest by cocaine place preferences that are at least as great as wildtype values. Norepinephrine and serotonin receptor knockouts even display enhanced cocaine reward. One explanation for these observations could be that cocaine produces aversive or anhedonic effects by serotonin or norepinephrine receptor blockade in wildtype mice that are removed in serotonin or norepinephrine receptor knockouts, increasing net cocaine reward. Adaptations to removing one transporter could also change the rewarding valence of blocking the remaining transporters. To test these ideas, drugs that block serotonin transporter (fluoxetine), norepinephrine transporter (nisoxetine) or all three transporters (cocaine) were examined in single- or multiple-transporter knockout mice. Fluoxetine and nisoxetine acquire rewarding properties in several knockouts that are not observed in wildtype mice. Adding serotonin transporter knockout to norepinephrine transporter knockouts dramatically potentiates cocaine reward. These and previous data provide evidence that serotonin and norepinephrine transporter blockade can contribute to the net rewarding valence of cocaine. They identify neuroadaptations that may help to explain the retention of cocaine reward by dopamine and serotonin transporter knockout mice. They are consistent with emerging hypotheses that actions at the three primary brain molecular targets for cocaine each provide distinct contributions to cocaine reward and cocaine aversion in wildtype mice, and that this balance changes in mice that develop without dopamine, norepinephrine or serotonin transporters.
Caveolae are microinvaginations of the cell plasma membrane involved in cell transport and metabolism as well as in signal transduction; these functions depend on the presence of integral proteins named caveolins in the caveolar frame. In the brain, various caveolin subtypes have been detected in vivo by immunocytochemistry: caveolin-1 and -2 were found in rat brain microvessels, caveolin-3 was revealed in astrocytes. The aim of this study was to identify the site(s) of cellular expression of caveolin-1 in the microvessels of the human cerebral cortex by immunofluorescence confocal microscopy and immunogold electron microscopy. Since in the barrier-provided brain microvessels tight relations occur between the endothelium-pericyte layer and the surrounding vascular astrocytes, double immunostaining with caveolin-1 and the astroglia marker, glial fibrillary acidic protein, was also carried out. Immunocytochemistry by confocal microscopy revealed that caveolin-1 is expressed by endothelial cells and pericytes in all the cortex microvessels; caveolin-1 is also expressed by cells located in the neuropil around the microvessels and identified as astrocytes. Study of the cortex microvessels carried out by immunoelectron microscopy confirmed that in the vascular wall caveolin-1 is expressed by endothelial cells, pericytes, and vascular astrocytes, and revealed the association of caveolin-1 with the cell caveolar compartment. The demonstration of caveolin-1 in the cells of the brain microvessels suggests that caveolin-1 may be involved in blood-brain barrier functioning, and also supports co-ordinated activities between these cells.
The effects of nicotine on the spontaneous release of GABA from nerve terminals in the chick lateral spiriform nucleus were examined using whole cell patch-clamp recording in brain slices. Exposure to 1 microM nicotine produced an early immediate increase in the frequency of spontaneous postsynaptic GABAergic currents. This effect was blocked in the presence of 0.5 microM tetrodotoxin. However, a prolonged application of 0.1-1 microM nicotine (&gt;3 min) caused a tetrodotoxin-insensitive increase in the frequency of spontaneous GABAergic currents. This late tetrodotoxin-insensitive effect was blocked by the nicotinic antagonists dihydro-beta-erythroidine (30 microM) and mecamylamine (10 microM), but not by methyllycaconitine (50-100 nM), indicating that activation of high affinity nicotine receptors was mainly responsible for this effect. This enhancement was inhibited by the high threshold Ca(2+) channel blocker Cd(2+) (100 microM), but not by dantrolene or ryanodine. The tetrodotoxin-insensitive enhancement of the frequency of GABA currents by nicotine was reduced by inhibition of cAMP-dependent protein kinase with HA1004 (30 microM), but not by inhibition of protein kinase C with staurosporine (1 microM), and was facilitated by forskolin (10 microM) or bromo-cAMP (50 microM). The results indicate that nicotine-enhanced GABA release can operate through both tetrodotoxin-sensitive and -insensitive mechanisms in a single brain region and that a second messenger cascade may be involved in the tetrodotoxin-insensitive enhancement by nicotine.
In the present study, we evaluated the time-course of caspase-3 activation, and the evolution of cell death following focal cerebral ischemia produced by transient middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. Ischemia-induced active caspase-3 immunoreactivity in the striatum but not the cortex at 3 and 6 h time points post-reperfusion. Furthermore, using a novel approach to visualize enzymatic activity, deltaC-APP, a C-terminal cleavage product of APP generated by caspase-3, was found to immunolocalize to the same areas as active caspase-3. Double-labeling studies demonstrated co-localization of these two proteins at the cellular level. Further double-labeling experiments revealed that active caspase-3 was confined to neuronal cells which were still viable and thus immunoreactive for NeuN. DNA fragmentation, assessed histologically by terminal dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL), was observed in a small number of cells in the striatum as early as 3 h, but only began to appear in the cortex by 6 h. DNA fragmentation was progressive, and by 24 h post-reperfusion, large portions of both the striatum and cortex showed TUNEL positive cells. However, double-labeling of active caspase-3 with TUNEL showed only minimal co-localization at all time-points. Thus, caspase-3 activation is an event that appears to occur prior to DNA fragmentation. As a confirmation of the histological TUNEL data, 24 h ischemia also induced the generation of nucleosome fragments, evidenced by cell death enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Using a novel ischemia-induced substrate cleavage biochemical approach, spectrin P120 fragment, a caspase-specific cleavage product of alpha II spectrin, a cytoskeletal protein, was shown to be elevated by western blotting. Brain concentrations of both nucleosomes and spectrin P120 correlate with the degree of injury previously assessed by triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining and infarct volume calculation. Together, our findings suggest a possible association between caspase-3 activation and ischemic cell death following middle cerebral artery occlusion brain injury.
Changes in immediate-early gene (IEG) expression during and after space flight were studied in the rat locus coeruleus (LC) during the NASA Neurolab mission. The LC sends widespread projections throughout the brain and releases the neuromodulator norepinephrine. LC neurons respond to natural vestibular stimulation; their firing rate also increases during waking and decreases or ceases during sleep. LC neurons express IEGs such as c-fos after activation. Adult male albino Fisher 344 rats were killed at four mission time points, and the number of Fos- and Fos-related antigen (FRA)-positive LC cells were counted in flight and ground-based control rats. Half of the subjects at each time point were exposed to light for 60 min prior to killing to standardize their sleep-waking state. FRA-expressing cells were more numerous than Fos-expressing cells in both flight- and ground-based subjects. The difference between FRA- and Fos-expressing cells within individuals was significantly larger 24 h after landing in subjects exposed to both space flight and light pulse than in all other subjects at any mission time point. Fos and FRA responses scaled in proportion to the maximum response observed in any single individual showed similar patterns of variation. Analysis of the scaled and combined responses showed that LC IEG levels responded to both gravity changes and light pulses. Subjects exposed to either single stimulus had equivalent responses, significantly greater than those of control subjects maintained in dim light. The combination of gravity change and light pulse gave significantly higher LC responses than either stimulus alone 24 h after takeoff, and to a lesser extent after 12 days in space; the highest responses were obtained 24 h after landing. By 14 days after landing, animals exposed to space flight and light pulse responded no differently than ground-based subjects. No difference in LC IEG expression was clearly attributable to changes in the sleep-waking state of subjects. Activity of noradrenergic LC neurons has been previously shown to modulate IEG expression in target structures. The increased IEG LC activity (seen most especially 24 h after landing) may reflect large-scale activation of noradrenergic neurons that may serve as a trigger for molecular changes in target structures, and be critical for adaptation to gravity changes.
The purpose of the present investigations was (1) to examine the spatial organization of preganglionic neurons of the sacral parasympathetic nucleus in the lumbosacral spinal cord of male adult rats and (2) to search, in this nucleus, for a possible segregation of sub-populations of neurons innervating the penis or the bladder, respectively. To estimate their spatial organization, neurons of the sacral parasympathetic nucleus were retrogradely labeled by wheat germ agglutinin coupled to horseradish peroxidase applied to the central end of the sectioned pelvic nerve. The sub-populations of lumbosacral neurons innervating the corpus cavernosum of the penis or the dome of the bladder were identified using transsynaptic retrograde labeling by pseudorabies virus injected into these organs in different rats. In both wheat germ agglutinin-labeled and pseudorabies virus-labeled rats, serial coronal sections were cut through the spinal L5-S1 segments. Labeled neurons were revealed by histochemistry (peroxidase experiments) or immunohistochemistry (pseudorabies virus experiments). By means of a three-dimensional reconstruction software developed in our laboratory, three-dimensional models were calculated from each spinal section image series. They revealed the spatial organization of (i) preganglionic neurons and (ii) neurons innervating the bladder or the penis. The different three-dimensional models were subsequently merged into a single one which revealed the segregation, within the sacral parasympathetic nucleus, of the sub-populations of neurons. Neurons labeled by virus injected into the penis extended predominantly from the rostral part of the L6 segment to the rostral part of the S1 segment while those labeled by bladder injections were distributed predominantly from the caudal part of the L6 segment to the caudal part of the S1 segment. These results support the hypothesis of a viscerotopic organization of sacral neurons providing the spinal control of pelvic organs.
Because neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), a neurotrophic factor closely related to nerve growth factor, is capable of modulating neuronal activity [Yamuy et al., Neuroscience 95 (2000a) 1089-1100], we sought to examine if the microinjection of NT-3 into the nucleus reticularis pontis oralis (NPO) of chronically prepared cats also induced changes in behavior. In contrast to vehicle administration, NT-3 injection induced, with a mean latency of 4.7 min, long-duration episodes (mean, 21.6 min) of a state that was polygraphically indistinguishable from naturally occurring REM sleep. If NT-3 plays a physiologic role in the generation of REM sleep, then an endogenous source for this neurotrophin that is capable of controlling the activity of NPO neurons should exist. We therefore determined whether cholinergic neurons in the latero-dorsal and pedunculo-pontine tegmental (LDT and PPT) nuclei, which are involved in the initiation of REM sleep and project to the NPO, contained NT-3. Most, if not all, of the LDT-PPT cholinergic neurons exhibited NT-3 immunoreactivity. A portion (10%) of the NT-3+ neurons in the LDT-PPT were not cholinergic. The present data indicate that NT-3 rapidly modulates the activity of NPO neurons involved in REM sleep and that cholinergic neurons in the LDT and PPT contain NT-3. Taken together, these results support the hypothesis that NT-3 may be involved in the control of naturally occurring REM sleep.
This experiment tested the effect of procaine injection into the ventromedial hypothalamus on the sympathetic and thermogenic activation induced by frontal cortex stimulation. Oxygen consumption, firing rate of the sympathetic nerves to interscapular brown adipose tissue (IBAT), along with IBAT and colonic temperatures were monitored in fasted male Sprague-Dawley rats before and during 25 min after an electrical stimulation of the frontal cortex. The same variables were monitored in rats with administration of procaine into the ventromedial hypothalamus. The results show that cortical stimulation increases oxygen consumption, sympathetic firing rate, IBAT and colonic temperatures. The increase in sympathetic firing rate was reduced by procaine injection, and the increase in IBAT and colonic temperatures as well as oxygen consumption was fully inhibited by procaine. These findings suggest that the ventromedial nucleus plays an important role in the sympathetic and thermogenic changes induced by cortical stimulation.
Pharmacological manipulation of both dopamine and glutamate systems affects motor responses in laboratory animals. The two systems, however, seem to act in opposite ways, since direct or indirect activation of dopamine receptors induces similar stimulatory effects to those seen following blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. In the present study we compared the pattern of c-fos activation induced by systemic and intra-accumbens administration of the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist MK-801 and the indirect dopamine agonist amphetamine. Systemic MK-801 induced c-fos mRNA expression in the motor cortex and preferentially in the motor thalamus, i.e. ventrolateral nucleus. Systemic amphetamine, on the other hand, enhanced c-fos mRNA expression in the shell of the accumbens and in limbic thalamic nuclei such as the anteroventral and anterodorsal nuclei. The main effect observed after intra-accumbens administrations of either drug was enhanced c-fos expression in the thalamus, somewhat similar to what seen following systemic administration. In fact also in this case there was a preferential activation of the limbic thalamus by amphetamine and the motor thalamus by MK-801. The present results confirm that different neural substrates underlie behavioral effects induced by systemic administrations of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists and dopamine agonists. Further they suggest that intra-accumbens manipulation of the two neural systems could affect different efferent pathways from this structure activating different thalamic targets.
Vincristine, a microtubule-depolymerizing agent, is known to induce neuronal cell damage. Biochemical, histological and behavioral alterations were investigated after intracerebroventricular injection of vincristine in mice. Intracerebroventricular injection of vincristine caused caspase-3-like protease activation followed by nucleosomal release in the cerebellum. Histological examinations showed that vincristine-induced damage was relatively specific to granule cells in the cerebellum, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick-end labeling-positive cells were observed among these cells. Chromatin condensation, one of the criteria for apoptosis, was seen on electron microscopy. Behavioral changes, namely head movements, pivoting and backward walking, were observed in parallel with the increase of caspase-3-like protease activity and nucleosomal release. Furthermore, motor function tests (bulb balance test and rotating rod test) showed deficits of motor coordination ability. These observations suggest that intracerebroventricular vincristine causes massive apoptosis of cerebellar granule cells accompanied with caspase-3-like protease activation, leading to motor dysfunction, in this model. These vincristine-treated mice should be a useful in vivo model for examination of neuronal apoptosis, which might be involved in a variety of neurodegenerative diseases.
It has been hypothesized [Colpaert, F.C., 1994. In: Briley, M., Marien, M. (Eds.), Noradrenergic Mechanisms in Parkinson's Disease. CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL, pp. 225-254] that a deficiency in the noradrenergic system originating from the locus coeruleus is a decisive factor in the progression of central neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease, and that treatments which boost noradrenergic transmission (e.g. via blockade of alpha(2)-adrenoceptors) could provide both symptomatic and trophic benefits against the disease. Studies in the rat in vivo demonstrating that the selective alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist dexefaroxan increases acetylcholine release in the cortex, improves measures of cognitive performance and protects against excitotoxin lesions, support this concept. As a further test of the hypothesis, we investigated the effect of dexefaroxan in a rat model of unilateral cortical devascularization that induces a loss of the cortical cholinergic terminal network and a retrograde degeneration of the cholinergic projections that originate in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis. Lesioned and sham-operated rats received a 28-day subcutaneous infusion of dexefaroxan (0.63 mg/rat/day) or vehicle, delivered by osmotic minipumps implanted on the day of the cortical devascularization procedure. In lesioned rats, the dexefaroxan treatment was associated with a significantly higher number and size of vesicular acetylcholine transporter-immunoreactive boutons in comparison to the vehicle treatment; this effect was most marked within cortical layer V. Dexefaroxan also significantly reduced the atrophy of cholinergic neurons within the nucleus basalis magnocellularis. Dexefaroxan had no observable effect on any of these parameters in sham-operated cohorts. These results show that systemically administered dexefaroxan mitigates cholinergic neuronal degeneration in vivo, and provide further evidence for a therapeutic potential of the drug in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, where central cholinergic function is progressively compromised.
The function of the alpha(2C) subclass of adrenergic receptor in the spinal cord is unclear at present. Immunoreactivity for this receptor is found predominantly on axon terminals of the superficial dorsal horn but limited information is available about the properties and origin of these axons. The aim of this study was to determine which classes of neurone give rise to axons that possess this receptor and to investigate the synaptic organisation of these terminals. A series of double-labelling experiments was performed to investigate the relationship between the alpha(2C) receptor and each one of 14 chemical markers that label various types of axon terminal in the dorsal horn. Tissue was examined with two-colour confocal laser scanning microscopy. Quantitative analysis revealed that alpha(2C)-adrenergic receptors are not present on terminals of unmyelinated or peptidergic primary afferents and descending noradrenergic or serotoninergic axons. They were found on a proportion of terminals belonging to a mixed population of excitatory and inhibitory spinal interneurones, including those that contain neurotensin, somatostatin, enkephalin, GABA and neuropeptide Y. However, a greater proportion of terminals originating from excitatory interneurones were found to possess the receptor. Electron microscopic analysis revealed that alpha(2C)-adrenergic receptor immunoreactivity is predominantly associated with axon terminals that are presynaptic to dendrites but a small proportion of immunoreactive terminals formed axo-axonic synaptic arrangements. These studies indicate that noradrenaline can modulate transmission in the dorsal horn by acting through alpha(2C)-adrenergic receptors on terminals of spinal interneurones.
Whole cell patch recordings were obtained from medium diameter (35-45 microm) dorsal root ganglion neurons. Using electrophysiological parameters, we were able to subclassify acutely dissociated dorsal root ganglion cells into three uniform (types 5, 6 and 9) and one mixed class (type 8) of neurons. All subtypes (types 5, 6, 8 and 9) had broad action potentials (7.0+/-0.2, 5.2+/-0.4, 7.3+/-0.5 and 6.0+/-0.4 ms) and exceptionally long afterhyperpolarizations (112+/-9, 178+/-19, 124+/-31 and 204+/-33 ms). Long afterhyperpolarizations have been linked to mechanically insensitive (silent) nociceptors by other laboratories [Djouhri et al., J. Physiol. 513 (1998) 857-872]. Chemosensitivity varied among cell classes. Cell types 5, 8 and 9 were capsaicin sensitive (45+/-13, 87+/-30 and 28+/-13 pA/pF; 5 microM) groups, while the type 6 cell was capsaicin insensitive. All cell types expressed ASIC-like (acid sensing ion channel) amiloride sensitive, proton-activated currents with a threshold of pH 6.8 and a peak near pH 5.0. All medium sized cells were sensitive to ATP (50 microM) and exhibited the 'mixed' form of ATP-gated current [Burgard et al., J. Neurophysiol. 82 (1999) 1590-1598; Grubb and Evans, Eur. J. Neurosci. 11 (1999) 149-154]. Immunohistochemistry performed on individual cells indicated the expression of both P2X(1) and P2X(3) subunits. Electrophysiologically defined classes were histochemically uniform. All types were examined for the presence of substance P (SP), calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) and binding of isolectin B4 (IB4). All subtypes expressed CGRP immunoreactivity. Types 5 and 8 co-expressed SP and CGRP immunoreactivity and also bound IB4. Subtypes 6 and 9 were positive for neurofilament m. It is likely that these cells represent major classes of myelinated and unmyelinated peptide expressing nociceptors.
The cytological responses of thalamic interneurons to selective degeneration of thalamocortical projection neurons after cortical damage in the adult brain are poorly understood. We used a unilateral neocortical lesion model (occipital cortex ablation) in the adult rat to test the hypothesis that interneurons and projection neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus undergo distinct forms of degeneration. In situ nuclear DNA fragmentation in neurons in the lateral geniculate occurs maximally at 7 days postlesion. Geniculocortical projection neurons that are identified by the retrograde tracer Fluorogold die primarily with a morphology of endstage apoptosis prominent at 7 days postlesion. In contrast, interneurons, identified by their particular nuclear ultrastructure and by glutamic acid decarboxylase immunoreactivity, undergo an atrophic vacuolar pathology starting early during the period of projection neuron death and peaking after the projection neuron death is complete. This degeneration of interneurons is transient, because these neurons exhibit structural recovery and their numbers are not changed significantly postlesion. A rare subset of interneurons (less than one in 100 interneurons and less than one in 100 apoptotic cells) undergoes apoptosis concurrently with the projection neurons. We conclude that different types of neurons within the same thalamic nucleus respond differently to focal cortical target deprivation. Unlike the apoptosis-prone projection neurons, most interneurons undergo transient transsynaptic atrophy and recovery rather than cell death. Nevertheless, a small subset of lateral geniculate interneurons undergoes transsynaptic apoptosis in response to projection neuron apoptosis. The pathological responses of thalamic neurons to cortical trauma vary depending on cell type.
Previous binding studies have suggested the presence of a so far unknown nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunit in dorsal root ganglia (Pugh et al., 1995). Here, we investigated whether the most recently identified subunit, alpha10, and its potential interaction partner, alpha9 (Elgoyhen et al., 2001), are expressed in these ganglia. All neurons of rat dorsal root ganglia, but no glial cells, expressed both alpha9 and alpha10 mRNA in in situ hybridization, and exhibited alpha10 immunoreactivity using a newly raised antibody. These findings were confirmed by RT-PCR and western blotting. The data show that dorsal root ganglion neurons coexpress alpha9 and alpha10 nicotinic receptor subunits, thereby providing the first example of neuronal expression of this receptor subunit pair.
We used tight-seal, whole-cell recording in juvenile rat spinal slices to investigate the action of somatostatin on substantia gelatinosa neurons. Bath application of somatostatin caused a robust and repeatable hyperpolarization or outward current in substantia gelatinosa neurons. Somatostatin inhibited spontaneous action potentials in subpopulation of substantia gelatinosa neurons. The amplitude of dorsal root-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents and the frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents were not affected by somatostatin. The current induced by somatostatin developed almost instantaneously and did not show any time-dependent inactivation. The current-voltage relationship exhibited inward rectification. The conductance of somatostatin-sensitive current increased with the concentration of external K(+). The reversal potentials in different external K(+) concentrations were close to the K(+) equilibrium potentials. The effect of somatostatin was dose-dependent, with an EC(50) of 113 nM. The somatostatin-sensitive current was blocked by low concentration of extracellular Ba(2+) but not by glibenclamide, an inhibitor of ATP-sensitive K(+) channels. Hyperpolarization-activated cation current in a subpopulation of substantia gelatinosa neurons was not affected by somatostatin. In neurons recorded with an internal solution containing GTPgammaS, somatostatin induced outward current and hyperpolarization that did not reverse on washing. When the spontaneous induction of outward current with GTPgammaS was greatest, somatostatin did not induce any outward currents. Furthermore, intracellular dialysis of GDPbetaS, a G-protein antagonist, abolished the effect of somatostatin. In addition, SST-sensitive neurons were fewer in slices incubated with pertussis toxin than in adjacent control slices incubated without pertussis toxin. These results suggest that somatostatin decreases the postsynaptic membrane excitability of substantia gelatinosa neurons by a pertussis toxin-sensitive G-protein-mediated activation of an inwardly rectifying K(+) conductance.
Responses of electromyogram (EMG) of soleus, lateral portion of gastrocnemius (LG) and tibialis anterior (TA), and both afferent and efferent neurograms at the L(5) segmental level of the spinal cord, to altered gravity levels created by the parabolic flight of a jet airplane were investigated in adult rats. The EMG activity in antigravity soleus muscle gradually increased when the gravity was elevated from 1-G to 1.5-G (+23%) and 2-G (+67%) during the ascending phase of parabolic flight. The activity decreased approximately 72% from the 1-G level immediately when the rat was exposed to microgravity. The EMG level was maintained low during the 20-s microgravity, but it was restored immediately once the gravity level was increased to 1.5-G and then 1-G during the descending and recovery phase. The EMG level of LG also increased gradually when the gravity level was elevated and the level then decreased when the rat was exposed to microgravity (P&gt;0.05). However, the activity level during the 20-s microgravity was identical to that obtained at 1-G. The EMG level of TA even increased insignificantly in response to the exposure to microgravity. The responses of afferent neurogram were similar to those of soleus EMG, even though the magnitude of the reduction of integrated neurogram level in response to microgravity exposure was small (approximately 26% vs. 1-G level) relative to that of soleus EMG. The level of efferent neurogram was also decreased, but only approximately 9% vs. 1-G level, during the 20-s microgravity. The data in the current study suggest that the afferent input is closely associated with the gravity-dependent muscular activity.
The conventional view is that the cortical paroxysmal depolarizing shift is a giant excitatory postsynaptic potential enhanced by various intrinsic neuronal currents. Other results point out, however, that synaptic inhibition remains functional in many forms of paroxysmal activities and that intense activation of GABAergic interneurons may accentuate the excitation of target pyramidal cells. To determine the role played by cortical inhibitory neurons in paroxysmal discharges, we used single and dual intracellular recordings from electrophysiologically identified neocortical neurons during spontaneously occurring and electrically induced spike-wave electrographic seizures in vivo. Conventional fast-spiking neurons (presumably local inhibitory interneurons) fired at a very high frequency during paroxysmal depolarizing shifts, which corresponded to the electroencephalogram 'spike' components of spike-wave complexes. The firing of fast-spiking neurons preceded the discharges of neighboring regular-spiking neurons. During electrographic seizures, the reversal potential of the GABA (type A)-mediated potentials in regular-spiking neurons was shifted to positive values by 20-30 mV. Data also show that the prolonged hyperpolarizations during the electroencephalogram 'wave' components of spike-wave electrographic seizures do not contain Cl(-)-dependent inhibitory potentials. Moreover, Cl(-)-dependent mechanisms were reduced or absent during the fast runs that are associated with spike-wave complexes in some paroxysms. We conclude that the strong activity of cortical inhibitory neurons during paroxysmal depolarizing shifts induces Cl(-)-dependent depolarizing postsynaptic potentials in target pyramidal neurons, which facilitate the development of electrographic seizures.
Inheritance of the epsilon4 allele of apolipoprotein E (APOE, gene; apoE, protein) represents the most common genetic risk factor for developing Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the role of apoE in AD pathogenesis is yet to be clarified. A number of studies investigating apoE expression and protein levels in AD brain in correlation to its genetic polymorphism has yielded controversial results. We designed our approach based on neuropathological characteristics of AD to investigate apoE levels in relation to the APOE genotype and AD-related neurofibrillary changes, and amyloid deposits. We determined hippocampal apoE levels by reducing sodium dodecylsulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting in 70 Braak-staged and APOE-genotyped autopsy brains. In our stage-, age- and gender-matched case sample, we found a significant increase of hippocampal apoE in the APOE epsilon3 homozygotes with beginning AD-related pathology (Braak stages I and II) compared with brain samples free of neurofibrillary changes and amyloid deposits. In the APOE epsilon4 allele carriers no such increase was found. In both genotype groups, severely affected brain samples with widespread neurofibrillary changes (Braak stages V and VI) and amyloid deposits (Braak stage C) showed low apoE levels comparable to those found in unaffected brain samples (Braak stage 0). Our data suggests that the isoform-specific impact of apoE on the development of AD may be of crucial importance only in the early stages of the disease. These stages are believed to represent phases of the disease in which the beginning neurodegeneration can be compensated by plastic reorganization.
Proteolytic fragments generated by ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloprotease with thrombospondin motifs)-mediated cleavage of the aggregating chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan, brevican, have been identified, but not localized in the CNS. The purpose of this study, using kainate-induced CNS lesion, was to examine the spatial and quantitative relationship between ADAMTS1 and 4 mRNA expression and ADAMTS-mediated cleavage of brevican (as determined by the abundance of the neo-epitope QEAVESE at the C-terminal of the cleaved brevican G1 domain). In untreated rats, in situ hybridization and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction indicated that ADAMTS4 expression was higher than ADAMTS1 and was localized to hippocampus, temporal lobe and other areas of cortex, striatum and hypothalamus. ADAMTS4 mRNA expression in these regions correlated with the presence of the QEAVESE neo-epitope, which was concentrated in perineuronal nets and in neuropil. In rats that seized after kainate, there was a dramatic elevation in ADAMTS1 and ADAMTS4 transcript that correlated and co-localized with a robust elevation in an extractable, 55-kDa fragment of brevican in temporal lobe and hippocampus. This fragment consisted, at least in part, of the ADAMTS-cleaved epitope G1-QEAVESE. The kainate-induced elevation in this ADAMTS-cleaved fragment was localized to amygdaloid and thalamic nuclei, hippocampus, caudate-putamen, cingulate cortex, and the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus where it was accompanied by a robust elevation in ADAMTS1 and 4 mRNA and a 28% decline in synaptic density 5 days after kainate.Thus, complexes of extracellular matrix proteins that exist in perineuronal nets and in the neuropil are cleaved by specific matrix-degrading proteases at early time points during excitotoxic neurodegeneration. The observed ADAMTS-induced cleavage of brevican in the dentate outer molecular layer is closely associated with diminished synaptic density, and may, therefore, contribute to synaptic loss and/or reorganization in this region.
Mild hypothermia is an established neuroprotectant against cerebral ischemic injury. Studies have shown that inflammation potentiates cerebral ischemic injury, particularly in the setting of reperfusion. To further elucidate the mechanism by which mild hypothermia attenuates the inflammatory response, we assessed endothelial intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) expression, neutrophil and monocyte infiltration, and microglial activation following 2 h of transient focal cerebral ischemia under normothermic and mildly hypothermic conditions. Ischemia was induced using the intraluminal suture method in Sprague-Dawley rats. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect endothelial ICAM-1, infiltrating neutrophils and monocytes, and microglia at 1, 3, and 7 days post-ischemia. Immunopositive cell and vessel densities were measured in the peri-infarct region. Mild hypothermia was associated with decreased neutrophils at 1 and 3 days post-ischemia, decreased ICAM-1-positive vessels at 1, 3, and 7 days, and decreased monocytes/activated microglia at 3 and 7 days, but not at 1 day. These data demonstrate that mild hypothermia significantly reduces endothelial adhesion molecule expression, acute (neutrophil) and subacute (monocyte) leukocyte infiltration, and microglial activation up to 7 days following insult in a rodent model of transient focal cerebral ischemia.
The viral transneuronal labeling method was used to examine whether the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is linked by multisynaptic connections to the medial prefrontal cortex of the rat. In separate experiments, pseudorabies virus (PRV) was injected into one of the three different cytoarchitectonic regions that comprise the medial prefrontal cortex: infralimbic (Brodmann area 25), prelimbic (Brodmann area 32), and cingulate (Brodmann area 24) cortical areas. After 4-days survival, extensive SCN transneuronal labeling was found following infralimbic cortex (ILC) injections, but almost none occurred when the PRV injections were centered in the prelimbic or cingulate areas. In the ILC cases, transneuronal labeling was localized mainly in the dorsomedial SCN, although a moderate number of labeled neurons were found in the ventrolateral SCN. About 13% of the infected neurons were vasopressin immunoreactive and 4% were vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-positive. Another set of experiments was performed in which the paraventricular thalamic nucleus (PVT) was destroyed 2 weeks prior to making PRV injections into the ILC. Almost no SCN transneuronal labeling occurred in these animals, suggesting that the SCN projection to the ILC is dependent on a relay in the PVT. We propose that the SCN sends timing signals, via its relay in the PVT, to the ILC. This pathway may modulate higher-level brain functions, such as attention, mood, or working memory. Assuming that a homologous circuit exists in humans, we speculate that neurochemical changes affecting this pathway may account for some of the symptoms associated with clinical depression and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.
Intermittent administration of cocaine can result in behavioral sensitization, which is indicated by an augmented behavioral response to a subsequent administration of cocaine. This increase in behavior can be seen after various periods of abstinence from the drug, and is believed to model the cravings of drug users and the onset of drug addiction. It is believed that behavioral sensitization is mediated by activity of the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system. In particular, the nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex have been shown to play integral roles in this phenomenon. Recently, it has been demonstrated that the shell portion of the nucleus accumbens can no longer be considered a homogeneous structure, and can be subdivided into five separate regions. The present study was designed to assess the activation of key neuronal populations in subdivisions of the accumbens and subdivisions of the medial prefrontal cortex in cocaine-sensitized rats, using the expression of the immediate early gene, c-fos, as a marker of neuronal activation. Repeated cocaine administration resulted in robust sensitization that correlated with a significant decrease in the density of c-fos nuclei in all three subdivisions of the medial prefrontal cortex, and two subdivisions of the nucleus accumbens only in animals challenged after a 2-day withdrawal period. After a 2-week withdrawal period, sensitized animals no longer showed any differences in the density of c-fos nuclei in any of the areas examined, with the exception of a significant increase in the intermediate zone of the shell. The results indicate that distinct adaptations in neural activation take place in cocaine-sensitized rats that have been drug-free for various lengths of time. Furthermore, while specific subregions of brain areas known to play a role in drug abuse can be uniquely involved in the manifestations of cocaine sensitization, the functional roles of these subregions may differ depending on the time at which the behavior is assessed.
The separate contribution of circadian rhythmicity and elapsed time awake on electroencephalographic (EEG) activity during wakefulness was assessed. Seven men lived in an environmental scheduling facility for 4 weeks and completed fourteen 42.85-h 'days', each consisting of an extended (28.57-h) wake episode and a 14.28-h sleep opportunity. The circadian rhythm of plasma melatonin desynchronized from the 42.85-h day. This allowed quantification of the separate contribution of circadian phase and elapsed time awake to variation in EEG power spectra (1-32 Hz). EEG activity during standardized behavioral conditions was markedly affected by both circadian phase and elapsed time awake in an EEG frequency- and derivation-specific manner. The nadir of the circadian rhythm in alpha (8-12 Hz) activity in both fronto-central and occipito-parietal derivations occurred during the biological night, close to the crest of the melatonin rhythm. The nadir of the circadian rhythm of theta (4.5-8 Hz) and beta (20-32 Hz) activity in the fronto-central derivation was located close to the onset of melatonin secretion, i.e. during the wake maintenance zone. As time awake progressed, delta frequency (1-4.5 Hz) and beta (20-32 Hz) activity rose monotonically in frontal derivations. The interaction between the circadian and wake-dependent increase in frontal delta was such that the intrusion of delta was minimal when sustained wakefulness coincided with the biological day, but pronounced during the biological night. Our data imply that the circadian pacemaker facilitates frontal EEG activation during the wake maintenance zone, by generating an arousal signal that prevents the intrusion of low-frequency EEG components, the propensity for which increases progressively during wakefulness.
Layer VI of the cerebral cortex contains heterogeneous populations of pyramidal neurons whose axons project either cortically or subcortically. It has been shown that a subset of layer VI neurons expressing latexin projects ipsilaterally to other cortical areas but does not contribute to the corticothalamic projections. Taking advantage of the connectional specificity of latexin-expressing neurons, we here determine whether corticocortical and corticothalamic neurons are generated at different times, and at which stage the connectional distinction develops in corticogenesis. Our experimental findings indicate that: (1) thalamic-projecting neurons in layer VI of the rat secondary somatosensory cortex (SII) are born at embryonic day 14 or before while latexin-expressing neurons in the same layer are generated at embryonic day 15 or later; (2) axonal invasion by SII neurons into ipsilateral cortical areas and into the posterior dorsal thalamus mainly takes place early in the postnatal period; (3) latexin-expressing neurons never project toward the dorsal thalamus in normal development; (4) presumptive latexin-expressing neurons in the neonatal SII are able to grow into a cortical slice in vitro, but do not invade a thalamic slice even transiently; (5) thalamic-projecting neurons, on the other hand, fail to simultaneously establish connections with a cortical slice. Taken together, our findings suggest that the time frame in which presumptive corticocortical and corticothalamic neurons are generated differs, and that the two populations are restricted in connectional fate potential by the perinatal period prior to target innervation.
To elucidate the mechanism of orphanin FQ on neuroimmune modulation, the relationship between orphanin FQ and interleukin-1beta in the rat CNS in vivo and in vitro was investigated. In our experiments, it was found that orphanin FQ and interleukin-1beta mRNA transcripts showed a similar distribution in cerebral cortex, hippocampus and hypothalamus. By using the in situ hybridization technique, down-regulation of interleukin-1beta mRNA transcripts by central administration of orphanin FQ was further identified in the traumatic animal model. Similar inhibitory effects were also observed on the number of microglia in the CNS. The effects produced by orphanin FQ were abolished by combination with its receptor (OP(4))-specific antagonist [Phe(1)Psi(CH(2)-NH)Gly(2)]nociceptin-(1-13)-NH(2), which suggested that the function of orphanin FQ might be attributable to the OP(4) pathway. However, the effect on the number of astrocytes in the CNS remained unchanged, despite evidence that OP(4) is expressed on astrocytes as well as on neurons and microglia. When analyzed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, interleukin-1beta gene expression was observed to be enhanced and inhibited in primary neuron and microglial cell cultures exposed to orphanin FQ respectively. Interleukin-1beta gene expression in astrocyte cultures was not affected by treatment with orphanin FQ. Our findings suggest that the neuroimmune function of orphanin FQ might be dependent on interleukin-1beta derived from microglia, and the interaction between microglia and neurons.
Data on motor behavioural disorders induced by systemic 3-nitropropionic acid, an irreversible inhibitor of mitochondrial succinate dehydrogenase and their histopathological correlates in mice, are sparse. We thus further characterised the subacute 3-nitropropionic-acid-induced motor disorder and its time course in C57Bl/6 mice using standard behavioural tests, histopathological correlates and in vivo magnetic resonance imaging. Firstly, we studied two intoxication paradigms (340 and 560 mg 3-nitropropionic acid/kg, 7 days) compared to controls. The low-dose regimen induced only slight motor changes (reduced hindlimb stride length and rearing). The high-dose regimen induced significant (P&lt;0.05) behavioural and sensorimotor integration deficits (pole test, rotarod, stride length, open-field spontaneous activity) but with 37.5% lethality at week one. The clinical motor disorder consisted of hindlimb clasping and dystonia, truncal dystonia, bradykinesia and impaired postural control. Histopathologically, there were discrete lesions of the dorsolateral striatum in 62.5% of mice together with a 32% reduction (P&lt;0.0001) of the striatal volume, reduced caldbindin-D28K immunoreactivity in the lateral striatum, and met-enkephalin and substance P in the striatal output pathways. There was also a significant (P&lt;0.05) 30-40% dopaminergic cell loss within the substantia nigra pars compacta. Secondly, we validated a semi-quantitative behavioural scale to describe the time course of the motor deficits and to predict the occurrence of striatal damage. We sought to determine whether it could also be disclosed in vivo by magnetic resonance imaging. The scale correlated with the striatal volume reduction (r(2)=0.57) and striatal cell loss (r(2)=0.87) but not with the loss of striatal dopaminergic terminals (dopamine transporter binding). Increased T2-signal intensity within the striatal lesion correlated with the cell loss (r(2)=0.66). We conclude that systemic administration of 3-nitropropionic acid in C57Bl/6 mice induces a distinct motor disorder and dose-dependent striatonigral damage, which are potentially useful to model human diseases of the basal ganglia.
In a previous communication, we reported the isolation of a novel cDNA clone (pA6) from a library constructed from squid axonal mRNAs. The partial cDNA clone contained a unique open reading frame that encoded 84 amino acids and was complementary to a moderately abundant mRNA approximately 550-600 nucleotides in length [Chun et al., J. Neurosci. Res. 49 (1997) 144-153]. In this report, we identify the pA6 gene product, and characterize its expression in the squid and rodent brain. Results of immunoblot analyses conducted in squid, using a polyclonal antibody raised against a synthetic peptide corresponding to the C-terminus of the putative protein, established the presence of two pA6 immunoreactive proteins of approximately 14 kDa and 26 kDa in size. In contrast, mouse brain contained only a single 26-kDa immunoreactive species. In both the squid and mouse brain, the expression of pA6 appears highly selective, being detected in certain neurons but not in non-neuronal cells, as judged by both in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry. Findings derived from light microscopic, double-label immunohistofluorescence studies indicate that pA6 protein co-localizes with prohibitin, a mitochondrial marker protein. Consistent with these results, electron microscopy localized pA6 immunoreactivity to several membrane compartments to include the outer membrane of mitochondria, as well as to the smooth endoplasmic reticulum and tubulovesicles in dendrites, axons, and axon terminals of neurons in the rat brain. Taken together, these findings indicate that pA6 is a novel, membrane-associated protein, which is expressed in the distal structural/functional domains of neurons in both the invertebrate and vertebrate nervous systems.
Intrahippocampal tetanus toxin induces a period of chronic recurrent limbic seizures in adult rats, associated with a failure of inhibition in the hippocampus. The rats normally gain remission from their seizures after 6-8 weeks, but show persistent cognitive impairment. In this study we assessed which changes in cellular and network properties could account for the enduring changes in this model, using intracellular and extracellular field recordings in hippocampal slices from rats injected with tetanus toxin or vehicle, 5 months previously. In CA1 pyramidal neurones from toxin-injected rats, the slope of the action potential upstroke was reduced by 32%, the fast afterhyperpolarisation by 32% and the slow afterhyperpolarisation by 54%, suggesting changes in voltage-dependent conductances. The excitatory postsynaptic potential slope was reduced by 60% and the population synaptic potential slope was reduced at all stimulus intensities, suggesting a reduced afferent input in CA1. Paired-pulse stimulation showed an increase of the excitability ratio and an increase of cellular excitability only for the second pulse, suggesting a reduced inhibition. The polysynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic potential was reduced by 34%, whereas neither the inhibitory postsynaptic potential at subthreshold stimulus intensities,nor the pharmacologically isolated monosynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic potential were different in toxin-injected rats, suggesting a reduced synaptic excitation of interneurones. Stratum radiatum stimuli in toxin-injected rats, and not in controls, evoked antidromic activation of CA1 neurones, demonstrating axonal sprouting into areas normally devoid of CA1 pyramidal cell axons.We conclude that this combination of enduring changes in cellular and network properties, both pro-epileptic (increased recurrent excitatory connectivity, reduced recurrent inhibition and reduced afterhyperpolarisations) and anti-epileptic (impaired firing and reduced excitation), reaches a balance that allows remission of seizures, perhaps at the price of persistent cognitive impairment.
The entopeduncular nucleus (EP) receives dense neostriatal afferent axons that contain dynorphin (DYN, an endogenous kappa-receptor agonist), in addition to GABA and substance P. To examine the role of DYN in the EP, whole-cell recordings were performed in rat brain slice preparations. Based on the physiological and morphological characteristics, all the neurons recorded were similar to the Type-I EP neuron described in a previous study. The kappa-receptor agonist dynorphin A (1-13) (DYN13) hyperpolarized and decreased the input resistance of approximately one-quarter of the EP neurons examined. The hyperpolarization was due to an increase in potassium conductance since current-voltage relationship curves obtained before and after DYN13 application crossed at the potassium equilibrium potential. In the presence of the glutamate blocker 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide and 3-(2-carboxypiperzin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid in artificial cerebrospinal fluid, stimulation of the globus pallidus evoked bicuculline-sensitive multi-component GABAergic responses in EP neurons. Application of DYN13 equally reduced the amplitudes of the short-latency response, conceivably evoked by pallido-EP axons, and the medium-latency response, conceivably evoked by striato-EP axons. These effects were reversed by bath application of a non-selective opioid antagonist naloxone or by a kappa-opioid receptor-selective antagonist nor-binaltorphimine dihydrochloride (nor-BNI), but not by the partial differential -antagonist naltrindole or the mu-antagonist D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2). DYN13 also reduced the frequency of tetrodotoxin-insensitive miniature-inhibitory postsynaptic potential (mIPSPs) without changing their amplitude distributions. The decrease of the frequency of mIPSPs was reversible upon washing and was also completely blocked by nor-BNI. The results of the present study on the EP indicated that DYN released from striatal axons might exert at least three different effects on these target nuclei. Firstly, DYN might provide negative feedback regulation of striatal GABAergic outputs at their termination sites. Secondly, DYN released from the striatal terminals might diffuse to the pallidal terminals, regulating their GABA release. Thirdly, DYN might exert a direct inhibition of EP neurons. Thus, DYN released from striatal axons might control the activity of EP neurons by reducing the GABAergic transmission and also by hyperpolarizing postsynaptic membrane.
Cortical malformations resulting from aberrant brain development can be associated with mental retardation, dyslexia, and intractable forms of epilepsy. Despite emerging interest in the pathology and etiology of cortical malformations, little is known about the phenotype of cells within these lesions. In utero exposure to the DNA methylating agent methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) during a critical stage in neurodevelopment results in animals with distinct clusters of displaced neurons in hippocampus, i.e. nodular heterotopia. Here we examined the molecular and electrophysiological properties of cells within hippocampal heterotopia using rats exposed to MAM during gestation. Molecular analysis revealed that heterotopic cells do not express mRNA markers normally found in hippocampal pyramidal cells or dentate granule cells (SCIP, Math-2, Prox-1, neuropilin-2). In contrast, Id-2 mRNA, normally abundant in Layer II-III supragranular neocortical neurons but not in CA1 pyramidal neurons, was prominently expressed in hippocampal heterotopia. Current-clamp analysis of the firing properties of heterotopic neurons revealed a striking similarity with supragranular cortical neurons. In particular, both cells were characterized by small hyperpolarizing 'sag' potentials, high input resistance values, slow spike-train afterhyperpolarizations, and the absence of a depolarizing afterpotential. Normotopic CA1 pyramidal neurons (e.g. pyramidal cells with normal lamination adjacent to a heterotopia) in the MAM brain exhibited molecular and electrophysiological properties that were nearly identical to those of age-matched CA1 pyramidal neurons from control rats. We conclude that neuronal heterotopiae in the hippocampus of MAM-exposed rats are comprised of neurons with a Layer II-III supragranular cortex phenotype. The MAM model, therefore, may serve as a useful tool in examination of the factors influencing aberrant brain development and epilepsy.
The thoracolumbar and lumbosacral spinal cord contain respectively sympathetic and parasympathetic preganglionic neurons that supply the organs of the pelvis including the penis. These neurons are influenced by supraspinal information and receive aminergic projections from the brainstem. The presence of the alpha(1)- and alpha(2)-adrenoceptor subtypes has been demonstrated in the rat spinal cord. In this species, we looked for the presence of alpha(2a)- and alpha(2c)-adrenoceptor subtypes in the sympathetic and parasympathetic preganglionic neurons controlling erection. In adult male rats, transsynaptic axonal transport of pseudorabies virus injected into the penis was combined with immunohistochemistry against alpha(2a)- and alpha(2c)-adrenoceptor subtypes. At 4 days survival time, neurons infected with the pseudorabies virus were solely found in the intermediolateral cell column and dorsal gray commissure of segment T12-L2 and in the intermediolateral cell column of segment L6-S1. Neurons and fibers immunoreactive for alpha(2a)- and alpha(2c)-adrenoceptor subtypes were mainly present in the intermediolateral cell column, the dorsal gray commissure and the ventral horn of the T12-L2 and L5-S1 spinal cord, the dorsal horn displayed only immunoreactive fibers. Pseudorabies virus-infected neurons in the autonomic nuclei were both immunoreactive for alpha(2a)- and alpha(2c)-adrenoceptor subtypes and closely apposed by alpha(2a)- and alpha(2c)-immunoreactive fibers. The results suggest an intraspinal modulation of the noradrenergic and adrenergic control of the autonomic outflow to the penis by pre- and postsynaptic alpha(2) adrenoceptors.
The midbrain periaqueductal gray contains both neurotensin type-1 and type-2 receptors. Behavioral studies have shown that the analgesic effect of neurotensin is mediated through its interaction with the type-2 receptors. These receptors specifically bind the type-1 histamine antagonist, levocabastine. Recently, it has been shown that another histamine-1 antagonist, diphenhydramine, blocks the analgesic effect of neurotensin. In addition, it has been shown that a non-peptide neurotensin antagonist, SR142948A, binds to both types of neurotensin receptors and blocks the analgesic effect of exogenously applied neurotensin. Major afferents to the periaqueductal gray arise from the medial preoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus. This region contains neurotensinergic neurons, and the expression of neurotensin mRNA in this region increases following cold-water swim stress that leads to opioid-independent analgesia. The goal of this study was to determine whether the responses of periaqueductal gray neurons to stimulation of the medial preoptic nucleus are modified by local injection of diphenhydramine and SR142948A. Because the cellular basis of the effects of diphenhydramine on periaqueductal gray neurons had not been reported, we also examined the effects of diphenhydramine on the baseline-firing rate and synaptic transmission using in vivo and in vitro methods. The results of the in vitro studies indicate that diphenhydramine concentrations above 500 nM significantly reduce the baseline firing of the periaqueductal gray neurons without a significant effect on the frequency of postsynaptic potentials. At concentrations below 100 nM, diphenhydramine has little effect on the baseline-firing rate but partially blocks the response to neurotensin. The results of the in vivo studies showed similar effects of diphenhydramine. At high concentrations it inhibited periaqueductal gray neurons, but at low concentrations it had no effect on the baseline-firing rate and it blocked the response to neurotensin and to medial preoptic nucleus stimulation. Unlike diphenhydramine, SR142948A had virtually no effect on the baseline-firing rate but blocked the response to neurotensin and to stimulation of the medial preoptic nucleus. It is concluded that: (1) SR142948A, at a dose that completely blocks the effect of exogenously applied neurotensin on periaqueductal gray neurons, has little effect on their baseline-firing rates. (2) Because of its effect on the baseline-firing rate, only low doses of diphenhydramine can be used as an antagonist of the neurotensin analgesic effect. (3) Responses of periaqueductal gray neurons to medial preoptic nucleus stimulation is, in part, mediated by a neurotensinergic network within the periaqueductal gray.
Chronic mild stress in rodents has been proposed to model some of the environmental factors that contribute to the induction of depressive disorders in humans. This model is based on the hypothesis that chronic mild stress induces a change in brain reward function that resembles the symptomatology of major depression, namely, a decrease in responsiveness to rewarding stimuli. The purpose of the first experiment was to investigate whether chronic mild stress affects brain reward function as measured by alterations in lateral hypothalamic self-stimulation behavior in rats. Exposure to chronic mild stress induces a reduction in body weight which might affect brain reward function on its own. Therefore, the potential contribution of a reduction in body weight to the chronic mild stress-induced alterations in brain reward function was examined in a separate group of food-restricted rats. Thresholds for lateral hypothalamic self-stimulation were slightly but significantly lowered in animals exposed to chronic mild stress, indicating an enhancement of stimulation reward efficacy. Food restriction had no effect on brain reward function. The second experiment examined the interaction between prior exposure to chronic mild stress or food restriction and responsiveness to a pharmacological challenge, amphetamine, that enhances brain reward function. Acute administration of amphetamine produced a greater enhancement of lateral hypothalamic self-stimulation reward in animals exposed to chronic stress relative to non-stressed and food-restricted animals. Taken together, the present findings indicate that chronic mild stress sensitizes the neural substrates that mediate both lateral hypothalamic stimulation and psychostimulant drug reward. These findings support the hypothesis that prior exposure to stress affects the vulnerability for drug-taking behavior by increasing the positive reinforcing properties of drug of abuse.
The present study was designed to elucidate the consequences of antisense oligonucleotide-mediated knockdown of striatal dopamine reuptake transporters on 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)-induced neurotoxicity. Antisense oligonucleotide complementary to the mRNA translational start site of the rat dopamine transporter was delivered by constant (7 days) intranigral infusion with an osmotic minipump. Delivery of the antisense oligonucleotide by this method resulted in a 70% reduction in the density of the dopamine transporter in the ipsilateral striatum, as measured by [(3)H]mazindol binding. The effect of this transporter knockdown on MDMA-induced serotonergic neurotoxicity was then examined. MDMA (2x20 mg/kg, s.c., given 12 h apart) administered to control rats produced hyperthermia following the first dose and led to a 45-50% reduction in striatal serotonin, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, and serotonin reuptake transporter density 1 week after the second dose. Conversely, in antisense-, but not missense-treated rats, a significant attenuation of MDMA-induced neurotoxicity was observed only in the ipsilateral striatum. The hyperthermic response elicited by MDMA was not altered by prior administration of antisense. In vivo microdialysis revealed that the antisense treatment attenuated MDMA-induced dopamine release in the ipsilateral striatum. These results suggest that the dopamine transporter plays an essential role in the neurodegeneration induced by MDMA, and provides additional support for the hypothesis that extracellular dopamine is involved in the neurotoxic process, at least in the striatum.
Precursor cells in the ependyma of the lateral ventricles of adult mammalian brain have been reported in brain, and also in the spinal cord. The present study used antibody to the intermediate filament protein (nestin) as an immunohistochemical marker for neural stem cells and precursor cells in a rat model of spinal cord trauma. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=25) had a laminectomy at Thll-Thl2, and spinal cord contusion was created by compression with 30 g of force for 10 min. The rats were killed at 24 h, 1 week and 4 weeks after injury, and four levels of the spinal cord were examined: 5 mm and 10 mm, both rostral and caudal region to the injury center. Time- and region-dependent alterations of nestin immunoreactivity were analyzed. Revealed at 24 h post-injury, 5 mm rostral and caudal to the lesions, nestin expression was observed in ependymal cells and around the hemorrhagic and necrotic lesion located in dorsal spinal cord, peaking at 1 week after injury. Moreover, nestin expression was also observed in the white matter of ventral spinal cord, extending into arborizing processes centripetally from the pial surface toward the central canal. At 4 weeks after injury, nestin expression in ependyma decreased 10 mm from the injury site. But nestin expression in white matter increased dramatically with a 100-fold increase in nestin originating from the pial surface, and extension now to all the white matter. The latter was accompanied by glial fibrillary acidic protein positivity into very long arborizing processes, morphologically compatible with radial glia. The findings suggest two possible sources of precursor cells in adult mammalian spinal cord; ependyma of the central canal and subpial astrocytes. Subpial astrocytes may be associated with neural repair and regeneration after spinal cord injury.
Light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry was used to identify the cellular and subcellular localisation of urocortin in the adult rat cerebellum. Urocortin immunoreactivity (UCN-ir) was visualised throughout the cerebellum, yet predominated in the posterior vermal lobules, especially lobules IX and X, the flocculus, paraflocculus and deep cerebellar nuclei. Cortical immunoreactivity was most evident in the Purkinje cell layer and molecular layer. Reaction product, though sparse, was found in the somata of Purkinje cells, primarily in the region of the Golgi apparatus. Purkinje cell dendritic UCN-ir was compartmentalised, with it being prevalent in proximal regions especially where climbing fibres synapsed, yet absent in distal regions where parallel fibres synapsed. In the Purkinje cell layer, the labelling was also contained in axonal terminals, synapsing directly on Purkinje cell somata. These were identified as axon terminals of basket cells based on their morphology. Terminals of stellate cells in the upper molecular layer also expressed the peptide. Whilst somata of inferior olivary neurones showed intense immunoreactivity, axonal labelling was indistinct, with only the terminals of climbing fibres containing reaction product. UCN-ir in the mossy fibre-parallel fibre system was restricted to mossy fibre rosettes of mainly posterior lobules and the varicose terminals of parallel fibres. Furthermore, labelling also was prevalent in glial perikarya and their sheaths. The current study shows, firstly, that urocortin enjoys a close ligand-receptor symmetry in the cerebellum, probably to a greater degree than corticotropin-releasing factor since corticotropin-releasing factor itself is found exclusively in the two major cerebellar afferent systems. Its congregation in excitatory and inhibitory axonal terminals suggests a significant degree of participation in the synaptic milieu, perhaps in the capacity as a neurotransmitter or effecting the release of co-localised neurotransmitters. Finally, its unique distribution in the Purkinje cell dendrite might serve as an anatomical marker of discrete populations of dendritic spines.
Homeobox genes are important regulators of cellular identity. Several homeobox genes are known to be specifically expressed in subsets of neurons in the forebrain, exclusively, or in distinct combinations. In this study, we explored the expression of homeobox genes in the forebrain of the adult rat by a degenerate polymerase chain reaction cloning strategy. We identified the expression of 12 homeobox genes, several of which display a remarkable restricted expression pattern in the adult brain. We demonstrated the expression of goosecoid in a very small set of neurons in the hypothalamus. By using Otp as a marker, these goosecoid-positive cells were found to constitute a small area just beside the paraventricular nucleus. Furthermore, we found expression of Rx in the pineal gland, along with Alx4. Rx was additionally found in the posterior pituitary and in cells aligning the bottom of the third ventricle. These findings form a starting point to reveal functions of the described homeobox genes in the forebrain.
Severe hypoxia was shown to induce apoptotic death in developing brain neurons, whereas mild hypoxia was demonstrated to stimulate neurogenesis. Since the apoptotic process may share common pathways with mitosis, expression profiles of proteins involved in apoptosis or the cell cycle were analyzed by immunohistochemistry and/or western blotting, in relation with cell outcome of cultured neurons from fetal rat forebrain subjected to either lethal (6 h) or non-lethal (3 h) hypoxia (95% N(2)/5% CO(2)). Hypoxia for 6 h led to apoptosis that was inhibited by the cell cycle blocker olomoucine. Transient overexpression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen was followed by increasing expression of p53, p21, Bax and caspases, whereas Bcl-2 and heat shock proteins were progressively repressed. Conversely, a 3-h hypoxic insult initiated neuronal mitosis, with increased thymidine incorporation. In these conditions, levels of proliferating cell nuclear antigen, Rb, Bcl-2 and heat shock proteins were persistently elevated, while expression of p53, p21, Bax and caspases gradually decreased. These data confirm that hypoxia promotes cell cycle activation, whatever the stress intensity. This process is then aborted following apoptosis-inducing hypoxia, whereas sublethal insult would trigger neurogenesis, at least in developing brain neurons in vitro, by stimulating timed expression of neurogenic and survival-associated proteins.
Transient cerebral ischemia, which is accompanied by a sustained release of glutamate, strongly depresses protein synthesis. We have previously demonstrated in cortical neurons that a glutamate-induced increase in intracellular Ca(2+) is likely responsible for the blockade of the elongation step of protein synthesis. In this study, we provide evidence indicating that NMDA mobilizes a thapsigargin-sensitive pool of intracellular Ca(2+). Exposure of cortical neurons to NMDA, in the absence of external Ca(2+), produced a transient rise in intracellular Ca(2+) that was suppressed by pretreatment with thapsigargin. This rise in intracellular Ca(2+) did not result from an influx of Na(+) via reversal of the mitochondrial Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger since it persisted in a Na(+)-free medium or in the presence of CGP 37157, an inhibitor of the exchanger. Moreover, the NMDA-induced increase in intracellular Ca(2+) required the presence of D-serine, was blocked by D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, but was not reduced in the presence of external Mg(2+). This unexpected non-ionotropic effect of NMDA was associated with an inhibition of protein synthesis that was also insensitive to the absence of external Ca(2+) or Na(+), or presence of Mg(2+). NMDA treatment resulted in an increase in the phosphorylation of eEF-2 in the absence or presence of external Ca(2+). The initiation step of protein synthesis was not blocked by NMDA since the phosphorylation of initiation factor eIF-2alpha subunit was not altered by NMDA treatment. In conclusion, we provide evidence indicating that NMDA can inhibit protein synthesis in cortical neurons through a process that involves the mobilization of intracellular Ca(2+) stores via a mechanism that is not linked to the ionic properties of NMDA receptors.
Cerebellar granular neurons are the most abundant neuronal type in the CNS. Their number and experimental accessibility have made these neurons a valuable model for investigating mechanisms of cell proliferation and differentiation in the CNS. Proliferation of granular neurons is regulated, at least in part, by the secreted protein Sonic Hedgehog, whereas induction and differentiation both appear to be controlled by bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling. Given the role of BMPs in granular cell differentiation, we postulated that BMP receptors (BMPRs) would be expressed on cerebellar granular neurons and that signaling through these receptors is required for normal differentiation. We found that both BMPRIA and BMPRIB are expressed on granular neuron precursors and on mature granular neurons in the developing cerebellum. To determine if these receptors are sufficient for granular cell induction and/or differentiation in vivo, we introduced a constitutively active BMPRIA construct into the developing cerebellum. The resulting cerebelli showed a simplified folial pattern and ectopic collections of small cells located deep in the cerebellar white matter. Phenotypic analysis demonstrated that the ectopic cells are granular neurons. From these data we suggest that signaling through the type I BMPRs occurs during normal cerebellar development and ectopic activation of this pathway affects normal granular neuron development. Furthermore, the similarity of the cerebellar anomalies arising from perturbed BMPR signaling to human cerebellar malformations suggests that dysregulation of BMP signaling may play a pathogenic role in some human cerebellar abnormalities.
Unlike mammals, adult urodele amphibians can regenerate their spinal cord and associated ganglia, but the molecular mechanisms controlling regeneration are not fully understood. We have recently shown that expression of FGF2, a member of the fibroblast growth factor family, is induced in the progenitor cells of the regenerating spinal cord and appears to play a role in their proliferation and possibly in their differentiation. In order to investigate which receptor(s) may mediate FGF2 signaling and their role in regeneration, we have studied expression of the four fibroblast growth factor receptors, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3 and FGFR4, and of the spliced variants, sFGFR and KGFR, in the regenerating spinal cord of the adult urodele, Pleurodeles waltl, following tail amputation. We show that all FGFRs are expressed in normal and regenerating spinal cord, with the exception of the spliced variants that are expressed only in non-neural tissues of the tail. FGFR1 and 4 show the more interesting spatio-temporal patterns of expression. They are not detectable in the ependymal cells of normal cords, from which neural progenitors for regeneration are believed to originate, though they are expressed in some mature neurons. During regeneration, significant up-regulation of FGFR1 precedes that of FGFR4 in the ependymal tube from which the new cord will form. FGFR4 is highly expressed in these cells at later stages of regeneration, when neuronal differentiation is becoming apparent, and like FGFR1 is also expressed in some newborn neurons. In addition to the known form of FGFR1, the antibody against this receptor reacts also with a non-phosphorylated protein that appears to be present only during regeneration, and might represent a yet undescribed variant of the receptor. Altogether this study shows that fibroblast growth factor signaling is finely modulated during tail and spinal cord regeneration, and points to FGFR1 and FGFR4 as key players in this process, suggesting that FGFR1 is primarily associated with proliferation of progenitor cells and FGFR4 with early stages of neuronal differentiation.
Monoamine oxidase type A and type B are major neurotransmitter-degrading enzymes in the CNS. The type A is present on mitochondrial outer membranes in the whole extent of noradrenergic and dopaminergic neurons, including their axon terminals. The type B is present in serotonergic neurons, but its subcellular localization has not been elucidated. In the present study, we used both a double-labeling immunofluorescence method and electron microscopic immunohistochemistry to examine the subcellular localization of monoamine oxidase type B in serotonergic neurons projecting from the dorsal raphe nucleus to the suprachiasmatic nucleus in the rat brain. In the dorsal raphe nucleus, serotonin-positive neuronal cell bodies were clustered, and virtually all of these cell bodies were also positive for monoamine oxidase type B. By contrast, serotonin-negative neuronal cell bodies were mostly free of this enzyme. Within the neuronal cell bodies and dendrites that were positive for monoamine oxidase type B, most mitochondria contained this enzyme on their outer membranes, but a substantial proportion of mitochondria lacked this enzyme. In the suprachiasmatic nucleus, serotonin-positive varicosities were concentrated, but none of these varicosities exhibited monoamine oxidase type B. In this nucleus, mitochondria were found in almost all serotonin-positive axon terminals, but monoamine oxidase type B was not observed in any axon terminal that contained mitochondria. Our results show that there are two kinds of mitochondria in serotonergic neuronal cell bodies and dendrites: one containing monoamine oxidase type B on their outer membranes, and the other lacking this enzyme. In addition, mitochondria in serotonergic axon terminals do not possess monoamine oxidase type B. It is suggested in serotonergic neurons that only mitochondria lacking monoamine oxidase type B are transported by axonal flow up to axon terminals. It is also probable that mitochondria containing monoamine oxidase type B are transported along the axons, but that this enzyme undergoes a change, for example, conformational change, decomposition or removal from the membranes.
Cholinergic and glutamatergic projections from the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (LDT) in the rat pons excite midbrain dopamine cells to directly modulate forebrain dopamine transmission. We show that LDT-lesioned rats express higher intensity stereotypy (including orofacial movements), and higher levels of accumbal dopamine release in response to d-amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg), as compared to sham-operated rats. In contrast, LDT-lesioned rats showed decreased stereotypy and attenuated accumbal dopamine efflux as compared to sham animals, in response to morphine (2.0 mg/kg). These results suggest that the LDT plays a critical role in mediating motoric and neurochemical effects of diverse drugs of abuse, and that the pharmacology of the drug may critically determine whether its efficacy will be enhanced or attenuated by alterations in LDT activity. We conclude that the LDT has functional connections with the nigrostriatal dopamine system to affect drug-evoked stereotypy, which has implications for motoric disorders that are characterized by nigrostriatal dysfunction.
A variety of postmortem brain studies and clinical investigations have provided evidence that reduced serotonin neurotransmission is associated with suicidal behavior and depression, and several serotonergic parameters have been found to be altered in the prefrontal cortex of suicide victims. However, the integrity of the serotonin innervation of the prefrontal cortex in mood disorders has not been directly investigated. The present study used immunocytochemical methods and an antibody against the serotonin transporter to examine the relative density of serotonin axons in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of suicide victims with a diagnosis of major depression. The mean total length of serotonin transporter-immunoreactive axons per unit area was unchanged in layers 2 and 4 of area 46 in the depressed suicide subjects compared to controls, but was significantly (P &lt; 0.01) decreased by 24% in layer 6 in the depressed suicide group. The total length of serotonin transporter-positive axons in layer 6 was reduced in eight of the 12 depressed suicide subjects compared to their matched control subjects. These findings reveal that depressed subjects who have committed suicide exhibit a lamina-specific reduction in a marker of serotonin axons in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex that may reflect an alteration in cortical serotonin neurotransmission.
There is increasing evidence that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) modulates synaptic and morphological plasticity in the developing and mature nervous system. Plasticity may be modulated partially by BDNF's effects on dendritic structure. Utilizing transgenic mice where BDNF overexpression was controlled by the beta-actin promoter, we evaluated the effects of long-term overexpression of BDNF on the dendritic structure of granule cells in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. BDNF transgenic mice provided the opportunity to investigate the effects of modestly increased BDNF levels on dendrite structure in the complex in vivo environment. While the elevated BDNF levels were insufficient to change levels of TrkB receptor isoforms or downstream TrkB signaling, they did increase dendrite complexity of dentate granule cells. These cells showed an increased number of first order dendrites, of total dendritic length and of total number of branch points. These results suggest that dendrite structure of granule cells is tightly regulated and is sensitive to modest increases in levels of BDNF. This is the first study to evaluate the effects of BDNF overexpression on dendrite morphology in the intact hippocampus and extends previous in vitro observations that BDNF influences synaptic plasticity by increasing complexity of dendritic arbors.
Immediate early gene expression has been used frequently as a marker of activity in the circadian visual system. Recent evidence suggests that the pretectum participates in orchestrating sleep and circadian responses to light. Lesions of the pretectum eliminate dark shift-induced rapid eye movement sleep triggering in albino rats, and compromise circadian phase shifts in hamsters. We hypothesized that regions of the pretectum respond to light with robust and region-specific Fos activation, similar to the suprachiasmatic nucleus and intergeniculate leaflet. We used Fos expression, the protein product of the immediate early gene c-fos, as a functional marker to measure the responses of neurons following acute lighting changes. Rats maintained on a 12:12 light-dark cycle were subjected to a shift from light-to-dark or from dark-to-light at midday (Zeitgeber time 6) or midnight (Zeitgeber time 18). Fos expression was visualized with immunocytochemistry and quantified with an automated scoring system. We found three regions in the pretectum (the olivary pretectal nucleus, posterior limitans, and a region homologous to the hamster commissural pretectal nucleus), and two regions in the lateral geniculate complex (the intergeniculate leaflet and ventral lateral geniculate nucleus) that demonstrated significant Fos activation in response to light. Furthermore, the olivary pretectal nucleus, the posterior limitans, and the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus showed preferential Fos activation after acute light onset rather than following chronic exposure to light at midday, whereas at midnight these nuclei showed Fos activation following both chronic light exposure and acute light onset. Given the extensive anatomical connections between pretectal nuclei and other nuclei in the subcortical visual shell, as well as with centers for sleep and arousal, it is highly plausible that these pretectal nuclei integrate information about changes in illuminance, and aid in the coordination of acute behavioral responses to light.
Recent studies have reported that acute administration of the psychotomimetic drug phencyclidine results in considerable increases in the amounts of both extracellular glutamate and dopamine in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). However, the effect of phencyclidine on the firing activity of mPFC neurons remains unknown. Here, we report the first data on phencyclidine-induced activation of mPFC neurons in freely moving rats. Unanesthetized rats received an intraperitoneal injection of either phencyclidine (5 mg/kg) or physiological saline (0.5 ml/kg) in order to investigate the impulse activity of mPFC neurons and behavioral activity. The phencyclidine injection induced a remarkable increase (two-fold or more) in the spontaneous discharge rate of the majority of mPFC neurons (20/23), and this increase lasted for more than 70 min. In addition, a considerable augmentation of behavioral activity was observed that nearly paralleled that of the mPFC neuronal activation. In contrast, microiontophoretically applied phencyclidine exerted little influence on the spontaneous firing activity of most mPFC neurons (25/29) in anesthetized rats, although systemically applied phencyclidine produced activation of mPFC neurons even under general anesthesia. These results suggest that the behavioral abnormalities induced by acute administration of phencyclidine may be caused by hyperactivation of mPFC neurons, and that this hyperactivation is elicited through excitatory inputs from brain regions outside the mPFC.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) causes neuronal death and alters the plasticity (e.g. morphology) of surviving neurons. Both of these events contribute to TBI-associated neurological deficits, such as memory dysfunction. Although a majority of current research is directed towards identifying biochemical cascades responsible for cell death, little is known about mechanisms of altered neuronal plasticity following TBI. Extracellular signal-regulated kinases (Erk1 and 2) play a critical role in growth and have been implicated in long-lasting neuronal plasticity and memory storage. The activation of Erk following TBI was investigated utilizing an antibody that specifically binds to dually phosphorylated Erk. Using this antibody, we report that lateral cortical impact injury in rats increases Erk phosphorylation both in the cortex and the hippocampus as early as 10 min post-injury. Double immunostaining experiments using either a neuron-specific or an astroglial-specific marker show that the active Erk is localized almost exclusively in neuronal cells. Furthermore, the increase in phospho-Erk immunoreactivity was initially localized to axons and at later time points was observed to be predominantly in the cell soma. This suggests that Erk redistributed over time and may play a role in retrograde signaling. Administration of inhibitors of the Erk cascade worsened retrograde amnesia, impaired performances in hippocampus- and amygdala-dependent memory tasks, and exacerbated motor deficits following TBI. Furthermore, inhibition of this cascade did not have any overt effects on cell survival, but altered neuronal morphology as detected by a dendritic-specific marker. These findings suggest that the Erk cascade plays an essential role for the maintenance of neuronal function and plasticity following TBI.
Voltage-gated sodium channels consist of a pore-forming alpha subunit and two auxiliary beta subunits. Excitable cells express multiple alpha subtypes, designated Na(v)1.1-Na(v)1.9, and three beta subunits, designated beta1, beta2 and beta3. Understanding how the different alpha subtypes, in combination with the various beta subunits, determine sodium channel behavior is important for elucidating the molecular basis of sodium channel functional diversity. In this study, we used whole-cell electrophysiological recording to examine the properties of the human Na(v)1.3 alpha subtype, stably expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells, and to investigate modulation of Na(v)1.3 function by beta1, beta2 and beta3 subunits. In the absence of beta subunits, human Na(v)1.3 formed channels that inactivated rapidly (tau(inactivation) approximately equals 0.5 ms at 0 mV) and almost completely by the end of 190-ms-long depolarizations. Using an intracellular solution with aspartate as the main anion, the midpoint for channel activation was approximately -12 mV. The midpoint for inactivation, determined using 100-ms conditioning pulses, was approximately -47 mV. The time constant for repriming of inactivated channels at -80 mV was approximately 6 ms. Coexpression of beta1 or beta3 did not affect inactivation time course or the voltage dependence of activation, but shifted the inactivation curve approximately 10 mV negative, and slowed the repriming rate ca. three-fold. beta2 did not affect channel properties, either by itself or in combination with beta1 or beta3. Na(v)1.3 expression is increased in damaged nociceptive peripheral afferents. This change in channel expression levels is correlated with the emergence of a rapidly inactivating and rapidly repriming sodium current, which has been proposed to contribute to the pathophysiology of neuropathic pain. The results of this study support the hypothesis that Na(v)1.3 may mediate this fast sodium current.
Gangliosides and extracellular matrix molecules influence neurite outgrowth, but the combinatorial effects of these endogenous agents on outgrowth are unclear. Exogenous gangliosides inhibit neurite outgrowth from SH-SY5Y cells stimulated with platelet-derived growth factor-BB, and different isoforms of the ceramide analog threo-1-phenyl-2-decanoylamino-3-morpholino-1-propanol (PDMP) stimulate (L-PDMP) or inhibit (D-PDMP) glycosphingolipid biosynthesis. In this study, we determined whether altering the endogenous ganglioside levels with PDMP in SH-SY5Y cells regulates neurite outgrowth on the outgrowth-supporting extracellular matrix molecule, laminin. In cells stimulated with 20 ng/ml platelet-derived growth factor-BB to promote outgrowth, we used image analysis to evaluate neurite outgrowth from SH-SY5Y cells grown on endogenous matrix or laminin and exposed to L- or D-PDMP. Both L- and D-PDMP decreased neurite initiation (the number of neurites/cell, the percent of neurite-bearing cells), elongation (the length of the longest neurite/cell, the total neurite length/cell), and branching (the number of branch points/neurite) from SH-SY5Y cells on endogenous matrix or laminin in a dose-dependent manner in serum-free or serum-containing medium. The inhibitory effects of each PDMP isoform were reversible. Inhibition of neurite outgrowth by L-PDMP could be mimicked by addition of exogenous gangliosides or C2-ceramide. Our analyses of neurite outgrowth in SH-SY5Y cells, a model of developing or regenerating noradrenergic neurons, demonstrate that increasing or decreasing endogenous ganglioside levels decreases neurite outgrowth. These results may indicate that SH-SY5Y cells undergo tight regulation by gangliosides, possibly through modulation of growth/trophic factor- and/or extracellular matrix-activated signaling cascades.
Sheep form an olfactory recognition memory for their lambs within 2 h of parturition and will subsequently reject the approaches of any strange lamb and protest vocally. In this study we report that following olfactory memory formation, ewes exposed to either their own or a strange lamb show c-fos mRNA expression in the medial frontal cortex, although levels of expression in the pyramidal output cell layer V were significantly higher in ewes that rejected strange lambs. Reversibly inactivating this region by the retrodialysis of the anaesthetic tetracaine before birth reduced aggressive motor responses towards lambs but not protest vocalisations. Similar treatment during the critical period for olfactory memory formation and lamb recognition (0-4 h post-partum) had no effect on ewes maternal behaviour towards their own lambs. It did, however, prevent the normal selective expression of aggressive rejection, and reduced protest vocalisation behaviours directed towards strange lambs. These rejection behaviours did appear 1 h after the termination of tetracaine infusions despite the ewes not being given the opportunity to interact with their own lambs during this time. Therefore, tetracaine blockade of the medial frontal cortex prevents animals from responding with motor aggression, but not vocal aggression, to odour cues from strange lambs, but has no effect on the formation of an olfactory recognition memory for their own lambs. Both pre- and post-partum aggressive rejection of strange lambs was associated with increased concentrations of dopamine, serotonin, glutamate and GABA. When these behaviours were inhibited by the tetracaine infusions, extracellular concentrations of these neurotransmitters were all increased by the anaesthetic but did not change in response to lambs. These findings suggest that a functional medial frontal cortex is not required for the formation of an olfactory recognition memory or for mediating pro-active maternal behaviours. It is however required for the mediation of motor but not vocal aspects of aggressive rejection responses directed towards aversive odour cues from strange lambs.
Lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) produces altered mood and hallucinations in humans and binds with high affinity to serotonin-2A (5-HT(2A)) receptors. Although LSD interacts with other receptors, the activation of 5-HT(2A) receptors is thought to mediate the hallucinogenic properties of LSD. The goal of this study was to identify the brain sites activated by LSD and to determine the influence of 5-HT(2A) receptors in this activation. Rats were pretreated with the 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist MDL 100907 (0.3 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle 30 min prior to LSD (500 microg/kg, i.p.) administration and killed 3 h later. Brain tissue was examined for Fos protein expression by immunohistochemistry. LSD administration produced a five- to eight-fold increase in Fos-like immunoreactivity in medial prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate cortex, and central nucleus of amygdala. However, in dorsal striatum and nucleus accumbens no increase in Fos-like immunoreactivity was observed. Pretreatment with MDL 100907 completely blocked LSD-induced Fos-like immunoreactivity in medial prefrontal cortex and anterior cingulate cortex, but only partially blocked LSD-induced Fos-like immunoreactivity in amygdala. Double-labeled immunohistochemistry revealed that LSD did not induce Fos-like immunoreactivity in cortical cells expressing 5-HT(2A) receptors, suggesting an indirect activation of cortical neurons. These results indicate that the LSD activation of medial prefrontal cortex and anterior cingulate cortex is mediated by 5-HT(2A) receptors, whereas in amygdala 5-HT(2A) receptor activation is a component of the response. These findings support the hypothesis that the medial prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate cortex, and perhaps the amygdala, are important regions involved in the production of hallucinations.
Glutaminase of crayfish axons is believed to participate in recycling of axon-glia signaling agent(s). We measured the activity and properties of glutaminase in crude homogenates of crayfish CNS, using ion exchange chromatography to separate radiolabeled product from substrate. Crayfish glutaminase activity is cytoplasmic and/or weakly bound to membranes and dependent on time, tissue protein, and glutamine concentration. It resembles the kidney-type phosphate-activated glutaminase of mammals in being stimulated by inorganic phosphate and alkaline pH and inhibited by the product glutamate and by the glutamine analog 6-diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine. During incubation of crayfish CNS fibers in Na(+)-free saline containing radiolabeled glutamine, there is an increased formation of radiolabeled glutamate in axoplasm that is temporally associated with an increase in axonal pH from about 7.1 to about 8.0. Both the formation of glutamate and the change in pH are reduced by 6-diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine. Our results suggest that crayfish glutaminase activity is regulated by cellular changes in pH and glutamate concentration. Such changes could impact availability of the axon-glia signaling agents glutamate and N-acetylaspartylglutamate.
Microglial responses to endotoxin, including the synthesis of inflammatory factors, contribute to gliosis and neuron degeneration in cultured brain tissue. We have previously shown that G6976, a protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, suppressed the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced production of inflammatory factors in microglia and afforded marked protection of neurons from glia-mediated cytotoxicity. The purpose of this study was to identify the signal transduction pathway underlying the neuroprotective effect of G6976. G6976 suppressed the LPS-induced release of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) in the microglial cell line, BV2. We show in this study the inhibitory effect of G6976 on TNFalpha release occurring through suppression of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphorylation and not through a PKC mechanism. While G6976 did not inhibit the activity of p38 MAPK directly, it did suppress its activation by phosphorylation, indicating the target of action of G6976 is a signaling event upstream of p38 MAPK. Although G6976 is considered a selective inhibitor of certain PKC isozymes, suppression of TNFalpha production was not mediated through inhibition of PKC activity. G6976 appears to play a novel role in neuroprotection by suppressing the release of pro-inflammatory factors by inhibiting the activation of p38 MAPK in microglia, rather than a PKC isoform.
Bilateral lesions of the ventrolateral caudal periaqueductal gray inhibit lordosis and kyphosis, the postures of female sexual receptivity and maternal nursing that are characterized respectively by dorsoflexion and ventroflexion of the spinal column. These lesions also inhibit the solicitation behaviors that accompany lordosis, but they do not impair retrieval or licking of pups. We tested the hypothesis that reproductive behaviors affected by these lesions are tonically inhibited by activity of the GABA(A) receptor via site-specific manipulations of receptor activity. Rats were bilaterally implanted during pregnancy with guide cannulae aimed at the caudal periaqueductal gray and ovariectomized on day 1 postpartum. Microinfusions (0.25 microl/side) of saline or drug took place on days 5 and 7 postpartum into the dorsolateral column and on days 9 and 11 into the ventrolateral column. Five minutes post-infusion dams were reunited with their pups and their maternal behavior was observed for 30 min. Feminine sexual behaviors were evaluated post-weaning after another set of microinfusions in the ventrolateral caudal periaqueductal gray. Potential facilitation of kyphosis and lordosis was tested with the GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline (15 ng/side) during sub-threshold conditions, i.e., non-suckling pups or sub-threshold ovarian hormone dosages; potential inhibition of these postures was tested with the GABA(A) agonist muscimol (125 ng/side) during optimal conditions, i.e., suckling pups or supra-threshold ovarian hormone treatments. Dorsolateral drug manipulations were ineffective. In the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray bicuculline significantly increased and muscimol significantly decreased kyphosis, lordosis, and sexual solicitations compared with saline. Retrieval and licking of pups were not altered by GABA(A) manipulations. These findings suggest that the reproductive postures of female rats, lordosis and kyphosis, as well as sexual solicitations, are tonically inhibited by the neurotransmitter GABA within the ventrolateral caudal periaqueductal gray in the midbrain. In contrast, retrieval and licking of pups appear to be under separate neurochemical or neuroanatomical control, or both. Further, this tonic inhibition is likely relieved by excitatory somatosensory inputs to this site, from mounting and suckling respectively.
54Mn previously taken up by the amygdala is released along with known neurotransmitters into the extracellular space during stimulation with 100 mM KCl. The possibility of manganese release from neuron terminals in a calcium- and impulse-dependent manner was examined by using the in vivo microdialysis method in the present study. The increase of (54)Mn release into the amygdalar extracellular space during stimulation with high K(+) was inhibited by addition of 1 microM tetrodotoxin. This increase of (54)Mn release into the extracellular space by stimulation with high K(+) was also observed in the hippocampus, but not in the substantia nigra. The increment of glutamate in the extracellular space during stimulation with high K(+) was highly correlated with that of (54)Mn, suggesting that manganese is concurrently released with glutamate from neuron terminals. The level of (54)Mn in the extracellular space in the hippocampus was increased with that of glutamate, but not with those of GABA and glycine, during stimulation with 100 mM KCl in the presence of 30 microM kainate. This increase was more marked than during stimulation with 30 microM kainate alone. It is likely that manganese is released from glutamatergic neuron terminals. When the rat hippocampus was perfused with artificial cerebrospinal fluid containing 20 or 200 nM MnCl(2), the levels of glutamate, aspartate and GABA in the perfusate were dose-dependently decreased during perfusion with manganese. The present findings demonstrate that manganese released into the synaptic cleft may influence synaptic neurotransmission.
We studied the effect of chemical sympathectomy by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) on pain behavior and alpha(2)-adrenergic antinociception in rats with a spinal nerve ligation-induced neuropathy. For assessment of alpha(2)-adrenergic antinociception, the rats were treated systemically with two alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonists, one of which only poorly (MPV-2426) and the other very well (dexmedetomidine) penetrates the blood-brain barrier. Moreover, the effect of MPV-2426 on spontaneous activity of dorsal root nerve fibers proximal to the nerve injury was determined. Systemic treatment with 6-OHDA produced a marked decrease in immunocytochemical labeling of sympathetic nerve fibers in the skin but it produced no marked change in basal pain sensitivity to mechanical stimulation either in neuropathic or sham-operated animals. Systemic administration of MPV-2426 and dexmedetomidine produced a dose-dependent tactile antiallodynic effect in neuropathic animals. Intraplantar injection of MPV-2426 had an identical antiallodynic effect independent of whether it was injected into the neuropathic or contralateral hindpaw. In a test of mechanical nociception and hyperalgesia, dexmedetomidine markedly attenuated pain responses in all experimental groups, whereas MPV-2426 had a weak but significant pain attenuating effect only in neuropathic animals. In the tail flick test, both alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonists had a significant antinociceptive effect. The pain attenuating effect of MPV-2426 was enhanced by pretreatment with 6-OHDA, except in a test of tactile allodynia. MPV-2426-induced modulation of spontaneous activity was not a general property of dorsal root fibers proximal to the injury. The results indicate that a chemical destruction of sympathetic postganglionic nerve fibers innervating the skin does not markedly influence cutaneous pain sensitivity nor is it critical for the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist-induced attenuation of pain behavior in neuropathic or non-neuropathic animals. Chemical sympathectomy, independent of neuropathy, enhanced the pain attenuating effect by MPV-2426, probably due to a peripheral action, whereas in non-sympathectomized control and neuropathic animals peripheral mechanisms have only a minor, if any, role in the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist-induced antinociception.
Apolipoprotein E knockout (apoEKO) mice have been shown to be impaired in the spatial Morris water maze (MWM). However, several groups failed to replicate this finding. One reason for this inconsistency may stem from variations in the experimental protocols and environment between laboratories. In the present study, we have tested if age and variations in protocol implementation that specifically affect salience of the visual extramaze cues influence performance and navigational strategies in the MWM. We tested three- and 12-month-old apoEKO and wild type mice in three versions of the MWM differing on the availability of visual extramaze cues: (1) salient cues, (2) diffuse cues, and (3) absence of cues. Our results show that the presence of salient cues enhances acquisition performance of wild type, but not apoEKO mice in the MWM. This effect was restricted to the acquisition phase since apoEKO mice reached a level of performance that was comparable to that of controls toward the end of the task. No significant differences were detected between apoEKO and controls in either the diffuse cues or absence of cues paradigms. Thigmotaxic tendencies were observed in apoEKO mice and correlated high latency scores. Thigmotaxis may have interfered with the initial ability to engage in a proficient navigational strategy. These findings suggest that, in contrast to what has been proposed in the past, apoEKO mice appear not to be impaired in spatial memory per se but are deficient in a procedural component of the MWM. Furthermore, the procedural deficit and corresponding thigmotaxic tendencies of apoEKO mice appeared to increase with age. Taken together, these findings confirm our hypothesis that age and variations in experimental protocols can influence MWM performances.
After reinnervation following transection of the sciatic nerve, normal patterns of regional type I fiber distribution are known to return in rat hindlimb muscles. Here we investigate how this recovery is influenced by experimental conditions. In an initial operation, the nerve of gastrocnemius medialis (GM) of adult rats was cut close to the muscle and reinserted either (i) close to the original nerve entry, or (ii) at a more medial 'foreign' site. In other groups of animals, these nerve operations were combined with a rotation of the GM muscle around its longitudinal axis, trying to ascertain whether the position of the muscle within the limb was of importance for the reinnervation processes. In a control group the muscle was rotated but innervation remained intact. After 21 weeks, the GM muscles were removed from both hindlimbs. Cross-sections were cut at seven different levels along each muscle, and 'slow' type I fibers were identified after staining for myofibrillar ATPase. The topographical positions were mapped out for all type I fibers. In all reinnervated muscles, an extensive type I fiber grouping was seen, indicating a widespread respecification of muscle fiber properties by ingrowing 'slow' axons. Normal topographical directions of type I fiber regionalization were about equally well restored in groups with the nerve inserted at the original or at the foreign site. In rotated muscles, the direction of type I fiber regionalization was significantly less rotated than the muscle as a whole. The results suggest that ingrowing 'slow' motor axons are guided toward their normal 'slow' regions by clues which are largely independent of the i.m. path of regeneration (original vs. foreign nerve entry site) but partly dependent on the position of the target muscle within the limb (rotated vs. non-rotated cases).
Preprodynorphin (PPD), preproenkephalin (PPE) and preprotachykinins A (PPTA) and B (PPTB) are known to be expressed by neostriatal projection neurons. In the present study, we investigated the distributions and colocalizations of immunoreactivities for those prepropeptides in the ventral striatum, such as the accumbens nucleus (Acb) and olfactory tubercle (OT). Antibodies raised against C-terminal portions of the prepropeptides labeled cell bodies of neurons with diameters of 8-15 microm. PPD-, PPE- and PPTA-immunoreactive neurons were distributed throughout the Acb and concentrated in the dense cell layer of the OT. PPTB-immunoreactive neurons were observed to form cell clusters, which were localized in mu-opioid receptor-immunoreactive patchy regions in the Acb, but were very rarely found in the dense cell layer of the OT. Double-immunofluorescence analysis revealed that PPD, PPE and PPTB immunoreactivities were shown in 69%, 19% and 14% of PPTA-immunoreactive neurons, respectively, in the Acb core region, and in 92%, 7% and 25% of PPTA-immunoreactive neurons, respectively, in the Acb shell region. In the olfactory bulb, 51%, 19% and 3% of PPTA-immunoreactive neurons showed PPD, PPE and PPTB immunoreactivities, respectively. PPD and PPE immunoreactivities were rarely coexpressed in single neurons of all striatal regions. The present results indicated that, although PPTA and PPE were occasionally coexpressed in single neurons of the ventral striatum, the segregated expression of PPD and PPE in the ventral striatum was similar to that in the dorsal striatum. The clustered localization of PPTB-expressing neurons in the Acb and near absence of PPTB-expressing neurons in the dense cell layer of the OT suggests that neurokinin B is a key substance in differentiating between the ventral and dorsal striatal regions.
We used explant cultures of adult mouse dorsal root ganglia with spinal nerve attached growing in Matrigel to assess the effects of the non-immunosuppressive immunophilin ligand GPI-1046 [Snyder et al. (1998) TIPS 19, 21-26] on the growth rate of regenerating sensory axons and found a potent stimulation of axon growth. In these explant cultures, naked, unfasciculated axons emerge from the cut end of the spinal nerve and continue to grow in the Matrigel for up to eight days [Tonge et al. (1996) Neuroscience 73, 541-551]. Some axons are entirely smooth whilst others show prominent varicosities. Some of the former express the phosphorylated neurofilament epitope recognised by monoclonal antibody RT97, a marker for large calibre, myelinated axons, whilst the latter express calcitonin gene-related peptide, predominantly a marker for unmyelinated, and small diameter myelinated sensory axons. Many of the axons in these cultures also express the low-affinity neurotrophin receptor p75. GPI-1046 has been shown to have striking stimulatory effects on embryonic primary sensory axons growing in vitro and it was therefore of interest to see whether it could also enhance regenerating sensory axon growth from the adult ganglia in our cultures. GPI-1046 potently stimulated axon growth in our cultures in a dose-dependent manner. The stimulatory effect was not dependent on the class of sensory axon. These observations show that GPI-1046 is a potent stimulator of regenerating axons from adult, primary sensory neurones. The cellular site of action of GPI-1046 is unknown. To distinguish between a direct effect of the drug on neurones and an indirect effect we compared the effects of GPI-1046 on explant and dissociated cultures. In confirmation of previous results, we found that GPI-1046 potently stimulated axon outgrowth from explants of embryonic chick dorsal root ganglia. However, the drug was without effect on dissociated embryonic dorsal root ganglion neurones, suggesting that non-neuronal cells are important for axon growth stimulation.
Sympathetic hyperactivity in rats with heart failure is associated with increased extracellular noradrenaline in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus at rest. However, it is unknown how this nucleus responds to stressful stimuli. In the present study we therefore examined the basal and stress-induced release of noradrenaline in the paraventricular nucleus of conscious Sprague-Dawley rats with heart failure measured by in vivo microdialysis. Basal noradrenaline concentration in the paraventricular nucleus of rats with heart failure was more than double that in sham-operated controls. Immobilization stress decreases noradrenaline levels in the paraventricular nucleus of rats with heart failure to 57% of baseline, while it increased in sham-operated controls to 228%. However, serum corticosterone was similarly elevated at 30 and 90 min post-stress in both experimental groups. We have shown that heart failure causes an impairment of the central noradrenergic system's response to acute sympatho-excitation but does not affect the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical response.
Neural activity plays an important role in shaping the developing brain. We have determined the consequence of increased auditory stimulation on the developmental profile of synaptic proteins, synaptophysin and syntaxin 1, in the chick brainstem auditory nuclei, nucleus magnocellularis and nucleus laminaris, by immunohistochemistry and western blotting techniques. The chick embryos were provided with patterned sounds of species-specific calls or musical notes of a sitar, a stringed instrument, in a graded manner from embryonic day 10 (E10) through hatching, for 15 min every hour. During normal synaptogenesis of nucleus magnocellularis and nucleus laminaris, synaptophysin immunoreactivity increased significantly from E8 to E20, in parallel with synapse formation, and reduced at hatching. The embryos receiving species-specific sound stimuli exhibited a similar pattern with higher levels of immunoreactivity, though the difference between the study groups was not statistically significant. The music stimulated embryos showed an earlier peak at E16, followed by a gradual decline until hatching. In all three groups studied, syntaxin immunoreactivity showed a surge at E12, followed by a decline at E16 and subsequent stabilization. The stimulated groups continually expressed higher amounts of syntaxin immunoreactivity. The results suggest that prenatal sound stimulation enhances the normal pattern of synaptic protein expression in these auditory nuclei.
The distribution of gene expression domains during development constitutes a novel tool for the identification of distinct brain regions. This is particularly useful in the brain of amphibians where cell migration is very limited and most neurons organize in a periventricular layer. Here we report the expression pattern of NKX2-1 protein in the developing Xenopus telencephalon. In mammals, the Nkx2-1 gene is expressed in distinct subpallial regions such as the septum, the medial ganglionic eminence and preoptic region. The results of the present study demonstrate that the expression of NKX2-1 delineates the pallidal anlage and its derivatives in amphibians, as in mammals and birds. In addition, double-labeling immunohistochemistry and the combination of tracing experiments with NKX2-1 immunohistochemistry demonstrate that the amphibian striatum contains interneurons, which express NKX2-1 and produce, among other possible neurotransmitters, nitric oxide and acetylcholine. In sum, the results of the present study strengthen the notion that similar developmental programs exist during basal ganglia development in all tetrapods.
The group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are positively coupled to phospholipase C. Through phospholipase C, group I mGluR activation increases intracellular concentrations of diacylglycerol which is known as a strong activator of protein kinase C (PKC). This study investigated the putative role of PKC in the regulation of transcription factor phosphorylation induced by group I mGluR activation in the rat striatum in vivo. We found that the group I agonist 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) injected into the dorsal striatum (caudate-putamen) increased phosphorylation of the two transcription factors, cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) and Elk-1, and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) in the injected striatum. Inhibition of PKC with GF109203X significantly attenuated DHPG-stimulated CREB, Elk-1, and ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Activation of PKC with intracaudate injection of 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) mimicked DHPG actions in facilitating the phosphorylation of CREB, Elk-1, and ERK1/2. Blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptors with the non-competitive antagonist MK801 or the competitive antagonist AP5 attenuated TPA-induced CREB, Elk-1, and ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Similarly, inhibition of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases (CaMK) with KN62 also resulted in a significant attenuation of TPA induction of the three phosphoproteins. The data obtained from this study indicate that selective activation of PKC is needed for the group I agonist-induced CREB, Elk-1, and ERK1/2 phosphorylation in striatal neurons. Activated PKC may, at least in part, facilitate the phosphorylation of transcription factors via an NMDA/CaMK-sensitive pathway.
We investigated how transient cerebral ischemia affects the gene expression, immunoreactive protein levels, and the function of the A1 subtype of adenosine receptor in the rat hippocampus at different times following reperfusion. A1 receptor mRNA levels were altered significantly in different hippocampal subfields as early as 6 h following insult. However, these changes in mRNA levels were not paralleled at the protein level, as western blotting with A1 receptor-specific antibodies revealed that hippocampal A1 adenosine receptor prevalence did not differ from sham control at either 6 or 24 h following insult. The lack of change in A1 receptor prevalence was consistent with functional examinations, as only marginal changes were observed in the ability of A1 receptors to attenuate excitatory post-synaptic potentials in the CA1 subfield at 24 h following reperfusion. These data illustrate that although the mRNA expression levels of the A1 adenosine receptor are altered by transient cerebral ischemia, the immunoreactive prevalence and function of this receptor are maintained in the post-ischemic hippocampus at times preceding the death of the vulnerable neurons.
Neuropathic pain is induced by injury or disease of the nervous system. Studies aimed at understanding the molecular pathophysiology of neuropathic pain have so far focused on a few known molecules and signaling pathways in neurons. However, the pathophysiology of neuropathic pain appears to be very complex and remains poorly understood. A global understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in neuropathic pain is needed for a better understanding of the pathophysiology and treatment of neuropathic pain. Towards this end, we examined global gene expression changes as well as the pathobiology at the cellular level in a spinal nerve ligation neuropathic pain model using DNA microarray, quantitative real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry. We found that the behavioral hypersensitivity that is manifested in the persistent pain state is accompanied by previously undescribed changes in gene expression. In the DRG, we found regulation of: (1) immediate early genes; (2) genes such as ion channels and signaling molecules that contribute to the excitability of neurons; and (3) genes that are indicative of secondary events such as neuroinflammation. In addition, we studied gene regulation in both injured and uninjured DRG by quantitative PCR, and observed differential gene regulation in these two populations of DRGs. Furthermore, we demonstrated unexpected co-regulation of many genes, especially the activation of neuroinflammation markers in both the PNS and CNS. The results of our study provide a new picture of the molecular mechanisms that underlie the complexity of neuropathic pain and suggest that chronic pain shares common pathobiology with progressive neurodegenerative disease.
Mice with a targeted disruption of adenosine A(3) receptor (A(3)AR) gene were assessed for their nociceptive threshold and for their localized inflammatory response following carrageenan injected into the hindpaw. Under basal conditions no difference was seen between A(3)AR knock-out (A(3)AR(-/-)) and wild-type (A(3)AR(+/+)) mice in nociceptive response to mechanical or heat stimuli. The antinociceptive response to the intrathecal adenosine analogue R-phenylisopropyl adenosine (R-PIA) was also unchanged in the A(3)AR(-/-) mice. In contrast, heat hyperalgesia, plasma extravasation and edema following carrageenan-induced inflammation in the hind paw were significantly reduced in A(3)AR(-/-) mice compared to the A(3)AR(+/+) controls. Thus, mice lacking A(3)AR had deficits in generating the localized inflammatory response to carrageenan, supporting a pro-inflammatory role of A(3)AR in peripheral tissues. However, no evidence for a role of A(3)AR in nociception and the antinociceptive effect of R-PIA was found.
Cholinergic neurons of the pontomesencephalic tegmentum play a critical role in paradoxical sleep, when, according to single unit recording of 'possibly' cholinergic neurons, they fire maximally. The profile of activity of the cholinergic neurons may be determined by noradrenergic locus coeruleus neurons that are active during waking and silent during paradoxical sleep. Indeed, a permissive role of the noradrenergic neurons in paradoxical sleep has been proposed based upon an inhibitory action of noradrenaline through alpha(2) adrenergic receptors on the cholinergic cells. Yet some 'possibly' cholinergic neurons are purportedly maximally active during waking and excited by noradrenaline through alpha(1) receptors. In the present study, we examined by fluorescent dual-immunostaining in the laterodorsal and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei of the rat whether choline acetyltransferase-immunopositive neurons are stained for alpha(2A) or alpha(1A) adrenergic receptors. For comparison, we examined immunostaining for these receptors on tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive locus coeruleus neurons, which are known to bear alpha(2A) autoreceptors. Whereas virtually all the noradrenergic neurons were labeled for the alpha(2A) and none for the alpha(1A), approximately half the cholinergic neurons were labeled for the alpha(2A) and one third for the alpha(1A) adrenergic receptors in adjacent sections. These results suggest that different groups of cholinergic neurons bear alpha(2) versus alpha(1) adrenergic receptors and would accordingly have different sleep-wake state activities and roles. The alpha(2)-bearing group would be inhibited by noradrenaline during waking to become disinhibited and maximally active while promoting paradoxical sleep, whereas the alpha(1)-bearing group would be excited by noradrenaline during waking to become maximally active while promoting features of that state.
Amyloid deposition, neuronal dystrophy and synaptic loss are characteristic pathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have used cortical neuronal cultures to assess the dystrophic effect of fibrillar amyloid beta (Abeta) and its relationship with neurotoxicity and synaptic loss. Treatment with fibrillar Abeta led to the development of neuritic dystrophy in the majority of the neurons present in the culture. Morphometric analysis and viability assays showed that neuronal dystrophy appeared significantly earlier and at lower Abeta concentrations than neurotoxicity, suggesting that both effects are generated independently by different cellular mechanisms. The development of dystrophic features required Abeta fibril formation and did not depend on the presence of the RHDS adhesive domain in the sequence of Abeta. Finally, a dramatic reduction in the density of synaptophysin immunoreactivity was closely associated with dystrophic changes in viable neurons. These results suggest that aberrant plastic changes and loss of synaptic integrity induced by fibrillar Abeta may play a significant role in the development of AD pathology.
Mutations in the presenilin 1 and 2 genes cause the majority of early onset familial forms of Alzheimer's disease. Here we describe the biochemical and immunohistochemical characterization of calsenilin, a novel calcium binding protein that we have previously shown to interact with presenilins 1 and 2, in mouse brain. The co-immunoprecipitation of endogenous calsenilin and presenilin 1 demonstrates that these proteins are physiologic binding partners. Although calsenilin has been predicted to be a soluble protein, we have found that the majority of it is tightly associated with the cytoplasmic face of intracellular membranes and that it can only be dissociated using harsh treatments such as urea. In addition, we have demonstrated that calsenilin is a developmentally regulated protein that is mainly present in the brain, where it localizes to both the hippocampus and cerebellum. Calsenilin staining co-localized with the somatodendritic marker microtubule-associated protein-2 primarily in the granular cell layer of the cerebellum, indicating that calsenilin expression is primarily neuronal. In primary cultured neurons, calsenilin immunoreactivity was observed in cell bodies as well as in some neuronal processes. Co-localization experiments using specific axonal and dendritic markers indicate that these processes were mainly axonal in nature, although a smaller subset of dendrites also appears to contain calsenilin. In summary, we have established that calsenilin and presenilin 1 can interact at physiologic levels, and that calsenilin is a developmentally regulated protein that is expressed primarily in the cerebellum and hippocampus. Although calsenilin is a soluble protein, it is tightly associated with the membrane. Finally, the expression pattern of calsenilin, which is similar to that of the presenilin(s), suggests that the common locations of these two proteins provide an opportunity for physical interaction in vivo.
Neocortical neurons in vivo receive periodic stimuli due to feedforward input from the periphery as well as local cellular and circuit properties. In order to understand how neurons process such information, the responses of neurons to periodic sine wave current stimuli of varying frequencies and amplitudes were investigated. Sine wave stimuli were injected into pyramidal cells of young adult ferret visual cortical slices in vitro using sharp microelectrodes. To simulate higher resting membrane potentials observed in vivo a slight depolarizing current was injected to bring the neuron just to threshold. Initially, neurons discharged at least one action potential per sine wave cycle, but as the frequency was increased, a point was reached where this one-to-one responsiveness was lost. This critical frequency was dependent upon the injected sine wave amplitude and the magnitude of the underlying steady-state depolarization, and was correlated with spike width. Larger steady-state depolarizations and thinner action potentials corresponded to higher critical frequencies. Thus, when a neuron was very active it could respond in a one-to-one fashion over a greater range of frequencies than with the smallest DC offset. The results suggest that the frequency-following characteristics of individual cortical neurons can be modulated by the activity state of the neuron itself.
Prolactin releasing peptide (PrRP) is a recently identified neuropeptide that stimulates prolactin release from pituitary cells. The presence of its receptor outside the hypothalamic-pituitary axis suggests that it may have other functions. We present here evidence that PrRP can modulate the activity of the reticular thalamic nucleus, a brain region with prominent PrRP receptor expression that is critical for sleep regulation and the formation of non-convulsive absence seizures. Intracerebroventricular injection of PrRP (1-10 nmol) into sleeping animals significantly suppresses sleep oscillations and promotes rapid and prolonged awakening. Higher concentrations of PrRP (10-100 nmol) similarly suppress spike wave discharges seen during absence seizures in genetic absence epilepsy rats from Strasbourg, an animal model for this disorder. In concordance with these findings, PrRP suppressed evoked oscillatory burst activity in reticular thalamic slices in vitro. These results indicate that PrRP modulates reticular thalamic function and that activation of its receptor provides a new target for therapies directed at sleep disorders and absence seizures.
Caspases are proteases involved in various physiological and pathological processes in the nervous system, including development and pathogenesis. GRASP-1 is a recently identified neuronal substrate of caspase-3-subfamily caspases. It is a Ras-guanine nucleotide exchange factor (RasGEF) that interacts with the glutamate receptor interacting protein (GRIP). This alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) receptor/GRIP protein complex has been proposed to be involved in AMPA receptor synaptic targeting. The caspase-3 cleavage of GRASP-1 separates the N-terminal RasGEF catalytic domain from the C-terminal GRIP-interacting region, potentially disrupting regulation of the RasGEF activity by GRIP. To examine the regulation and regional distribution of the caspase-3 cleavage of GRASP-1 in vivo, we generated a cleavage site-specific antibody, termed CGP, against the cleaved N-terminal fragment of GRASP-1. Using this antibody, we have examined the caspase cleavage of GRASP-1 during postnatal development and following ischemia in mice. We found that caspase cleavage of GRASP-1 occurs in specific brain regions in a time-dependent manner during development and ischemia. This data provides an important account of the brain areas that might require caspase-3 activity in postnatal development and ischemic damage, which has not been documented. It also demonstrates that the CGP antibody is a powerful tool for studying neuronal activity of the caspase-3-subfamily caspases in vivo.
Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were made from neurons in a brain slice preparation of the inferior colliculus in 11-15-day-old rat pups. Synaptic responses were elicited by applying a current pulse to the lateral lemniscus just below the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus. To examine GABAergic inhibition in the inferior colliculus all excitatory postsynaptic potentials and glycinergic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were blocked by bath application of their respective antagonists and the contribution of GABA(B) receptors was determined for the remaining inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. For most cells the isolated inhibitory postsynaptic potential was completely blocked by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline, but was unaffected by the GABA(B) receptor antagonist, phaclofen. The GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen (10-20 microM), decreased the amplitude of the inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. This effect was completely blocked by phaclofen. Baclofen did not increase the cell membrane conductance or alter the rate of firing produced by depolarization of the cell membrane. In contrast, muscimol, a GABA(A) receptor agonist, greatly increased membrane conductance and lowered the firing rate produced by depolarization. Our results indicate that GABAergic inhibition in the auditory midbrain can be reduced by the activation of GABA(B) receptors and suggest that the effects are presynaptic.
Neonatal handling has pervasive effects on the rat brain leading to increased ability to cope with and adapt to stressful stimuli. We determined the effects of neonatal handling on the dopaminergic and serotonergic system, in the male and female rat brain, under basal conditions before and after puberty and after short- and long-term forced swimming stress. Exposure of animals to neonatal handling resulted in sex-dependent changes in the concentration and turnover of monoamines in the different brain areas. In the prepubertal brain, the effect of neonatal handling was manifested as an increase in dopamine turnover in the females, particularly in the hypothalamus, an increase in serotonin levels and a decrease in its turnover in all three brain regions examined of both males and females. Certain of the handling-induced effects observed in the prepubertal brain were reversed in the postpubertal animals. Thus, in the postpubertal brain, the handling-induced changes in serotonin levels and its turnover observed in both sexes before puberty were abolished. On the other hand, the handling-induced increase in hypothalamic dopamine turnover was maintained. After exposure to short-term stress, the effect of handling was manifested on one hand as decreased striatal dopamine levels in the females, and decreased dopamine turnover in the hypothalamus of both males and females, and on the other, as increased serotonin levels in the hypothalamus. After exposure to long-term stress, handled females had decreased dopamine turnover in the hypothalamus and the striatum, but there was no effect of handling on the serotonergic system. Our results provide some neurobiological evidence supporting the determinant role of the mother-infant relationship in the development of psychopathology. Neonatal handling, which modifies normal mother-pup interactions, results in alterations in brain dopaminergic and serotonergic systems, both of which are involved in the etiopathogenesis of major psychoses. Exposure to either short- or long-term stress in adult life results in sex-dependent changes in brain monoamines, which are affected by handling thus making coping more efficient and rendering the stressful stimulus less noxious.
The detailed distribution of histamine H(3) receptor mRNAs in rat brain was analyzed by in situ hybridization using a 33P-labelled riboprobe and was combined for the first time with the detailed autoradiographic distribution of the receptor determined in the same animals with [(125)I]iodoproxyfan, a selective radioligand. The signals generated on adjacent brain sections by each probe were quantified and/or rated and were compared in order to identify neuronal populations expressing the receptor. In addition, the cellular localization of the transcripts within various brain structures was analyzed in sections dipped in a photographic emulsion. In the cerebral cortex, the strong mRNA expression in intermediate and deep layers indicates the presence of H(3) receptors on several types of neurons. The binding is dense except in layer V, suggesting that H(3) receptors are located on granule cells and apical dendrites of pyramidal cells. In addition to their localization on monoaminergic afferents, the dense binding in layer IV and strong mRNA expression in thalamic nuclei suggest the presence of heteroreceptors on thalamocortical projections. In the hippocampus, the strong mRNA expression but low binding in pyramidal layers of the CA1 and ventral CA3 fields suggest that H(3) receptors are abundant on efferent projections of pyramidal cells. In the dentate gyrus, some binding sites in the molecular layer may correspond to H(3) receptors synthesized in granule cells and coexpressed with H(1) and H(2) receptors in their dendrites. In the basal ganglia, H(3) receptors are highly expressed in the striatal complex and olfactory tubercles but not in islands of Calleja. Some of the striatal binding sites may correspond to presynaptic receptors present on afferents. The mRNAs in cortical layer V may encode for heteroreceptors on corticostriatal neurons. The presence of mRNAs in the substantia nigra pars compacta suggests that H(3) receptors are located upon nigrostriatal afferents. However, the absence of any signal in the ventral tegmental area indicates that some but not all dopaminergic neurons express H(3) receptors. In addition, the homogeneous mRNA expression within the caudate putamen and nucleus accumbens suggests that many striatal H(3) receptors are present on medium-sized, spiny projection neurons of both the direct and indirect movement pathways. In agreement, a dense binding, but low mRNA expression, is observed in external and internal pallidum and in substantia nigra pars reticulata. In the amygdala, the dense binding and mRNA expression indicate the presence of receptors on both afferents and projections. In the thalamus, the binding in some association nuclei may correspond to receptors present on neurons emanating from the deep cortical layers that strongly express the mRNAs, as well as receptors on the visual systems. However, the low binding and high mRNA expression in most nuclei indicate that many receptors are present upon thalamic projections. In the hypothalamus, the mRNA expression parallels the density of binding sites and is the highest in the tuberomammillary nucleus. Further investigation is needed to know if the dense binding and mRNA expression observed in other nuclei such as the paraventricular, ventromedial and medial tuberal nuclei correspond to pre- and/or postsynaptic receptors. mRNAs are also observed in several areas projecting to the tuberomammillary nucleus, such as the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus. In the lower brainstem, the high mRNA expression and very low binding in the locus coeruleus and raphe nuclei indicate that presynaptic rather than somatodendritic receptors regulate noradrenaline and serotonin release, respectively. A similar pattern in vestibular nuclei suggests that receptors located on projections account for the anti-vertigo properties of H(3) receptor antagonists. In the cerebellum, binding is hardly detectable but a strong mRNA expression is found in most, if not all, Purkinje cells as well as in several central cerebellar nuclei, suggesting the presence of H(3) receptors on efferent projections. The present study reports the first detailed quantification and/or rating of H(3) receptor mRNAs in the brain. The comparison, performed in the same animals, with the distribution of the H(3) receptor protein provides evidence for the presence of H(3) receptors on many neuronal perikarya, dendrites and projections. Although some localizations, mainly as auto- or heteroreceptors, are consistent with previous functional studies, the physiological role, if any, of most of these presynaptic or postsynaptic receptors remains to be established.
In order to evaluate the appearance of brain bcl-2 during development of the hydrocephalus, we measured levels of bcl-2 mRNA in the cortex and cerebellum of congenital hydrocephalic rats (LEW-HYR) at 1 and 2 weeks after birth using the quantified reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) with TaqMan fluorogenic detection system. Normal and hydrocephalic siblings were killed 7 and 14 days after birth, and their cortices and cerebella were homogenized with the Isogen-chloroform mixtured solution. By means of the RT-PCR with genetic analyzer, the sequence of bcl-2 mRNA detected in the LEW-HYR was identified to be the same as that of the registered rat brain (L14680). During the development of normal siblings of LEW-HYR, the levels of bcl-2 mRNA detected in the cortex and cerebellum 7 days after birth were significantly higher than those seen on day 14 after birth. In the hydrocephalic rats, however, these levels were not significantly different during development. On days 7 and 14 after birth, the cortical levels of bcl-2 mRNA detected in the hydrocephalic rats were significantly higher than those in normal rats. In the cerebellum, these levels in the hydrocephalic rats were higher, but not significantly, than those of normal rats. These results indicate that the significant appearance of bcl-2 mRNA in the developing normal rat brain is related to sprouting and to the diminished number of neurons, whereas the significant increase of bcl-2 levels seen in the developing hydrocephalic rats is indicative of an excess activity of glutamate neurons in cerebral cortex and the protection of neurons from cell death induced by cerebral ventricular dilatation in the cortex after bcl-2 levels.
Considerable evidence suggests that pedunculopontine tegmental cholinergic cells are critically involved in normal regulation of rapid eye movement sleep. The major excitatory input to the cholinergic cell compartment of the pedunculopontine tegmentum arises from glutamatergic neurons in the pontine reticular formation. Immunohistochemical studies reveal that both ionotropic and metabotropic receptors are expressed in pedunculopontine tegmental cells. This study aimed to identify the role of endogenous glutamate and its specific receptors in the pedunculopontine tegmentum in the regulation of physiological rapid eye movement sleep. To identify this physiological rapid eye movement sleep-inducing glutamate receptor(s) in the pedunculopontine tegmental cholinergic cell compartment, specific receptors were blocked differentially by local microinjection of selective glutamate receptor antagonists into the pedunculopontine tegmental cholinergic cell compartment while quantifying the effects on rapid eye movement sleep in freely moving chronically instrumented rats. By comparing the alterations in the patterns of rapid eye movement sleep following injections of control vehicle and selective glutamate receptor antagonists, contributions made by each receptor subtype in rapid eye movement sleep were evaluated. The results demonstrate that when kainate receptors were blocked by local microinjection of a kainate receptor selective antagonist, spontaneous rapid eye movement sleep was completely absent for the first 2 h, and for the next 2 h the total percentage of rapid eye movement sleep was significantly less compared to the control values. In contrast, when N-methyl-D-aspartate, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid, groups I, II, and III metabotropic receptors were blocked, total percentages of rapid eye movement sleep did not change compared to the control values. These findings suggest, for the first time, that the activation of kainate receptors within the cholinergic cell compartment of the pedunculopontine tegmentum is a critical step for the regulation of normal rapid eye movement sleep in the freely moving rat. The results also suggest that the different types of glutamate receptors within a small part of the brainstem may be involved in different types of physiological functions.
Space flight produces profound changes of neuronal activity in the mammalian vestibular and reticular systems, affecting postural and motor functions. These changes are compensated over time by plastic alterations in the brain. Immediate early genes (IEGs) are useful indicators of both activity changes and neuronal plasticity. We studied the expression of two IEG protein products [Fos and Fos-related antigens (FRAs)] with different cell persistence times (hours and days, respectively) to identify brainstem vestibular and reticular structures involved in adaptation to microgravity and readaptation to 1 G (gravity) during the NASA Neurolab Mission (STS-90). IEG protein expression in flight animals was compared to that of ground controls using Fisher 344 rats killed 1 and 12 days after launch and 1 and 14 days after landing. An increase in the number of Fos-protein-positive cells in vestibular (especially medial and spinal) regions was observed 1 day after launch and 1 day after landing. Fos-positive cell numbers were no different from controls 12 days after launch or 14 days after landing. No G-related changes in IEG expression were observed in the lateral vestibular nucleus. The pattern of FRA protein expression was generally similar to that of Fos, except at 1 day after landing, when FRA-expressing cells were observed throughout the whole spinal vestibular nucleus, but only in the caudal part of the medial vestibular nucleus. Fos expression was found throughout the entire medial vestibular nucleus at this time. While both Fos and FRA expression patterns may reflect the increased G force experienced during take-off and landing, the Fos pattern may additionally reflect recent rebound episodes of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep following forced wakefulness, especially after landing. Pontine activity sources producing rhythmic discharges of vestibulo-oculomotor neurons during REM sleep could substitute for labyrinthine signals after exposure to microgravity, contributing to activity-related plastic changes leading to G readaptation. Reticular structures exhibited a contrasting pattern of changes in the numbers of Fos- and FRA-positive cells suggestive of a major influence from proprioceptive inputs, and plastic re-weighting of inputs after landing. Asymmetric induction of Fos and FRAs observed in some vestibular nuclei 1 day after landing suggests that activity asymmetries between bilateral otolith organs, their primary labyrinthine afferents, and vestibular nuclei may become unmasked during flight.
Synapse formation in CNS neurons requires appropriate sorting and clustering of neurotransmitter receptors and associated proteins at postsynaptic sites. In GABAergic synapses, clustering of GABA(A) receptors requires gephyrin, but it is not known whether presynaptic signals are also involved in this process. To investigate this issue, we analyzed the subcellular distribution of GABA(A) receptors and gephyrin in primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells, by comparing cells receiving GABAergic input with cells devoid of such afferents. Using immunofluorescence staining, we show that the GABA(A) receptor alpha1 and gamma2 subunit, but not alpha6 or delta subunit, form clusters co-localized with gephyrin in granule cell neurites, irrespective of the presence of GABAergic axons. GABAergic terminals typically were surrounded by groups of gephyrin clusters, pointing to the presence of multiple synaptic sites. In contrast, in neurites devoid of GABAergic input, gephyrin clusters were distributed at random and apposed to glutamatergic terminals, suggesting the formation of mismatched synapses. Both populations of gephyrin clusters were co-localized with GABA(A) receptor subunits, indicating that these proteins are associated also in non-GABAergic synapses. To determine whether signaling mediated by GABA(A) receptors is required for the formation of appropriately matched gephyrin clusters, cultures were treated chronically with bicuculline, or with either muscimol or 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo[5,4-c]pyridin-3-ol. All these treatments failed to influence the distribution of gephyrin clusters. We conclude that although GABAergic presynaptic terminals have a preponderant influence on the distribution of gephyrin clusters in dendrites of cerebellar granule cells, GABA transmission is dispensable for postsynaptic clustering of gephyrin and GABA(A) receptors and for the formation of appropriately matched GABAergic synapses.
The cellular and subcellular localization of L-citrulline was analyzed in the adult rat brain and compared with that of traditional markers for the presence of nitric oxide synthase. Light, transmission electron, and confocal laser scanning microscopy were used to study tissue sections processed for immunocytochemistry employing a monoclonal antibody against L-citrulline or polyclonal anti-neuronal nitric oxide synthase sera, and double immunofluorescence to detect neuronal nitric oxide synthase and L-citrulline co-localization. The results demonstrate that the same CNS regions and cell types are labeled by neuronal nitric oxide synthase polyclonal antisera and L-citrulline monoclonal antibodies, using both immunocytochemistry and immunofluorescence. Short-term pretreatment with a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor reduces L-citrulline immunostaining, but does not affect neuronal nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity. In the vestibular brainstem, double immunofluorescence studies show that many, but not all, neuronal nitric oxide synthase-positive cells co-express L-citrulline, and that local intracellular patches of intense L-citrulline accumulation are present in some neurons. Conversely, all L-citrulline-labeled neurons co-express neuronal nitric oxide synthase. Cells expressing neuronal nitric oxide synthase alone are interpreted as neurons with the potential to produce nitric oxide under other stimulus conditions, and the subcellular foci of enhanced L-citrulline staining are viewed as intracellular sites of nitric oxide production. This interpretation is supported by ultrastructural observations of subcellular foci with enhanced L-citrulline and/or neuronal nitric oxide synthase staining that are located primarily at postsynaptic densities and portions of the endoplasmic reticulum. We conclude that nitric oxide is produced and released at focal sites within neurons that are identifiable using L-citrulline as a marker.
Sonic hedgehog (SHH) has trophic actions on dopaminergic cell cultures and protects them from MPP(+) toxicity but its in vivo actions have not been explored. We now investigate the effects of unilateral supranigral administration of SHH on nigro-striatal function in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated common marmosets. SHH (0.1 or 1.0 microg) or vehicle was stereotaxically injected into the region of the right substantia nigra twice with an interval of 5 weeks between administrations. The first or second administration of low dose SHH (0.1 microg) did not significantly improve motor disability or locomotor activity compared to time-matched vehicle-treated animals. There was, however, an approximately 30% improvement in both motor disability and locomotor activity following the first administration of high dose SHH (1.0 microg). No further improvements occurred following the second high dose SHH treatment. Acute oral administration of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) produced a smaller increase in locomotor activity and greater reversal of motor disability in animals treated with SHH than occurred in vehicle-treated common marmosets. In the substantia nigra pars compacta, ipsilateral to SHH administration, the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurones was increased by 21% (P &gt; 0.05) and 57% (P &lt; 0.05) in low and high dose SHH groups respectively compared to the untreated contralateral hemisphere. There was no difference in the number of glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells. SHH may improve nigro-striatal function by restoring tyrosine hydroxylase positivity. This is reflected by an improvement in basal disability and a reduction in the lesion-induced response to L-DOPA.
Impairments of cortical cholinergic inputs from the nucleus basalis magnocellularis fundamentally alter information processing and attentional function, thereby advancing the severity of psychopathology in major neuropsychiatric disorders. It was previously shown in adult rats that bilateral 192 IgG saporin-induced selective immunolesioning of the cholinergic neurons in the nucleus basalis produces pronounced and long-lasting deficits in sensorimotor gating measured by prepulse inhibition of the startle reflex. This behavioral paradigm is considered a valid model of sensorimotor gating deficits in the psychotic spectrum and efforts to analyze the significance of the cholinergic basal forebrain in this context are of great interest. In the present study the predictive value of the selective cholinergic immunolesioning model was tested by examining the ability of the cholinesterase inhibitor rivastigmine to restore prepulse inhibition in immunolesioned rats. We report here a pronounced restoring effect of acute (0.75 or 1.5 mg/kg s.c.) as well as repeated (0.75 mg/kg s.c. b.i.d., for 10 days) treatment with rivastigmine in this model of disrupted prepulse inhibition. Intra-nucleus basalis magnocellularis infusions of 192 IgG saporin resulted in extensive loss of basal-cortical cholinergic neurons as shown by the marked decrease in basal telencephalic choline acetyltransferase immunopositive neurons and cortical choline acetyltransferase activity. In this condition, rivastigmine was found to significantly increase cortical acetylcholine extracellular levels in lesioned animals measured by in vivo microdialysis. Taken together, our results strengthen the proposal that the nucleus basalis represents a critical station of the startle gating circuitry. In addition, our findings strongly indicate that even after dramatic decrease of cholinergic neurons, inhibition of acetylcholinesterase restores the cholinergic synaptic function to a point approaching normalization of experimentally induced psychopathology.
Fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-2 and transforming growth factor alpha (TGFalpha) promote astroglial proliferation during brain development and reactive processes. The mitogenic potential of both growth factors is attenuated by increasing intracellular cAMP levels, an effect currently assumed to depend on the inhibition of the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade. In the present study, we sought to determine whether cAMP interferes with the mitogenic potential of FGF-2 and TGFalpha on astroglia by affecting the expression of respective growth factor receptors. Treatment of highly enriched cultures of cortical astrocytes with dibutyryl cAMP accelerated the TGFalpha-induced internalization and subsequent functional inactivation of epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor by transiently inhibiting EGF receptor mRNA synthesis. In apparent contrast, both short- and long-term activation of cAMP-dependent signaling pathways robustly promoted the expression of FGF receptors 1 and 2, whereas expression levels of FGF receptor 3 remained unaffected. Moreover, elevation of intracellular cAMP levels did not prevent translocation of FGF receptor 1 to the cell nucleus, a mechanism thought to be essential for FGF-2-induced cell proliferation. We propose that cAMP controls the mitogenic effects of TGFalpha and FGF-2 on astroglial cells by distinctly different mechanisms. Whereas cAMP seems to interfere with the mitogenic effects of TGFalpha on astroglial cells by affecting both the expression level and signaling of the EGF receptor, the modulatory effects of cAMP on FGF-2-induced astroglial proliferation seem to solely result from an inhibition of FGF receptor-activated signaling pathways.
Consolidation of a weakly reinforced memory that would otherwise fade after 30 min can be achieved by central or peripheral injection of the selective beta(3)-adrenoceptor agonist CL316243 as well as the beta(2)-adrenoceptor agonist zinterol and the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin in the day-old chick. The effect of the beta(3)-adrenoceptor agonist is mimicked by peripheral or central injection of glucose that is effective in enhancing memory from 25 min before to 25 min after training. Glucose uptake into various cell types has been described following activation of beta(3)-adrenoceptors and in this paper we demonstrate that activation of beta(3)-adrenoceptors by CL316243 facilitates the effect of a dose of glucose that does not normally enhance memory, whereas a beta(2)-adrenoceptor agonist and an alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist have no effect. Administration of the glucose uptake inhibitor 2-deoxyglucose prevented the consolidation of strongly reinforced training. The beta(3)-adrenoceptor agonist facilitated the effect of a non-amnestic dose of 2-deoxyglucose to inhibit memory. There are two time periods relative to the learning trial where memory is vulnerable to interference by centrally administered 2-deoxyglucose: one related to short-term memory and one at the time of consolidation into long-term memory. Peripheral injection of 2-deoxyglucose is only effective at the time of consolidation. The action of the beta(3)-adrenoceptor agonist to facilitate the action of 2-deoxyglucose only occurs at the time of consolidation. We suggest that a noradrenergic agonist acting at beta(3)-adrenoceptors enhances memory formation by facilitation of glucose uptake at the time of memory consolidation. This may represent a novel mechanism that would be beneficial for developing compounds for the facilitation of memory in diseases with cognitive deficits.
Corticosterone is the main adrenal glucocorticoids induced by stress in rats. Therapeutic use of high concentration of synthetic glucocorticoids in clinical treatment of spinal cord injury suggests that pharmacological action of glucocorticoids might be beneficial for nerve repair. In this article we cultured axotomized rat dorsal root ganglion neurons to investigate the effects of corticosterone and a glutamate receptor agonist kainic acid on neurite outgrowth. Our results revealed a synergistic effect of corticosterone and kainic acid in promoting neurite outgrowth when applied as early as one and two days in vitro, but not effective at three and four days in vitro. In addition, applied corticosterone and kainic acid were neurotoxic at three and four days in vitro but not at one and two days in vitro. The minimal concentrations of corticosterone and kainic acid to be effective were 10 microM and 1 mM, respectively. The neurotrophic effect of corticosterone and kainic acid was attenuated by the receptor tyrosine kinase A (TrkA) inhibitor AG-879. Western blot analysis and immunocytochemical studies revealed an increase of expressions of both TrkA and growth-associated protein GAP-43 in dorsal root ganglion neurons with combined treatment of corticosterone and kainic acid. Immunocytochemistry showed that corticosterone+kainic acid increase nerve growth factor immunoreactivity in dorsal root ganglion neurites and enhance GAP-43 immunointensity in dorsal root ganglion neurons. These results suggest that the neurotrophic effect of glucocorticoids on axonal regeneration might require facilitation of excitatory stimulation at an early stage of nerve injury, and nerve growth factor may mediate a growth signaling to accomplish the effect.
Regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins are a recently identified family of proteins which dampen G protein-coupled receptor-mediated signaling by accelerating the intrinsic GTPase activity of Galpha subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins. More than 20 different RGSs have been identified and at least 10 are expressed in the CNS. The present study describes in detail the localization in the rat brain of one member of this family, RGS2. The distribution of RGS2 mRNA and protein has been studied in parallel by performing in situ hybridization and immunoautoradiography on adjacent rat brain sections. Our localization study reveals that RGS2 mRNA and protein are widely expressed in the brain. Protein and mRNA are mostly colocalized such as in neocortex, piriform cortex, caudate-putamen, septum, hippocampus, locus coeruleus. Some mismatches were also observed such as presence of mRNA but not protein in the paraventricular nucleus, the substantia nigra pars compacta and the red nucleus, suggesting that RGS2 protein is present in neuronal projections. Previous reports describing an induction of RGS2 mRNA in the rat striatum after psychostimulants (amphetamine, cocaine) led us to focus on the distribution of RGS2 in the basal ganglia circuitry. The absence of RGS2 mRNA and protein in the globus pallidus suggests that RGS2 would play its regulatory role more in the direct (striatonigral) than in the indirect (striatopallidal) striatal output pathway. In addition, to delineate the implication of RGS2 in pre- and/or postsynaptic functions in the basal ganglia, we performed lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) and striatal quinolinic acid lesions. The 6-OHDA lesion did not modify RGS2 mRNA or protein levels in the caudate-putamen whereas the intrastriatal quinolinic acid infusion caused a marked reduction of RGS2 mRNA and protein in the lesioned zone. These data indicate that RGS2 is predominantly expressed in intrinsic striatal neurons. Moreover, the absence of detectable change in RGS2 expression after injections of 6-OHDA suggests also that RGS2 is not primarily involved in the hypersensitization of postsynaptic dopamine receptors observed after lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway.
Intracellular recordings and neurobiotin labeling of medial pontine gigantocellular tegmental field (m-PFTG) neurons in the undrugged, naturally sleeping cat were performed to establish the relationship between soma size and membrane potential (MP) activity before and during the onset of the rapid eye movement (REM) phase of sleep. Initial recordings without labeling revealed that recorded neurons in the m-PFTG had a tonic, sustained membrane depolarization in REM sleep as compared with more polarized MP levels in slow-wave sleep (S) and phasic depolarizations in wakefulness (W) on a more polarized MP level. In neurobiotin-labeled neurons, there was a strong correlation between the soma size of m-PFTG neurons and the 'lead time', the time of onset relative to the beginning of REM, of a sustained increase in membrane depolarization. Thirty-nine m-PFTG neurons with soma cross-sectional areas ranging from 2098 microm(2) to 5958 microm(2) (mean value 3833.8 microm(2)) were analyzed. A majority of these m-PFTG neurons showed an increase in membrane depolarization associated with depolarizing postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) and spike generation that occurred before electrographic signs of REM sleep onset, while the rest of the neurons depolarized at the beginning of or just after REM sleep onset. Our previous work had suggested that many of these m-PFTG neurons were output neurons to the spinal cord. Analysis of the onset time of sustained membrane depolarization (Leadtime(MP)) revealed that larger cells had a longer lead time, while analysis of the lead times for onset of sustained PSPs and action potentials (Leadtime(AP)) showed this measure not to be dependent on soma size, but to be rather uniform, occurring just before the onset of REM sleep. Hence recruitment time, defined as the difference between Leadtime(AP) and Leadtime(MP), was dependent on cell soma size, implying that larger neurons may take longer to depolarize to an MP level critical for generating sustained action potentials, while smaller neurons may require less time.
Distance perception is an essential task of sensory systems. Our visual systems effectively use binocular visual cues to determine an object's distance. Other visual, but monocular, cues are also available for distance perception. Visual contrast and image blur are two such cues [O'Shea et al., 1994. Vis. Res. 34, 1595-1604; O'Shea et al., 1997. Perception 26, 599-612; Mather, 1997. Perception 26, 1147-1158]. We show the effects of combining these cues using a simple psychophysical test. The novelty in our approach is that our exact choice of visual stimuli allows us to show a direct parallel between visual distance perception and distance perception using an entirely different sense, the electric sense of weakly electric fish. We discuss previous work on electrosensory psychophysics [von der Emde et al., 1998. Nature 395, 890-894] and show that cues used for electrosensory distance perception are analogous to visual contrast and blur. We also suggest that analogous cues are involved in auditory distance perception. The utilization of analogous cues implies that these diverse sensory systems perform similar computations for distance perception.
X-linked forms of non-specific mental retardation are complex disorders, for which mutations in several genes have recently been identified. These include OPHN1, GDI1, PAK3, IL1RAPL, TM4SF2, FMR2 and RSK2. To investigate the mechanisms through which alterations of these gene products could result in cognitive impairment, we analyzed their expression using quantitative PCR technique in two in vitro models of activity-dependent gene regulation: kainate-induced seizures and long-term synaptic potentiation (LTP). We found that the level of expression of four genes, PAK3, IL1RAPL, RSK2 and TM4SF2, was significantly up-regulated following kainate treatment. Furthermore we observed a significant increase in mRNA levels of PAK3 and IL1RAPL following LTP induction. These results suggest a possible role for these four genes in activity-dependent brain plasticity.
Stress activates endogenous opioids that modulate nociceptive transmission. Exposure to a potentially infanticidal adult male rat suppresses pain-related behaviors in pre-weaning but not in older rats. This male-induced analgesia is mediated by l opioid receptors in the periaqueductal gray, a midbrain structure that is innervated by amygdala projections. To determine whether enkephalin, a l and d opioid receptor agonist, is activated by male exposure, mRNA levels of its precursor, preproenkephalin, were measured in subdivisions of the amygdala and the periaqueductal gray. In 14-day-old but not in 21-day-old rats, 5 min of male exposure induced analgesia to heat and increased preproenkephalin mRNA levels in the central nucleus of the amygdala but not in the periaqueductal gray. The change in the activation of enkephalinergic neurons in the central amygdala may contribute to the change in stress-induced analgesia during early ontogeny.
Anisomycin has been widely used as an inhibitor of protein synthesis in studies on learning and memory as well as synaptic plasticity. However, its mode of action is complicated. Besides the inhibition of translation, this drug displays other effects, most prominently on mitogen-activated protein kinases. In this report we analyze the effects of anisomycin on the late phase of long-term potentiation (LTP) in amygdala slices. The late phase of LTP was evoked by high-frequency repeated-train stimulation delivered to the external capsule and recorded in the lateral amygdaloid nucleus. In the no-drug condition, stimulation resulted in LTP lasting over 3 h without any sign of decay. Application of the drug 15 min before high-frequency stimulation (HFS) caused LTP decay to baseline within 1 h after induction. However, delivering the drug just after the first train of HFS resulted in LTP that returned to baseline level within 3 h since the onset of stimulation. These results show that the duration of the LTP in the amygdala depends on the anisomycin treatment paradigm and thus special caution should be exercised when interpreting the data obtained with this drug.
In the medial prefrontal cortex, repeated cocaine produces tolerance of the extracellular dopamine response to subsequent cocaine injection. These studies characterized the influence of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate/kainate receptors on the medial prefrontal cortex dopamine response to acute cocaine, amphetamine and potassium chloride as a first step to assess whether these receptor subtypes may be candidates for mediating dopamine tolerance after repeated cocaine. Local infusion of 10 microM 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) produced an approximate 40% increase in dopamine levels in the medial prefrontal cortex, while a 30 microM dose did not alter basal levels infused over a 3-h period. Thus, 30 microM CNQX was chosen for the remaining experiments, and was infused for 1 h prior to and during all in vivo treatments. Local medial prefrontal cortex infusion of the 30 microM dose blocked the small increase in dopamine levels elicited by systemic saline injection (maximum of 26%), as well as the much larger increase in response to acute cocaine injection (maximum of 340%). Local infusion of D-amphetamine (3 and 30 microM) through the probe increased dopamine to 300 and 600% of basal levels, respectively. Co-infusion of CNQX partially blocked the response for the first 40 min, but dopamine levels recovered by 60 min later. Local infusion of 100 mM potassium chloride elicited a 600% increase in dopamine levels, which was attenuated approximately 50% by CNQX co-infusion. Potassium-stimulated release of dopamine was also measured in vitro in medial prefrontal cortical and striatal tissue. By 30 s after potassium addition, dopamine levels increased to 800% above baseline in the medial prefrontal cortex, and this increase was blocked by the presence of 30 microM CNQX. In contrast, potassium-stimulated dopamine release in striatal tissue was approximately 250% above basal levels, with no effect of CNQX on dopamine release. Locomotor behavior collected during dialysis experiments demonstrated that increased activity induced by local infusion of potassium chloride was severely attenuated by co-infusion of 30 microM CNQX, while no effects of this drug were found for cocaine-elicited behavior. These results suggest a potent influence of glutamate via alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate/kainate receptors on extracellular dopamine in the medial prefrontal cortex, and these receptors may regulate dopamine release through a presynaptic mechanism. The findings may help elucidate the role of medial prefrontal cortex dopamine-glutamate interactions in drug abuse and stress- and drug-precipitated psychosis.
The follitropin receptor knockout (FORKO) mouse undergoes ovarian failure, thereby providing an animal model to investigate the consequences of the depletion of circulating estrogen in females. The estrogen deficiency causes marked defects in the female reproductive system, obesity, and skeletal abnormalities. In light of estrogen's known pleiotropic effects in the nervous system, our study examined the effects of genetically induced estrogen-testosterone imbalance on this system in female FORKO mice. Circulating concentrations of 17-beta-estradiol (E2) in FORKO mice are significantly decreased (FORKO -/-: 1.13+/-0.34 pg/ml; wild-type +/+: 17.6+/-3.5 pg/ml, P&lt;0.0001, n=32-41); in contrast, testosterone levels are increased (-/-: 37.7+/-2.3 pg/ml; wild-type +/+: 3.9+/-1.7 pg/ml, P&lt;0.005, n=25-33). The focus was on the activities of key enzymes in the central cholinergic and peripheral nervous systems, on dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) capacity for neurite outgrowth, and on the phosphorylation state of structural neurofilament (NF) proteins. Choline acetyltransferase activity was decreased in several central cholinergic structures (striatum 50+/-3%, hippocampus 24+/-2%, cortex 12+/-3%) and in DRGs (11+/-6%). Moreover, we observed aberrations in the enzymatic activities of mitogen-activated protein kinases (extracellular-regulated kinase and c-Jun N-terminal kinase) in the hippocampus, DRGs, and sciatic nerves. Hippocampal and sensory ganglia samples from FORKO mice contained hyper-phosphorylated NFs. Finally, explanted ganglia of FORKO mice displayed decreased neurite outgrowth (20-50%) under non-treated conditions and when treated with E2 (10 nM). Our results demonstrate that genetic depletion of circulating estrogen leads to biochemical and morphological changes in central and peripheral neurons, and underlie the importance of estrogen in the normal development and functioning of the nervous system. In particular, the findings suggest that an early and persisting absence of the steroid leads to neurodegenerative changes and identify several key enzymes that may contribute to the process. This model provides a system to explore the consequences of circulating estrogen deprivation and other hormonal imbalances in the nervous system.
There is a large body of data on the firing properties of dopamine cells in anaesthetised rats or rat brain slices. However, the extent to which these data relate to more natural conditions is uncertain, as there is little quantitative information available on the firing properties of these cells in freely moving rats. We examined this by recording from the midbrain dopamine cell fields using chronically implanted microwire electrodes. (1) In most cases, slowly firing cells with broad action potentials were profoundly inhibited by the dopamine agonist apomorphine, consistent with previously accepted criteria. However, a small group of cells was found that were difficult to classify because of ambiguous combinations of properties. (2) Presumed dopamine cells could be divided into low and high bursting (&gt;40% of their spikes in bursts) groups, with the majority having low bursting rates. The distribution of burst incidence was similar to that previously reported with chloral hydrate anaesthesia, but the average intraburst frequency was higher in the conscious animal at rest and was higher again in bursts triggered by salient stimuli. (3) There was no evidence for spike frequency adaptation within bursts on average, consistent with the hypothesis that afterhyperpolarisation currents may be disabled during behaviourally induced bursting. (4) Presumed dopamine cells responded to reward-related stimuli with increased bursting rates and significantly higher intraburst frequencies compared to bursts emitted outside task context, indicating that modulation of afferent activity might not only trigger bursting, but may also regulate burst intensity. (5) In addition to the irregular single spike and bursting modes we found that extremely regular (clock-like) firing, previously only described for dopamine cells in reduced preparations, can also be expressed in the freely moving animal. (6) Cross-correlation analysis of activity recorded from simultaneously recorded neurones revealed coordinated activity in a quarter of dopamine cell pairs consistent with at least &quot;functional&quot; connectivity. On the other hand, most dopamine cell pairs showed no correlation, leaving open the possibility of functional sub-groupings within the dopamine cell fields. Taken together, the data suggest that the basic firing modes described for dopamine cells in reduced or anaesthetised preparations do reflect natural patterns of activity for these neurones, but also that the details of this activity are dependent upon modulation of afferent inputs by behavioural stimuli.
Enkephalins are endogenous ligands for opioid receptors whose activation potently modulates the output of mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic neurons within the ventral tegmental area. Many of the reinforcing effects of enkephalins in the mesocorticolimbic system are mediated by mu-opioid receptors. To determine the sites for Leu(5)-enkephalin activation of mu-opioid receptors in the ventral tegmental area, we examined the dual electron microscopic immunocytochemical localization of their respective antigens in this region of rat brain. Enkephalin immunoperoxidase reaction product and mu-opioid receptor immunogold-silver labeling showed similar cellular and subcellular distribution in both the paranigral and parabrachial subdivisions of the ventral tegmental area. Enkephalin immunoreactivity was mainly localized in small unmyelinated axons (50.4%) and in axon terminals (40.4%). The majority of these terminals formed symmetric, inhibitory-type synapses, many of which were on dendrites expressing plasmalemmal mu-opioid receptors. Appositional contacts were also often seen between axons or terminals that were differentially labeled for the two antigens. In addition, some of the enkephalin-labeled terminals and a few somatodendritic profiles showed a plasmalemmal or vesicular localization of mu-opioid receptors. Our results indicate that dendritic targets of inhibitory terminals, as well as nearby axon terminals, are potential sites for enkephalin activation of mu-opioid receptors throughout the ventral tegmental area. Moreover, co-localization of enkephalin and mu-opioid receptors in selective neuronal profiles may indicate an autoregulatory role for these receptors or their internalization along with the bound ligand in this brain region.
The present study used microdialysis techniques to compare acetylcholine release in the frontoparietal cortex of rats performing in a task requiring sustained attention with that of rats performing in two control procedures. The two control procedures were a fixed-interval 9-s schedule of reinforcement assessing primarily the effects of operant responding and comparable reward rates, and an operant procedure designed to test the effects of lever extension to prompt responding. These two control procedures involved comparable sensory-motor and motivational variables to those of the sustained attention task, but did not explicitly tax attentional processes. Performance of the sustained attention task was associated with a significant increase in cortical acetylcholine efflux, reaching a maximum of nearly 140%. Performance of the two control procedures was associated with significantly smaller (approximately 50%) increases in cortical acetylcholine release. This robust dissociation between attentional and control performance-associated increases in cortical acetylcholine release resulted, in part, from the elimination of the pre-task transfer of the animals into the operant chambers and the associated increases in acetylcholine release observed in previous studies. The present results support the hypothesis that demands on attentional performance, as opposed to the frequency of lever pressing, reward delivery and other task-related variables, selectively activate the basal forebrain corticopetal cholinergic system.
Using the H(+)-sensitive fluorophore 2',7'-bis-(2-carboxyethyl)-5-(and-6)-carboxyfluorescein (BCECF) and microfluorimetry, we investigated how elevated intracellular free zinc ([Zn(2+)](i)) altered intracellular proton concentration (pH(i)) in dissociated cultures of rat forebrain neurons. Neurons exposed to extracellular zinc (3 microM) in the presence of the Zn(2+)-selective ionophore pyrithione (20 microM) underwent intracellular acidification that was not reversed upon washout of the stimulus. Application of a membrane-permeant Zn(2+) chelator, but not an impermeant chelator, partially restored pH(i). Removal of extracellular Ca(2+) greatly inhibited [Zn(2+)](i)-induced acidification, suggesting that acidification was a secondary consequence of Ca(2+) entry. Additional experiments suggested that Ca(2+) entered through the plasma membrane sodium/calcium exchanger (NCE), because a specific inhibitor of reverse mode NCE operation, KB-R7943 (1 microM), significantly inhibited Zn(2+)-induced acidification. In addition to the phenomenon of [Zn(2+)](i)-induced acidification, we found that elevated [Zn(2+)](i) inhibited neuronal recovery from low pH(i). Neurons exposed to a protonophore underwent robust acidification, and pH(i) recovery ensued upon protonophore washout. In contrast, neurons acidified by the protonophore in the presence of Zn(2+) (3 microM) and pyrithione (20 microM) showed no ability to recover from low pH(i). Application of a membrane-permeant Zn(2+) chelator partially restored pH(i) to pre-stimulus values. Experiments designed to elucidate mechanisms responsible for pH(i) regulation revealed that neurons relied primarily on bicarbonate exchange for proton export, suggesting that elevated [Zn(2+)](i) might impede pH(i) by inhibiting proton efflux via bicarbonate exchange. These results provide novel insights into the physiological effects of raising [Zn(2+)](i), and may help illuminate the mechanisms by which Zn(2+) injures neurons.
Shaking Rat Kawasaki (SRK) is an autosomal recessive mutant rat recognized by unstable gait and tremor and by early death around the time of weaning. We previously reported that corticospinal tract neurons are malpositioned in the motor cortex of the SRK rat [Ikeda and Terashima (1997) J. Comp. Neurol. 383, 370-380]. In the present study, we examined the distribution pattern of callosal commissural (CC) and corticothalamic (CT) neurons of SRK and normal rats with the injection of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) into the contralateral hemisphere or wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated HRP into the ventral lateral thalamic nucleus. The intracortical distribution pattern of retrogradely labeled CC and CT neurons in the motor cortex of SRK rat was abnormal: CC neurons were more deeply situated and CT neurons were more superficially situated in the SRK cortex than the corresponding components in the normal cortex. Most of labeled CC and CT neurons had abnormal dendritic configurations. Statistical analysis revealed that the difference of the mean intracortical position of CC and CT neurons of the SRK was significantly different from the normal counterparts (Student's t-test, P&lt;0.01). Taken together with previous findings, our data demonstrate that the abnormal cytoarchitecture of SRK cortex resembles the reeler cortex.
GABA is the major neurotransmitter used in the globus pallidus and there is evidence that GABA(B) receptors exist in this nucleus. Here we show that unilateral microinjection of baclofen, a GABA(B) receptor agonist, induced ipsilateral turning in Sprague-Dawley rats. This effect was prevented by preinjection of the GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP55845A, which itself did not cause rotation. Thus, activation of GABA(B) receptor may suppress the activity of globus pallidus neurons, which is in line with the finding that the glutamate receptor antagonists (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione also caused similar ipsilateral turning when injected into globus pallidus. Furthermore, in the presence of these glutamate receptor antagonists, injection of baclofen resulted in fewer rotations. To test the possibility that baclofen reduced glutamate release onto globus pallidus neurons, the effects of baclofen on miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents were studied in rat brain slices. Patch-clamp recordings showed that baclofen at 30 microM significantly reduced the frequency of the miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents. However, baclofen induced a weak outward current only in a minority of globus pallidus neurons. These pre- and postsynaptic effects of baclofen were reversed or prevented by CGP55845A. These results suggest that GABA(B) receptor in globus pallidus plays an important role in the regulation of movement by modulating glutamatergic inputs at a presynaptic site.
Chronic, but not acute, exposure to minimal electroconvulsive shock (ECS) has been shown to decrease vulnerability to neuronal cell death, without itself causing neuronal damage. One potential mechanism for the neuroprotective effect of ECS is the increase in fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) which occurs after chronic, but not acute, ECS exposure. This raises the possibility that repeated seizures over a period of several days may alter the transcriptional regulation of FGF-2. To test this hypothesis, the present study compared the effect of acute (1 day) vs. chronic (7 days) ECS treatment on levels of mRNA for FGF-2 in rhinal and frontal cortices, hippocampus, and olfactory bulbs. In addition, mRNA for another prominent neurotrophic factor, nerve growth factor (NGF), was assayed concurrently. At 8 h after acute ECS, mRNA levels increased by 60% for FGF-2 and 136% for NGF in rhinal cortex, 32% for FGF-2 and 36% for NGF in frontal cortex, and by 13% for NGF in hippocampus. After 7 days of ECS treatment the respective increases were 72% and 80%, 53% and 38%, and 28%. No increases were observed in olfactory bulbs after either treatment regimen. The peak increases in FGF-2 mRNA were consistently greater after chronic treatment, but the differences from those seen acutely reached significance in frontal cortex only. However, the duration over which mRNA for FGF-2 was elevated did not differ between the acute and chronic ECS groups. NGF mRNA induction was neither enhanced nor prolonged as a result of chronic ECS as compared to acute ECS treatment. These results suggest that chronic ECS treatment may lead to an enhanced rate of transcription of message for FGF-2 but not for NGF, in selected brain regions. At the same time, the results indicate that chronic ECS treatment induces FGF-2 and NGF mRNA expression in a tissue-specific manner and that this induction is maintained over the 7-day treatment period. The sustained increases in mRNAs for these trophic factors may contribute to the neuroprotective actions of chronic ECS treatment.
Brief experimentally induced seizures have been shown to increase the expression of mRNA encoding basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) in specific brain regions. However, the extent to which this change in mRNA affects the expression of FGF-2 protein in these brain regions has not been examined. In the present study, we exposed rats to brief non-injurious seizures to determine whether this treatment would lead to an increase in FGF-2 protein expression in selected brain regions. Because initial results indicated that the elevation of FGF-2 protein was not significant following acute seizure exposure, we examined both acute and chronic seizure treatment to determine whether FGF-2 protein expression could be increased under conditions of repeated seizures. Brief limbic seizures were induced by minimal electroconvulsive shock (ECS) given as daily treatments for 1 (acute) or 7 (chronic) days. FGF-2 protein was measured in hippocampus, rhinal cortex, frontal cortex, and olfactory bulb at 20, 48, and 72 h following the last seizure. No significant increases in FGF-2 protein were observed in any region following acute ECS. In the chronic ECS-treated groups, significantly elevated FGF-2-like immunoreactivity was found in the frontal and rhinal cortex as compared with the same regions from both control and acute ECS animals. Increases after chronic ECS were maximal at 20 h, and remained significantly elevated as long as 72 h. These increases were predominantly observed for the 24-kDa and 22/22.5-kDa FGF-2 isoforms. Because chronic ECS, which has been shown to be protective against neuronal cell death, induced significantly more FGF-2 immunoreactivity than did acute ECS, we suggest that FGF-2 expression may be an important substrate for the neuroprotective action of non-injurious seizures. A prolonged induction of the high molecular weight isoforms of FGF-2, as occurs after chronic ECS, may selectively reduce the vulnerability of certain brain regions to a variety of neurodegenerative insults.
The dystrophic RCS rat undergoes progressive photoreceptor degeneration due to a primary defect in retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells. This has a major impact on central visual responsiveness. Here we have examined how functional deterioration is contained by subretinal transplantation of immortalized human RPE cells. Transplantation was done at three to four weeks of age prior to significant photoreceptor loss and recipients were kept on cyclosporin. At six months of age, sensitivity maps and multi-unit response properties were obtained across the visual field by recording at 76 equidistant sites encompassing the whole superior colliculus.A significant degree of functional protection, both in terms of area of responsive retina and response characteristics was observed following RPE transplantation. At best, the sensitivity, latency of onset, and response rise time were all maintained within normal ranges and this was achieved with no more than half of the normal complement of photoreceptors. Although partial, the degree of anatomical preservation (both in terms of outer nuclear layer thickness and area of rescue) correlated well with the level of preserved visual sensitivities. Sham injections also resulted in rescue, though the area of preservation was strictly confined to the needle injury site and the response properties were significantly worse than with RPE injections. This study shows that central physiological responsiveness and correlated retinal morphology can be preserved in an animal model of retinal disease by implantation of an immortalized cell line. The use of retinal sensitivity measurements provides a background for assessing higher visual functions in these animals and a direct comparison for human perimetry measures.
Modulation of endogenous adenosine levels by inhibition of adenosine metabolism produces a peripheral antinociceptive effect in a neuropathic pain model. The present study used microdialysis to investigate the neuronal mechanisms modulating extracellular adenosine levels in the rat hind paw following tight ligation of the L5 and L6 spinal nerves. Subcutaneous injection of 50 microl saline into the nerve-injured paw induced a rapid and short-lasting increase in extracellular adenosine levels in the subcutaneous tissues of the rat hind paw ipsilateral to the nerve injury. Saline injection did not increase adenosine levels in sham-operated rats or non-treated rats. The adenosine kinase inhibitor 5'-amino-5'-deoxyadenosine and the adenosine deaminase inhibitor 2'-deoxycoformycin, at doses producing a peripheral antinociceptive effect, did not further enhance subcutaneous adenosine levels in the nerve-injured paw. Systemic pretreatment with capsaicin, a neurotoxin selective for small-diameter sensory afferents, markedly reduced the saline-evoked release of adenosine in rat hind paw following spinal nerve ligation. Systemic pretreatment with 6-hydroxydopamine, a neurotoxin selective for sympathetic afferent nerves, did not affect release. These results suggest that following nerve injury, peripheral capsaicin-sensitive primary sensory afferent nerve terminals are hypersensitive, and are able to release adenosine following a stimulus that does not normally evoke release in sham-operated or intact rats. Sympathetic postganglionic afferents do not appear to be involved in such release. The lack of effect on such release by the inhibitors of adenosine metabolism suggests an altered peripheral adenosine system following spinal nerve ligation.
Congenitally helpless rats, selectively bred to model features of endogenous depression, appear to have a paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVH) that is markedly hyperactive. This study investigated septal and hippocampal regions purported to regulate the PVH. We found that cytochrome oxidase, an index of oxidative metabolism and neural activity, was significantly elevated in the hippocampus and subiculum of congenitally helpless rats. However, reduced activity was observed in the lateral and medial septal nuclei, the nucleus of the diagonal band, and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. This dissociation between hippocampal and septal activity may be a predisposing factor for the development of helpless behavior.
Glutathione is an important cellular antioxidant present at high concentrations in the brain. We have previously demonstrated that depletion of glutathione in mesencephalic cultures results in cell death and that the presence of glia is necessary for the expression of toxicity. Cell death following glutathione depletion can be prevented by inhibition of lipoxygenase activity, implicating arachidonic acid metabolism in the toxic events. In this study we examined the effect of glial activation, known to cause secretion of cytokines and release of arachidonic acid, on the toxicity induced by glutathione depletion. Our data show that treatment with the endotoxin lipopolysaccharide activated glial cells in mesencephalic cultures, increased interleukin-1beta in microglia and caused depletion of glutathione. The overall effect of lipopolysaccharide treatment, however, was protection from damage caused by glutathione depletion. Addition of cytokines or growth factors, normally secreted by activated glia, did not modify L-buthionine sulfoximine toxicity, although basic fibroblast growth factor provided some protection. A large increase in the protein content and the activity of Mn-superoxide dismutase, observed after lipopolysaccharide treatment, may indicate a role for this mitochondrial antioxidant enzyme in the protective effect of lipopolysaccharide. This was supported by the suppression of toxicity by exogenous superoxide dismutase. Our data suggest that superoxide contributes to the damage caused by glutathione depletion and that up-regulation of superoxide dismutase may offer protection in neurodegenerative diseases associated with glutathione depletion and oxidative stress.
The polymodal association areas of the primate cerebral cortex are heavily interconnected and play a crucial role in cognition. Area 46 of the prefrontal cortex in non-human primates receives direct inputs from several association areas, among them the cortical regions lining the superior temporal sulcus. We examined whether projection neurons providing such a corticocortical projection differ in their dendritic morphology from pyramidal neurons projecting locally within area 46. Specific sets of corticocortical projection neurons were identified by in vivo retrograde transport in young macaque monkeys. Full dendritic arbors of retrogradely labeled neurons were visualized in brain slices by targeted intracellular injection of Lucifer Yellow, and reconstructed three-dimensionally using computer-assisted morphometry. Total dendritic length, numbers of segments, numbers of spines, and spine density were analyzed in layer III pyramidal neurons forming long projections (from the superior temporal cortex to prefrontal area 46), as well as local projections (within area 46). Sholl analysis was also used to compare the complexity of these two groups of neurons. Our results demonstrate that long corticocortical projection neurons connecting the temporal and prefrontal cortex have longer, more complex dendritic arbors and more spines than pyramidal neurons projecting locally within area 46. The more complex dendritic arborization of such neurons is likely linked to their participation in cortical networks that require extensive convergence of multiple afferents at the cellular level.
Estrogen induces rapid and extensive degeneration of rodent uterine myometrial sympathetic innervation. To clarify the underlying mechanisms, we used explant cultures to assess whether estrogen affects the myometrium's ability to induce sympathetic neuritogenesis and the sympathetic neuron's ability to respond. Superior cervical ganglion explants from ovariectomized adult donors extended neurites when cultured alone in serum-free medium, and their numbers increased 2.3-fold in the presence of myometrial explants from ovariectomized adult rats. The myometrium's ability to induce neuritogenesis was abolished by injection of myometrium donors with 17beta-estradiol 24 h prior to tissue harvest. Myometrial neurite-promoting effects were also abolished by adding 2x10(-8)M estradiol to the culture medium. Because outgrowth from ganglia of ovariectomized rats cultured alone was not affected by estrogen in the culture medium, this indicates that estrogen acts directly on myometrium to abrogate its neurite-promoting effects. However, estrogen injection of ganglion donor rats also inhibited neurite extension toward ovariectomized myometrium, suggesting that some factor in ovariectomized rats normally acts on the ganglion to prevent estrogen from inhibiting neurite outgrowth. When ganglia from hypophysectomized ovariectomized donors were cultured alone, neuritogenesis was normal but estrogen added to the culture medium now attenuated outgrowth. Prolactin but not other pituitary-derived hormones reversed the suppression of neuritogenesis induced by estrogen. We conclude that estrogen acts directly on myometrium to inhibit its neuritogenic effects on sympathetic neurons. Estrogen can also attenuate neurite formation by acting directly on the ganglion; this effect normally is not apparent at low estrogen levels because a pituitary hormone (possibly prolactin) prevents the ganglion from responding fully to estrogen. With high in vivo estrogen, this pituitary hormone's effects are abated, possibly through diminished release, and estrogen directly reduces ganglion neuritogenesis. Thus, estrogen regulates uterine sympathetic nerve remodeling through actions on myometrium, ganglion, and intermediary pituitary factors.
The present study was designed to evaluate the time course and manner of Purkinje cell death following a single ethanol dose delivered intragastrically on postnatal day (PN) 4 to rat pups. Analysis included immunolabeling of Purkinje cells with antibody specific for calbindin D28k and counting of Purkinje cells in each lobule of a mid-vermal slice. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling analysis and immunodetection for cleaved (activated) caspase-3 enzyme was used to identify apoptosis, with calbindin D28k co-immunolabeling to identify apoptotic Purkinje cells. Finally, immunodetection for cytochrome c, again with co-labeling using calbindin D28k antibody, identified intracellular release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria into the cytoplasm of Purkinje cells. The data demonstrate that a single dose of ethanol results in a significant and extensive, lobular dependent loss of Purkinje cells within 24 h after administration. Extensive loss in the early developing lobules (I-III, VIII-X) and less to no loss in the later developing lobules (IV-VII) is consistent with prior literature reports on the ethanol-induced effects on Purkinje cells at this age. Clear and consistent evidence of apoptotic Purkinje cells was identified and the pattern was transient in nature. Finally, cytochrome c is released from the mitochondria of Purkinje cells in a time course consistent with the activation of the mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis. These data support the hypothesis that ethanol-induced loss of Purkinje cells involves apoptotic mechanisms. Furthermore, the initiation of apoptosis by ethanol is consistent with ethanol-induced interruptions of Purkinje cell neurotrophic support leading to activation of the mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis.
Spiny neurons in the neostriatum are highly vulnerable to cerebral ischemia. Recent studies have shown that the postischemic cell death in the right striatum was reduced after ipsilateral dopamine denervation whereas no protection was observed in the left striatum after dopamine denervation in the left side. In order to reveal the mechanisms of such asymmetrical protection, electrophysiological changes of dopamine-denervated striatal neurons were compared after ischemia between the left and right striatum using intracellular recording and staining techniques in vivo. No difference in cortically evoked initial excitatory postsynaptic potentials was found between the left and right striatum in intact animals after ipsilateral dopamine denervation. The initial excitatory postsynaptic potentials in the dopamine-denervated right striatum were suppressed after transient forebrain ischemia while no significant changes were found in the dopamine-denervated left striatum. Paired-pulse tests suggested that these changes involved presynaptic mechanisms. Although the incidence of a late depolarizing postsynaptic potential elicited by cortical stimulation increased after ischemia in both sides, the increase was greater in the left side. The analysis of current-voltage relationship of spiny neurons indicated that inward rectification in the left striatum transiently disappeared shortly after ischemia whereas that in the right side remained unchanged. The intrinsic excitability of spiny neurons in both sides were suppressed after ischemia, however, the suppression in the right side was stronger than in the left side. The above results demonstrate that after ipsilateral dopamine denervation, the depression of excitatory synaptic transmission and neuronal excitability in the right striatum is more severe than that in the left striatum following ischemia. The depression of excitatory synaptic transmission and neuronal excitability, therefore, might play an important role in neural protection after ischemic insult.
Calmodulin (CaM), a multifunctional intracellular calcium receptor, is a key element in signaling mechanisms. It is encoded in vertebrates by multiple apparently redundant genes (CaM I, II, III). To investigate whether differential expression takes place in the developing rat brain, a quantitative in situ hybridization analysis was carried out involving 15 brain areas at six ages between embryonic day 19 and postnatal day 20 (PD20) with gene-specific [(35)S]cRNA probes. A widespread, developmental stage-specific and differential expression of the three CaM genes was observed. The characteristic changes in the CaM mRNA levels in the examined time frame allowed the brain regions to be classified into three categories. For the majority of the areas (e.g. the piriform cortex for CaM III), the signal intensities peaked at around PD10 and the expression profile was symmetric (type 1). Other regions (e.g. the cerebral cortex, layer 1 for CaM II) displayed their highest signal intensities at the earliest age measured, followed by a gradual decrease (type 2). The signal intensities in the regions in the third group (e.g. the hypothalamus for CaM III) fluctuated from age to age (type 3). Marked CaM mRNA levels were measured for each transcript corresponding to the three CaM genes in the molecular layers of the cerebral and cerebellar cortici and hippocampus, suggesting their dendritic translocation. The highest signal intensity was measured for CaM II mRNA, followed by those for CaM III and CaM I mRNAs on PD1. However, the CaM II and CaM III mRNAs subsequently decreased steeply, while the CaM I mRNAs were readily detected even on PD20. Our results suggest that during development (1) the transcription of the CaM genes is under differential, area-specific control, and (2) a large population of CaM mRNAs is targeted to the dendritic compartment in a gene-specific manner.
Both myelinated and unmyelinated afferents are implicated in transmitting diabetic neuropathic pain. Although unmyelinated afferents are generally considered to play a significant role in diabetic neuropathic pain, pathological changes in diabetic neuropathy occur mostly in myelinated A-fibers. In the present study, we first examined the role of capsaicin-sensitive C-fibers in the development of allodynia induced by diabetic neuropathy. We then studied the functional changes of afferent nerves pertinent to diabetic neuropathic pain. Diabetes was induced in rats by i.p. streptozotocin. To deplete capsaicin-sensitive C-fibers, rats were treated with i.p. resiniferatoxin (300 microg/kg). Mechanical and thermal sensitivities were measured using von Frey filaments and a radiant heat stimulus. Single-unit activity of afferents was recorded from the tibial nerve. Tactile allodynia, but not thermal hyperalgesia, developed in diabetic rats. Resiniferatoxin treatment did not alter significantly the degree and time course of allodynia. Post-treatment with resiniferatoxin also failed to attenuate allodynia in diabetic rats. The electrophysiological recordings revealed ectopic discharges and a higher spontaneous activity mainly in Adelta- and Abeta-fiber afferents in diabetic rats regardless of resiniferatoxin treatment. Furthermore, these afferent fibers had a lower threshold for activation and augmented responses to mechanical stimuli. Thus, our study suggests that capsaicin-sensitive C-fiber afferents are not required in the development of allodynia in this rat model of diabetes. Our electrophysiological data provide substantial new evidence that the abnormal sensory input from Adelta- and Abeta-fiber afferents may play an important role in diabetic neuropathic pain.
It is being discussed whether impairment of energy metabolism is a final common pathway of neurodegeneration or initiates the neurodegenerative cascade. The goal was to investigate hypoxic tolerance and oxidative energy metabolism in 4-month-old, presymptomatic B6-Tg(ThylAPP)23Sdz (APP23) mice, a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. Posthypoxic recovery of the population spike amplitude in hippocampal region CA1 upon stimulation of Schaffer collaterals in region CA3 (15 min hypoxia, 45 min recovery) was 43+/-46% (mean+/-S.D.) vs. 19+/-35% (P&lt;0.05) in slices from wild-type and transgenic animals, respectively. Fluorescence lifetime sensitive spectroscopy of NADH in the CA1 pyramidal cell layer (gate set for detection of protein-bound NADH) showed a wavelength maximum at 455.3+/-1.6 nm (mean+/-S.D.) in controls and 453.5+/-2.4 nm (P&lt;0.05) in mutants. We conclude that hypoxic tolerance is impaired in presymptomatic APP23 mice and occurs prior to extracellular deposition of amyloid plaques. Impaired energy metabolism may thus partake in initiating the neurodegenerative cascade in a transgenic model of Alzheimer's disease. The blue shift of the spectrum of NADH in mutant mice indicates an altered protein microenvironment of energy metabolism under control conditions.
Numerous studies have been done on the effect of nerve injury on neurons of sensory ganglia but little is known about the contribution of satellite glial cells (SCs) in these ganglia to post-injury events. We investigated cell-to-cell coupling and ultrastructure of SCs in mouse dorsal root ganglia after nerve injury (axotomy). Under control conditions SCs were mutually coupled, but mainly to other SCs around a given neuron. After axotomy SCs became extensively coupled to SCs that enveloped other neurons, apparently by gap junctions. Serial section electron microscopy showed that after axotomy SC sheaths enveloping neighboring neurons formed connections with each other. Such connections were absent in control ganglia. The number of gap junctions between SCs increased 6.5-fold after axotomy. We propose that axotomy induces growth of perineuronal SC sheaths, leading to contacts between SCs enveloping adjacent neurons and to formation of new gap junctions between SCs. These changes may be an important mode of glial plasticity and can contribute to neuropathic pain.
We have examined whether antisense morpholino oligonucleotides (morpholinos) can be used as a tool to suppress or &quot;knockdown&quot; the expression of ion channels during development of the zebrafish. Because the acetylcholine receptor channel is well characterized in zebrafish and is abundant as skeletal muscle is found throughout the body, we sought to knock down its expression as a general test of the feasibility of this approach. A 25-mer morpholino was designed to target the 5' region of the cloned alpha-subunit and was injected into early stage blastulae in order to trap it in all developing cells. From the time of hatching (early on the third day of development) and for a few days after, a fraction of the injected embryos were immobile, i.e. were &quot;morphant&quot;. Injection of blastulae without the morpholino or with a control morpholino containing four mispaired bases did not affect the embryos. Although the morphant embryos were generally normal in appearance, they lacked staining with alpha-bungarotoxin or an alpha-subunit-specific monoclonal antibody. In whole muscle cell recordings from morphant embryos, miniature end-plate potentials were undetectable in many of the cells and in most they had a slower, immature time course. These results are consistent with a greatly reduced, dysfunctional level of expression of acetylcholine receptors in morphant embryos. Because of their stability and specificity, morpholinos should prove useful for targeted deletion of transmitter receptors and channels in developing zebrafish and possibly in other preparations.
The primary function of neurons is to integrate synaptic inputs and to transmit the results to other cells. Recent studies with somatic whole-cell recordings have shown that separate excitatory inputs to hippocampal or cortical pyramidal neurons are summated non-linearly. In the present study, we examined how postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) are summated along the dendrites employing fast optical voltage imaging techniques. Rat hippocampal slices were stained with a fluorescent voltage-sensitive dye (JPW1114) and optical signals were monitored with a 16 x 16 photodiode array system. Two independent input pathways were stimulated individually or in pairs through glass electrodes such that different locations of the dendrites received separate synaptic inputs. We found that (1) the summation of PSPs was sub-linear along the entirety of dendrites, (2) the blockade of GABA(A) receptors suppressed sub-linearity and (3) further blockade of GABA(B) receptors suppressed sub-linearity of the summation of separate inputs on apical dendrites. Our study demonstrates that pyramidal neurons integrate PSPs linearly along the entirety of dendrites; moreover, GABAergic inputs are responsible for maintaining sub-linear summation in CA1 pyramidal neurons.
In the present study we trained tissue-plasminogen activator (tPA)-knockout (tPA -/-) and wild-type (tPA +/+) male mice in step-down inhibitory avoidance learning, a hippocampus-dependent task. tPA -/- displayed significantly shorter latencies to step down at 90 min, one, two and seven days after training indicating the learning deficit in these animals (P &lt; 0.05 vs tPA +/+). The locomotor activity, the level of anxiety in an elevated-plus maze, as well as the pain threshold did not differ between the two strains of mice. The learning disability of tPA -/- was overcome by more intense training. The learning deficit was also partially restored by limited intrahippocampal delivery of tPA (infused for 2 h before training; P &lt; 0.05 vs control), but not by the delivery of urokinase plasminogen activator, indicating the acute need for tPA in learning. The beneficial effect of tPA was abolished by co-infusion of its inhibitor tPA-STOP, indicating that the facilitatory effect of tPA on learning requires a proteolytic step. However, tPA activity in the hippocampus was not indispensable for effective memory retrieval in tPA-infused tPA -/- mice. Thus, rapid, specific and proteolytic action of tPA facilitates hippocampus-dependent learning, but not retrieval of previously acquired information.
Hemin is released from hemoglobin after CNS hemorrhage and may contribute to its cytotoxic effect. In a prior study, we demonstrated that heme oxygenase-1 induction protected murine cortical astrocytes from hemoglobin toxicity. Since heme metabolism releases iron, this observation suggested that these cells are able to effectively sequester and detoxify free iron. In this study, we tested the hypotheses that astrocytes increased ferritin synthesis after exposure to heme-bound iron, and that this induction protected cells from subsequent exposure to toxic concentrations of hemin. Incubation with low micromolar concentrations of hemin, hemoglobin, or ferrous sulfate increased ferritin expression, as detected on immunoblots stained with a polyclonal antibody that was raised against horse spleen ferritin. Time course studies demonstrated an increase in ferritin levels within 2 h. Weak and scattered cellular staining was detected by immunohistochemistry in control, untreated cultures, while diffuse immunoreactivity was observed in cultures exposed to heme-bound iron. An enhanced ferritin band was detected on immunoblots from cultures that were treated with purified apoferritin, consistent with astrocytic ferritin uptake. Immunoreactivity after apoferritin treatment was not altered by concomitant treatment with cycloheximide. Pretreatment with apoferritin protected astrocytes from hemin toxicity in a concentration-dependent fashion between 1 and 4 mg/ml. At the highest concentration, cell death due to a 6-h exposure to 30 microM hemin was decreased by about 85%. A protective effect was also produced by induction of endogenous ferritin with nontoxic concentrations of ferrous sulfate, hemoglobin, or hemin. These results suggest that cortical astrocytes respond to exogenous heme-bound or free iron by rapidly increasing ferritin synthesis. The combined action of heme oxygenase-1 and ferritin may be a primary astrocytic defense against heme-mediated injury.
The nucleus ambiguus is an area containing cardiac vagal neurons, from which originates most of the parasympathetic control regulating heart rate and cardiac function. GABAergic pathways to these neurons have recently been described, yet modulation of this GABAergic input and its impact upon cardiac vagal neurons is unknown. The nucleus ambiguus has been shown to contain mu-opioid receptors and endomorphin-1 and endomorphin-2, the endogenous peptide ligands for the mu-receptor, whilst microinjections of opioids in the ambiguus area evoke bradycardia. The present study therefore examined the effects of endomorphin-1, endomorphin-2 and DAMGO (a synthetic, mu-selective agonist) on spontaneous GABAergic IPSCs in cardiac parasympathetic neurons. Only endomorphin-2 (100 microM) produced a significant inhibition, of both the frequency (-22.8%) and the amplitude (-30.5%) of the spontaneous IPSCs in cardiac vagal neurons. The inhibitory effects of endomorphin-2 were blocked by naloxonazine (10 microM), a selective mu(1) receptor antagonist. Naloxonazine alone (10 microM) had a potentiating effect on the frequency of the GABAergic IPSCs (+161.43%) but not on the amplitude, indicating that GABA release to cardiac vagal neurons may be under tonic control of opioids acting at the mu(1) receptor. Endomorphin-2 did not reduce the responses evoked by exogenous application of GABA. These results indicate that endomorphin-2 acts on mu(1) receptors located on precedent neurons to decrease GABAergic input to cardiac vagal neurons located in the nucleus ambiguus. The subsequent increase in parasympathetic outflow to the heart may be one mechanism by which mu-selective opioids act to induce bradycardia.
Many behaviorally relevant sounds, including language, are composed of brief, rapid, repetitive acoustic features. Recent studies suggest that abnormalities in producing and understanding spoken language are correlated with abnormal neural responsiveness to such auditory stimuli at higher auditory levels [Tallal et al., Science 271 (1996) 81-84; Wright et al., Nature 387 (1997) 176-178; Nagarajan et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 96 (1999) 6483-6488] and with abnormal anatomical features in the auditory thalamus [Galaburda et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91 (1994) 8010-8013]. To begin to understand potential mechanisms for normal and abnormal transfer of sensory information to the cortex, we recorded the intracellular responses of medial geniculate body thalamocortical neurons in a rat brain slice preparation. Inferior colliculus or corticothalamic axons were excited by pairs or trains of electrical stimuli. Neurons receiving only excitatory collicular input had tufted dendritic morphology and displayed strong paired-pulse depression of their large, short-latency excitatory postsynaptic potentials. In contrast, geniculate neurons receiving excitatory and inhibitory collicular inputs could have stellate or tufted morphology and displayed much weaker depression or even paired-pulse facilitation of their smaller, longer-latency excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Depression was not blocked by ionotropic glutamate, GABA(A) or GABA(B) receptor antagonists. Facilitation was unaffected by GABA(A) receptor antagonists but was diminished by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor blockade. Similar stimulation of the corticothalamic input always elicited paired-pulse facilitation. The NMDA-independent facilitation of the second cortical excitatory postsynaptic potential lasted longer and was more pronounced than that seen for the excitatory collicular inputs. Paired-pulse stimulation of isolated collicular inhibitory postsynaptic potentials generated little change in the second GABA(A) potential amplitude measured from the resting potential, but the GABA(B) amplitude was sensitive to the interstimulus interval. Train stimuli applied to collicular or cortical inputs generated intra-train responses that were often predicted by their paired-pulse behavior. Long-lasting responses following train stimulation of the collicular inputs were uncommon. In contrast, corticothalamic inputs often generated long-lasting depolarizing responses that were dependent on activation of a metabotropic glutamate receptor. Our results demonstrate that during repetitive afferent firing there are input-specific mechanisms controlling synaptic strength and membrane potential over short and long time scales. Furthermore, they suggest that there may be two classes of excitatory collicular input to medial geniculate neurons and a single class of small-terminal corticothalamic inputs, each of which has distinct features.
The ventral striatum appears to play a critical role in mediating motoric effects (i.e. ambulatory activity and rearing) of psychostimulants such as cocaine. We evaluated whether sub-regions of the ventral striatum play differential roles in locomotion and rearing induced by various dopaminergic drugs. Injections of D-amphetamine and dopamine stimulated locomotion and rearing with a similar potency at each of the sub-regions: the core, medial shell or medial tubercle. However, injections of mixtures of the D(1)- and D(2)-type agonists SKF 38393 and quinpirole or cocaine into the medial olfactory tubercle or the medial shell of the nucleus accumbens induced marked locomotion and rearing, while these injections into the core induced little or no locomotion or rearing. Furthermore, cocaine injections into the lateral or posterior tubercle produced marginal locomotion and rearing, while cocaine injections into regions just dorsal to these tubercle sites, the lateral portion of the shell or the ventral pallidum, did not produce any stimulating effect. We conclude that dopaminergic compounds induce vigorous locomotion and rearing in both core and shell; the relative roles of the core and shell differ depending on chemical compounds. Similar to the nucleus accumbens, the olfactory tubercle, particularly the medial portion, also mediates these behaviors induced by dopaminergic compounds. The medial ventral striatum (i.e. the medial tubercle and medial shell) plays a more important role in cocaine-induced locomotion and rearing than the lateral ventral striatum (i.e. the core, lateral shell and lateral tubercle). Moreover, the differential effects of cocaine between the medial and lateral portions of the shell on locomotion and rearing suggest more than two functional units (the core vs. the shell) within the accumbens.
Capsaicin acts on the vanilloid receptor subtype 1, a noxious heat-gated cation channel located on a major subgroup of nociceptive primary afferent neurons. Following the systemic capsaicin treatment of neonatal rats, the loss of B-type sensory neurons in trigeminal ganglion of adult rats with chemoanalgesia and abolition of neurogenic inflammation was investigated. Our quantitative morphometric analysis revealed that in the trigeminal ganglion of neonatal rats treated with 50 mg/kg s.c. capsaicin, the total number of neurons, morphology of B-type cells and cell-size histograms did not differ from that of the controls 1 or 5 days after treatment. These observations indicate that early cell death does not play a significant part in the loss of B-type cells, which in our sample was 39.4% on the 19th day. However under the electron microscope pronounced selective mitochondrial swelling with disorganized cristae was observed in B-type neurons at 1-20 weeks after capsaicin treatment. Daily treatment with nerve growth factor (NGF, 10 x 100 microg/kg s.c.), started 1 day after capsaicin injection, prevented the loss of B-type cells but did not counteract the development of long-lasting mitochondrial damage. After NGF treatment, partial restitution of chemonociception to capsaicin instillation into the eye occurred but capsaicin-induced inhibition of neurogenic plasma extravasation in the hindpaw evoked by topical application of mustard oil remained unaltered. We conclude, that capsaicin treatment in neonatal rats, as in the adults, destroys terminal parts of the sensory neurons supplied by vanilloid receptors and induces long-lasting mitochondrial swelling in the soma. We hypothesize that loss of NGF uptake results in delayed cell death of B-type neurons in neonates.
Neurons related to jaw movements in the substantia nigra pars reticulata were explored by examining changes in their neural activities in response to electrical stimulation of the orofacial sensorimotor cortex and during rhythmical jaw movements induced by mechanical stimulation applied to the oral cavity in the rat. Out of 80 neurons tested, 59 showed changes in their firing patterns of activities in response to the electrical stimulation of the cortex. The responding neurons were mainly located in the dorsolateral part of the substantia nigra pars reticulata. The substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons showing responses were classified into the following five types according to their response patterns: (1) an inhibition preceded by an early excitation and followed by a late excitation (n = 26), (2) an inhibition preceded by an early excitation but not followed by a late excitation (n = 7), (3) an inhibition not preceded by an early excitation but followed by a late excitation (n = 2), (4) an inhibition without early or late excitations (n = 7) and (5) an excitation without an inhibition (n = 17). Out of 18 neurons responding to the cortical stimulation, 11 (61.1%) increased or decreased their neural activities during rhythmical jaw movements. Some of these neurons had a projection to the lateral part of the superior colliculus (n = 5) and/or to the parvicellular reticular formation (n = 2). These results provide first neurophysiological evidence for neurons in the dorsolateral part of the substantia nigra pars reticulata with inputs from and outputs to the areas related to jaw movements. These neurons may participate in the control of jaw movements in the rat.
We examined long-term effects of low and high doses of tibolone, conjugated equine estrogens, and conjugated equine estrogens plus medroxyprogesterone acetate on choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase activities within different regions of the brain in cynomologus monkeys. All treatments were administered for 2 years. None of the treatments produced significant increases in either choline acetyltransferase or acetylcholinesterase in any of eight brain regions analyzed. In contrast, treatment with conjugated equine estrogens plus medroxyprogesterone acetate, but not conjugated equine estrogens alone, produced significant reductions in both choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase in the medial septum/diagonal band of Broca compared with untreated controls. Treatment with tibolone also resulted in significant reductions in both choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase in the medial septum/diagonal band of Broca, and this effect was dose-related. These findings are the first to report the effects of long-term therapies used by postmenopausal women on cholinergic measures in the primate brain. The findings are consistent with recent reports in rats, and suggest that any positive effects of long-term estrogen or hormone replacement therapy on cognitive processes are probably not due to significant effects on choline acetyltransferase or acetylcholinesterase activities.
The soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor-attached protein receptor (SNARE) proteins syntaxin 1 and synaptosomal-associated protein-25 have been implicated in axonal outgrowth. Neuronal Sec1 (nSec1), also called murine unc18a (Munc18a), is a syntaxin 1-binding protein involved in the regulation of SNARE complex formation in synaptic vesicle membrane fusion. Here we analysed whether nSec1/Munc18a is involved in neurite formation. nSec1/Munc18a expressed under the control of an inducible promoter in differentiated PC12 cells as well as in hippocampal neurons appears first in the cell body, and at later times after induction along neurites and in growth cones. It is localised to distinct tubular and punctated structures. In addition, exogenous nSec1/Munc18a inhibited regulated secretion in PC12 cells. Overexpression in PC12 cells of nSec1/Munc18a or its homologue Munc18b, reduced the total length of neurites. This effect was enhanced with nSec1-T574A, a mutant that lacks a cyclin-dependent kinase 5 phosphorylation site and displays an increased binding to syntaxin 1. In contrast, in hippocampal neurons the total length of all primary neurites and branches was increased upon transfection of nSec1/Munc18a. Detailed morphometric analysis revealed that this was a consequence of an increased number of axonal side branches, while the average lengths in primary neurites and of side branches were not affected. From these results we suggest that nSec1/Munc18a is involved in the regulation of SNARE complex-dependent membrane fusion events implicated in the ramification of axonal processes in neurons.
In adult male rats, 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase/delta5-delta4-isomerase (3beta-HSD) expressing cells were identified in the spinal cord from the cervical to the sacral segments. An in situ hybridization study, using an oligonucleotide common to the four known isoforms of rat 3beta-HSD, revealed its mRNA in gray matter. Measurements of optical densities in autoradiograms showed the following regional distribution: dorsal horn (layers I-III) &gt; central canal (layer X) &gt; or = ventral horn (layers VIII-IX) &gt; ventral funiculus = lateral funiculus. At the cellular level, the number of grains was higher on the large motoneurons than on small neurons of the dorsal horn, but the grain density per cell was similar. Further evidence for the expression of 3beta-HSD in the spinal cord was obtained by western blot analysis, which revealed an immunoreactive protein of approximately 45 kDa in the dorsal and ventral parts of the spinal cord. Castration and adrenalectomy did not influence the expression of 3beta-HSD mRNA and protein. Gas chromatography/mass spectrometry measurements showed higher levels of pregnenolone and progesterone in the spinal cord than in the plasma. After castration and adrenalectomy, their levels remained elevated in the spinal cord, suggesting that these neurosteroids may be synthesized locally. The wide distribution of 3beta-HSD, and the high levels of pregnenolone and progesterone in the spinal cord even after castration and adrenalectomy, strongly suggest a potential endogenous production of progesterone and an important signalling function of this steroid in the spinal cord.
Three-month-old Long-Evans rats were subjected to intraseptal infusions of 0.8 microg of 192 IgG-saporin followed, 2 weeks later, by intrahippocampal suspension grafts containing fetal cells from the medial septum and the diagonal band of Broca. The suspensions were implanted in the dorsal or the ventral hippocampus. Sham-operated and lesion-only rats were used as controls. Between 18 and 32 weeks after grafting, all rats were tested in a water maze (using protocols placing emphasis on reference memory or on working memory) and an eight-arm radial maze. The lesion produced extensive cholinergic denervation of the hippocampus, as evidenced by reduced acetylcholinesterase-positivity and acetylcholine content. Depending upon their implantation site, the grafts restored an acetylcholinesterase-positive reinnervation pattern in either the dorsal or the ventral hippocampus. Nevertheless, the grafts failed to normalize the concentration of acetylcholine in either region. The cholinergic lesion impaired working memory performance in both the water maze and the radial maze. To a limited degree, reference memory was also altered. Grafts placed in the ventral hippocampus had no significant behavioral effect, whereas those placed in the dorsal hippocampus normalized working memory performance in the water maze. Our data show that infusion of 192 IgG-saporin into the septal region deprived the hippocampus of its cholinergic innervation and altered spatial working memory more consistently than spatial reference memory. Although the cholinergic nature of the graft-induced reinnervation remains to be established more clearly, these results further support the idea of a functional dissociation between the dorsal and the ventral hippocampus, the former being preferentially involved in spatial memory.
We have previously described a neuroprotective action of (2S,2'R,3'R)-2-(2'3'-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine (DCG-IV), an agonist for group-II metabotropic receptors, on dopaminergic nerve terminals against the degeneration induced by 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+). This effect was accompanied by an up-regulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA expression in the rat striatum. We have now analyzed the phenotypic nature of the BDNF mRNA-expressing cells in response to intrastriatal injection of DCG-IV. Dual in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry revealed that microglial cells but not astrocytes were responsible for this induction. Subsequent analysis demonstrated that this effect was accompanied by striking loss of striatal glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) mRNA and massive appearance of internucleosomal DNA fragmentation, a hallmark of apoptosis. A dose-response study demonstrated that doses of DCG-IV as low as 5 nmol was very toxic in terms GAD mRNA and apoptosis. 0.5 nmol of DCG-IV did not induce toxicity at all in terms of GAD mRNA and apoptosis. Activation of group-II metabotropic receptors in striatum with N-Acetyl-Asp-Glu (NAAG; a mGlu3 agonist) and (2R,4R)-4-aminopyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (a mGlu2 and mGlu3 agonist) did not induce neither loss of GAD mRNA nor appearance of apoptosis (doses up to 20 nmol). In additional experiments, NAAG, in contrast to DCG-IV, failed to protect the striatal dopaminergic system against the degeneration induced by MPP+ as studied by microdialysis. Finally, we studied the mechanism by which DCG-IV is highly toxic. For that, selective antagonists of either metabotropic--(R,S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine and LY 341495--or ionotropic (N-methyl-D-aspartate, NMDA)--DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (AP-5) glutamate receptors --were co-administered with DCG-IV. Only AP-5 highly protected the striatum against the degeneration induced by DCG-IV. Since DCG-IV also activates the NMDA receptor at concentrations higher than 3 microM, it is conceivable that a intrastriatal concentration equal or higher than 3 microM after a single striatal injection of 5-20 nmol of DCG-IV. Our findings suggest that much caution must be exerted when testing the numerous neuroprotective effects ascribed to group-II metabotropic receptor activation, in particular when using DCG-IV. We conclude that the neuroprotectant capability of a given compound on a specific system does not exclude the possibility of inducing toxicity on a different one.
The role of estrogen as a neurotrophic/neuroprotective agent in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases is increasingly being shown. In this study we examine the neuroprotective effects of beta-estradiol on SHSY5Y neuroblastoma cells which have been exposed to the heavy metals cobalt and mercury. The results show that cobalt and mercury are able to induce oxidative stress and cell cytotoxicity and increase the secretion of beta-amyloid 1-40 and 1-42. These deleterious effects are reversed by the pretreatment of cells with beta-estradiol. It is further shown that beta-estradiol exerts its neuroprotective action through mechanisms which reduce oxidative stress and reduce beta-amyloid secretion. Pre-treatment of the cells with alpha-estradiol did not alleviate the toxic effects of the heavy metals. Our results are significant as they contribute to a better understanding of the mode of action of estrogen with relevance to its use in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.
Transthyretin is the major thyroxine-binding protein in the plasma of rodents, and the main thyroxine-binding protein in the cerebrospinal fluid of both rodents and humans. The choroid plexus synthesizes transthyretin and secretes it to the cerebrospinal fluid. Although it was suggested that transthyretin might play an important role in mediating thyroxine transfer from the blood into the brain across the choroid plexus-cerebrospinal fluid barrier, newer findings question this hypothesis. Because thyroid hormone passage across brain barriers is a precondition for its action in the CNS, and because brain is an important target of thyroid hormone action, we investigated the role of transthyretin in mediating thyroid hormone access to and distribution within the brain in a transthyretin-null mouse model system. In this report we describe the results derived from use of film autoradiography, a technique that yields definitive morphological results. Film autoradiograms were prepared at 3 and 19 h after intravenous injection of either high specific activity [(125)I]thyroxine or [(125)I]triiodothyronine. Image analyses were designed to demonstrate regional changes in hormone distribution, and to highlight alterations in iodothyronine delivery from ventricles to brain parenchyma. We find no qualitative or quantitative differences in these parameters between the transthyretin-null and the wild-type mouse brain after either [(125)I]thyroxine or [(125)I]triiodothyronine administration. The data presented here now provide definitive evidence that, under standard laboratory conditions, transthyretin is not required for thyroid hormone access to or distribution within the mouse brain. This study also provides the first map of iodothyronine distribution in the brain of the mouse.
Prevention of protein misfolding is ensured by chaperone proteins, including the heat shock proteins (HSP) of the DNAJ/HSP40 family. Detection of abnormal protein aggregates in various neurodegenerative diseases has led to the proposal that altered chaperone activity contributes to neurodegeneration. Msj-1, a DNAJ/HSP40 protein located around the spermatozoa acrosome, was recently found to be down-regulated in the testis of wobbler mutant mice. Wobbler is an unidentified recessive mutation which triggers progressive motoneuron degeneration with abnormal intracellular protein accumulations, and defective spermatozoa maturation. Here, we examined Msj-1 expression in the spinal cord of the mutants and their controls. Msj-1 transcripts were amplified by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction from mutant and wild-type spinal cord RNA. Sequencing of Msj-1 coding region revealed no change in the mutant. In contrast, decreased Msj-1 mRNA levels were observed in five to six-week-old wobbler mice spinal cord, when motoneuron degeneration is at its apex, as compared to controls. A similar decrease was observed in two-week-old wobbler spinal cord, when the number of motoneurons is still unaltered, indicating that the decreased mRNA content is intrinsic to the mutant and not simply related to the loss of cells expressing Msj-1. Assays of Msj-1 protein levels yielded similar results. Immunofluorescent labeling revealed numerous Msj-1-ir motoneurons in five-week-old control spinal cord while no signal was observed in age-matched wobbler. Our results show, therefore, that Msj-1 expression is down-regulated in both organs affected by the wobbler mutation, the CNS and the testis, and that this defect precedes the first histological signs of motoneuron degeneration. These results provide the first example of an association between transcriptional repression of a chaperone protein and a neurodegenerative process.
The present study employed standard peroxidase immunohistochemistry to map the distribution of P2Y(1) receptors in the rat brainstem and nodose ganglia and characterised the binding profile of [alpha(33)P]dATP. Binding of [alpha(33)P]dATP was fully displaceable by adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP), and was found on both human and rat nodose ganglia, and throughout the rat brainstem, including the nucleus tractus solitarius and ventrolateral medulla. [Alpha(33)P]dATP binding in the human nodose ganglia was significantly displaced by both 2-methylthio ATP and alpha,beta-methylene ATP, but not by uridine 5'-triphosphate, pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid, 8,8'-(carbonylbis(imino-4,1-phenylenecarbonylimino-4,1-phenylenecarbonylimino))bis(1,3,5-naphtalenetrisulfonic) acid (NF279) or N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine. [Alpha(33)P]dATP binding in the rat nodose ganglia and brainstem was significantly displaced by only 2-methylthio ATP, suggesting that [alpha(33)P]dATP is binding to P2Y receptors in the rat. Binding of [alpha(33)P]dATP was also significantly displaced by alpha,beta-methylene adenosine 5'-diphosphate, suggesting a component of the binding is to endogenous ecto-5'-nucleotidase, however, almost all binding could be displaced by a combination of receptor agonists (2-methylthio ATP, uridine 5'-triphosphate and alpha,beta-methylene ATP), suggesting preferential binding to receptors. Immunoreactivity to P2Y(1) receptor (P2Y(1)-IR) exhibited similar distribution patterns to [alpha(33)P]dATP binding, with a clear topographic profile. Particularly dense P2Y(1)-IR labeling was evident in cells and fibres of the dorsal vagal complex. Immunolabeling was also present in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus and nucleus ambiguus, indicating the possibility of P2Y(1) receptors on vagal efferents. Unilateral vagal ligation was also performed to examine the transport of P2Y(1) receptor, using both immunohistochemistry and [alpha(33)P]dATP autoradiography. Accumulations of both P2Y(1)-IR and [alpha(33)P]dATP binding were apparent adjacent to both ligatures, suggesting bi-directional transport of P2Y(1) receptors along the rat vagus nerve. This current study represents the first description of P2Y(1) receptor distribution within the rodent brainstem and nodose ganglion and also characterises [alpha(33)P]dATP binding to P2Y receptors.
Glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) is important in neurogenesis. Here we demonstrate that the kinase influenced post-natal maturation and differentiation of neurons in vivo in transgenic mice that overexpress a constitutively active GSK-3beta[S9A]. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a reduced volume of the entire brain, concordant with a nearly 20% reduction in wet brain weight. The reduced volume was most prominent for the cerebral cortex, without however, disturbing the normal cortical layering. The resulting compacted architecture was further demonstrated by an increased neuronal density, by reduced size of neuronal cell bodies and of the somatodendritic compartment of pyramidal neurons in the cortex. No evidence for apoptosis was obtained. The marked overall reduction in the level of the microtubule-associated protein 2 in brain and in spinal cord, did not affect the ultrastructure of the microtubular cytoskeleton in the proximal apical dendrites. The overall reduction in size of the entire CNS induced by constitutive active GSK-3beta caused only very subtle changes in the psychomotoric ability of adult and ageing GSK-3beta transgenic mice.
Alzheimer's disease is a progressively dementing illness characterized by the extracellular accumulation and deposition of beta-amyloid. Early onset Alzheimer's disease is linked to mutations in three genes, all of which lead to increased beta-amyloid production. Inflammatory changes and gliosis may also play a role in the disease process, but the importance of these reactive events remains unclear. We recently reported that chronic cortical gliosis in heterotopic fetal rat cortical transplants is associated with significant changes in the levels of some of the proteins implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Because rodent beta-amyloid does not form extracellular amyloid deposits, we have now extended this model of chronic cortical gliosis to transgenic mice expressing the Swedish mutant form of human amyloid precursor protein. In addition, apolipoprotein E knockout mice were used to elucidate the role of this protein in reactive gliosis. The expression of mutant and murine proteins was assayed 6 or 10 months after transplantation using immunohistochemical and western blot methods. Heterotopic transplantation of fetal cortex onto the midbrain of neonatal mice consistently resulted in reactive gliosis, independent of apolipoprotein E status. In contrast, in homotopic cortex-to-cortex grafts there was little alteration in glial reactivity, a result similar to that obtained previously in rats. By 10 months post-transplantation the level of presenilin-1 expression was lower in heterotopic grafts than in host cortex and there was increased expression of transgenic amyloid precursor protein, but only in the gliotic cortex-to-midbrain grafts. Most importantly, increased levels of beta-amyloid, and particularly its precursor, C-99, were selectively found in these heterotopic transplants. Our results show that chronic gliosis is associated with altered processing of the amyloid precursor protein in vivo and thus may initiate or exacerbate pathological changes associated with Alzheimer's disease.
Glycinergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) focally elicited at the dendrites and axon terminals were recorded from bipolar cells in the bullfrog retinal slice, using the whole-cell clamp technique. IPSCs driven by input from interplexiform cells at bipolar cell dendrites (ipc-IPSCs) had a much slower decay time constant (25.2 +/- 7.8 ms) than IPSCs driven by input from amacrine cells at bipolar cell axon terminals (ac-IPSCs) (14.7 +/- 5.5 ms). Furthermore, peak-scaled non-stationary noise analysis revealed that the weighted mean single-channel conductance of the glycine receptors underlying bipolar cell dendritic ipc-IPSCs (20.8 +/- 6.6 pS) was significantly larger than that of those underlying bipolar cell axon terminal ac-IPSCs (12.9 +/- 2.9 pS). These results demonstrate that glycinergic synaptic transmission with different properties at bipolar cell dendrites and axon terminals differentially mediates intraretinal centrofugal signal transfer from the inner retina to the outer retina provided by interplexiform cells and lateral inhibition offered by amacrine cells in the inner retina.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY), a peptide widely expressed in the brain, acts through the protein G-coupled receptors Y1, Y2 and Y5. In the adult rat, this peptide modulates many important functions such as the control of energy balance and anxiety. Its involvement in brain development has been less investigated. In the present study, we have analysed the expression of Y1 and Y2 in the developing rat cerebellum using RNase protection assay. Both receptors were detected in the embryo but at very low levels. Their expression then increased, reaching a peak at postnatal day 10. At later stages, we observed a down-regulation of both Y1 and Y2 mRNA levels. This pattern of expression was delayed in hypothyroid rats, suggesting that the regulation of NPY receptors was strictly related to cerebellar development stages. In situ hybridisation and immunohistochemistry analyses revealed specific localisations of the receptors. Y1 was exclusively expressed by Purkinje cells while Y2 was found mostly in granule cells of the internal granule cell layer. These observations argue in favour of specific roles for Y1 and Y2 in the developing cerebellum. In an initial attempt to characterise these roles, we have determined the number of apoptotic cells in the developing cerebellum of Y2(-/-) mice and analysed the effects of NPY on primary cultures of cerebellar granule neurones. Our data showed that the absence of Y2 did not increase cell death in the internal granule cell layer of the developing cerebellum, and that NPY by itself did not prevent the death of differentiated granule cells cultured in serum-free medium. However, we found that co-treatment of the cells by NPY and neuromediators such as NMDA or GABA strongly promoted the survival of granule neurones. Taken together, these observations suggest an involvement of the NPY receptors in cerebellar ontogenesis that remains to be demonstrated in vivo.
The dopamine D2 receptor (D2) is implicated in drug addiction, learning and memory. Two isoforms of the D2 receptor, termed D2L (long form) and D2S (short form), have been identified. We previously generated mice lacking D2L (D2L-/-), but expressing functional D2S. In this study, we investigated the role of D2L in the positive and negative reinforcing properties of abused drugs and electrical stimuli, using D2L-/- mice as a model system. Mice were trained in three associative learning tasks: conditioned place preference to morphine and cocaine, conditioned place aversion to naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal, and active avoidance. D2L-/- mice, like wild type mice, developed a place preference to cocaine. In contrast to wild type mice, D2L-/- mice did not develop a place preference to morphine, nor did they attain a place aversion to morphine withdrawal. D2L-/- mice also failed to acquire avoidance behavior in response to electrical stimuli. There were no significant differences between D2L-/- and wild type mice in mu-opioid receptor density, morphine-induced locomotor stimulation and morphine withdrawal symptoms. These results suggest that D2L may have a greater impact than D2S on the rewarding aspects of morphine, and the aversive properties of morphine withdrawal and electrical stimulus. These findings also suggest that the presence of D2L is critical in the acquisition (learning) and/or retention (memory) of context-stimulus associations in certain situations. On the other hand, D2L is not essential for the rewarding aspects of cocaine and for the development of morphine dependence. Thus, these studies reveal distinct functional roles of D2L and/or D2S in drug addiction and avoidance learning, which may lead to a better understanding of the neurobiological basis underlying these behaviors.
Recently it has become clear that some of the symptoms of addiction such as relapse to drug-taking behavior arise, in part, from a dysfunction in cognitive and emotional processing. This realization has promoted investigations into the physiology and pathophysiology of forebrain circuits that are both innervated by dopamine and play an important role in cognitive processing, including the prefrontal cortex. In order to study long-term neuroadaptations occurring in the prefrontal cortex of the rat as a consequence of psychostimulant administration, cocaine was repeatedly administered in either a contingent or a non-contingent manner. At least 2 weeks following the last cocaine injection, in vivo intracellular recordings were made from neurons located in the deep layers of the prefrontal cortex. Repeated cocaine administration abolished the presence of membrane bistability normally present in neurons located in the limbic prefrontal cortex. These results indicate that repeated exposure to cocaine produces enduring changes in the basal activity of neurons in the prefrontal cortex that may contribute to previously identify cognitive and emotional dysfunctions in cocaine addicts.
Nr-CAM and TAG-1 interact at the floor-plate during the formation of spinal cord commissural projections [Stoeckli, E.T., Landmesser, L.T., Sci. 274 (1995) 1123-1133; Fitzli, D., Stoeckli, E.T., Kunz, S., Siribour, K., Rader, C., Kunz, B., Kozlov, S.V., Buchstaller, A., Lane, R.P., Suter, D.M., Dreyer, W.J., Sonderegger, P., J. Cell. Biol. 149 (2000) 951-968]. We report here the spatio-temporal patterns of expression of these two adhesion molecules during the development of the lower brainstem (medulla and pons) and cerebellum. Nr-CAM and Tag-1 label distinct populations of precerebellar neurons at key steps of their development. Nr-CAM expression starts at E11.5-E12 in the floor-plate, that constitutes an intermediate target during axon outgrowth and nuclear migration of precerebellar neurons. At E13-E14, it is expressed in both floor-plate and inferior olivary nuclei (ION) neurons before being strictly restricted to ION neurons from E15 onwards. Furthermore Nr-CAM, which is widely expressed in the cerebellum during embryonic development, becomes strictly confined to Purkinje and Golgi cells in postnatal cerebellum, suggesting a possible role of Nr-CAM for the maturation or stabilization of the synaptic contacts, in particular between climbing fibers and Purkinje cells. On the other hand, Tag-1 is expressed by migrating neurons that will form the lateral reticular and basilar pontine nuclei. These results emphasize the possibility that TAG-1/Nr-CAM interactions are also involved in the development of the cerebellar system (precerebellar and cerebellar neurons). However, the pattern of cerebellar expression of TAG-1--early migrating Purkinje cells up to E14 and external granular cells--prevents the implication of this adhesion molecule in the organization of extracerebellar projections.
We hypothesize that a single exposure to an LD(50) dose of sarin induces widespread early neuropathological changes in the adult brain. In this study, we evaluated the early changes in the adult brain after a single exposure to different doses of sarin. Adult male rats were exposed to sarin by a single intramuscular injection at doses of 1, 0.5, 0.1 and 0.01 x LD(50). Twenty-four hours after the treatment, both sarin-treated and vehicle-treated (controls) animals were analyzed for: (i) plasma butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) activity; (ii) brain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, (iii) m2 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (m2 mAChR) ligand binding; (iv) blood brain barrier (BBB) permeability using [H(3)]hexamethonium iodide uptake assay and immunostaining for endothelial barrier antigen (EBA); and (v) histopathological changes in the brain using H&amp;E staining, and microtubule-associated protein (MAP-2) and glial fibrillary acidic protein immunostaining. In animals treated with 1 x LD(50) sarin, the significant changes include a decreased plasma BChE, a decreased AChE in the cerebrum, brainstem, midbrain and the cerebellum, a decreased m2 mAChR ligand binding in the cerebrum, an increased BBB permeability in the cerebrum, brainstem, midbrain and the cerebellum associated with a decreased EBA expression, a diffuse neuronal cell death and a decreased MAP-2 expression in the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus, and degeneration of Purkinje neurons in the cerebellum. Animals treated with 0.5 x LD(50) sarin however exhibited only a few alterations, which include decreased plasma BChE, an increased BBB permeability in the midbrain and the brain stem but without a decrease in EBA expression, and degeneration of Purkinje neurons in the cerebellum. In contrast, animals treated with 0.1 and 0.01 x LD(50) did not exhibit any of the above changes. However, m2 mAChR ligand binding in the brainstem was increased after exposure to all doses of the sarin.Collectively, the above results indicate that, the early brain damage after acute exposure to sarin is clearly dose-dependent, and that exposure to 1 x LD(50) sarin induces detrimental changes in many regions of the adult rat brain as early as 24 hours after the exposure. The early neuropathological changes observed after a single dose of 1 x LD(50) sarin could lead to a profound long-term neurodegenerative changes in many regions of the brain, and resulting behavioral abnormalities.
The role of adenosine deaminase in the interactions between adenosine A(1) and dopamine D(1) receptors was studied in a mouse fibroblast cell line stably cotransfected with human D(1) receptor and A(1) receptor cDNAs (A(1)D(1) cells). Confocal laser microscopy analysis showed a high degree of adenosine deaminase immunoreactivity on the membrane of the A(1)D(1) cells but not of the D(1) cells (only cotransfected with human D(1) receptor cDNAs). In double immunolabelling experiments in A(1)D(1) cells and cortical neurons a marked overlap in the distribution of the A(1) receptor and adenosine deaminase immunoreactivities and of the D(1) receptor and adenosine deaminase immunoreactivities was found. Quantitative analysis of A(1)D(1) cells showed that adenosine deaminase immunoreactivity to a large extent colocalizes with A(1) and D(1) receptor immunoreactivity, respectively. The A(1) receptor agonist caused in A(1)D(1) cells and in cortical neurons coaggregation of A(1) receptors and adenosine deaminase, and of D(1) receptors and adenosine deaminase. The A(1) receptor agonist-induced aggregation was blocked by R-deoxycoformycin, an irreversible adenosine deaminase inhibitor. The competitive binding experiments with the D(1) receptor antagonist [(3)H]SCH-23390 showed that the D(1) receptors had a better fit for two binding sites for dopamine, and treatment with the A(1) receptor agonist produced a disappearance of the high-affinity site for dopamine at the D(1) receptor. R-Deoxycoformycin treatment, which has previously been shown to block the interaction between adenosine deaminase and A(1) receptors, and which is crucial for the high-affinity state of the A(1) receptor, also blocked the A(1) receptor agonist-induced loss of high-affinity D(1) receptor binding. The conclusion of the present studies is that the high-affinity state of the A(1) receptor is essential for the A(1) receptor-mediated antagonistic modulation of D(1) receptors and for the A(1) receptor-induced coaggregates of A(1) and adenosine deaminase, and of D(1) and adenosine deaminase. Thus, the confocal experiments indicate that both A(1) and D(1) receptors form agonist-regulated clusters with adenosine deaminase, where the presence of a structurally intact adenosine deaminase bound to A(1) receptors is important for the A(1)-D(1) receptor-receptor interaction at the level of the D(1) receptor recognition.
3-Nitropropionic acid (3-NP), an irreversible inhibitor of succinate dehydrogenase, induced ATP depletion and both necrosis and apoptosis in human NT2-N neurons. Necrosis occurred predominantly within the first two days, and increased in a dose-dependent fashion with the concentration of 3-NP, whereas apoptosis was observed after 24 h or later at a similar rate in 0.1 mM and 5 mM 3-NP. We focused our efforts on intracellular calcium homeostasis during the first 48 h in 1 mM 3-NP, a period during which 10% of the neurons died by necrosis and 3% by apoptosis. All NT2-N neurons showed a stereotyped [Ca(2+)](i) rise, from 48+/-2 to 140+/-12 nM (mean +/-S.E.M.), during the first 2 h in 3-NP. Despite severe ATP depletion, however, [Ca(2+)](i) remained above 100 nM in only 17% and 25% of the NT2-N neurons after 24 and 48 h in 3-NP, respectively, indicating that most neurons were able to recover from acute [Ca(2+)](i) rise, and suggesting that chronic [Ca(2+)](i) dysregulation is a better indicator of subsequent necrosis. Blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate-glutamate receptor by MK-801 substantially ameliorated 3-NP-induced ATP depletion, subsequent chronic [Ca(2+)](i) elevation, and survival. Moreover, xestospongin C, an inhibitor of endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) release, enhanced the capacity of NT2-N neurons to maintain [Ca(2+)](i) homeostasis and resist necrosis while subjected to sustained energy deprivation. As far as we know, this report is the first to employ human neurons to study the pathophysiology of 3-NP neurotoxicity.
The expression patterns of the genes Wnt7b and Wnt8b were analyzed in the brain of chick embryos, having special emphasis in the forebrain. Our results indicated that, at early developmental stages, cWnt8b is expressed in the isthmic organizer and in other areas postulated as forebrain patterning centers, such as the avian cortical hem and the zona limitans intrathalamica (zli). Later in development, cWnt7b becomes expressed in regions neighboring and sometimes overlapping the cWnt8b domains, such as the thalamus on both sides of the zli, or the medial pallium adjacent to the cortical hem. This sequential expression of cWnt8b and cWnt7b is consistent with a role in the patterning and morphogenesis of these forebrain regions.
Angiopoietin-1 (Ang1) is a ligand for the endothelial specific receptor tyrosine kinase, Tie2, that protects the adult peripheral vasculature from vascular leakage. We tested the hypothesis that increases in levels of Ang1 reduce blood-brain barrier (BBB) leakage in ischemic brain. Mice were subjected to embolic middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. Recombinant adenoviruses expressing Ang1 (Ad-Ang1) or a control gene encoding green fluorescent protein (Ad-GFP), or recombinant Ang1 protein, BowAng1, was administered to mice before MCA occlusion. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), the brain tissue content of Evans Blue, and ischemic lesion volume were measured. Serum levels of Ang1 (183+/-31.9 microg/ml, n=4) were detected in mice receiving Ad-Ang1 or in mice treated with BowAng1 (262+/-35.4 microg/ml, n=7) but not in the control mice (n=11). Six hours after MCA occlusion, mice receiving Ad-GFP (n=8) or control protein (n=7) showed large Evans Blue leakage in the ipsilateral hemisphere (0.46+/-0.05 or 0.55+/-0.16 ng/mg tissue) whereas mice receiving Ad-Ang1 (n=6) or BowAng1 (n=7) had significantly (P&lt;0.05) less Evans Blue leakage (0.26+/-0.07 or 0.14+/-0.03 ng/mg tissue). Infusion of recombinant human vascular endothelial growth factor (rhVEGF(165)) to ischemic mice resulted in significant (P&lt;0.05) increases in Evans Blue leakage (1.24+/-0.34 ng/mg tissue, n=7) compared with the control mice. In contrast, infusion of rhVEGF(165) in ischemic mice receiving Ad-Ang1 did not significantly increase Evans Blue dye in the ipsilateral hemisphere (0.22+/-0.06 ng/mg tissue, n=6). Moreover, 24 h after ischemia mice receiving Ad-Ang1 had a significantly smaller ischemic lesion volume (22.6+/-2.7%, n=8) than the lesion volume in mice receiving Ad-GFP (44.7+/-3.7%, n=8), although rCBF reduced to approximately 20% of the contralateral levels in both groups of mice 10 min after ischemia. Our data demonstrate that Ang1 reduces BBB leakage in ischemic brain and consequently decreases ischemic lesion volume.
The substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNR) belongs to the brain regions with the highest density of CB(1) cannabinoid receptors. Anatomical studies indicate that the great majority of CB(1) receptors in the SNR are localized on terminals of GABAergic axons arriving from the caudate-putamen (striatonigral axons). The aim of the present experiments was to clarify the role of CB(1) receptors on terminals of striatonigral axons. Oblique sagittal slices, including the caudate-putamen and the substantia nigra, were prepared from brains of young mice. Electrical stimulation in the caudate-putamen elicited GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in the SNR, which were studied by patch-clamp techniques. The long latency of IPSCs (14+/-1 ms) suggests that striatonigral axons were indeed activated within the caudate-putamen. The synthetic CB(1)/CB(2) cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN55212-2 (R(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-[(morpholinyl)methyl]pyrrolo[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-yl]-(1-naphthalenyl)methanone mesylate; 10(-5) M) decreased the amplitude of IPSCs by 93+/-1%. CP55940 ((-)-cis-3-[2-hydroxy-4-(1,1-dimethylheptyl)phenyl]-trans-4-(3-hydroxypropyl)cyclohexanol; 10(-5) M), another CB(1)/CB(2) receptor agonist, also reduced IPSC amplitude, by 76+/-4%. The CB(1) cannabinoid receptor antagonist SR141716A (N-piperidino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-3-pyrazole-carboxamide; 10(-6) M) prevented the inhibition produced by WIN55212-2 (10(-5) M). Depolarization of SNR neurons led to suppression of IPSCs; this suppression was prevented by SR141716A (10(-6) M). Three observations indicate that the agonists inhibited neurotransmission presynaptically. (1) CP55940 (10(-5) M) enhanced the ratio of amplitudes of two IPSCs which were elicited by two electrical stimuli 100 ms apart (paired pulses). (2) WIN55212-2 (10(-5) M) did not change the amplitude of miniature IPSCs recorded in the presence of tetrodotoxin. (3) WIN55212-2 (10(-5) M) also had no effect on currents elicited in SNR neurons by ejection of the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol from a pipet. In summary, we have established a method which allows selective examination of GABAergic neurotransmission between striatonigral axons and SNR neurons. Using this method, the function of CB(1) cannabinoid receptors on terminals of striatonigral axons was unequivocally clarified. Activation of these receptors causes strong presynaptic inhibition of GABAergic neurotransmission between striatonigral axons and SNR neurons. This effect may be one explanation of the catalepsy observed in animals after cannabinoid administration. Endocannabinoids released from SNR neurons can modulate striatonigral neurotransmission by inhibiting GABA release from terminals of striatonigral axons.
Increased activity of the histaminergic neurons of the posterior hypothalamus has been implicated in the facilitation of behavioral wakefulness. Recent evidence of reciprocal projections between the sleep-active neurons of the preoptic/anterior hypothalamus and the histaminergic neurons of the tuberomammillary nucleus suggests that histaminergic innervation of the preoptic/anterior hypothalamic area may be of particular importance in the wakefulness-promoting properties of histamine. To test this possibility, we used microdialysis sample collection in the preoptic/anterior hypothalamic area of cats during natural sleep-wakefulness cycles, 6 h of sleep deprivation induced by gentle handling/playing, and recovery sleep. Samples were analyzed by a sensitive radioenzymatic assay. Mean basal levels of histamine in microdialysate during periods of wakefulness (1.155+/-0.225 pg/microl) did not vary during the 6 h of sleep deprivation. However, during the different sleep states, dramatic changes were observed in the extracellular histamine levels of preoptic/anterior hypothalamic area: wakefulness&gt;non-rapid eye movement sleep&gt;rapid eye movement sleep. Levels of histamine during rapid eye movement sleep were lowest (0.245+/-0.032 pg/microl), being significantly lower than levels during non-rapid eye movement sleep (0.395+/-0.081 pg/microl) and being only 21% of wakefulness levels. This pattern of preoptic/anterior hypothalamic area extracellular histamine levels across the sleep-wakefulness cycle closely resembles the reported single unit activity of histaminergic neurons. However, the invariance of histamine levels during sleep deprivation suggests that changes in histamine level do not relay information about sleep drive to the sleep-promoting neurons of the preoptic/anterior hypothalamic area.
The peptide apelin originating from a larger precursor preproapelin molecule has been recently isolated and identified as the endogenous ligand of the human orphan G protein-coupled receptor, APJ (putative receptor protein related to the angiotensin receptor AT(1)). We have shown recently that apelin and apelin receptor mRNA are expressed in brain and that the centrally injected apelin fragment K17F (Lys(1)-Phe-Arg-Arg-Gln-Arg-Pro-Arg-Leu-Ser-His-Lys-Gly-Pro-Met-Pro-Phe(17)) decreased vasopressin release and altered drinking behavior. Using a specific polyclonal antiserum against K17F for immunohistochemistry, the aim of the present study was to establish the precise topographical distribution of apelin immunoreactivity in colchicine-treated adult rat brain. Immunoreactivity was essentially detected in neuronal cell bodies and fibers throughout the entire neuroaxis in different densities. Cells bodies have been visualized in the preoptic region, the hypothalamic supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei and in the highest density, in the arcuate nucleus. Apelin immunoreactive cell bodies were also seen in the pons and the medulla oblongata. Apelin nerve fibers appear more widely distributed than neuronal apelin cell bodies. The hypothalamus represented, by far, the major site of apelin-positive nerve fibers which were found in the suprachiasmatic, periventricular, dorsomedial, ventromedial nuclei and in the retrochiasmatic area, with the highest density in the internal layer of the median eminence. Fibers were also found innervating other circumventricular organs such as the vascular organ of the lamina terminalis, the subfornical and the subcommissural organs and the area postrema. Apelin was also detected in the septum and the amygdala and in high density in the paraventricular thalamic nucleus, the periaqueductal central gray matter and dorsal raphe nucleus, the parabrachial and Barrington nuclei in the pons and in the nucleus of the solitary tract, lateral reticular, prepositus hypoglossal and spinal trigeminal nuclei. The topographical distribution of apelinergic neurons in the brain suggests multiple roles for apelin especially in the central control of ingestive behaviors, pituitary hormone release and circadian rhythms.
Phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks) are a family of lipid kinases that activates signalling pathways. The present study was designed to investigate whether PI3K could be involved in supraspinal antinociception induced by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of micro- and delta-opioid receptor agonists in the mouse. We demonstrated using the mouse warm-plate assay that the prototype of micro-opioid receptor agonist morphine, selective mu-opioid receptor agonist [D-Ala(2),N-Me-Phe(4),Gly(5)-ol]enkephalin (DAMGO) and delta-opioid receptor agonists [D-Ala(2)]deltorphin II and [D-Pen(2,5)]enkephalin (DPDPE) when given i.c.v. produced profound antinociceptive responses. Under these conditions, i.c.v. pretreatment with cell-permeable and specific PI3K inhibitors wortmannin (0.7-2.3 nmol) and LY294002 (3-33 nmol), which alone had no effects on the basal warm-plate latencies, caused a dose-dependent inhibition of either morphine-, DAMGO-, DPDPE- or [D-Ala(2)]deltorphin II-induced antinociception. Furthermore, LY294002 at 33 nmol significantly shifted the dose-response curves for DAMGO-, DPDPE- and [D-Ala(2)]deltorphin II-induced antinociception to the right. In the immunoblotting assay, we found that PI3K gamma is dense in the periaqueductal gray and lower medulla regions that include several key sites for the production of opioid-induced antinociception. Our findings provide evidence that central PI3K pathways may, at least in part, contribute to the expression of supraspinal antinociception induced by both mu- and delta-opioid receptor agonists in the mouse.
Previous studies on beta-amyloid production have been carried out using transfected cells and cell lines. We measured the 40 and 42 amino acid forms of beta-amyloid released into the culture medium by primary human foetal mixed brain cell aggregate culture over 3 months. In this model, neurones and supporting cells are maintained in serum-free defined medium. The secretion of significant amounts of beta-amyloid 40 and 42 was observed throughout culture for three separate cultures. Levels of beta-amyloid 40 and 42 closely followed the neuronal content of the cultures as estimated by cellular neurone-specific enolase. Addition of synthetic beta-amyloid 1-40 to the cultures for 1 week at 35 days in vitro resulted in a dose-related reduction in cellular neurone-specific enolase levels. Primary human aggregate brain cell cultures produced multimeric beta-amyloid, as determined by immunoassay. beta-Amyloid-treated cultures released diminishing amounts of multimeric beta-amyloid and contained increasing amounts of intracellular multimeric beta-amyloid with increasing exogenous beta-amyloid. These results suggest that release of multimeric beta-amyloid into the extracellular environment by human primary neurones can be affected by the presence of extracellular beta-amyloid. This has implications for Alzheimer's disease in that beta-amyloid released into the extracellular environment by dead/dying neurones could modulate beta-amyloid release by surrounding neurones, potentially causing amplification of toxicity. Moreover, intracellular beta-amyloid oligomer-dependent neurotoxicity may be a component of neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease, and other conditions with increased beta-amyloid synthesis, suggesting anti-amyloid therapies for Alzheimer's disease may have to target intracellular beta-amyloid.
Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), expressed in normal astrocytes, were used in combination for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) symptoms in a rat model. Normal neonatal rat astrocytes were co-transfected with a vector expressing BDNF (AAVBDNF) and a retroviral vector expressing TH (termed TH-BDNF-DA(+) cells), and then implanted into the striatum of PD rats induced by 6-hydroxydopamine. TH-BDNF-DA(+) cells compensated for a severe insufficiency of endogenous dopaminergic neurons in the PD rats, resulting in a significant improvement of PD symptoms. The decrease in the rotational rate of PD rats implanted with TH-BDNF-DA(+) cells was more marked than that in PD rats implanted with normal astrocytes expressing either TH or BDNF alone (termed TH(+) and BDNF(+) cells, P&lt;0.01 and 0.001, respectively), and suggested a synergistic effect between TH and BDNF. In contrast, the rotational rate was not altered from the baseline in PD rats without treatment or implanted with parental rat astrocytes alone (P&gt;0.05). BDNF protected the dopaminergic neurons from apoptosis induced by 6-hydroxydopamine, and significantly increased the long-term survival of TH-positive cells in the striatum. Our data indicate that the combined use of TH and BDNF has a synergistic therapeutic effect, and is more efficient for the treatment of PD than a single gene therapy using either TH or BDNF alone.
The mechanism of ATP-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) was studied pharmacologically using guinea-pig hippocampal slices. LTP, induced in CA1 neurons by 10 min application of 10 microM ATP, was blocked by co-application of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (5 or 50 microM). In ATP-induced LTP, the delivery of test synaptic inputs (once every 20 s) to CA1 neurons could be replaced by co-application of NMDA (100 nM) during ATP perfusion. These results suggest that, in CA1 neurons, a co-operative effect between extracellular ATP and activation of NMDA receptors is required to trigger the process involved in ATP-induced LTP. In addition, ATP-induced LTP was blocked by co-application of an ecto-protein kinase inhibitor, K-252b (40 or 200 nM), whereas a P2X purinoceptor antagonist, pyridoxal phosphate 6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid 4-sodium (50 microM), or a P2Y purinoceptor antagonist, basilen blue (10 microM), had no effect.The results of the present study, therefore, indicate that the mechanisms of ATP-induced LTP involve the modulation of NMDA receptors/Ca(2+) channels and the phosphorylation of extracellular domains of synaptic membrane proteins, one of which could be the NMDA receptor/Ca(2+) channel.
Leptin is well known to be involved in the control of feeding, reproduction and neuroendocrine functions through its action on the hypothalamus. However, leptin receptors are found in brain regions other than the hypothalamus (including the hippocampus and cerebral cortex) suggesting extrahypothalamic functions. We investigated hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), and the spatial-memory function in two leptin receptor-deficient rodents (Zucker rats and db/db mice). In brain slices, the CA1 hippocampal region of both strains showed impairments of LTP and LTD; leptin (10(-12) M) did not improve these impairments in either strain. These strains also showed lower basal levels of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II activity in the CA1 region than the respective controls, and the levels did not respond to tetanic stimulation. These strains also showed impaired spatial memory in the Morris water-maze test (i.e. longer swim-path lengths during training sessions and less frequent crossings of the platform's original location in the probe test. From these results we suggest that the leptin receptor-deficient animals show impaired LTP in CA1 and poor spatial memory due, at least in part, to a deficiency in leptin receptors in the hippocampus.
Endomorphin-2 is a newly discovered endogenous opioid peptide with high affinity and selectivity for the micro-opioid receptor, and potent analgesic activity, particularly in the spinal cord. Using immunoelectron microscopy, we examined the ultrastructure of the endomorphin-2-like immunoreactive processes and their synaptic relationships in the spinal cord. Endomorphin-2-like immunopositive dense-cored vesicles were observed in many axon terminals, and, in a few cases, were observed together with immunonegative dense-cored vesicles. Immunopositive axons with or without myelination were also observed. The endomorphin-2-like immunoreactive axon terminals formed synapses with both immunopositive and immunonegative processes. Most synapses were asymmetrical, but symmetrical synapses were also found. Examples of axo-dendritic, axo-somatic and axo-axonic contacts were observed. This first demonstration of the ultrastructure and synaptic relationships of endomorphin-2-like immunoreactive axon terminals in the spinal cord dorsal horn provides morphological evidence that this peptide functions as a transmitter regulating pain processes.
GABA has been identified as an important neurotransmitter in stress-related circuitry mediating inhibitory effects on neurosecretory neurons that comprise the central limb of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical axis. Using combinations of pre-embedding immunostaining and postembedding immunogold methods at the ultrastructural level, direct synaptic contacts were revealed between GABA-containing terminals and neurosecretory cells that were immunoreactive for corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN). The vast majority of axo-dendritic GABA synapses was symmetric (inhibitory) type, and 46% of all synaptic boutons in the medial parvocellular subdivision of the PVN were immunoreactive to GABA. Using the disector method, an unbiased stereological method on serial ultrathin sections, the total calculated number of synaptic contacts within the medial parvocellular subdivision of the PVN was 55.4 x 10(6)/mm(3). On CRH-positive profiles 20.1 x 10(6) GABAergic synaptic boutons were detected per mm(3) in control, colchicine-treated rats. In the medial parvocellular subdivision, 79% of GABAergic boutons terminated on CRH neurons. Following adrenalectomy, which increases the synthetic and secretory activities of CRH neurons, the number of GABAergic synapses that terminate on CRH-positive profiles was increased by 55%. GABA-containing boutons appeared to be swollen, while the contact surfaces of cellular membranes between GABAergic boutons and CRH-positive profiles were shorter in adrenalectomized animals than in controls. Our data provide ultrastructural evidence for direct inhibitory GABAergic control of stress-related CRH neurons and suggest a pivotal role of GABA-containing inputs in the functional plasticity of parvocellular neurosecretory neurons seen in response to adrenalectomy.
Although replacement of olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) and subsequent reinnervation of the olfactory bulb occur following ORN injury, the intrinsic and extrinsic factors that contribute to the regulation of this dynamic process have not yet been fully identified. Recent research indicates that several growth factors have neurogenic effects on ORNs in vitro, and that chronic in vivo administration of either basic fibroblast growth factor, epidermal growth factor, or transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) following chemical lesion can enhance the normal rate of ORN reinnervation of the olfactory bulb. The primary goal of the present experiments was to further assess the extent to which growth factor-related enhancements in the rate of anatomical recovery during ORN reconstitution and subsequent reinnervation of olfactory bulb are accompanied by enhancements in the rate of recovery of odor-guided behavior.A series of experiments in rats was conducted to initially characterize the time course of the anatomical and behavioral recovery normally observed following ORN reconstitution as a consequence of olfactory nerve transection, and to subsequently characterize the anatomical and behavioral effects of TGF-alpha administration on this normal rate of recovery. Consistent with a host of prior studies, olfactory nerve transection produced consistent and substantial deafferentation of olfactory bulb followed by a time-dependent anatomical recovery which was significantly enhanced by administration of TGF-alpha. The effect of TGF-alpha on functional recovery following olfactory nerve transection was also assessed using an odor-guided fear conditioning task. ORN lesioned animals receiving injections of TGF-alpha during recovery were found to display enhanced conditioned responding to an olfactory stimulus compared to untreated subjects. Further behavioral analyses suggested that this enhanced functional recovery was likely not due to non-specific effects of TGF-alpha on cognition or motor activity, but rather to enhanced olfactory input to the CNS. Future studies will likely reveal the exact mechanism of action mediating the anatomical and concomitant behavioral effects of this growth factor. Since ORNs are one of only a few populations of neurons capable of regeneration or replacement, the continued study of the cellular and molecular factors that coordinate this regenerative process may ultimately lead to the development of therapeutic strategies to promote an enhanced functional recovery following injury to other neuronal populations.
Previous research using microinjections of excitatory amino acids suggested that the caudal midline medulla (including nucleus raphe obscurus and nucleus raphe pallidus) contained a mixed population of sympathoexcitatory and sympathoinhibitory neurones. The results of this study indicate that different anaesthetic regimes (urethane versus halothane) determine whether sympathoexcitatory (urethane only) or sympathoinhibitory (halothane only) responses are evoked by stimulation within distinct caudal midline medullary regions. In addition, anaesthetic regimes also affect the caudal midline medullary-mediated response to haemorrhage. Specifically, under conditions of urethane anaesthesia, inactivation (lignocaine) of the midline medullary region immediately caudal to the obex, prematurely triggered and dramatically potentiated the hypotension and bradycardia evoked by 15% haemorrhage; whereas under halothane anaesthesia, inactivation of the same region had no effect. In contrast, under urethane anaesthesia, inactivation of the midline medullary region immediately rostral to the obex, delayed the onset of the hypotension and bradycardia to 15% haemorrhage; inactivation of the same region under halothane anaesthesia blocked haemorrhage-evoked hypotension and bradycardia. Our findings indicate that topographically distinct parts of the caudal midline medulla contain neurones (i) that differentially regulate the timing and magnitude of the compensatory (normotensive) versus decompensatory (hypotensive) phases of the response to haemorrhage; and (ii) whose activity is altered by urethane versus halothane anaesthesia.
Neurotransmitters are prominent candidates for trans-cellular signals that influence the development of the CNS. The present study has examined the effect of glutamate on survival, differentiation and metabolic activity of cultured rat retinal ganglion cells at 3 days in vitro. Retinal cultures from neonatal Wistar rats were treated with glutamate for 48 h. The metabolic activity was markedly increased in the retinal ganglion cells exposed to 20 microM glutamate. This was accompanied by an enhanced survival of these neurons. The number of differentiated retinal ganglion cells as determined by microtubule-associated protein-2 labeling was significantly increased following exposure to low but not higher doses of glutamate. The effect of glutamate on the metabolic activity and differentiation was blocked by tetrodotoxin. The results of the present study shows that glutamate has a significant effect on survival, differentiation and metabolic activity. An increase in the metabolic activity indicates an enhancement in the electrical activity. Thus, our results are consistent with the hypothesis that glutamate is critically involved in the regulation of electrical activity in developing rat retinal ganglion cells.
Immunohistochemistry for parvalbumin, calbindin D-28k, calretinin and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) was performed on the trigeminal ganglion and oro-facial tissues in Brn-3a wildtype and knockout mice at embryonic day 18.5 and postnatal day 0. In wildtype mice, the trigeminal ganglion contained abundant parvalbumin-, calbindin D-28k- and CGRP-immunoreactive neurons while the ganglion was almost devoid of calretinin-immunoreactive neurons. In Brn-3a knockout mice, a 63% decrease of parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons was detected. In contrast, the absence of Brn-3a dramatically increased the number of calbindin D-28k-immunoreactive (3.5-fold increase) and calretinin-immunoreactive neurons (91-fold increase). The number of CGRP-immunoreactive neurons, however, was not altered by the Brn-3a deficiency. Cell size analysis indicated that loss of Brn-3a increased the proportions of small (&lt;100 microm (2)) parvalbumin-, calbindin D-28k- and CGRP-immunoreactive neurons while it decreased those of large (&gt;200 microm(2)) immunoreactive cells. Calretinin-immunoreactive neurons were either small or medium (100-200 microm (2)) in mutant mice. The oro-facial tissues contained parvalbumin-, calbindin D-28k- and CGRP-immunoreactive fibers, but not calretinin-immunoreactive ones in wildtype mice. In Brn-3a knockout mice, the number of parvalbumin-immunoreactive fibers markedly decreased in the infraorbital nerve and parvalbumin-immunoreactive endings disappeared in the vibrissa. In contrast, the number of calbindin D-28k-immunoreactive fibers increased significantly in the infraorbital and mental nerves. In addition, calbindin D-28k-immunoreactive endings appeared in the vibrissa. As well, some fibers showed calretinin-immunoreactivity in the infraorbital nerve of the mutant. However, no obvious change of CGRP-immunoreactive fibers was observed in the oro-facial region of knockout mice. Taken together, our data suggest that Brn-3a deficiency has effects on the expression of neurochemical substances in the trigeminal ganglion.
We examined the effects of heparin on learning and frontal cortex acetylcholine parameters following injection of the glucosaminoglycan into the ventral pallidum. In Experiment 1, possible mnemoactive effects of intrapallidal heparin injection were assessed. Rats with chronically implanted cannulae were administered heparin (0.1, 1.0, 10 ng) or vehicle (0.5 microl) and were tested on a one-trial step-through avoidance task. Two retention tests were carried out in each animal, one at 1.5 h after training to measure short-term memory and another at 24 h to measure long-term memory. Post-trial intrapallidal injection of 1.0 ng heparin improved both short- and long-term retention of the task, whereas the lower and the higher dose of the glucosaminoglycan had no effect. When the effective dose of heparin was injected 5 h, rather than immediately after training, it no longer facilitated long-term retention of the conditioned avoidance response. In Experiment 2, the effects of ventral pallidal heparin injection on frontal cortex acetylcholine and choline concentrations were investigated with in vivo microdialysis in anaesthetized rats. Heparin, administered in the dose of 1.0 ng, which was effective in facilitating avoidance performance, produced a delayed increase in cortical acetylcholine levels ipsi- and contralaterally to the side of intrabasalis injection, resembling the known neurochemical effects obtained for another glycosaminoglycan, chondroitin sulfate, which recently was shown to facilitate inhibitory avoidance learning and to increase frontal cortex acetylcholine. The present findings indicate that heparin, like other extracellular matrix proteoglycans, can exert beneficial effects on memory and strengthen the presumptive relationship between such promnestic effects of proteoglycans and basal forebrain cholinergic mechanisms. The data are discussed with respect to the presumed roles of matrix molecules in extrasynaptic volume transmission and in the 'cross-talk' between synapses.
