Isolating a pure population of neural stem cells (NSCs) has been difficult since no exclusive surface markers have been identified for panning or FACS purification. Moreover, additional refinements for maintaining NSCs in culture are required, since NSCs generate a variety of neural precursors (NPs) as they proliferate. Here, we demonstrate that post-natal rat NPs express low levels of pro-apoptotic molecules and resist phosphatidylinositol 3'OH kinase and extracellular regulated kinase 1/2 inhibition as compared to late oligodendrocyte progenitors. Furthermore, maintaining subventricular zone precursors in LY294002 and PD98059, inhibitors of PI3K and ERK1/2 signaling, eliminated lineage-restricted precursors as revealed by enrichment for Nestin(+)/SOX-2(+) cells. The cells that survived formed neurospheres and 89% of these neurospheres were tripotential, generating neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. Without this enrichment step, less than 50% of the NPs were Nestin(+)/SOX-2(+) and 42% of the neurospheres were tripotential. In addition, neurospheres enriched using this procedure produced 3-times more secondary neurospheres, supporting the conclusion that this procedure enriches for NSCs. A number of genes that enhance survival were more highly expressed in neurospheres compared to late oligodendrocyte progenitors. Altogether, these studies demonstrate that primitive neural precursors can be enriched using a relatively simple and inexpensive means that will facilitate cell replacement strategies using stem cells as well as other studies whose goal is to reveal the fundamental properties of primitive neural precursors.
Although the aberrant assembly of mutant superoxide dismutase 1 (mSOD1) is implicated in the pathogenesis of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), the molecular basis of superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) oligomerization remains undetermined. We investigated the roles of transglutaminase 2 (TG2), an endogenous cross-linker in mSOD1-linked ALS. TG2 interacted preferentially with mSOD1 and promoted its oligomerization in transfected cells. Purified TG2 directly oligomerized recombinant mutant SOD1 and the apo-form of the wild-type SOD1 proteins in a calcium-dependent manner, indicating that misfolded SOD1 is a substrate of TG2. Moreover, the non-cell-autonomous effect of extracellular TG2 on the neuroinflammation was suggested, since the TG2-mediated soluble SOD1 oligomers induced tumor necrosis factor-, interleukin-1, and nitric oxide in microglial BV2 cells. TG2 was up-regulated in the spinal cord of pre-symptomatic G93A SOD1 transgenic mice and in the hypoglossal nuclei of mice suffering nerve ligation. Furthermore, inhibition of spinal TG2 by cystamine significantly delayed the progression and reduced SOD1 oligomers and microglial activation. These results indicate a novel role of TG2 in SOD1 oligomer-mediated neuroinflammation, as well as in the involvement in the intracellular aggregation of misfolded SOD1 in ALS.
Social subordination in female macaques represents a well-described model of chronic psychosocial stress. Additionally, a length polymorphism (5-HTTLPR) in the regulatory region of the serotonin (5-HT) transporter (5-HTT) gene (SLC6A4) is present in rhesus macaques, which has been linked to adverse outcomes similar to that described in humans with an analogous 5-HTTLPR polymorphism. The present study determined the effects of social status and the 5-HTTLPR genotype on 5-HT1A receptor binding potential (5-HT1A BP(ND)) in brain regions implicated in emotional regulation and stress reactivity in ovariectomised female monkeys, and then assessed how these effects were altered by 17-oestradiol (E(2)) treatment. Areas analysed included the prefrontal cortex [anterior cingulate (ACC); medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC); dorsolateral prefrontal cortex; orbitofrontal prefrontal cortex], amygdala, hippocampus, hypothalamus and raphe nucleui. Positron emission tomography using p-[(18) F]MPPF was performed to determine the levels of 5-HT1A BP(ND) under a non-E(2) and a 3-week E(2) treatment condition. The short variant (s-variant) 5-HTTLPR genotype produced a significant reduction in 5-HT1A BP(ND) in the mPFC regardless of social status, and subordinate s-variant females showed a reduction in 5-HT1A BP(ND) within the ACC. Both these effects of 5-HTTLPR were unaffected by E(2). Additionally, E(2) reduced 5-HT1A BP(ND) in the dorsal raphe of all females irrespective of psychosocial stress or 5-HTTLPR genotype. Hippocampal 5-HT1A BP(ND) was attenuated in subordinate females regardless of 5-HTTLPR genotype during the non-E(2) condition, an effect that was normalised with E(2). Similarly, 5-HT1A BP(ND) in the hypothalamus was significantly lower in subordinate females regardless of 5-HTTLPR genotype, an effect reversed with E(2). Taken together, the data indicate that the effect of E(2) on modulation of central 5HT1A BP(ND) may only occur in brain regions that show no 5-HTTLPR genotype-linked control of 5-HT1A binding.
We recently demonstrated a direct action of oxytocin (OT) on skeletal homeostasis, mainly mediated through stimulation of osteoblasts (OBs) formation and through the reciprocal modulation of osteoclast (OCs) formation and function. Thus, mice lacking the hormone or its receptor develop a low turnover osteoporosis that worsens with age in both sexes. The skeletons of OT (Ot) and OT receptor (Oxtr) null mice display a pronounced decrease in vertebral and femoral trabecular volume. At the cellular level, OBs from Ot KO and Oxtr KO mice exhibit lower mineralization activity and, at the mRNA level, all master genes for osteoblast differentiation are down-regulated. Moreover, OT has dual effects on OCs: it increases osteoclast formation both directly, by activating nuclear factor kB (NFkB) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signalling and, indirectly, through the up-regulation of receptor activator nuclear factor-kappaB ligand synthesis by OBs. On the other hand, it inhibits bone resorption by triggering cytosolic Ca(2+) release and nitric oxide synthesis in mature OCs. OT is locally produced by osteoblasts acting as paracrine-autocrine regulators of bone formation modulated by oestrogens. The oestrogen signal involved in this feedforward circuit is nongenomic because it requires an intact MAPK kinase signal transduction pathway, instead of the classical nuclear translocation of oestrogen receptor. The ability of oestrogen to increase bone mass in vivo is to some extent OXTR-dependent. Thus, Oxtr KO mice injected 17-oestradiol did not show any effects on bone formation parameters, whereas the same treatment increases trabecular and cortical bone in wild-type mice. An intact OT autocrine-paracrine circuit appears to be essential for optimal skeletal remodelling.


Dysphagia in Friedreich ataxia (FRDA) and its impact on quality of life is not adequately understood. The objective of this study was to characterise dysphagia in FRDA and to determine the impact of swallowing dysfunction on activities, participation, and sense of well-being. Thirty-six individuals with a confirmed diagnosis of FRDA were assessed via a clinical bedside examination (CBE), the Royal Brisbane Hospital outcome measure for swallowing, an oral-motor examination and the Australian therapy outcome measures for speech and swallowing (AusTOMS). Data on swallowing function, diet modification and swallowing strategies were collated. Thirty-three (91.67%) participants exhibited clinical signs of dysphagia according to the CBE, and all participants received ratings indicating swallowing difficulties on at least one other measure. Dysphagia in FRDA is characterised by oral and pharyngeal stage impairment relating to incoordination, weakness and spasticity. A significant positive correlation was found between the severity of impairment, activity, participation and distress/well-being on the AusTOMS, suggesting that swallowing function decreases with overall reductions in quality of life. A significant correlation was found between activity on the AusTOMS and disease duration (r=-0.283, p=0.012). No significant correlations were found between dysphagia severity and GAA repeat length, age of onset or disease severity. Participants employing diet modification and swallowing strategies demonstrated higher dysphagia severity, activity limitations and participation restrictions. These data advocate a holistic approach to dysphagia management in FRDA. Early detection of swallowing impairment and consideration of the potential impact dysphagia has on quality of life should be key aspects in disease management.
Morphometric MRI studies in adult patients with migraine have consistently demonstrated atrophy of several gray matter (GM) regions involved in pain processing. We explored the regional distribution of GM and white matter (WM) abnormalities in pediatric patients with episodic migraine and their correlations with disease clinical manifestations. Using a 3.0T scanner, brain T2-weighted and 3D T1-weighted scans were acquired from 12 pediatric migraine patients and 15 age-matched healthy controls. GM and WM volumetric abnormalities were estimated using voxel-based morphometry (p&lt;0.05, family-wise error corrected). Compared to controls, pediatric migraine patients experienced a significant GM atrophy of several regions of the frontal and temporal lobes which are part of the pain-processing network. They also had an increased volume of the right putamen. The left fusiform gyrus had an increased volume in patients with aura compared to patients without aura and controls, whereas it was significantly atrophied in patients without aura when compared to the other two groups. No abnormalities of WM volume were detected. In migraine patients, regional GM atrophy was not correlated with disease duration and attack frequency, whereas a negative correlation was found between increased volume of the putamen and disease duration (r=-0.95, p&lt;0.05). These results show that GM morphometric abnormalities do occur in pediatric patients with migraine. The presence of such abnormalities early in the disease course, and the absence of correlation with patient clinical characteristics suggest that they may represent a phenotypic biomarker of this condition.
Smoking and hypertension are risk factors for aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH), but also for other cardiovascular diseases and cancer. Few prospective data are available on the very long term risks of vascular diseases and vascular, cancer-related and overall death after aSAH. We determined vascular events and survival status in 1,765 patients with aSAH admitted to our center from 1985 to 2010. Cumulative risks were estimated with survival analysis. We compared risks of vascular, cancer-related and all-cause death with the general population with standardized mortality ratios (SMRs). Incidences of vascular events and death were compared with those after TIA/minor stroke. Conditional on surviving 3months after aSAH, the risk of death was 8.7% (95% CI 7.3-10.1) within 5years, 17.9% (16.1-19.9) within 10years, 29.5% (27.3-31.8) within 15years, and 43.6% (41.2-46.1) within 20years after SAH. The SMR for all-cause death was 1.8 (1.6-2.1), for vascular death 2.0 (95% CI 1.6-2.5) and for cancer-related death 1.2 (0.9-1.5; sensitivity analysis 1.4; 95% CI 1.1-1.8). The increased SMR for all-cause death persevered up to 20years after aSAH. Compared with TIA/minor stroke patients, the age- and sex-adjusted cumulative incidence on vascular events was lower for aSAH patients [hazard ratio (HR) 0.48; 95% CI 0.40-0.57); the HR for all-cause death was 0.96 (95% CI 0.84-1.10). After aSAH, risks of vascular events and death, and probably also that of cancer-related death, are higher than in the general population. Although the long-term risk of vascular events was lower in aSAH patients than in TIA/minor stroke patients, the risk of death was similar.

Experts in the field of conversion disorder have suggested for the upcoming DSM-V edition to put less weight on the associated psychological factors and to emphasise the role of clinical findings. Indeed, a critical step in reaching a diagnosis of conversion disorder is careful bedside neurological examination, aimed at excluding organic signs and identifying 'positive' signs suggestive of a functional disorder. These positive signs are well known to all trained neurologists but their validity is still not established. The aim of this study is to provide current evidence regarding their sensitivity and specificity. We conducted a systematic search on motor, sensory and gait functional signs in Embase, Medline, PsycINfo from 1965 to June 2012. Studies in English, German or French reporting objective data on more than 10 participants in a controlled design were included in a systematic review. Other relevant signs are discussed in a narrative review. Eleven controlled studies (out of 147 eligible articles) describing 14 signs (7 motor, 5 sensory, 2 gait) reported low sensitivity of 8-100% but high specificity of 92-100%. Studies were evidence class III, only two had a blinded design and none reported on inter-rater reliability of the signs. Clinical signs for functional neurological symptoms are numerous but only 14 have been validated; overall they have low sensitivity but high specificity and their use should thus be recommended, especially with the introduction of the new DSM-V criteria.

Mutations in the parkin gene are the most common cause of early-onset autosomal recessive Parkinson disease (PD). The pathogenic mechanisms of how parkin mutations lead to the development of PD are not fully understood. Studies of cell cultures and of Drosophila have suggested a dominant negative effect for the clinical parkin mutant T240R. Conversely, the neuroprotective capacity of parkin has been widely reported; this suggests that the parkin protein may have a potential therapeutic role in PD. Here, we aimed to develop a novel genetic rodent model of PD by overexpression of T240R-parkin and human wild-type parkin as a control in the dopaminergic neurons of adult rats using adeno-associated viral vectors (rAAV2/8). Surprisingly, we found that overexpression not only of T240R-parkin but also of human wild-type parkin induced progressive and dose-dependent dopaminergic cell death in rats, starting from 8 weeks after injection. This degeneration was specific for parkin because similar overexpressionof enhanced green fluorescent protein did not lead to nigral degeneration. Our results warrant caution to the development of therapeutic strategies for PD based on overexpression of parkin or enhancing parkin activity because this might be deleterious for dopaminergic neurons in the long-term.
The basis of gender differences in the prevalence and clinical progression of multiple sclerosis (MS) is not understood. Here, we identify gender-specific responses in steroid synthesis and signaling in the brains of MS patients as possible contributors to these differences. We investigated gene expression changes in these pathways and of inflammatory cytokines in MS lesions and normal-appearing white matter (NAWM) of male and female patients (n=21) and control NAWM (n=14) using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (25 MS lesions, 21 MS NAWM, and 14 control NAWM) and immunohistochemistry (3-4 sections per group). In MS lesions in males, there was local upregulation of aromatase (an enzyme involved in estrogen biosynthesis), estrogen receptor- (ER), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) mRNA; whereas in females, there was local upregulation of 3-hydroxysteroid-dehydrogenase, a progesterone synthetic enzyme, and of progesterone receptor. Astrocytes in the rim and center of MS lesions were found to be the primary source of steroidogenic enzyme and receptor expression. Aromatase and ER mRNA levels were positively correlated with that of TNF in primary cultures of human microglia and astrocytes; TNF caused increased ER, suggesting that inflammatory signals stimulate estrogen signaling in this cell type. Together, these findings suggest that there are gender differences in the CNS of MS patients that may affect lesion pathogenesis, that is, in males, estrogen synthesis and signaling are induced; whereas in females, progestogen synthesis and signaling are induced. These differences may represent contributing factors to gender differences in the prevalence and course of MS.
The dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) have both been implicated in the cognitive control of saccadic eye movements by single neuron recording studies in nonhuman primates and functional imaging studies in humans, but their relative roles remain unclear. Here, we reversibly deactivated either dlPFC or ACC subregions in macaque monkeys while the animals performed randomly interleaved pro- and antisaccades. In addition, we explored the whole-brain functional connectivity of these two regions by applying a seed-based resting-state functional MRI analysis in a separate cohort of monkeys. We found that unilateral dlPFC deactivation had stronger behavioral effects on saccades than unilateral ACC deactivation, and that the dlPFC displayed stronger functional connectivity with frontoparietal areas than the ACC. We suggest that the dlPFC plays a more prominent role in the preparation of pro- and antisaccades than the ACC.
In the absence of sensory information, we rely on past experience or memories to guide our actions. Because previous experimental and clinical reports implicate basal ganglia nuclei in the generation of movement in the absence of sensory stimuli, we ask here whether one output nucleus of the basal ganglia, the substantia nigra pars reticulata (nigra), influences the specification of an eye movement in the absence of sensory information to guide the movement. We manipulated the level of activity of neurons in the nigra by introducing electrical stimulation to the nigra at different time intervals while monkeys made saccades to different locations in two conditions: one in which the target location remained visible and a second in which the target location appeared only briefly, requiring information stored in memory to specify the movement. Electrical manipulation of the nigra occurring during the delay period of the task, when information about the target was maintained in memory, altered the direction and the occurrence of subsequent saccades. Stimulation during other intervals of the memory task or during the delay period of the visually guided saccade task had less effect on eye movements. On stimulated trials, and only when the visual stimulus was absent, monkeys occasionally (20% of the time) failed to make saccades. When monkeys made saccades in the absence of a visual stimulus, stimulation of the nigra resulted in a rotation of the endpoints ipsilaterally (2) and increased the reaction time of contralaterally directed saccades. When the visual stimulus was present, stimulation of the nigra resulted in no significant rotation and decreased the reaction time of contralaterally directed saccades slightly. Based on these measurements, stimulation during the delay period of the memory-guided saccade task influenced the metrics of saccades much more than did stimulation during the same period of the visually guided saccade task. Because these effects occurred with manipulation of nigral activity well before the initiation of saccades and in trials in which the visual stimulus was absent, we conclude that information from the basal ganglia influences the specification of an action as it is evolving primarily during performance of memory-guided saccades. When visual information is available to guide the specification of the saccade, as occurs during visually guided saccades, basal ganglia information is less influential.
Spinal motor control networks are regulated by neuromodulatory systems to allow adaptability of movements. The present study aimed to elucidate the role of nitric oxide (NO) in the modulation of mammalian spinal locomotor networks. This was investigated with isolated spinal cord preparations from neonatal mice in which rhythmic locomotor-related activity was induced pharmacologically. Bath application of the NO donor diethylamine NONOate (DEA/NO) decreased the frequency and modulated the amplitude of locomotor-related activity recorded from ventral roots. Removal of endogenous NO with coapplication of a NO scavenger (PTIO) and a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) blocker [nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (l-NAME)] increased the frequency and decreased the amplitude of locomotor-related activity. This demonstrates that endogenously derived NO can modulate both the timing and intensity of locomotor-related activity. The effects of DEA/NO were mimicked by the cGMP analog 8-bromo-cGMP. In addition, the soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) inhibitor ODQ blocked the effects of DEA/NO on burst amplitude and frequency, although the frequency effect was only blocked at low concentrations of DEA/NO. This suggests that NO-mediated modulation involves cGMP-dependent pathways. Sources of NO were studied within the lumbar spinal cord during postnatal development (postnatal days 1-12) with NADPH-diaphorase staining. NOS-positive cells in the ventral horn exhibited a rostrocaudal gradient, with more cells in rostral segments. The number of NOS-positive cells was also found to increase during postnatal development. In summary, we have shown that NO, derived from sources within the mammalian spinal cord, modulates the output of spinal motor networks and is therefore likely to contribute to the fine-tuning of locomotor behavior.
Near- and far-space coding in the human brain is a dynamic process. Areas in dorsal, as well as ventral visual association cortex, including right posterior parietal cortex (rPPC), right frontal eye field (rFEF), and right ventral occipital cortex (rVO), have been shown to be important in visuospatial processing, but the involvement of these areas when the information is in near or far space remains unclear. There is a need for investigations of these representations to help explain the pathophysiology of hemispatial neglect, and the role of near and far space is crucial to this. We used a conjunction visual search task using an elliptical array to investigate the effects of transcranial magnetic stimulation delivered over rFEF, rPPC, and rVO on the processing of targets in near and far space and at a range of horizontal eccentricities. As in previous studies, we found that rVO was involved in far-space search, and rFEF was involved regardless of the distance to the array. It was found that rPPC was involved in search only in far space, with a neglect-like effect when the target was located in the most eccentric locations. No effects were seen for any site for a feature search task. As the search arrays had higher predictability with respect to target location than is often the case, these data may form a basis for clarifying both the role of PPC in visual search and its contribution to neglect, as well as the importance of near and far space in these.
It is still widely believed that exaggerated stretch reflexes and increased muscle tone in ankle plantar flexors contribute to reduced ankle joint movement during gait in children with cerebral palsy (CP). However, no study has directly measured stretch reflex activity during gait in these children. We investigated sensory feedback mechanisms during walking in 20 CP children and 41 control children. Stretch responses in plantar flexor muscles evoked in stance showed an age-related decline in control but not CP children. In swing the responses were abolished in control children, but significant responses were observed in 14 CP children. This was related to reduced activation of dorsiflexors in swing. Removal of sensory feedback in stance produced a drop in soleus activity of a similar size in control and CP children. Soleus activity was observed in swing to the same extent in control and CP children. Removal of sensory feedback in swing caused a larger drop in soleus activity in control children than in CP children. The lack of age-related decline in stretch reflexes and the inability to suppress reflexes in swing is likely related to lack of maturation of corticospinal control in CP children. Since soleus activity was not seen more frequently than in control children in swing and since sensory feedback did not contribute more to their soleus activity, spasticity is unlikely to contribute to foot drop and toe walking. We propose that altered central drive to the ankle muscles and increased passive muscle stiffness are the main causes of foot drop and toe walking.
We explore the visual world by making rapid eye movements (saccades) to focus on objects and locations of interest. Despite abrupt retinal image shifts, we see the world as stable. Remapping contributes to visual stability by updating the internal image with every saccade. Neurons in macaque lateral intraparietal cortex (LIP) and other brain areas update information about salient locations around the time of a saccade. The depth of information transfer remains to be thoroughly investigated. Area LIP, as part of the dorsal visual stream, is regarded as a spatially selective area, yet there is evidence that LIP neurons also encode object features. We sought to determine whether LIP remaps shape information. This knowledge is important for understanding what information is retained from each glance. We identified 82 remapping neurons. First, we presented shapes within the receptive field and tested for shape selectivity in a fixation task. Among the remapping neurons, 28 neurons (34%) were selective for shape. Second, we presented the same shapes in the future location of the receptive field around the time of the saccade and tested for shape selectivity during remapping. Thirty-one (38%) neurons were selective for shape. Of 11 neurons that were shape selective in both tasks, 5 showed significant correlation between shape selectivity in the two tasks. Across the population, there was a weak but significant correlation between responses to shape in the two tasks. Our results provide neurophysiological evidence that remapped responses in area LIP can encode shape information as well as spatial information.
Reflex responses of tibialis anterior motor units to stretch stimuli were investigated in human subjects. Three types of stretch stimuli were applied (tap-like, ramp-and-hold, and half-sine stretch). Stimulus-induced responses in single motor units were analyzed using the classical technique, which involved building average surface electromyogram (SEMG) and peristimulus time histograms (PSTH) from the discharge times of motor units and peristimulus frequencygrams (PSF) from the instantaneous discharge rates of single motor units. With the use of SEMG and PSTH, the tap-like stretch stimulus induced five separate reflex responses, on average. With the same single motor unit data, the PSF technique indicated that the tap stimulus induced only three reflex responses. Similar to the finding using the tap-like stretch stimuli, ramp-and-hold stimuli induced several peaks and troughs in the SEMG and PSTH. The PSF analyses displayed genuine increases in discharge rates underlying the peaks but not underlying the troughs. Half-sine stretch stimuli induced a long-lasting excitation followed by a long-lasting silent period in SEMG and PSTH. The increase in the discharge rate, however, lasted for the entire duration of the stimulus and continued during the silent period. The results are discussed in the light of the fact that the discharge rate of a motoneuron has a strong positive linear association with the effective synaptic current it receives and hence represents changes in the membrane potential more directly and accurately than the other indirect measures. This study suggests that the neuronal pathway of the human stretch reflex does not include inhibitory pathways.
Temporal pole (TP) cortex is associated with higher-order sensory perception and/or recognition memory, as human patients with damage in this region show impaired performance during some tasks requiring recognition memory (Olson et al. 2007). The underlying mechanisms of TP processing are largely based on examination of the visual nervous system in humans and monkeys, while little is known about neuronal activity patterns in the auditory portion of this region, dorsal TP (dTP; Poremba et al. 2003). The present study examines single-unit activity of dTP in rhesus monkeys performing a delayed matching-to-sample task utilizing auditory stimuli, wherein two sounds are determined to be the same or different. Neurons of dTP encode several task-relevant events during the delayed matching-to-sample task, and encoding of auditory cues in this region is associated with accurate recognition performance. Population activity in dTP shows a match suppression mechanism to identical, repeated sound stimuli similar to that observed in the visual object identification pathway located ventral to dTP (Desimone 1996; Nakamura and Kubota 1996). However, in contrast to sustained visual delay-related activity in nearby analogous regions, auditory delay-related activity in dTP is transient and limited. Neurons in dTP respond selectively to different sound stimuli and often change their sound response preferences between experimental contexts. Current findings suggest a significant role for dTP in auditory recognition memory similar in many respects to the visual nervous system, while delay memory firing patterns are not prominent, which may relate to monkeys' shorter forgetting thresholds for auditory vs. visual objects.
The aim of the study was to investigate the use of the Functional Capacity Scale (FCS) to measure functional outcome of patients who had undergone surgical removal of an intracranial aneurysm in the early postoperative period. Reliability and validity of the tool were tested as well as its utility in nursing practice. The study included 120 patients, operated on for intracranial aneurysm. Phase I included 23 patients. Reliability of FCS and the amount of time used for the assessment were tested using observation and direct measurement methods. Phase II included 97 patients, and the tool was administered along with standard outcome assessment tools (Barthel Index, Functional Index &quot;Repty,&quot; Glasgow Outcome Score, and Rankin Scale) to determine concurrent validity. Kendall's coefficients of concordance (W) between particular care markers of FCS ranged from 0.910 to 1.000. Mean amount of time used for assessment was 90 seconds. Differences between time used for measurements by individual examiners were insignificant (p &gt; .05). Correlation of FCS with the following scales was statistically significant: Functional Index &quot;Repty&quot; (p &lt; .001), Glasgow Outcome Score (p &lt; .01), Rankin Scale (p &lt; .01), and Barthel Index (p &lt; .001). The FCS appears to be a reliable, valid, and practical assessment tool for neuroscience nurses to use with patients who have undergone surgical removal of an intracranial aneurysm.


The preservation of functional neural tissue after spinal cord injury (SCI) is the basis for spontaneous neurological recovery. Some injured patients in the acute phase have more potential for recovery than others. This fact is problematic for the construction of clinical trials because enrollment of subjects with variable recovery potential makes it difficult to detect effects, requires large sample sizes, and risks Type II errors. In addition, the current methods to assess injury and recovery are non-quantitative and not sensitive. It is likely that therapeutic combinations will be necessary to cause substantially improved function after SCI, thus we need highly sensitive techniques to evaluate changes in motor, sensory, autonomic and other functions. We review several emerging neurophysiological techniques with high sensitivity. Quantitative methods to evaluate residual tissue sparing after severe acute SCI have not entered widespread clinical use. This reduces the ability to correlate structural preservation with clinical outcome following SCI resulting in enrollment of subjects with varying patterns of tissue preservation and injury into clinical trials. We propose that the inclusion of additional measures of injury severity, pattern, and individual genetic characteristics may enable stratification in clinical trials to make the testing of therapeutic interventions more effective and efficient. New imaging techniques to assess tract injury and demyelination and methods to quantify tissue injury, inflammatory markers, and neuroglial biochemical changes may improve the evaluation of injury severity, and the correlation with neurological outcome, and measure the effects of treatment more robustly than is currently possible. The ability to test such a multimodality approach will require a high degree of collaboration between clinical and research centers and government research support. When the most informative of these assessments is determined, it may be possible to identify patients with substantial recovery potential, improve selection criteria and conduct more efficient clinical trials.
Japanese encephalitis is frequent in Asia, with a severe prognosis, but rare in travelers. Culex mosquitoes transmit Japanese encephalitis virus. Risk factors are destination, duration of stay, summer and fall seasons, outdoor activities, and type of accommodation. We report the case of a French traveler to Nepal with neutralization-based serological confirmed Japanese encephalitis. He presented classical clinical (viral syndrome before an encephalitis status with behavioral disorder, global hypotonia, mutism, movement disorders, seizure, and coma), radiological (lesions of thalami, cortico-spinal tracts, and brainstem) and biological features (lymphocytic meningitis). Nowadays, the presence of Japanese encephalitis virus in Nepal, including mountain areas, is established but Japanese encephalitis remains rare in travelers returning from this area and neurologist physicians need to become familiar with this. We recommend vaccination for travelers spending a long period of time in Nepal and having at-risk outdoor activities.





We report on a preterm neonate of 30 weeks gestational age who presented with marked muscular hypotonia and severe respiratory failure at birth and was diagnosed with congenital myotonic dystrophy. Neuroimaging at 36 gestational weeks demonstrated diffuse T2-hyperintense signal of the supratentorial white matter and a simplified gyration and sulcation pattern. Follow-up imaging showed progressive myelination, brain maturation and decrease in T2-signal of the white matter. We discuss possible pathomechanisms for white matter signal abnormalities in this neonate.

People often use their own feelings as a basis to predict others' feelings. For example, when trying to gauge how much someone else enjoys a television show, people might think &quot;How much do I enjoy it?&quot; and use this answer as basis for estimating others' reactions. Although personal experience (such as actually watching the show oneself) often improves empathic accuracy, we found that gaining too much experience can impair it. Five experiments highlight a desensitization bias in emotional perspective taking, with consequences for social prediction, social judgment, and social behavior. Participants who viewed thrilling or shocking images many times predicted first-time viewers would react less intensely (Experiments 1 and 2); participants who heard the same funny joke or annoying noise many times estimated less intense reactions of first-time listeners (Experiments 3 and 4); and further, participants were less likely to actually share good jokes and felt less bad about blasting others with annoying noise after they themselves became desensitized to those events (Experiments 3-5). These effects were mediated by participants' own attenuated reactions. Moreover, observers failed to anticipate this bias, believing that overexposed participants (i.e., repeatedly exposed participants who became desensitized) would make better decisions on their behalf (Experiment 5). Taken together, these findings reveal a novel paradox in emotional perspective taking: If people experience an evocative event many times, they may not become wiser companions but worse, unable to disentangle self-change from other-oriented thinking. Just as lacking exposure to others' experiences can create gaps in empathy and understanding, so may gaining too much.

Purinergic control of vascular tone in the CNS has been largely unexplored. This study examines the contribution of endogenous extracellular ATP, acting on vascular smooth muscle cells, in controlling vascular tone in the in vivo rat retina. Retinal vessels were labelled by i.v. injection of a fluorescent dye and imaged with scanning laser confocal microscopy. The diameters of primary arterioles were monitored under control conditions and following intravitreal injection of pharmacological agents. Apyrase (500 units ml(-1)), an ATP hydrolysing enzyme, dilated retinal arterioles by 40.4  2.8%, while AOPCP (12.5 mm), an ecto-5'-nucleotidase inhibitor that increases extracellular ATP levels, constricted arterioles by 58.0  3.8% (P &lt; 0.001 for both), demonstrating the importance of ATP in the control of basal vascular tone. Suramin (500 m), a broad-spectrum P2 receptor antagonist, dilated retinal arterioles by 50.9  3.7% (P &lt; 0.001). IsoPPADS (300 m) and TNP-ATP (50 m), more selective P2X antagonists, dilated arterioles by 41.0  5.3% and 55.2  6.1% respectively (P &lt; 0.001 for both). NF023 (50 m), a potent antagonist of P2X1 receptors, dilated retinal arterioles by 32.1  2.6% (P &lt; 0.001). A438079 (500 m) and AZ10606120 (50 m), P2X7 antagonists, had no effect on basal vascular tone (P = 0.99 and P = 1.00 respectively). In the ex vivo retina, the P2X1 receptor agonist ,-methylene ATP (300 nm) evoked sustained vasoconstrictions of 18.7  3.2% (P &lt; 0.05). In vivo vitreal injection of the gliotoxin fluorocitrate (150 m) dilated retinal vessels by 52.3  1.1% (P &lt; 0.001) and inhibited the vasodilatory response to NF023 (50 m, 7.9  2.0%; P &lt; 0.01). These findings suggest that vascular tone in rat retinal arterioles is maintained by tonic release of ATP from the retina. ATP acts on P2X1 receptors, although contributions from other P2X and P2Y receptors cannot be ruled out. Retinal glial cells are a possible source of the vasoconstricting ATP.
Hypoxia is a common challenge to the fetus, promoting a physiological defence to redistribute blood flow towards the brain and away from peripheral circulations. During acute hypoxia, reactive oxygen species (ROS) interact with nitric oxide (NO) to provide an oxidant tone. This contributes to the mechanisms redistributing the fetal cardiac output, although the source of ROS is unknown. Here, we investigated whether ROS derived from xanthine oxidase (XO) contribute to the fetal peripheral vasoconstrictor response to hypoxia via interaction with NO-dependent mechanisms. Pregnant ewes and their fetuses were surgically prepared for long-term recording at 118 days of gestation (term approximately 145 days). After 5 days of recovery, mothers were infused i.v. for 30 min with either vehicle (n = 11), low dose (30 mg kg(-1), n = 5) or high dose (150 mg kg(-1), n = 9) allopurinol, or high dose allopurinol with fetal NO blockade (n = 6). Following allopurinol treatment, fetal hypoxia was induced by reducing maternal inspired O2 such that fetal basal P aO 2 decreased approximately by 50% for 30 min. Allopurinol inhibited the increase in fetal plasma uric acid and suppressed the fetal femoral vasoconstrictor, glycaemic and lactate acidaemic responses during hypoxia (all P &lt; 0.05), effects that were restored to control levels with fetal NO blockade. The data provide evidence for the activation of fetal XO in vivo during hypoxia and for XO-derived ROS in contributing to the fetal peripheral vasoconstriction, part of the fetal defence to hypoxia. The data are of significance to the understanding of the physiological control of the fetal cardiovascular system during hypoxic stress. The findings are also of clinical relevance in the context of obstetric trials in which allopurinol is being administered to pregnant women when the fetus shows signs of hypoxic distress.
We propose an extended version of our previous goal directed navigation model based on forward planning of trajectories in a network of head direction cells, persistent spiking cells, grid cells, and place cells. In our original work the animat incrementally creates a place cell map by random exploration of a novel environment. After the exploration phase, the animat decides on its next movement direction towards a goal by probing linear look-ahead trajectories in several candidate directions while stationary and picking the one activating place cells representing the goal location. In this work we present several improvements over our previous model. We improve the range of linear look-ahead probes significantly by imposing a hierarchical structure on the place cell map consistent with the experimental findings of differences in the firing field size and spacing of grid cells recorded at different positions along the dorsal to ventral axis of entorhinal cortex. The new model represents the environment at different scales by populations of simulated hippocampal place cells with different firing field sizes. Among other advantages this model allows simultaneous constant duration linear look-ahead probes at different scales while significantly extending each probe range. The extension of the linear look-ahead probe range while keeping its duration constant also limits the degrading effects of noise accumulation in the network. We show the extended model's performance using an animat in a large open field environment.
Brain-machine interfaces (BMIs) open new horizons for the treatment of paralyzed persons, giving hope for the artificial restoration of lost physiological functions. Whereas BMI development has mainly focused on motor rehabilitation, recent studies have suggested that higher cognitive functions can also be deciphered from brain activity, bypassing low level planning and execution functions, and replacing them by computer-controlled effectors. This review describes the new generation of cognitive-motor BMIs, focusing on three BMI types: By outlining recent progress in developing these BMI types, we aim to provide a unified view of contemporary research towards the replacement of behavioral outputs of cognitive processes by direct interaction with the brain.
Since the discovery of complex, voltage dependent mechanisms in the dendrites of multiple neuron types, great effort has been devoted in search of a direct link between dendritic properties and specific neuronal functions. Over the last few years, new experimental techniques have allowed the visualization and probing of dendritic anatomy, plasticity and integrative schemes with unprecedented detail. This vast amount of information has caused a paradigm shift in the study of memory, one of the most important pursuits in Neuroscience, and calls for the development of novel theories and models that will unify the available data according to some basic principles. Traditional models of memory considered neural cells as the fundamental processing units in the brain. Recent studies however are proposing new theories in which memory is not only formed by modifying the synaptic connections between neurons, but also by modifications of intrinsic and anatomical dendritic properties as well as fine tuning of the wiring diagram. In this review paper we present previous studies along with recent findings from our group that support a key role of dendrites in information processing, including the encoding and decoding of new memories, both at the single cell and the network level.

Impaired dexterity is a major psychomotor deficit reported in patients with schizophrenia. In the present study, the Purdue pegboard test was used to compare the manual dexterity in patients with schizophrenia and healthy controls. We also examined the influence of antipsychotics, benzodiazepines, and benzodiazepine-like drugs on manual dexterity. Subjects were 93 patients with schizophrenia and 93 healthy controls, matched for sex and age distributions. Control subjects scored significantly higher on all scores of Purdue pegboard than patients with schizophrenia. Age, PANSS negative symptom scale, typical antipsychotic dose, and use of benzodiazepines and/or benzodiazepine-like drugs were negatively correlated with the pegboard scores in patients with schizophrenia. The present results indicate that patients with schizophrenia have impaired gross and fine fingertip dexterity compared to healthy controls. The use of typical antipsychotics and benzodiazepines and/or benzodiazepine-like drugs, but not atypical antipsychotics, had significant negative impact on dexterity in patients with schizophrenia. Psychiatrists should be aware that some psychotropic medications may enhance the disability caused by the impairment of dexterity in patients with schizophrenia.

Omega-3 fatty acids have received increasing interest due to their effects in stabilizing plasmatic membranes and regulating cell signaling. The efficacy of omega-3 fatty acids in psychiatric disorders, in particular mood disorders, has been studied. There have been two trials on eicosapentanoic acid (EPA) and docosahexanoic acid (DHA) in the treatment of borderline personality disorder (BPD). The present 12-week controlled trial aimed to assess the efficacy of the association of EPA and DHA with valproic acid, compared to single valproic acid, in 43 consecutive BPD outpatients. Participants were evaluated at baseline and after 12 weeks with: Clinical Global Impression - Severity (CGI-S), Hamilton Scales for depression and anxiety (HAM-D, HAM-A), Social and Occupational Functioning Assessment Scale (SOFAS), borderline personality disorder severity index (BPDSI), Barratt Impulsiveness Scale - version 11 (BIS-11), Modified Overt Aggression Scale (MOAS), Self-Harm Inventory (SHI) and Dosage Record Treatment Emergent Symptom Scale (DOTES).



Although a beneficial role of post-training sleep for declarative memory has been consistently evidenced in children, as in adults, available data suggest that procedural memory consolidation does not benefit from sleep in children. However, besides the absence of performance gains in children, sleep-dependent plasticity processes involved in procedural memory consolidation might be expressed through differential interference effects on the learning of novel but related procedural material. To test this hypothesis, 32 10-12-year-old children were trained on a motor rotation adaptation task. After either a sleep or a wake period, they were first retested on the same rotation applied at learning, thus assessing offline sleep-dependent changes in performance, then on the opposite (unlearned) rotation to assess sleep-dependent modulations in proactive interference coming from the consolidated visuomotor memory trace. Results show that children gradually improve performance over the learning session, showing effective adaptation to the imposed rotation. In line with previous findings, no sleep-dependent changes in performance were observed for the learned rotation. However, presentation of the opposite, unlearned deviation elicited significantly higher interference effects after post-training sleep than wakefulness in children. Considering that a definite feature of procedural motor memory and skill acquisition is the implementation of highly automatized motor behaviour, thus lacking flexibility, our results suggest a better integration and/or automation or motor adaptation skills after post-training sleep, eventually resulting in higher proactive interference effects on untrained material.



The objective of this study was to evaluate the Barrow Neurological Institute Screen for Higher Cerebral Functions (BNIS) in screening for cognitive dysfunction at long-term follow-up after stroke in young and middle-aged patients. Within the Sahlgrenska Academy Study on Ischemic Stroke Outcome, the BNIS and the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) were administered to 295 consecutive surviving patients seven years after ischemic stroke. All participants were less than 70years at index stroke. BNIS score less than 47 and an MMSE score less than 29 were chosen to indicate cognitive dysfunction. Two hundred eighty-one (95%) patients completed both tests. The 2 test scores were moderately correlated, and both tests correlated to disability as measured bythe modified Rankin Scale. The distribution of the MMSE score was skewed toward the top scores, with a marked ceiling effect, whereas the BNIS score was more normally distributed. Most BNIS subscales showed mean performance aroundthe mid of the scale without ceiling effects. Both tests identified a large proportion of the subjects as cognitive impaired, however, with a substantially larger proportion for the BNIS (89%) compared with the MMSE (65%). We conclude that the BNIS may be a useful screening instrument for cognitive dysfunction after ischemic stroke and that a large proportion of young and middle-aged ischemic stroke survivors showed signs of cognitive dysfunction long after index stroke. Further validations of BNISagainst formal neuropsychological testing and studies of the determinants and consequences of long-term cognitive outcome in this patient group are warranted.
It has been speculated that attentional bias (AB) to smoking cues is a permanent feature of addiction. The objective of the present study was to investigate if abstinence duration has an influence on AB. Performance on a visual probe task of three groups (recent, intermediate and prolonged) of ex-smokers (n=62, mean age 5011 years) with different abstinence durations was compared. Target/Control images were presented at three stimulus onset asynchronies (SOAs: 200, 500, and 2000 ms) on a 17-inch monitor. Former smokers avoided target images (TIs). Mean reaction time to control images was shorter than to TIs, confirming the attentional avoidance of TIs. Attentional avoidance of TIs and the lower emotional valence of these stimuli may have been a strategy to avoid relapse. Sustained avoidance to smoking-related cues may be a predictor of long-term abstinence. Direct training of AB away from drug cues may improve the results of smoking cessation therapy.
Memory deficits are a common complaint of patients with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Despite vivid trauma-related memory, previous studies report memory impairment for nontrauma-related stimuli when compared to controls, specifically in associative memory (Guez etal., 2011). Healthy individuals show hemispheric memory asymmetry with left-prefrontal lateralization of encoding and right-prefrontal lateralization of episodic retrieval, suggesting a role for interhemispheric communication in memory-related tasks (Gazzaniga, ; Ringo, Doty, Demeter, &amp; Simard, ). Because brain magnetic resonance imaging (bMRI) studies in PTSD patients report volume changes in various regions, including white matter and corpus callosum (CC), we aimed to test the relationship between memory deficits and CC volume in PTSD patients. We probed for specific alterations in associative memory in PTSD and measured the volume of subportions within the CC employing bMRI. Ourmain finding was a reduction in CC white-matter volume in PTSD patients, as compared to controls, t(35) = -2.7, p = .010, that was correlated with lower associative performance (r = .76, p = .003). We propose that CC volume reduction is a substrate for the associative memory deficits found in PTSD.















Progress in the field of mitochondrial biology in the past few years has shown that mitochondrial activities go beyond bioenergetics. These new aspects of mitochondrial physiology and pathophysiology have important implications for the immature brain. A picture emerges in which mitochondrial biogenesis, mitophagy, migration, and morphogenesis are crucial for brain development and synaptic pruning, and play a part in recovery after acute insults. Mitochondria also affect brain susceptibility to injury, and mitochondria-directed interventions can make the immature brain highly resistant to acute injury. Finally, the mitochondrion is a platform for innate immunity, contributes to inflammation in response to infection and acute damage, and participates in antiviral and antibacterial defence. Understanding of these new aspects of mitochondrial function will provide insights into brain development and neurological disease, and enable discovery and development of new strategies for treatment.
After focal damage, cerebral networks reorganise their structural and functional anatomy to compensate for both the lesion itself and remote effects. Novel developments in the analysis of functional neuroimaging data enable us to assess in vivo the specific contributions of individual brain areas to recovery of function and the effect of treatment on cortical reorganisation. Connectivity analyses can be used to investigate the effect of stroke on cerebral networks, and help us to understand why some patients make a better recovery than others. This systems-level view also provides insights into how neuromodulatory interventions might target pathological network configurations associated with incomplete recovery. In the future, such analyses of connectivity could help to optimise treatment regimens based on the individual network pathology underlying a particular neurological deficit, thereby opening the way for stratification of patients based on the possible response to an intervention.
Rasmussen's encephalitis is a rare chronic neurological disorder, characterised by unilateral inflammation of the cerebral cortex, drug-resistant epilepsy, and progressive neurological and cognitive deterioration. Neuropathological and immunological studies support the notion that Rasmussen's encephalitis is probably driven by a T-cell response to one or more antigenic epitopes, with potential additional contribution by autoantibodies. Careful analysis of the association between histopathology and clinical presentation suggests that initial damage to the brain is mediated by T cells and microglia, suggesting a window for treatment if Rasmussen's encephalitis can be diagnosed early. Advances in neuroimaging suggest that progression of the inflammatory process seen with MRI might be a good biomarker in Rasmussen's encephalitis. For many patients, families, and doctors, choosing the right time to move from medical management to surgery is a real therapeutic dilemma. Cerebral hemispherectomy remains the only cure for seizures, but there are inevitable functional compromises. Decisions of whether or when surgery should be undertaken are challenging in the absence of a dense neurological deficit, and vary by institutional experience. Further, the optimum time for surgery, to give the best language and cognitive outcome, is not yet well understood. Immunomodulatory treatments seem to slow rather than halt disease progression in Rasmussen's encephalitis, without changing the eventual outcome.




This article provides a comprehensive overview of oxygen ((17)O) magnetic resonance spectroscopy and imaging, including the advantages and challenges offered by the different methods developed thus far. The physiological role and relevance of oxygen, and its participation in aerobic metabolism, are addressed to emphasize the importance of the investigations and the efforts related to these developments. Furthermore, a number of methods employed in the determination of the cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen in neural cells will be presented, focusing primarily on methodologies enabling absolute quantification.
Inflammation modulates tissue damage in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) both acutely and chronically, but its severity is difficult to evaluate with conventional MRI analysis. In mice with experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE, a model of MS), we administered ultra small particles of iron oxide to track macrophage-mediated inflammation during the onset (relapse) and recovery (remission) of disease activity using high field MRI. We performed MRI texture analysis, a sensitive measure of tissue regularity, and T2 assessment both in EAE lesions and the control tissue, and measured spinal cord volume. We found that inflammation was 3 times more remarkable at onset than at recovery of EAE in histology yet demyelination appeared similar across animals and disease course. In MRI, lesion texture was more heterogeneous; T2 was lower; and spinal cord volume was greater in EAE than in controls, but only MRI texture was worse at relapse than at remission of EAE. Moreover, MRI texture correlated with spinal cord volume and tended to correlate with the extent of disability in EAE. While subject to further confirmation, our findings may suggest the sensitivity of MRI texture analysis for accessing inflammation.
Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWMRI) is used to study white matter (WM) in normal and clinical populations. In DWMRI studies, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) models the WM anisotropy with one dominant direction, detecting possible pathway abnormalities only in large and highly coherent fiber tracts. However, more general anisotropy models like Q-ball imaging (QBI) may provide more sensitive WM descriptors in single patients. The present study aimed to compare DTI and QBI models in a group-level population analysis, using Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) as a pathological case model of WM tract degeneration. DWMRI was performed in 19 ALS patients and 19 age and sex-matched healthy controls. DTI and QBI estimates were compared in whole-brain tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS) and volume of interest (VOI) analyses, and correlated with ALS clinical scores of disability. A significant decrease of the QBI-derived generalized fractional anisotropy (GFA) was observed in both motor and extramotor fibers of ALS patients compared to controls. Homologue DTI-derived FA maps were only partially overlapping with GFA maps. Particularly, the left corticospinal tracts resulted more markedly depicted by the QBI than by the DTI model, with GFA predicting ALS disability better than FA. The present findings demonstrate that QBI model is suitable for studying WM tract degeneration in population-level clinical studies. Particularly, group-level studies of fiber integrity may benefit from QBI when DTI is biased towards low values, such as in cases of fiber degeneration, and in regions with more than one dominant fiber direction.
Important for energy metabolism, neurotransmission, bone stability, and other cellular functions, Mg(2+) has well-established and undisputedly critical roles in adult tissues. Its contributions to early embryonic development are less clearly understood. For decades it has been known that gestational Mg(2+) deficiency in rodents produces teratogenic effects. More recent studies have linked deficiency in this vital cation to birth defects in humans, including spina bifida, a neural fold closure defect in humans that occurs at an average rate of 1 per 1000 pregnancies. The first suggestion that Mg(2+) may be playing a more specific role in early development arose from studies of the TRPM7 and TRPM6 ion channels. TRPM7 and TRPM6 are divalent-selective ion channels in possession of their own kinase domains that have been implicated in the control of Mg(2+) homeostasis in vertebrates. Disruption of the functions of these ion channels in mice as well as in frogs interferes with gastrulation, a pivotal process during early embryonic development that executes the emergence of the body plan and closure of the neural tube. Surprisingly, gastrulation defects produced by depletion of TRPM7 can be prevented by Mg(2+) supplementation, indicating an essential role for Mg(2+) in gastrulation and neural fold closure. The aim of this review is to summarize the data emerging from molecular genetic, biochemical and electrophysiological studies of TRPM6 and TRPM7 and provide a model of how Mg(2+), through these unique channel-kinases, may be impacting early embryonic development.
Imprinted genes are defined by their parent-of-origin-specific monoallelic expression. Although the epigenetic mechanisms regulating imprinted gene expression have been widely studied, their functional importance is still unclear. Imprinted genes are associated with a number of physiologies, including placental function and foetal growth, energy homeostasis, and brain and behaviour. This review focuses on genomic imprinting in the brain and on two imprinted genes in particular, Nesp and paternal Grb10, which, when manipulated in animals, have been shown to influence adult behaviour. These two genes are of particular interest as they are expressed in discrete and overlapping neural regions, recognised as key &quot;imprinting hot spots&quot; in the brain. Furthermore, these two genes do not appear to influence placental function and/or maternal provisioning of offspring. Consequently, by understanding their behavioural function we may begin to shed light on the evolutionary significance of imprinted genes in the adult brain, independent of the recognised role in maternal care. In addition, we discuss the potential future directions of research investigating the function of these two genes and the behavioural role of imprinted genes more generally.
This study compared the immediate effects of an assisted plus active cranio-cervical flexion exercise (exercise group) versus a passive mobilisation plus assisted cranio-cervical flexion (mobilisation group) on performance of the cranio-cervical flexion test (CCFT), cervical range of motion (ROM) and pain in patients with chronic neck pain. Eighteen volunteers with chronic idiopathic neck pain participated in the study and were randomised to one of the two intervention groups. Current level of pain, cervical ROM and pain perceived during movement, pressure pain threshold (PPT) and surface electromyography (EMG) during performance of the CCFT were measured before and immediately after the intervention. Asignificant reduction in resting pain and PPT measured over cervical sites was observed immediately following both interventions, although a greater change was observed for the exercise group. No change in cervical ROM was observed after either intervention. Reduced sternocleidomastoid and anterior scalene EMG amplitude were observed during stages of the CCFT but only for the participants in the active exercise group. Although both active and passive interventions offered pain relief, only the exercise group improved on a task of motor function highlighting the importance of specific active treatment for improved motor control of the cervical spine.
This Special Issue of Mathematical Biosciences and Engineering contains ten selected papers presented at the Neural Coding 2012 workshop. Neuroscience is traditionally very close to mathematics which stems from the famous theoretical work of McCulloch--Pitts and Hodgkin--Huxley in the middle of the previous century. Great progress has been made since those times and through the decades this fruitful combination of disciplines continue. The workshop was held in the beautiful town of Prague in the Czech Republic, September 2-7, 2012. This was the 10th of a series of international workshops on this subject, the first one also held in Prague (1995), then in Versailles (1997), Osaka (1999), Plymouth (2001), Aulla (2003), Marburg (2005), Montevideo (2007), Tainan (2009), and in Limassol (2010). As in the previous workshops, this was a single track multidisciplinary event bringing together experimental and computational neuroscientists with ample time for informal discussions in a convivial atmosphere. The Neural Coding Workshops are traditionally biennial symposia each lasting 5 or 6 days. They are relatively small in size, interdisciplinary with major emphasis on the search for common principles in neural coding. The workshop was conceived to bring together scientists from different disciplines for an in-depth discussion of model-building and computational strategies.
The growth hormone/insulin-like growth factor-I (GH/IGF-I) axis is an important stimulator of collagen synthesis in connective tissue, but the effect of chronically altered GH/IGF-I levels on connective tissue of the muscle-tendon unit is not known. We studied three groups of mice; 1) giant transgenic mice that expressed bovine GH (bGH) and had high circulating levels of GH and IGF-I, 2) dwarf mice with a disrupted GH receptor gene (GHR-/-) leading to GH resistance and low circulating IGF-I, and 3) a wild-type control group (CTRL). We measured the ultra-structure, collagen content and mRNA expression (targets: GAPDH, RPLP0, IGF-IEa, IGF-IR, COL1A1, COL3A1, TGF-1, TGF-2, TGF-3, versican, scleraxis, tenascin C, fibronectin, fibromodulin, decorin) in the Achilles tendon, and the mRNA expression was also measured in calf muscle (same targets as tendon plus IGF-IEb, IGF-IEc). We found that GHR-/- mice had significantly lower collagen fibril volume fraction in Achilles tendon, as well as decreased mRNA expression of IGF-I isoforms and collagen types I and III in muscle compared to CTRL. In contrast, the mRNA expression of IGF-I isoforms and collagens in bGH mice was generally high in both tendon and muscle compared to CTRL. Mean collagen fibril diameter was significantly decreased with both high and low GH/IGF-I signaling, but the GHR-/- mouse tendons were most severely affected with a total loss of the normal bimodal diameter distribution. In conclusion, chronic manipulation of the GH/IGF-I axis influenced both morphology and mRNA levels of selected genes in the muscle-tendon unit of mice. Whereas only moderate structural changes were observed with up-regulation of GH/IGF-I axis, disruption of the GH receptor had pronounced effects upon tendon ultra-structure.
Van gogh-like 2 (Vangl2), a core component of the Wnt/planar cell polarity (PCP) signaling pathway, is a four-pass transmembrane protein with N-terminal and C-terminal domains located in the cytosol, and is structurally conserved from flies to mammals. In vertebrates, Vangl2 plays an essential role in convergence and extension (CE) movements during gastrulation and in facial branchiomotor (FBM) neuron migration in the hindbrain. However, the roles of specific Vangl2 domains, of membrane association, and of specific extracellular and intracellular motifs have not been examined, especially in the context of FBM neuron migration. Through heat shock-inducible expression of various Vangl2 transgenes, we found that membrane associated functions of the N-terminal and C-terminal domains of Vangl2 are involved in regulating FBM neuron migration. Importantly, through temperature shift experiments, we found that the critical period for Vangl2 function coincides with the initial stages of FBM neuron migration out of rhombomere 4. Intriguingly, we have also uncovered a putative nuclear localization motif in the C-terminal domain that may play a role in regulating CE movements.
Many fungi use membrane vesicles to transport complex molecules across their cell walls. Like mammalian exosomes, fungal vesicles contain lipids, proteins, and polysaccharides, many of which are associated with virulence. Here we identify and characterize extracellular vesicles (EVs) in Alternaria infectoria, a ubiquitous, environmental filamentous fungus that is also an opportunistic human pathogen. Examination of the A. infectoria EVs revealed a morphology similar to that of vesicles described in other fungal species. Of note, proteomic analysis detected a reduced number of vesicle-associated proteins. There were two prevalent categories among the 20 identified proteins, including the polysaccharide metabolism group, probably related to plant host invasion or biosynthesis/degradation of cell wall components, and the nuclear proteins, especially DNA repair enzymes. We also found enzymes related to pigment synthesis, adhesion to the host cell, and trafficking of vesicles/organelles/molecules. This is the first time EV secretions have been identified in a filamentous fungus. We believe that these vesicles might have a role in virulence.
Behavioral adaptation to complex or new situations depends on the anatomical, physiological and functional properties of the prefrontal cortex, and on its interaction with other regions. These properties allow distinguishing two main prefrontal regions: the lateral part involved in cognitive aspects of goal-directed behaviors, and the ventral part involved in its affective aspects. Damage to these two regions is associated with two distinct clinical syndromes. Cognitive deficits in planning dominate in the lateral syndrome, behavioral regulation and motivation disorders in the ventral syndrome. Beyond this distinction, the question of how the systems that enable cognitive and behavioral aspects of adaptation are organized in prefrontal subregions, and can be best assessed, is not fully understood. This question is an essential issue in cognitive neuroscience and is crucial to improve clinical practice.


RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) are key players in the post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. Precise knowledge about their binding sites is therefore critical to unravel their molecular function and to understand their role in development and disease. Individual-nucleotide resolution UV crosslinking and immunoprecipitation (iCLIP) identifies protein-RNA crosslink sites on a genome-wide scale. The high resolution and specificity of this method are achieved by an intramolecular cDNA circularization step that enables analysis of cDNAs that truncated at the protein-RNA crosslink sites. Here, we describe the improved iCLIP protocol and discuss critical optimization and control experiments that are required when applying the method to new RBPs.
Tau is a microtubule-associated protein mainly found in neurons. The protein is associated with process of microtubule assembly, which plays an important role in intracellular transport and cell structure of the neuron. Tauopathies are a group of neurodegenerative diseases specifically associated with tau abnormalities. While a well-defined mechanism remains unknown, most facts point to tau as a prominent culprit in neurodegeneration. In most cases of Tauopathies, aggregates of hyperphosphorylated tau have been found. Two proposals are present when discussing tau toxicity, one being the aggregation of tau proteins and the other points toward a conformational change within the protein. Previous work we carried out showed tau hyperphosphorylation promotes tau to behave abnormally resulting in microtubule assembly disruption as well as a breakdown in tau self-assembly. We found that tau's N-terminal region has a putative site for ATP/GTP binding. In this paper we demonstrate that tau is able to bind ATP and not GTP, that this binding induces tau self-assembly into filaments. At 1 mM ATP the filaments are 4-7 nm in width, whereas at 10 mM ATP the filaments appeared to establish lateral interaction, bundling and twisting, forming filaments that resembled the Paired Helical Filaments (PHF) isolated from Alzheimer disease brain. ATP-induced self-assembly is not energy dependent because the nonhydrolysable analogue of the ATP induces the same assembly.
Double C2-domain protein (Doc2) is a Ca(2+)-binding protein implicated in asynchronous and spontaneous neurotransmitter release. Here we demonstrate that each of its C2 domains senses Ca(2+); moreover, the tethered tandem C2 domains display properties distinct from the isolated domains. We confirm that overexpression of a mutant form of Doc2, in which two acidic Ca(2+) ligands in the C2A domain and two in the C2B domain have been neutralized, results in markedly enhanced asynchronous release in synaptotagmin 1-knockout neurons. Unlike wild-type (wt) Doc2, which translocates to the plasma membrane in response to increases in [Ca(2+)](i), the quadruple Ca(2+)-ligand mutant does not bind Ca(2+) but is constitutively associated with the plasma membrane; this effect is due to substitution of Ca(2+) ligands in the C2A domain. When overexpressed in wt neurons, Doc2 affects only asynchronous release; in contrast, Doc2 Ca(2+)-ligand mutants that constitutively localize to the plasma membrane enhance both the fast and slow components of synaptic transmission by increasing the readily releasable vesicle pool size; these mutants also increase the frequency of spontaneous release events. Thus, mutations in the C2A domain of Doc2 that were intended to disrupt Ca(2+) binding result in an anomalous enhancement of constitutive membrane-binding activity and endow Doc2 with novel functional properties.
In contrast to a single copy of Exo70 in yeast and mammals, the Arabidopsis genome contains 23 paralogues of Exo70 (AtExo70). Using AtExo70E2 and its GFP fusion as probes, we recently identified a novel double-membrane organelle termed exocyst-positive organelle (EXPO) that mediates an unconventional protein secretion in plant cells. Here we further demonstrate that AtExo70E2 is essential for exocyst subunit recruitment and for EXPO formation in both plants and animals. By performing transient expression in Arabidopsis protoplasts, we established that a number of exocyst subunits (especially the members of the Sec family) are unable to be recruited to EXPO in the absence of AtExo70E2. The paralogue AtExo70A1 is unable to substitute for AtExo70E2 in this regard. Fluorescence resonance energy transfer assay and bimolecular fluorescence complementation analyses confirm the interaction between AtExo70E2 and Sec6 and Sec10. AtExo70E2, but not its yeast counterpart, is also capable of inducing EXPO formation in an animal cell line (HEK293A cells). Electron microscopy confirms the presence of double-membraned, EXPO-like structures in HEK293A cells expressing AtExo70E2. Inversely, neither human nor yeast Exo70 homologues cause the formation of EXPO in Arabidopsis protoplasts. These results point to a specific and crucial role for AtExo70E2 in EXPO formation.
Wiring between signaling pathways differs according to context, as exemplified by interactions between Notch and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) pathways, which are cooperative in some contexts but antagonistic in others. To investigate mechanisms that underlie different modes of cross talk, we have focused on argos, an EGFR pathway regulator in Drosophila melanogaster which is upregulated by Notch in adult muscle progenitors but is repressed in the wing. Results show that the alternate modes of cross talk depend on the engagement of enhancers with opposite regulatory logic, which are selected by context-determining factors. This is likely to be a general mechanism for enabling the wiring between these pathways to switch according to context.
Clinical, epidemiological and experimental studies confirm a connection between the common degenerative movement disorder Parkinson's disease (PD) that affects over 1 million individuals, and Gaucher disease, the most prevalent lysosomal storage disorder. Recently, human imaging studies have implicated impaired striatal dopaminergic neurotransmission in early PD pathogenesis in the context of Gaucher disease mutations, but the underlying mechanisms have yet to be characterized. In this report we describe and characterize two novel long-lived transgenic mouse models of Gba deficiency, along with a subchronic conduritol--epoxide (CBE) exposure paradigm. All three murine models revealed striking glial activation within nigrostriatal pathways, accompanied by abnormal -synuclein accumulation. Importantly, the CBE-induced, pharmacological Gaucher mouse model replicated this change in dopamine neurotransmission, revealing a markedly reduced evoked striatal dopamine release (approximately 2-fold) that indicates synaptic dysfunction. Other changes in synaptic plasticity markers, including microRNA profile and a 24.9% reduction in post-synaptic density size, were concomitant with diminished evoked dopamine release following CBE exposure. These studies afford new insights into the mechanisms underlying the Parkinson's-Gaucher disease connection, and into the physiological impact of related abnormal -synuclein accumulation and neuroinflammation on nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurotransmission.
Mucolipidosis type IV (MLIV) is an autosomal recessive disorder resulting from mutations in the MCOLN1 gene. This gene encodes the endosomal/lysosomal transient receptor potential channel protein mucolipin-1 (TRPML1). Affected patients suffer from neurodevelopmental abnormalities and progressive retinal dystrophy. In a prospective natural history study we hypothesized the presence of an additional slow cerebral neurodegenerative process. We have recruited 5 patients, tested their neurodevelopmental status, and measured cerebral regional volumes and white matter integrity using MRI yearly. Over a period of up to 3 years, MLIV patients remained neurologically stable. There was a trend for increased cortical and subcortical gray matter volumes and increased ventricular size, while white matter and cerebellar volumes decreased. Mean diffusivity (MD) was increased and fractional anisotropy (FA) values were below normal in all analyzed brain regions. There was a positive correlation between motor scores of the Vineland Scale and the FA values in the corticospinal tract (corr coef 0.39), and a negative correlation with the MD values (corr coef -0.50) in the same brain region. We conclude from these initial findings that deficiency in mucolipin-1 affects the entire brain but that there might be a selective regional cerebral neurodegenerative process in MLIV. In addition, these data suggest that diffusion-weighted imaging might be a good biomarker for following patients with MLIV. Therefore, our findings may be helpful for designing future clinical trials.
Fluorometric measurements of 4-methylumbelliferone (4-MU) are generally used to screen lysosomal storage diseases (LSDs) using dried blood spots (DBSs). However, in DBS, it is difficult to measure lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) activity due to the influence of other lipases in whole blood. Recently, Hamilton used a fluorometric enzyme assay with 4-MU derivatives to measure the LAL activity in DBS. This method requires mercury chloride as stopping reagent, and the fluorescence intensity of 4-MU was measured at an acidic pH. We report a revised method to measure the LAL activity without using toxic mercury chloride and to measure the fluorescence intensity of 4-MU at a basic pH. For this measurement, we established a more practical method that does not require mercury chloride. The LAL activity in DBS was measured in 51 normal controls, seven obligate carriers and seven patients with CESD. The average LAL activities  SD in the DBS from the normal, obligate carriers and CESD patients were 0.68  0.2 (range: 0.3-1.08), 0.21  0.1 (range: 0.11-0.41) and 0.02  0.02 (range: 0-0.06) nmol/punch/h, respectively. There was a significant difference between the normal and the CESD. Our method does not require toxic mercury chloride and is an appropriate revised enzyme assay using DBS for screening patients with CESD.
Obesity has dramatically increased in prevalence, making it essential to understand its accompanying metabolic changes. Modeling diet-induced obesity in Drosophila melanogaster (fruit flies), we elucidated transcriptional and metabolic changes in w (1118) flies on a high-fat diet (HFD). Mass spectrometry-based metabolomics revealed altered fatty acid, amino acid, and carbohydrate metabolism with HFD. Microarray analysis uncovered transcriptional changes in nitrogen metabolism, including CG9510, homolog of human argininosuccinate lyase (ASL). CG9510 knockdown in flies phenocopied traits observed with HFD, namely increased triglyceride levels and decreased cold tolerance. Restoration of CG9510 expression ameliorated observed negative consequences of HFD. Metabolomic analysis of CG9510 knockdown flies confirmed functional similarity to ASL, regulating the balance of carbon and nitrogen metabolism. In summary, we found that HFD suppresses CG9510 expression, a gene required for proper triglyceride storage and stress tolerance. These results draw an important link between regulation of amino acid metabolism and the response to diet-induced obesity.
Circadian rhythms control metabolism and energy homeostasis, but the role of the skeletal muscle clock has never been explored. We generated conditional and inducible mouse lines with muscle-specific ablation of the core clock gene Bmal1. Skeletal muscles from these mice showed impaired insulin-stimulated glucose uptake with reduced protein levels of GLUT4, the insulin-dependent glucose transporter, and TBC1D1, a Rab-GTPase involved in GLUT4 translocation. Pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) activity was also reduced due to altered expression of circadian genes Pdk4 and Pdp1, coding for PDH kinase and phosphatase, respectively. PDH inhibition leads to reduced glucose oxidation and diversion of glycolytic intermediates to alternative metabolic pathways, as revealed by metabolome analysis. The impaired glucose metabolism induced by muscle-specific Bmal1 knockout suggests that a major physiological role of the muscle clock is to prepare for the transition from the rest/fasting phase to the active/feeding phase, when glucose becomes the predominant fuel for skeletal muscle.
Emerging researches point to a relevant role of postsynaptic density (PSD) proteins, such as PSD-95, Homer, Shank, and DISC-1, in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and autism spectrum disorders. The PSD is a thickness, detectable at electronic microscopy, localized at the postsynaptic membrane of glutamatergic synapses, and made by scaffolding proteins, receptors, and effector proteins; it is considered a structural and functional crossroad where multiple neurotransmitter systems converge, including the dopaminergic, serotonergic, and glutamatergic ones, which are all implicated in the pathophysiology of psychosis. Decreased PSD-95 protein levels have been reported in postmortem brains of schizophrenia patients. Variants of Homer1, a key PSD protein for glutamate signaling, have been associated with schizophrenia symptoms severity and therapeutic response. Mutations in Shank gene have been recognized in autism spectrum disorder patients, as well as reported to be associated to behaviors reminiscent of schizophrenia symptoms when expressed in genetically engineered mice. Here, we provide a critical appraisal of PSD proteins role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and autism spectrum disorders. Then, we discuss how antipsychotics may affect PSD proteins in brain regions relevant to psychosis pathophysiology, possibly by controlling synaptic plasticity and dendritic spine rearrangements through the modulation of glutamate-related targets. We finally provide a framework that may explain how PSD proteins might be useful candidates to develop new therapeutic approaches for schizophrenia and related disorders in which there is a need for new biological treatments, especially against some symptom domains, such as negative symptoms, that are poorly affected by current antipsychotics.
High mobility group box 1 (HMGB1, also called amphoterin) facilitates neurite outgrowth in early development, yet can exacerbate pathology and inhibit regeneration by inducing adverse neuroinflammation when released from dying cells, suggesting that HMGB1 plays a critical, yet undefined role in neuroregeneration. We explored whether HMGB1 contributes to recovery after complete spinal cord transection in adult zebrafish. Quantitative PCR and in situ hybridization revealed that HMGB1 mRNA levels decreased between 12h to 11days after spinal cord injury (SCI), then returned to basal levels by 21days. Western blot and immunohistological analyses indicated that the time course of HMGB1 protein expression after SCI parallels that of mRNA. Immunofluorescence staining revealed that HMGB1 translocates from nuclei into the cytoplasm of spinal motoneurons at 4 and 12h (acute stage) following SCI, then accumulates in the nuclei of motoneurons during the ensuing chronic stage (after 6days following SCI). Immunohistology of transgenic zebrafish, expressing green fluorescent protein in blood vessels, showed enhanced HMGB1 expression in blood vessels in the vicinity of motoneurons. Application of anti-sense HMGB1 morpholinos inhibited locomotor recovery by 34% and decreased axonal regeneration by 34% compared to fish treated with a control morpholino. The present study shows that HMGB1 expression increases in both endothelial cells and motoneurons, suggesting that HMGB1 promotes recovery from SCI not only through enhancing neuroregeneration, but also by increasing angiogenesis. The inflammatory effects of HMGB1 are minimized through the decrease in HMGB1 expression during the acute stage.
Growing evidences have revealed that the proforms of several neurotrophins including nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and neurotrophin-3 (NT3), by binding to p75 neurotrophin receptor and sortilin, could induce neuronal apoptosis and are implicated in the pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative diseases. The glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), one of the most potent useful neurotrophic factors for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD), is firstly synthesized as the proform (proGDNF) like other neurotrophin NGF, BDNF, and NT3. However, little is known about proGDNF expression and secretion under physiological as well as pathological states in vivo or in vitro. In this study, we investigated the expression profile and dynamic changes of proGDNF in brains of aging and PD animal models, with the interesting finding that proGDNF was a predominant form of GDNF with molecular weight of about 36kDa by reducing and nonreducing immunoblots in adult brains and was unregulated in the aging, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and 1-methyl-4-phenyl- 1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) insult. We further provided direct evidence that accompanied activation of primary astrocytes as well as C6 cell line induced by LPS stimulation, proGDNF was increasingly synthesized and released as the uncleaved form in cell culture. Taken together, our results strongly suggest that proGDNF may be a biologically active protein and has specific effects on the cells close to its secreting site, and a potentially important role of proGDNF signaling in the brains, in the glia-neuronal interaction or in the pathogenesis of PD, should merit further investigation.
Despite the important role of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) as a neuromodulator in neurons, microglia, and astrocytes, its role in neural progenitor cell (NPC) development is not clear yet. We identified that tPA is highly expressed in NPCs compared with neurons. Inhibition of tPA activity or expression using tPA stop, PAI-1, or tPA siRNA inhibited neurite outgrowth from NPCs, while overexpression or addition of exogenous tPA increased neurite outgrowth. The expression of Wnt and -catenin as well as phosphorylation of LRP5 and LRP6, which has been implicated in Wnt--catenin signaling, was rapidly increased after tPA treatment and was decreased by tPA siRNA transfection. Knockdown of -catenin or LRP5/6 expression by siRNA prevented tPA-induced neurite extension. NPCs obtained from tPA KO mice showed impaired neurite outgrowth compared with WT NPCs. In ischemic rat brains, axon density was higher in the brains transplanted with WT NPCs than in those with tPA KO NPCs, suggesting increased axonal sprouting by NPC-derived tPA. tPA-mediated regulation of neuronal maturation in NPCs may play an important role during development and in regenerative conditions.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-like weak inducer of apoptosis (TWEAK) is a member of the TNF super family that controls many cellular activities including proliferation, migration, differentiation, apoptosis, and inflammation by binding to fibroblast growth factor-inducible 14 (Fn14), a highly inducible cell surface receptor. Recent studies have indicated that TWEAK-Fn14 axis signaling may contribute to chronic autoimmune diseases. TWEAK expression via microglia in cortical lesions, presence of TWEAK(+) macrophages in inflamed leptomeninges, and absence of TWEAK/Fn14 expression in healthy brain implicates importance of this pathway in pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis lesions. TWEAK-Fn14 axis blockade has also shown promise in various multiple sclerosis animal models. Stimulation of the TWEAK/Fn14 pathway can result in activation of both canonical and noncanonical NF-B signaling and could also stimulate mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways. Here, we have reviewed evidence of the possible role of TWEAK-Fn14 axis in pathophysiology of multiple sclerosis and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) via neuroinflammation, tissue remodeling, blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption, neurodegeneration, and astrogliosis.

Recently, glioma research has increased its focus on the diverse types of cells present in brain tumors. We observed previously that gliomas are associated with a profound accumulation of mast cells (MCs) and here we investigate the underlying mechanism. Gliomas express a plethora of chemoattractants. First, we demonstrated pronounced migration of human MCs toward conditioned medium from cultures of glioma cell lines. Subsequent cytokine array analyses of media from cells, cultured in either serum-containing or -free conditions, revealed a number of candidates which were secreted in high amounts in both cell lines. Among these, we then focused on macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF), which has been reported to be pro-inflammatory and -tumorigenic. Infiltration of MCs was attenuated by antibodies that neutralized MIF. Moreover, a positive correlation between the number of MCs and the level of MIF in a large cohort of human glioma tissue samples was observed. Further, both glioma-conditioned media and purified MIF promoted differential phosphorylation of a number of signaling molecules, including signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5), in MCs. Inhibition of pSTAT5 signaling significantly attenuated the migration of MCs toward glioma cell-conditioned medium shown to contain MIF. In addition, analysis of tissue microarrays (TMAs) of high-grade gliomas revealed a direct correlation between the level of pSTAT5 in MCs and the level of MIF in the medium. In conclusion, these findings indicate the important influence of signaling cascades involving MIF and STAT5 on the recruitment of MCs to gliomas.
The transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 1 (TRPV1) is known as a thermosensor and integrator of inflammation-induced hyperalgesia. TRPV1 is expressed in a subpopulation of primary afferent neurons that express several different neurotransmitters. The role of the TRPV1 channel in the development of hyperalgesia is established, but the role of the neurotransmitter glutamate, used partially by the same neuronal population and thus probably mediating the response, is still under investigation. We have used a Trpv1-Cre mouse line in which we either ablated Trpv1-Cre expressing neurons or induced vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (Vglut2) deficiency in Trpv1-Cre expressing neurons and investigated specific states of hyperalgesia after persistent inflammation. Furthermore, by pharmacologic inhibition of substance P (SP) or calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) signaling in Vglut2-deficient mice, we also evaluated the contribution of SP or CGRP to inflammation-induced hyperalgesia, with or without the presence of vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2)-mediated glutamatergic transmission in Trpv1-Cre neurons. This examination, together with c-Fos analyses, showed that VGLUT2-mediated glutamatergic transmission in Trpv1-Cre afferents together with SP or CGRP is essential for the development of the heat hyperalgesia associated with persistent inflammation. Additionally, SP-, CGRP-, and VGLUT2-mediated transmission together were found to play a role in the development of mechanical hyperalgesia after persistent inflammation.
T-type calcium channels (T/Ca(v)3-channels) are implicated in various physiologic and pathophysiologic processes such as epilepsy, sleep disorders, hypertension, and cancer. T-channels are the target of endogenous signaling lipids including the endocannabinoid anandamide, the 3-fatty acids, and the lipoamino-acids. However, the precise molecular mechanism by which these molecules inhibit T-current is unknown. In this study, we provided a detailed electrophysiologic and pharmacologic analysis indicating that the effects of the major N-acyl derivatives on the Ca(v)3.3 current share many similarities with those of TTA-A2 [(R)-2-(4-cyclopropylphenyl)-N-(1-(5-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)acetamide], a synthetic T-channel inhibitor. Using radioactive binding assays with the TTA-A2 derivative [(3)H]TTA-A1 [(R)-2-(4-(tert-butyl)phenyl)-N-(1-(5-methoxypyridin-2-yl)ethyl)acetamide], we demonstrated that polyunsaturated lipids, which inhibit the Ca(v)3.3 current, as NAGly (N-arachidonoyl glycine), NASer (N-arachidonoyl-l-serine), anandamide, NADA (N-arachidonoyl dopamine), NATau (N-arachidonoyl taurine), and NA-5HT (N-arachidonoyl serotonin), all displaced [(3)H]TTA-A1 binding to membranes prepared from cells expressing Ca(v)3.3, with Ki in a micromolar or submicromolar range. In contrast, lipids with a saturated alkyl chain, as N-arachidoyl glycine and N-arachidoyl ethanolamine, which did not inhibit the Ca(v)3.3 current, had no effect on [(3)H]TTA-A1 binding. Accordingly, bio-active lipids occluded TTA-A2 effect on Ca(v)3.3 current. In addition, TTA-Q4 [(S)-4-(6-chloro-4-cyclopropyl-3-(2,2-difluoroethyl)-2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinazolin-4-yl)benzonitrile], a positive allosteric modulator of [(3)H]TTA-A1 binding and TTA-A2 functional inhibition, acted in a synergistic manner to increase lipid-induced inhibition of the Ca(v)3.3 current. Overall, our results demonstrate a common molecular mechanism for the synthetic T-channel inhibitors and the endogenous lipids, and indicate that TTA-A2 and TTA-Q4 could be important pharmacologic tools to dissect the involvement of T-current in the physiologic effects of endogenous lipids.

It has long been recognized that generalized deficits in cognitive ability represent a core component of schizophrenia (SCZ), evident before full illness onset and independent of medication. The possibility of genetic overlap between risk for SCZ and cognitive phenotypes has been suggested by the presence of cognitive deficits in first-degree relatives of patients with SCZ; however, until recently, molecular genetic approaches to test this overlap have been lacking. Within the last few years, large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of SCZ have demonstrated that a substantial proportion of the heritability of the disorder is explained by a polygenic component consisting of many common single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of extremely small effect. Similar results have been reported in GWAS of general cognitive ability. The primary aim of the present study is to provide the first molecular genetic test of the classic endophenotype hypothesis, which states that alleles associated with reduced cognitive ability should also serve to increase risk for SCZ. We tested the endophenotype hypothesis by applying polygenic SNP scores derived from a large-scale cognitive GWAS meta-analysis (~5000 individuals from nine nonclinical cohorts comprising the Cognitive Genomics consorTium (COGENT)) to four SCZ case-control cohorts. As predicted, cases had significantly lower cognitive polygenic scores compared to controls. In parallel, polygenic risk scores for SCZ were associated with lower general cognitive ability. In addition, using our large cognitive meta-analytic data set, we identified nominally significant cognitive associations for several SNPs that have previously been robustly associated with SCZ susceptibility. Results provide molecular confirmation of the genetic overlap between SCZ and general cognitive ability, and may provide additional insight into pathophysiology of the disorder.


Intelligence in childhood, as measured by psychometric cognitive tests, is a strong predictor of many important life outcomes, including educational attainment, income, health and lifespan. Results from twin, family and adoption studies are consistent with general intelligence being highly heritable and genetically stable throughout the life course. No robustly associated genetic loci or variants for childhood intelligence have been reported. Here, we report the first genome-wide association study (GWAS) on childhood intelligence (age range 6-18 years) from 17,989 individuals in six discovery and three replication samples. Although no individual single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were detected with genome-wide significance, we show that the aggregate effects of common SNPs explain 22-46% of phenotypic variation in childhood intelligence in the three largest cohorts (P=3.9  10(-15), 0.014 and 0.028). FNBP1L, previously reported to be the most significantly associated gene for adult intelligence, was also significantly associated with childhood intelligence (P=0.003). Polygenic prediction analyses resulted in a significant correlation between predictor and outcome in all replication cohorts. The proportion of childhood intelligence explained by the predictor reached 1.2% (P=6  10(-5)), 3.5% (P=10(-3)) and 0.5% (P=6  10(-5)) in three independent validation cohorts. Given the sample sizes, these genetic prediction results are consistent with expectations if the genetic architecture of childhood intelligence is like that of body mass index or height. Our study provides molecular support for the heritability and polygenic nature of childhood intelligence. Larger sample sizes will be required to detect individual variants with genome-wide significance.
The G72/G30 gene complex is a candidate gene for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. However, G72 and G30 mRNAs are expressed at very low levels in human brain, with only rare splicing forms observed. We report here G72/G30 expression profiles and behavioral changes in a G72/G30 transgenic mouse model. A human BAC clone containing the G72/G30 genomic region was used to establish the transgenic mouse model, on which gene expression studies, western blot and behavioral tests were performed. Relative to their minimal expression in humans, G72 and G30 mRNAs were highly expressed in the transgenic mice, and had a more complex splicing pattern. The highest G72 transcript levels were found in testis, followed by cerebral cortex, with very low or undetectable levels in other tissues. No LG72 (the long putative isoform of G72) protein was detected in the transgenic mice. Whole-genome expression profiling identified 361 genes differentially expressed in transgenic mice compared with wild-type, including genes previously implicated in neurological and psychological disorders. Relative to wild-type mice, the transgenic mice exhibited fewer stereotypic movements in the open field test, higher baseline startle responses in the course of the prepulse inhibition test, and lower hedonic responses in the sucrose preference test. The transcriptome profile changes and multiple mouse behavioral effects suggest that the G72 gene may play a role in modulating behaviors relevant to psychiatric disorders.
Studying genetic determinants of intermediate phenotypes is a powerful tool to increase our understanding of genotype-phenotype correlations. Metabolic traits pertinent to the central nervous system (CNS) constitute a potentially informative target for genetic studies of intermediate phenotypes as their genetic underpinnings may elucidate etiological mechanisms. We therefore conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of monoamine metabolite (MM) levels in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 414 human subjects from the general population. In a linear model correcting for covariates, we identified one locus associated with MMs at a genome-wide significant level (standardized =0.32, P=4.92  10(-8)), located 20 kb from SSTR1, a gene involved with brain signal transduction and glutamate receptor signaling. By subsequent whole-genome expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) analysis, we provide evidence that this variant controls expression of PDE9A (=0.21; P unadjusted=5.6  10(-7); P corrected=0.014), a gene previously implicated in monoaminergic transmission, major depressive disorder and antidepressant response. A post hoc analysis of loci significantly associated with psychiatric disorders suggested that genetic variation at CSMD1, a schizophrenia susceptibility locus, plays a role in the ratio between dopamine and serotonin metabolites in CSF. The presented DNA and mRNA analyses yielded genome-wide and suggestive associations in biologically plausible genes, two of which encode proteins involved with glutamate receptor functionality. These findings will hopefully contribute to an exploration of the functional impact of the highlighted genes on monoaminergic transmission and neuropsychiatric phenotypes.
Hallucinations constitute one of the most representative and disabling symptoms of schizophrenia. Several Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) findings support the hypothesis that distinct patterns of connectivity, particularly within networks involving the hippocampal complex (HC), could be associated with different hallucinatory modalities. The aim of this study was to investigate HC connectivity as a function of the hallucinatory modality, that is, auditory or visual. Two carefully selected subgroups of schizophrenia patients with only auditory hallucinations (AH) or with audio-visual hallucinations (A+VH) were compared using the following three complementary multimodal MRI methods: resting state functional MRI, diffusion MRI and structural MRI were used to analyze seed-based Functional Connectivity (sb-FC), Tract-Based Spatial Statistics (TBSS) and shape analysis, respectively. Sb-FC was significantly higher between the HC, the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and the caudate nuclei in A+VH patients compared with the AH group. Conversely, AH patients exhibited a higher sb-FC between the HC and the thalamus in comparison with the A+VH group. In the A+VH group, TBSS showed specific higher white matter connectivity in the pathways connecting the HC with visual areas, such as the forceps major and the inferior-fronto-occipital fasciculus than in the AH group. Finally, shape analysis showed localized hippocampal hypertrophy in the A+VH group. Functional results support the fronto-limbic dysconnectivity hypothesis of schizophrenia, while specific structural findings indicate that plastic changes are associated with hallucinations. Together, these results suggest that there are distinct connectivity patterns in patients with schizophrenia that depend on the sensory-modality, with specific involvement of the HC in visual hallucinations.
Small molecules that increase the presynaptic function of aminergic cells may provide neuroprotection in Parkinson's disease (PD) as well as treatments for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and depression. Model genetic organisms such as Drosophila melanogaster may enhance the detection of new drugs via modifier or 'enhancer/suppressor' screens, but this technique has not been applied to processes relevant to psychiatry. To identify new aminergic drugs in vivo, we used a mutation in the Drosophila vesicular monoamine transporter (dVMAT) as a sensitized genetic background and performed a suppressor screen. We fed dVMAT mutant larvae  1000 known drugs and quantitated rescue (suppression) of an amine-dependent locomotor deficit in the larva. To determine which drugs might specifically potentiate neurotransmitter release, we performed an additional secondary screen for drugs that require presynaptic amine storage to rescue larval locomotion. Using additional larval locomotion and adult fertility assays, we validated that at least one compound previously used clinically as an antineoplastic agent potentiates the presynaptic function of aminergic circuits. We suggest that structurally similar agents might be used to development treatments for PD, depression and ADHD, and that modifier screens in Drosophila provide a new strategy to screen for neuropsychiatric drugs. More generally, our findings demonstrate the power of physiologically based screens for identifying bioactive agents for select neurotransmitter systems.
Mammals utilize chromosomes to determine sex, but this leads to a problem with gene inequality. In the mouse, gene dosage disparity is evident by the presence of two X chromosomes in the female and a single X and Y chromosome in the male. To balance the X-linked transcriptional dose difference between the sexes, one of the two female X-chromosomes is silenced to equal the dose of XY males-a crucial developmental process known as X-chromosome inactivation. Here we highlight dosage compensation in the mouse, and detail the known mechanisms to set and erase these epigenetic marks during development.
An elevated odds ratio for low IQ has been found for cryptorchid boys. Furthermore, poor school performance has been observed in cryptorchid boys with impaired mini-puberty. Gene expression analysis, qPCR and immunohistology were performed on testicular biopsies from 7 boys who underwent orchiopexy and had testicular histology typical of a high risk of infertility (HIR). The results were compared with 12 biopsies from cryptorchid boys with a low risk for developing infertility. The following genes associated with mental retardation were identically expressed: GDI1, OPHN1, PAK3, ARHGEF6, IL1RAPL, ACSL4, MECP2, RPS6KA3, ARX, and ATRX. However, boys in the HIR group had low or no expression of EGR4, FMR2 (AFF2) and VCX3A. In conclusion, impaired expression of genes known to encode proteins involved in signaling pathways that regulate cytoskeletal organization, synaptic vesicle transport and the establishment of connections between neuronal cells may contribute to reduced intellectual and cognitive functioning in infertile cryptorchid males.


Dystonia is a common movement disorder. A number of monogenic causes have been identified. However, the majority of dystonia cases are not explained by single gene defects. Cervical dystonia is one of the commonest forms without genetic causes identified. This pilot study aimed to identify large effect-size risk loci in cervical dystonia. A genomewide association study (GWAS) was performed. British resident cervical dystonia patients of European descent were genotyped using the Illumina-610-Quad. Comparison was made with controls of European descent from the Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium using logistic regression algorithm from PLINK. SNPs not genotyped by the array were imputed with 1000 Genomes Project data using the MaCH algorithm and minimac. Postimputation analysis was done with the mach2dat algorithm using a logistic regression model. After quality control measures, 212 cases were compared with 5173 controls. No single SNP passed the genomewide significant level of 5  10(-8) in the analysis of genotyped SNP in PLINK. Postimputation, there were 5 clusters of SNPs that had P value &lt;5  10(-6) , and the best cluster of SNPs was found near exon 1 of NALCN, (sodium leak channel) with P = 9.76  10(-7) . Several potential regions were found in the GWAS and imputation analysis. The lowest P value was found in NALCN. Dysfunction of this ion channel is a plausible cause for dystonia. Further replication in another cohort is needed to confirm this finding. We make this data publicly available to encourage further analyses of this disorder.
The field of women's health developed based on the recognition that there are important sex-based differences regarding several aspects of medical illnesses. We performed a literature review to obtain information about differences between women and men for neurological movement disorders. We identified important differences in prevalence, genetics, clinical expression, course, and treatment responses. In addition, we found that female life events, including menstruation, pregnancy, breast feeding, menopause, and medications prescribed to women (such as oral contraceptives and hormone-replacement therapy), have significant implications for women with movement disorders. Understanding this biological sex-specific information can help improve the quality and individualization of care for women with movement disorders and may provide insights into neurobiological mechanisms.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) has a significant impact on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) with symptoms adversely affecting many aspects of everyday living. BG-12 (dimethyl fumarate) demonstrated significant efficacy in the phase III studies DEFINE and CONFIRM in patients with relapsing-remitting MS. In CONFIRM, HRQoL was worse in patients with greater disability at baseline, and who relapsed during the study, and improved with BG-12 treatment. Mean Short Form-36 Physical Component Summary scores for BG-12 increased over 2 years and scores for placebo decreased. Coupled with clinical and neuroradiological benefits, these HRQoL results further support BG-12 as an effective oral treatment for relapsing MS.




Hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) regenerate hair in response to Wnt signalling. Here, we unfold genome-wide transcriptional and chromatin landscapes of -catenin-TCF3/4-TLE circuitry, and genetically dissect their biological roles within the native HFSC niche. We show that during HFSC quiescence, TCF3, TCF4 and TLE (Groucho) bind coordinately and transcriptionally repress Wnt target genes. We also show that -catenin is dispensable for HFSC viability, and if TCF3/4 levels are sufficiently reduced, it is dispensable for proliferation. However, -catenin is essential to activate genes that launch hair follicle fate and suppress sebocyte fate determination. TCF3/4 deficiency mimics Wnt--catenin-dependent activation of these hair follicle fate targets; TCF3 overexpression parallels their TLE4-dependent suppression. Our studies unveil TCF3/4-TLE histone deacetylases as a repressive rheostat, whose action can be relieved by Wnt--catenin signalling. When TCF3/4 and TLE levels are high, HFSCs can maintain stemness, but remain quiescent. When these levels drop or when Wnt--catenin levels rise, this balance is shifted and hair regeneration initiates.
Mutations in PINK1 cause early-onset Parkinson's disease (PD). Studies in Drosophilamelanogaster have highlighted mitochondrial dysfunction on loss of Pink1 as a central mechanism of PD pathogenesis. Here we show that global analysis of transcriptional changes in Drosophila pink1 mutants reveals an upregulation of genes involved in nucleotide metabolism, critical for neuronal mitochondrial DNA synthesis. These key transcriptional changes were also detected in brains of PD patients harbouring PINK1 mutations. We demonstrate that genetic enhancement of the nucleotide salvage pathway in neurons of pink1 mutant flies rescues mitochondrial impairment. In addition, pharmacological approaches enhancing nucleotide pools reduce mitochondrial dysfunction caused by Pink1 deficiency. We conclude that loss of Pink1 evokes the activation of a previously unidentified metabolic reprogramming pathway to increase nucleotide pools and promote mitochondrial biogenesis. We propose that targeting strategies enhancing nucleotide synthesis pathways may reverse mitochondrial dysfunction and rescue neurodegeneration in PD and, potentially, other diseases linked to mitochondrial impairment.

Type II P-type ATPases (PAIIs) constitute a family of conserved proteins that actively generate ionic gradients across membranes. Mutations in genes encoding PAIIs can cause heritable dominant diseases, with suggested etiology of haploinsufficiency. Using a Drosophila melanogaster genetic screen, we identified a dominant mutation altering the PAII member sarcoendoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) ATPase (SERCA). This mutation conferred temperature-sensitive uncoordination in a gain-of-function manner. We established that this gain-of-function phenotype is linked to dominant disease-causing mutations affecting various human PAIIs. We further found that heterologous expression of mutant PAIIs elicited ion leakage that was exacerbated at elevated temperatures. Therefore, these dominant mutations result in ionic leakage and render PAIIs susceptible to deleterious effects from elevated temperatures. Accordingly, it was recently reported that missense mutations affecting the Na(+)/K(+) ATPase can elicit ionic leakage. We propose that ionic leakage is a pervasive gain-of-function mechanism that can underlie a variety of dominant PAII-related diseases.
Bundles of taxol-stabilized microtubules (MTs)--hollow tubules comprised of assembled -tubulin heterodimers--spontaneously assemble above a critical concentration of tetravalent spermine and are stable over long times at room temperature. Here we report that at concentrations of spermine several-fold higher the MT bundles (B(MT)) quickly become unstable and undergo a shape transformation to bundles of inverted tubulin tubules (B(ITT)), the outside surface of which corresponds to the inner surface of the B(MT) tubules. Using transmission electron microscopy and synchrotron small-angle X-ray scattering, we quantitatively determined both the nature of the B(MT)-to-B(ITT) transformation pathway, which results from a spermine-triggered conformation switch from straight to curved in the constituent taxol-stabilized tubulin oligomers, and the structure of the B(ITT) phase, which is formed of tubules of helical tubulin oligomers. Inverted tubulin tubules provide a platform for studies requiring exposure and availability of the inside, luminal surface of MTs to MT-targeted drugs and MT-associated proteins.

The quality of genetically encoded calcium indicators (GECIs) has improved dramatically in recent years, but high-performing ratiometric indicators are still rare. Here we describe a series of fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET)-based calcium biosensors with a reduced number of calcium binding sites per sensor. These 'Twitch' sensors are based on the C-terminal domain of Opsanus troponin C. Their FRET responses were optimized by a large-scale functional screen in bacterial colonies, refined by a secondary screen in rat hippocampal neuron cultures. We tested the in vivo performance of the most sensitive variants in the brain and lymph nodes of mice. The sensitivity of the Twitch sensors matched that of synthetic calcium dyes and allowed visualization of tonic action potential firing in neurons and high resolution functional tracking of T lymphocytes. Given their ratiometric readout, their brightness, large dynamic range and linear response properties, Twitch sensors represent versatile tools for neuroscience and immunology.
We present a data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry method, ultradefinition (UD) MS(E). This approach utilizes ion mobility drift time-specific collision-energy profiles to enhance precursor fragmentation efficiency over current MS(E) and high-definition (HD) MS(E) data-independent acquisition techniques. UDMS(E) provided high reproducibility and substantially improved proteome coverage of the HeLa cell proteome compared to previous implementations of MS(E), and it also outperformed a state-of-the-art data-dependent acquisition workflow. Additionally, we report a software tool, ISOQuant, for processing label-free quantitative UDMS(E) data.
There are many known risk factors for chronic pain conditions, yet the biological underpinnings that link these factors to abnormal processing of painful signals are only just beginning to be explored. This Review will discuss the potential mechanisms that have been proposed to underlie vulnerability and resilience toward developing chronic pain. Particular focus will be given to genetic and epigenetic processes, priming effects on a cellular level, and alterations in brain networks concerned with reward, motivation/learning and descending modulatory control. Although research in this area is still in its infancy, a better understanding of how pain vulnerability emerges has the potential to help identify individuals at risk and may open up new therapeutic avenues.
Noxious stimuli usually cause pain and pain usually arises from noxious stimuli, but exceptions to these apparent truisms are the basis for clinically important problems and provide valuable insight into the neural code for pain. In this Review, we discuss how painful sensations arise. We argue that, although primary somatosensory afferents are tuned to specific stimulus features, natural stimuli often activate more than one type of afferent. Manipulating coactivation patterns can alter perception in ways that argue against each type of afferent acting independently (as expected for strictly labeled lines), suggesting instead that signals conveyed by different types of afferents interact. Deciphering the central circuits that mediate those interactions is critical for explaining the generation and modulation of neural signals that ultimately elicit pain. The advent of genetic and optical dissection techniques promise to dramatically accelerate progress toward this goal, which will facilitate the rational design of future pain therapeutics.
Itch is described as an irritating sensation that triggers a desire to scratch. However, this definition hardly seems fitting for the millions of people who suffer from intractable itch. Indeed, the Buddhist philosopher Ngrjuna more aptly stated, &quot;There is pleasure when an itch is scratched. But to be without an itch is more pleasurable still.&quot; Chronic itch is widespread and very difficult to treat. In this review we focus on the molecules, cells and circuits in the peripheral and central nervous systems that drive acute and chronic itch transmission. Understanding the itch circuitry is critical to developing new therapies for this intractable disease.
The transmission and processing of pain signals relies critically on the activities of ion channels that are expressed in afferent pain fibers. This includes voltage-gated channels, as well as background (or leak) channels that collectively regulate resting membrane potential and action potential firing properties. Dysregulated ion channel expression in response to nerve injury and inflammation results in enhanced neuronal excitability that underlies chronic neuropathic and inflammatory pain. Pharmacological modulators of ion channels, particularly those that target channels on peripheral neurons, are being pursued as possible analgesics. Over the past few years, a number of different types of ion channels have been implicated in afferent pain signaling. Here we give an overview of recent advances on sodium, calcium, potassium and chloride channels that are emerging as especially attractive targets for the treatment of pain.
-opioid receptors (MORs) are necessary for the analgesic and addictive effects of opioids such as morphine, but the MOR-expressing neuronal populations that mediate the distinct opiate effects remain elusive. Here we devised a new conditional bacterial artificial chromosome rescue strategy to show, in mice, that targeted MOR expression in a subpopulation of striatal direct-pathway neurons enriched in the striosome and nucleus accumbens, in an otherwise MOR-null background, restores opiate reward and opiate-induced striatal dopamine release and partially restores motivation to self administer an opiate. However, these mice lack opiate analgesia or withdrawal. We used Cre-mediated deletion of the rescued MOR transgene to establish that expression of the MOR transgene in the striatum, rather than in extrastriatal sites, is needed for the restoration of opiate reward. Our study demonstrates that a subpopulation of striatal direct-pathway neurons is sufficient to support opiate reward-driven behaviors and provides a new intersectional genetic approach to dissecting neurocircuit-specific gene function in vivo.
Although postsynaptic glycine receptors (GlyRs) as  heteromers attract considerable research attention, little is known about the role of presynaptic GlyRs, likely  homomers, in diseases. Here, we demonstrate that dehydroxylcannabidiol (DH-CBD), a nonpsychoactive cannabinoid, can rescue GlyR functional deficiency and exaggerated acoustic and tactile startle responses in mice bearing point mutations in 1 GlyRs that are responsible for a hereditary startle-hyperekplexia disease. The GlyRs expressed as 1 homomers either in HEK-293 cells or at presynaptic terminals of the calyceal synapses in the auditory brainstem are more vulnerable than heteromers to hyperekplexia mutation-induced impairment. Homomeric mutants are more sensitive to DH-CBD than are heteromers, suggesting presynaptic GlyRs as a primary target. Consistent with this idea, DH-CBD selectively rescues impaired presynaptic GlyR activity and diminished glycine release in the brainstem and spinal cord of hyperekplexic mutant mice. Thus, presynaptic 1 GlyRs emerge as a potential therapeutic target for dominant hyperekplexia disease and other diseases with GlyR deficiency.
DNA methylation has critical roles in the nervous system and has been traditionally considered to be restricted to CpG dinucleotides in metazoan genomes. Here we show that the single base-resolution DNA methylome from adult mouse dentate neurons consists of both CpG (~75%) and CpH (~25%) methylation (H = A/C/T). Neuronal CpH methylation is conserved in human brains, enriched in regions of low CpG density, depleted at protein-DNA interaction sites and anticorrelated with gene expression. Functionally, both methylated CpGs (mCpGs) and mCpHs can repress transcription in vitro and are recognized by methyl-CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2) in neurons in vivo. Unlike most CpG methylation, CpH methylation is established de novo during neuronal maturation and requires DNA methyltransferase 3A (DNMT3A) for active maintenance in postmitotic neurons. These characteristics of CpH methylation suggest that a substantially expanded proportion of the neuronal genome is under cytosine methylation regulation and provide a new foundation for understanding the role of this key epigenetic modification in the nervous system.
Despite accumulating evidence for a reconsolidation process in animals, support in humans, especially for episodic memory, is limited. Using a within-subjects manipulation, we found that a single application of electroconvulsive therapy following memory reactivation in patients with unipolar depression disrupted reactivated, but not non-reactivated, memories for an emotional episode in a time-dependent manner. Our results provide evidence for reconsolidation of emotional episodic memories in humans.
Transcriptional profiling is a powerful approach for studying mouse development, physiology and disease models. Here we describe a protocol for mouse thiouracil tagging (TU tagging), a transcriptome analysis technology that includes in vivo covalent labeling, purification and analysis of cell type-specific RNA. TU tagging enables the isolation of RNA from a given cell population of a complex tissue, avoiding transcriptional changes induced by cell isolation trauma, as well as the identification of actively transcribed RNAs and not preexisting transcripts. Therefore, in contrast to other cell-specific transcriptional profiling methods based on the purification of tagged ribosomes or nuclei, TU tagging provides a direct examination of transcriptional regulation. We describe how to (i) deliver 4-thiouracil to transgenic mice to thio-label cell lineage-specific transcripts, (ii) purify TU-tagged RNA and prepare libraries for Illumina sequencing and (iii) follow a straightforward bioinformatics workflow to identify cell type-enriched or differentially expressed genes. Tissue containing TU-tagged RNA can be obtained in 1 d, RNA-seq libraries can be generated within 2 d and, after sequencing, an initial bioinformatics analysis can be completed in 1 additional day.
The cerebral circulation is highly specialized, both structurally and functionally, and it provides a fine-tuned supply of oxygen and nutrients to active regions of the brain. Our understanding of blood flow regulation by cerebral arterioles has evolved rapidly. Recent work has opened new avenues in microvascular research; for example, it has been demonstrated that contractile pericytes found on capillary walls induce capillary diameter changes in response to neurotransmitters, suggesting that pericytes could have a role in neurovascular coupling. This concept is at odds with traditional models of brain blood flow regulation, which assume that only arterioles control cerebral blood flow. The investigation of mechanisms underlying neurovascular coupling at the capillary level requires a range of approaches, which involve unique technical challenges. Here we provide detailed protocols for the successful physiological and immunohistochemical study of pericytes and capillaries in brain slices and isolated retinae, allowing investigators to probe the role of capillaries in neurovascular coupling. This protocol can be completed within 6-8 h; however, immunohistochemical experiments may take 3-6 d.
2013 has revealed interesting mechanisms that explain how glucocorticoid signalling responses can be influenced by childhood trauma, activity of other signalling molecules, glucocorticoid circadian rhythms and the sequence of DNA regulatory regions. In particular, studies this year highlight how different signalling environments can determine the molecular and physiological responses of glucocorticoids themselves, and how glucocorticoids can affect other signalling systems.
In 2013, considerable progress was made towards deciphering the molecular foundations of puberty. Loss of transcriptional repression was identified as a core mechanism underlying the onset of puberty, and this loss was found to be precipitated by epigenetic cues. It was also discovered that nutritional deprivation delays puberty by repressing reproductive neuroendocrine function.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) represents a heterogeneous group of disorders, which presents a substantial challenge to diagnosis and treatment. Over the past decade, considerable progress has been made in the identification of genetic risk factors for ASD that define specific mechanisms and pathways underlying the associated behavioural deficits. In this Review, we discuss how some of the latest advances in the genetics of ASD have facilitated parsing of the phenotypic heterogeneity of this disorder. We argue that only through such advances will we begin to define endophenotypes that can benefit from targeted, hypothesis-driven treatments. We review the latest technologies used to identify and characterize the genetics underlying ASD and then consider three themes-single-gene disorders, the gender bias in ASD, and the genetics of neurological comorbidities-that highlight ways in which we can use genetics to define the many phenotypes within the autism spectrum. We also present current clinical guidelines for genetic testing in ASD and their implications for prognosis and treatment.
Neurons integrate synaptic inputs across time and space, a process that determines the transformation of input signals into action potential output. This article explores how synaptic integration contributes to the richness of sensory signalling in the cerebellar and cerebral cortices. Whether a neuron receives a few or a few thousand discrete inputs, most evoked synaptic activity generates only subthreshold membrane potential fluctuations. Sensory tuning of synaptic inputs is typically broad, but short-term dynamics and the interplay between excitation and inhibition restrict action potential firing to narrow windows of opportunity. We highlight the challenges and limitations of the use of somatic recordings in the study of synaptic integration and the importance of active dendritic mechanisms in sensory processing.
Atypical antipsychotic drugs such as olanzapine induce weight gain and metabolic changes associated with the development of type 2 diabetes. The mechanisms underlying these metabolic side-effects are unknown at the moment. In this study, we investigated the metabolic changes induced by a chronic treatment, as well as the influence of a preceding chronic treatment on the acute effects of olanzapine on glucose metabolism. The effect of chronic olanzapine treatment (6.5mg/kg/day, administered via drinking water) on body weight, locomotor activity, body temperature, fat distribution and energy expenditure was investigated in male rats. After 5weeks, the animals received an acute olanzapine challenge (intragastric, IG) at 3mg/kg/h during 160min to investigate the acute effects of olanzapine on glucose metabolism. Chronic olanzapine-treated animals showed a slight decrease in nocturnal body temperature, and increased perirenal fat pad weights as well as plasma leptin. In addition, chronic olanzapine-treated animals showed hyperinsulinaemia with unchanged blood glucose concentrations. The acute challenge with IG olanzapine elevated blood glucose levels and endogenous glucose production in control animals, but not in chronic olanzapine-pre-treated rats. Chronic olanzapine-treated animals also showed reduced locomotor activity and a higher respiratory exchange ratio. Thus, chronic treatment with olanzapine in rats causes desensitization to its acute effects on glucose metabolism but promotes adiposity probably due to a shift from lipids to carbohydrates as an energy source. Chronic exposure to olanzapine changes body fat distribution and insulin sensitivity in an unfavourable direction, but it is still unclear what the primary mechanism is.
Sparse coding has established itself as a useful tool for the representation of natural data in the neuroscience as well as signal-processing literature. The aim of this letter, inspired by the human brain, is to improve on the performance of the sparse coding algorithm by trying to bridge the gap between neuroscience and engineering. To this end, we build on the localized perception-action cycle in cognitive neuroscience by categorizing it under the umbrella of perceptual attention, which lends itself to increase gradually the contrast between relevant information and irrelevant information. Stated in another way, irrelevant information is filtered away, while relevant information about the environment is enhanced from one cycle to the next. We may thus think in terms of the information filter, which, in a Bayesian context, was introduced in the literature by Fraser (1967). In a Bayesian context, the information filter provides a method for algorithmic implementation of perceptual attention. The information filter may therefore be viewed as the basis for improving the algorithmic performance of sparse coding. To support this performance improvement, the letter presents two computer experiments. The first experiment uses simulated (real-valued) data that are generated to purposely make the problem challenging. The second uses real-life radar data that are complex valued, hence the proposal to introduce Wirtinger calculus into derivation of the new algorithm.
Likelihood-based encoding models founded on point processes have received significant attention in the literature because of their ability to reveal the information encoded by spiking neural populations. We propose an approximation to the likelihood of a point-process model of neurons that holds under assumptions about the continuous time process that are physiologically reasonable for neural spike trains: the presence of a refractory period, the predictability of the conditional intensity function, and its integrability. These are properties that apply to a large class of point processes arising in applications other than neuroscience. The proposed approach has several advantages over conventional ones. In particular, one can use standard fitting procedures for generalized linear models based on iteratively reweighted least squares while improving the accuracy of the approximation to the likelihood and reducing bias in the estimation of the parameters of the underlying continuous-time model. As a result, the proposed approach can use a larger bin size to achieve the same accuracy as conventional approaches would with a smaller bin size. This is particularly important when analyzing neural data with high mean and instantaneous firing rates. We demonstrate these claims on simulated and real neural spiking activity. By allowing a substantive increase in the required bin size, our algorithm has the potential to lower the barrier to the use of point-process methods in an increasing number of applications.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have been shown to be a powerful approach to identify risk loci for neurodegenerative diseases. Recent GWAS in Parkinson's disease (PD) have been successful in identifying numerous risk variants pointing to novel pathways potentially implicated in the pathogenesis of PD. Contributing to these GWAS efforts, we performed genotyping of previously identified risk alleles in PD patients and control subjects from Greece. We showed that previously published risk profiles for Northern European and American populations are also applicable to the Greek population. In addition, although our study was largely underpowered to detect individual associations, we replicated 5 of 32 previously published risk variants with nominal p values &lt;0.05. Genome-wide complex trait analysis revealed that known risk loci explain disease risk in 1.27% of Greek PD patients. Collectively, these results indicate that there is likely a substantial genetic component to PD in Greece, similarly to other worldwide populations, that remains to be discovered.
The currently available drugs for treatment of Alzheimer's disease are symptomatic and only temporarily slow down the natural history of the disease process. Recently, its has been proposed that the combination of memantine with vitamin D, a neurosteroid hormone, may prevent amyloid-beta and glutamate neurotoxicity. Here, our purpose was to examine the potential protective effects of memantine and vitamin D against amyloid-beta peptide and glutamate toxicity in cortical neuronal cultures. We provide the first evidence that cortical axons degenerate less after exposure to amyloid-beta peptide or glutamate in microfluidic neuronal cultures enriched with memantine plus vitamin D compared to control medium and cultures enriched with only memantine or only vitamin D. The reported synergistic neuroprotective effect of memantine plus vitamin D -the combination originating an effect stronger than the sum- corroborate previous clinical finding that Alzheimer's disease patients using this drug combination have improved cognition. This finding reinforces the pharmacological potential of a new drug combining memantine plus vitamin D for the treatment or the prevention of Alzheimer's disease.
In the YAC128 mouse model of Huntington disease (HD), elevated extrasynaptic NMDA receptor (Ex-NMDAR) expression contributes to the onset of striatal dysfunction and atrophy. A shift in the balance of synaptic-extrasynaptic NMDAR signaling and localization is paralleled by early stage dysregulation of intracellular calcium signaling pathways, including calpain and p38 MAPK activation, that couple to pro-death cascades. However, whether aberrant calcium signaling is a consequence of elevated Ex-NMDAR expression in HD is unknown. Here, we aimed to identify calcium-dependent pathways downstream of Ex-NMDARs in HD. Chronic (2-month) treatment of YAC128 and WT mice with memantine (1 and 10mg/kg/day), which at a low dose selectively blocks Ex-NMDARs, reduced striatal Ex-NMDAR expression and current in 4-month old YAC128 mice without altering synaptic NMDAR levels. In contrast, calpain activity was not affected by memantine treatment, and was elevated in untreated YAC128 mice at 1.5months but not 4months of age. In YAC128 mice, memantine at 1mg/kg/day rescued CREB shut-off, while both doses suppressed p38 MAPK activation to WT levels. Taken together, our results indicate that Ex-NMDAR activity perpetuates increased extrasynaptic NMDAR expression and drives dysregulated p38 MAPK and CREB signaling in YAC128 mice. Elucidation of the pathways downstream of Ex-NMDARs in HD could help provide novel therapeutic targets for this disease.
Since aberrant miRNA expression has been implicated in numerous brain diseases, we studied miRNA expression and miRNA regulation of important signaling pathways during temporal lobe epileptogenesis in order to identify possible targets for epilepsy therapy. The temporal profile of miRNA expression was analyzed in three brain regions (CA1; dentate gyrus, DG; parahippocampal cortex, PHC) associated with epileptogenesis in a rat model for temporal lobe epilepsy. Tissue was obtained after electrically-induced status epilepticus (SE) at 1day (n=5), 1week (n=5) and 3-4months (n=5), and compared with control tissue (n=10) using the Exiqon microRNA arrays which contain capture probes targeting all miRNAs for rat (p&lt;0.01, and a 1.5 fold up- or downregulation). Expression of three blood plasma miRNAs from the same group of rats was also investigated in rats in order to determine whether plasma miRNAs could serve as potential biomarkers of the epileptogenic process. Molecular pathways potentially altered by the expression of multiple miRNAs were identified using a web-based algorithm, DIANA. In CA1 and DG, more upregulated than downregulated miRNAs were present during each stage after SE. The highest numbers of upregulated miRNAs were encountered during the chronic stage in the DG. In PHC, a high number of downregulated miRNAs were detected. Key pathways involved, based upon quantitatively altered miRNA expression were: axon guidance, MAPK signaling pathway, focal adhesion, TGF, ErbB-, Wnt- and mTOR signaling, and regulation of actin skeleton. Expression of plasma miRNAs was differentially regulated after induction of SE. This study identified several signaling pathways possibly involved in temporal lobe epileptogenesis, not previously indicated by RNA microarray studies. These include miRNAs that regulate the ErbB and Wnt pathways and focal adhesion, which may represent interesting new targets for therapeutic interventions.
Cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) is the commonest cause of spinal cord impairment worldwide and despite surgical treatment, it is commonly associated with chronic neuropathic pain and neurological impairment. Based on data suggesting a key role of sodium and glutamate mediated cellular injury in models of spinal cord compression, we examined whether riluzole, a sodium channel/glutamate blocker, could improve neurobehavioral outcomes in a rat model of CSM. To produce chronic progressive compression of the cervical spinal cord, we used an established model of graded mechanical cord compromise developed in our laboratory. The chronic (8weeks) mechanical compression of the cervical spinal cord resulted in persistent mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia at 8weeks. Moreover, we found increased expression of phosphorylated NR1 and NR2B in the dorsal horns as well as astrogliosis and increased microglia expression in the dorsal horns after mechanical compression. Following daily systemic administration for 7weeks after the induction of compression, riluzole (8mg/kg) significantly attenuated forelimb and hindlimb mechanical allodynia and alleviated thermal hyperalgesia in the tail. Importantly, riluzole led to a decrease in swing phase duration, an increase in hind leg swing speed and an increase paw intensity in gait analysis. Riluzole also decreased the number of phosphorylated NR1 and phosphorylated NR2B positive cells in the dorsal horns and the microglia activation in the dorsal horns. Together, our results indicate that systemic riluzole administration during chronic cervical spinal cord compression is effective at protecting spinal cord tissue, preserving neurobehavioral function and alleviating neuropathic pain, possibly by decreasing NMDA receptor phosphorylation in astrocytes and by eliminating microglia activation. As such, riluzole represents a promising clinical treatment for CSM.
Mutations of the PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) gene are a cause of autosomal recessive Parkinson's disease (PD). This gene encodes a mitochondrial serine/threonine kinase, which is partly localized to mitochondria, and has been shown to play a role in protecting neuronal cells from oxidative stress and cell death, perhaps related to its role in mitochondrial dynamics and mitophagy. In this study, we report that increased mitochondrial PINK1 levels observed in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells after carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophelyhydrazone (CCCP) treatment were due to de novo protein synthesis, and not just increased stabilization of full length PINK1 (FL-PINK1). PINK1 mRNA levels were significantly increased by 4-fold after 24h. FL-PINK1 protein levels at this time point were significantly higher than vehicle-treated, or cells treated with CCCP for 3h, despite mitochondrial content being decreased by 29%. We have also shown that CCCP dissipated the mitochondrial membrane potential (m) and induced entry of extracellular calcium through L/N-type calcium channels. The calcium chelating agent BAPTA-AM impaired the CCCP-induced PINK1 mRNA and protein expression. Furthermore, CCCP treatment activated the transcription factor c-Fos in a calcium-dependent manner. These data indicate that PINK1 expression is significantly increased upon CCCP-induced mitophagy in a calcium-dependent manner. This increase in expression continues after peak Parkin mitochondrial translocation, suggesting a role for PINK1 in mitophagy that is downstream of ubiquitination of mitochondrial substrates. This sensitivity to intracellular calcium levels supports the hypothesis that PINK1 may also play a role in cellular calcium homeostasis and neuroprotection.
A role for enhanced peptidergic transmission, either opioidergic or not, has been proposed for the generation of l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia (LID) on the basis of in situ hybridization studies showing that striatal peptidergic precursor expression consistently correlates with LID severity. Few studies, however, have focused on the actual peptides derived from these precursors. We used mass-spectrometry to study peptide profiles in the putamen and globus pallidus (internalis and externalis) collected from 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,4,6-tetrahydropyridine treated macaque monkeys, acutely or chronically treated with l-DOPA. We identified that parkinsonian and dyskinetic states are associated with an abnormal production of proenkephalin-, prodynorphin- and protachykinin-1-derived peptides in both segments of the globus pallidus. Moreover, we report that peptidergic processing is dopamine-state dependent and highly structure-specific, possibly explaining the failure of previous clinical trials attempting to rectify abnormal peptidergic transmission.
Massive neuronal loss is a key pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the mechanisms are still unclear. Here we demonstrate that neuroinflammation, cell autonomous to microglia, is capable of inducing neuronal cell cycle events (CCEs), which are toxic for terminally differentiated neurons. First, oligomeric amyloid-beta peptide (AO)-mediated microglial activation induced neuronal CCEs via the tumor-necrosis factor- (TNF) and the c-Jun Kinase (JNK) signaling pathway. Second, adoptive transfer of CD11b+ microglia from AD transgenic mice (R1.40) induced neuronal cyclin D1 expression via TNF signaling pathway. Third, genetic deficiency of TNF in R1.40 mice (R1.40-Tnf(-/-)) failed to induce neuronal CCEs. Finally, the mitotically active neurons spatially co-exist with F4/80+ activated microglia in the human AD brain and that a portion of these neurons are apoptotic. Together our data suggest a cell-autonomous role of microglia, and identify TNF as the responsible cytokine, in promoting neuronal CCEs in the pathogenesis of AD.
Recent findings suggest that Notch-1 signaling contributes to neuronal death in ischemic stroke, but the underlying mechanisms are unknown. Hypoxia inducible factor-1 (HIF-1), a global regulator of cellular responses to hypoxia, can interact with Notch and modulate its signaling during hypoxic stress. Here we show that Notch signaling interacts with the HIF-1 pathway in the process of ischemic neuronal death. We found that a chemical inhibitor of the Notch-activating enzyme, -secretase, and a HIF-1 inhibitor, protect cultured cortical neurons against ischemic stress, and combined inhibition of Notch-1 and HIF-1 further decreased neuronal death. HIF-1 and Notch intracellular domain (NICD) are co-expressed in the neuronal nucleus, and co-immunoprecipitated in cultured neurons and in brain tissue from mice subjected to focal ischemic stroke. Overexpression of NICD and HIF-1 in cultured human neural cells enhanced cell death under ischemia-like conditions, and a HIF-1 inhibitor rescued the cells. RNA interference-mediated depletion of endogenous NICD and HIF-1 also decreased cell death under ischemia-like conditions. Finally, mice treated with inhibitors of -secretase and HIF-1 exhibited improved outcome after focal ischemic stroke, with combined treatment being superior to individual treatments. Additional findings suggest that the NICD and HIF-1 collaborate to engage pro-inflammatory and apoptotic signaling pathways in stroke.
Progressive cell loss is observed in the striatum, cerebral cortex, thalamus, hypothalamus, subthalamic nucleus and hippocampus in Huntington disease. In the striatum, dopamine-responsive medium spiny neurons are preferentially lost. Clinical features include involuntary movements, gait and orofacial impairments in addition to cognitive deficits and psychosis, anxiety and mood disorders. We utilized the Cre-LoxP system to generate mutant mice with selective postnatal ablation of D1 dopamine receptor-expressing striatal neurons to determine which elements of the complex Huntington disease phenotype relate to loss of this neuronal subpopulation. Mutant mice had reduced body weight, locomotor slowing, reduced rearing, ataxia, a short stride length wide-based erratic gait, impairment in orofacial movements and displayed haloperidol-suppressible tic-like movements. The mutation was associated with an anxiolytic profile. Mutant mice had significant striatal-specific atrophy and astrogliosis. D1-expressing cell number was reduced throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the dorsal striatum consistent with partial destruction of the striatonigral pathway. Additional striatal changes included up-regulated D2 and enkephalin mRNA, and an increased density of D2 and preproenkephalin-expressing projection neurons, and striatal neuropeptide Y and cholinergic interneurons. These data suggest that striatal D1-cell-ablation alone may account for the involuntary movements and locomotor, balance and orofacial deficits seen not only in HD but also in HD phenocopy syndromes with striatal atrophy. Therapeutic strategies would therefore need to target striatal D1 cells to ameliorate deficits especially when the clinical presentation is dominated by a bradykinetic/ataxic phenotype with involuntary movements.
Graft-induced dyskinesia (GID) is a serious complication induced by dopamine (DA) cell transplantation in parkinsonian patients. We have recently shown that DA D2 receptor blockade produces striking blockade of dyskinesia induced by amphetamine in grafted 6-OHDA-lesioned rats, a model of GID. This study was designed to investigate whether blockade of DA D1 receptors could produce similar outcome, and to see whether the effect of these treatments in grafted rats was specific for dyskinesia induced by amphetamine, or could also influence L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID). L-DOPA-primed rats received transplants of fetal DA neurons into the DA-denervated striatum. Beginning at 20weeks after transplantation rats were subjected to pharmacological treatments with either L-DOPA (6mg/kg) or amphetamine (1.5mg/kg) alone, or in combination with the D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390, the D2 receptor antagonist eticlopride, and the 5-HT1A agonist/D2 receptor antagonist buspirone. Grafted rats developed severe GID, while LID was reduced. Both eticlopride and SCH23390 produced near-complete suppression of GID already at very low doses (0.015 and 0.1mg/kg, respectively). Buspirone induced similar suppression at a dose as low as 0.3mg/kg, which is far lower than the dose known to affect LID in non-grafted dyskinetic rats. In agreement with our previous results, the effect of buspirone was independent from 5-HT1A receptor activation, as it was not counteracted by the selective 5-HT1A antagonist WAY100635, but likely due to D2 receptor blockade. Most interestingly, the same doses of eticlopride, SCH23390 and buspirone were found to suppress LID in grafted but not in control dyskinetic rats. Taken together, these data demonstrate that the DA cell grafts strikingly exacerbate the effect of DA D1 and D2 receptor blockade against both GID and LID, and suggest that the anti-GID effect of buspirone seen in patients may also be due to blockade of DA D2 receptors.
Recent evidence suggests that interneurons are involved in the pathophysiology of Huntington Disease (HD). Abnormalities in the function of interneurons expressing the calcium buffer parvalbumin (PV) have been observed in multiple mouse models of HD, although it is not clear how PV-positive interneuron dysfunction contributes to behavioral and synaptic deficits. Here, we use the cre-lox system to drive expression of mutant huntingtin (mthtt) in parvalbumin (PV)-positive neurons and find that mutant mice exhibit diffuse mthtt immunoreactivity in PV-rich areas at 10months of age and mthtt aggregates in PV-positive processes at 24months of age. At midlife, mutant mice are hyperactive and display impaired GABA release in the motor cortex, characterized by reduced miniature inhibitory events and severely blunted responses to gamma frequency stimulation, without a loss of PV-positive interneurons. In contrast, 24month-old mutant mice show normalized behavior and responses to gamma frequency stimulation, possibly due to compensatory changes in pyramidal neurons or the formation of inclusions with age. These data indicate that mthtt expression in PV-positive neurons is sufficient to drive a hyperactive phenotype and suggest that mthtt-mediated dysfunction in PV-positive neuronal populations could be a key factor in the hyperkinetic behavior observed in HD. Further clarification of the roles for specific PV-positive populations in this phenotype is warranted to definitively identify cellular targets for intervention.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder classically characterized by the death of dopamine (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta and by intracellular Lewy bodies composed largely of -synuclein. Approximately 5-10% of PD patients have a familial form of Parkinsonism, including mutations in -synuclein. To better understand the cell-type specific role of -synuclein on DA neurotransmission, and the effects of the disease-associated A30P mutation, we generated and studied a novel transgenic model of PD. We expressed the A30P mutant form of human -synuclein in a spatially-relevant manner from the 111kb SNCA genomic DNA locus on a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) insert on a mouse null (Snca-/-) background. The BAC transgenic mice expressed -synuclein in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons and expression of either A30P -synuclein or wildtype -synuclein restored the sensitivity of DA neurons to MPTP in resistant Snca-/- animals. A30P -synuclein mice showed no Lewy body-like aggregation, and did not lose catecholamine neurons in substantia nigra or locus coeruleus. However, using cyclic voltammetry at carbon-fiber microelectrodes we identified a deficit in evoked DA release in the caudate putamen, but not in the nucleus accumbens, of SNCA-A30P Snca-/- mice but no changes to release of another catecholamine, norepinephrine (NE), in the NE-rich ventral bed nucleus of stria terminalis. SNCA-A30P Snca-/- mice had no overt behavioral impairments but exhibited a mild increase in wheel-running. In summary, this refined PD mouse model shows that A30P -synuclein preferentially perturbs the dopaminergic system in the dorsal striatum, reflecting the region-specific change seen in PD.
Neurofibrillary degeneration in transgenic models of tauopathies has been observed to be enhanced when these models are crossed with transgenic models developing an A pathology. The mechanisms leading to this enhanced tau pathology are not well understood. We have performed a detailed analysis of tau misprocessing in a new transgenic mouse model combining APP, PS1 and tau mutations (5xFADTg30 mice) by comparison with littermates expressing only a FTD mutant tau (Tg30 mice). These 5xFADTg30 mice showed a more severe deficient motor phenotype than Tg30 mice and developed with age a dramatically accelerated NFT load in the brain compared to Tg30 mice. Insoluble tau in 5xFADTg30 mice compared to insoluble tau in Tg30 mice showed increased phosphorylation, enhanced misfolding and truncation changes mimicking more closely the post-translational changes characteristic of PHF-tau in Alzheimer's disease. Endogenous wild-type mouse tau was recruited at much higher levels in insoluble tau in 5xFADTg30 than in Tg30 mice. Extracellular amyloid load, A40 and A42, -CTFs and -CTF phosphorylation levels were lower in 5xFADTg30 mice than in 5xFAD mice. Despite this reduction of A, a significant hippocampal neuronal loss was observed in 5xFADTg30 but not in 5xFAD mice indicating its closer association with increased tau pathology. This 5xFADTg30 model thus mimics more faithfully tau pathology and neuronal loss observed in AD and suggests that additional post-translational changes in tau and self-recruitment of endogenous tau drive the enhanced tau pathology developing in the presence of A pathology.
Recently we have shown that docosahexaenoic acid complexed to albumin (DHA-Alb) is neuroprotective after experimental stroke in young rats. The purpose of this study was to determine whether treatment with DHA-Alb would be protective in aged rats after focal cerebral ischemia. Isoflurane/nitrous oxide-anesthetized normothermic (brain temperature 36-36.5C) Sprague-Dawley aged rats (18-months old) received 2h middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) by poly-l-lysine-coated intraluminal suture. The neurological status was evaluated during occlusion (60min) and on days 1, 2, 3 and 7 after MCAo; a grading scale of 0-12 was employed. DHA (5mg/kg), Alb (0.63g/kg), DHA-Alb (5mg/kg+0.63g/kg) or saline was administered i.v. 3h after onset of stroke (n=8-10 per group). Ex vivo T2-weighted imaging (T2WI) of the brains was conducted on an 11.7T MRI on day 7 and 3D reconstructions were generated. Infarct volumes and number of GFAP (reactive astrocytes), ED-1 (activated microglia/microphages), NeuN (neurons)-positive cells and SMI-71 (positive vessels) were counted in the cortex and striatum at the level of the central lesion. Physiological variables were entirely comparable between groups. Animals treated with DHA-Alb showed significantly improved neurological scores compared to vehicle rats; 33% improvement on day 1; 39% on day 2; 41% on day 3; and 45% on day 7. Total and cortical lesion volumes computed from T2WI were significantly reduced by DHA-Alb treatment (62 and 69%, respectively). In addition, treatment with DHA-Alb reduced cortical and total brain infarction while promoting cell survival. We conclude that DHA-Alb therapy is highly neuroprotective in aged rats following focal cerebral ischemia and has potential for the effective treatment of ischemic stroke in aged individuals.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is among the most prevalent forms of dementia affecting the aging population, and pharmacological therapies to date have not been successful in preventing disease progression. Future therapeutic efforts may benefit from the development of models that enable basic investigation of early disease pathology. In particular, disease-relevant models based on human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) may be promising approaches to assess the impact of neurotoxic agents in AD on specific neuronal populations and thereby facilitate the development of novel interventions to avert early disease mechanisms. We implemented an efficient paradigm to convert hPSCs into enriched populations of cortical glutamatergic neurons emerging from dorsal forebrain neural progenitors, aided by modulating Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling. Since AD is generally known to be toxic to glutamatergic circuits, we exposed glutamatergic neurons derived from hESCs to an oligomeric pre-fibrillar forms of A known as &quot;globulomers&quot;, which have shown strong correlation with the level of cognitive deficits in AD. Administration of such A oligomers yielded signs of the disease, including cell culture age-dependent binding of A and cell death in the glutamatergic populations. Furthermore, consistent with previous findings in postmortem human AD brain, A-induced toxicity was selective for glutamatergic rather than GABAeric neurons present in our cultures. This in vitro model of cortical glutamatergic neurons thus offers a system for future mechanistic investigation and therapeutic development for AD pathology using human cell types specifically affected by this disease.
Postnatal dexamethasone (DEX) therapy has been used to treat or prevent chronic lung disease after premature births. However, there are many reports of long-term negative neurodevelopmental sequelae following this treatment. In contrast, hydrocortisone (HYD), which has fewer neurodevelopment adverse effects, is used as an alternative for DEX. In this study, we report that neonatal DEX exposure (days 1-3) caused alterations of amino acids affecting N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor neurotransmission in mouse brains. Neonatal DEX, but not HYD, exposure (days 1-3) significantly decreased the GluN2B subunit of NMDA receptor in the hippocampus at juvenile and adult stages. Mice treated with DEX showed cognitive deficits, as well as anxiety and depressive-like behavior at juvenile and adult stages. In contrast, mice treated with HYD (days 1-3) showed no behavioral abnormalities at these stages. In the DEX suppression test, plasma levels of corticosterone in mice exposed neonatally to DEX and HYD were significantly higher at juvenile, but not adult stages. Pretreatment with Ro 63-1908, an antagonist at GluN2B subunit, 30min before each injection of DEX, prevented cognitive deficits, as well as anxiety and depressive-like behavior in juvenile and adult mice. Interestingly, subsequent repeated (days 29-33) administration of Ro 63-1908 or L701324, an antagonist of the glycine modulatory site on the NMDA receptor, significantly suppressed behavioral abnormalities in juvenile and adult mice after neonatal DEX exposure. These results indicate that neonatal DEX, but not HYD, exposure produced behavioral abnormalities in juvenile and adult mice by altering glutamatergic neurotransmission via the NMDA receptor. The NMDA receptor antagonists may prevent or treat these DEX-induced neonatal behavioral abnormalities in later life.
Altered GABA-mediated inhibition is proposed to play a role in the pathogenesis of epilepsy. Previous studies have demonstrated a loss of somatostatin-containing GABAergic interneurons innervating granule cells in epileptic animals. However, the reorganization of synapses between interneurons and granule cells has not been investigated. We studied synapse organization in an animal model of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) using continuous hippocampal stimulation. The distribution of axon terminals and inhibitory synapses on granule cell dendrites was studied using a combination of immunohistochemistry and pre-embedding electron microscopy techniques. A whole-cell patch-clamp technique was applied to study the functional changes in GABAergic input from different interneurons. In epileptic animals, the density of cholecystokinin (CCK)-immunoreactive (IR) fibers and 2 subunit containing GABAA receptors in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus was reduced. Quantitative immuno-electron microscopy study revealed that the ratio of CCK-containing symmetric synapses to the total symmetric synapses was reduced. The frequency of GABAergic synaptic currents (sIPSC) was decreased and their amplitude was increased. The inhibitory effect of the activation of cannabinoid 1 (CB1) receptors was also reduced in epileptic animals. Isolation of CCK- and parvalbumin (PV)-containing GABAergic inputs by N- and P/Q-type calcium channel blockers respectively suggested that GABA release from CCK-containing interneurons was selectively reduced in epileptic rats. This study found that there was a loss of CCK-containing GABAergic synapses to granule cells both morphologically and functionally. These studies add to our understanding of the mechanisms that contribute to altering GABAergic inhibition of granule cells in TLE.
Recent clinical and pre-clinical studies suggest that both active and passive immunization strategies targeting A amyloid may have clinical benefit in Alzheimer's disease. Here, we demonstrate that vaccination of APPswePSEN1dE9 mice with SDPM1, an engineered non-native A amyloid-specific binding peptide, lowers brain A amyloid plaque burden and brain A1-40 and A1-42 peptide levels, improves cognitive learning and memory in Morris water maze tests and increases the expression of synaptic brain proteins. This was the case in young mice immunized prior to development of significant brain amyloid burden, and in older mice, where brain amyloid was already present. Active immunization was optimized using ALUM as an adjuvant to stimulate production of anti-SDPM1 and anti-A amyloid antibodies. Intracerebral injection of P4D6, an SDPM1 peptide-mimotope antibody, also lowered brain amyloid plaque burden in APPswePSEN1dE9 mice. Additionally, P4D6 inhibited A amyloid-mediated toxicity in cultured neuronal cells. The protein sequence of the variable domain within the P4D6 heavy chain was found to mimic a multimer of the SDPM1 peptide motif. These data demonstrate the efficacy of active and passive vaccine strategies to target A amyloid oligomers using an engineered peptide-mimotope strategy.
Type 2 diabetes (DM) is the most common cause of peripheral neuropathy in the Western world. A comorbidity, hypertension, has been speculated to contribute to initiation or worsening of diabetic peripheral neuropathy. We studied adult rat models using genetic strains with DM (Zucker Diabetic Fat rats)hypertension (HTN (ZSF-1 rats)) to investigate the relative contributions of DM and HTN and the potential for additive effects of HTN upon existing DM for the development of peripheral neuropathy. Long duration sensorimotor behavioral and electrophysiological testing was complemented by histological and molecular methods. Only DM led to tactile and thermal hyperalgesia and affected motor nerve electrophysiology. Although DM led to marked loss of sensory amplitudes and to sensory conduction slowing, a mild additive effect from HTN contributed after 6months of DM with worsening of slowing of sensory nerve conduction velocities, but without effect upon sensory amplitudes. At the sensory dominant sural nerve, mild (&lt;10%) but greater degrees of myelin thinning were noted with DM and HTN combined, suggesting a mild additive effect. Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) expression was increased only at the sural nerve in the presence of HTN with co-localization to Schwann cells and myelin. The effects of DM and HTN upon peripheral nerve are dissimilar, with HTN contributing to MMP upregulation at the sites of myelin thinning at sensory nerve fibers, potentially worsening comorbid DM. Together, our results indicate that HTN has a mild additive contribution to diabetic peripheral neuropathy at sensory peripheral nerve fibers manifesting with the loss of myelin thickness.
One of the major achievements of the last century of research in experimental psychology is the identification of a coherent set of theories and principles to characterize the nature of simple forms of associative learning. Major advances are also currently being made at a rapid pace in the neurobiology of associative learning, and, interestingly, we are beginning to see how a mapping from a psychological level of analysis to underlying neurobiological mechanisms is possible. This collection of papers honors the illustrative careers of four major learning theorists from the experimental psychology tradition (Robert Rescorla, Allan Wagner, Nicholas Mackintosh, Anthony Dickinson) who have helped shape our understanding of behavioral principles. The collection of works in this special issue reflects common interests among researchers working at both psychological and neurobiological levels of analysis towards a more comprehensive understanding of basic associative learning processes as they relate to several key issues identified and intensively studied by these influential learning theorists. These consist of the questions regarding (1) the critical conditions enabling learning, (2) the contents of learning, and (3) the rules that translate learning into performance. In one way or another, the separate contributions in this issue address these fundamental questions as they relate to a wide variety of currently exciting topics in the study of the neurobiology of learning and memory.
Research on dopamine lies at the intersection of sophisticated theoretical and neurobiological approaches to learning and memory. Dopamine has been shown to be critical for many processes that drive learning and memory, including motivation, prediction error, incentive salience, memory consolidation, and response output. Theories of dopamine's function in these processes have, for the most part, been developed from behavioral approaches that examine learning mechanisms in reward-related tasks. A parallel and growing literature indicates that dopamine is involved in fear conditioning and extinction. These studies are consistent with long-standing ideas about appetitive-aversive interactions in learning theory and they speak to the general nature of cellular and molecular processes that underlie behavior. We review the behavioral and neurobiological literature showing a role for dopamine in fear conditioning and extinction. At a cellular level, we review dopamine signaling and receptor pharmacology, cellular and molecular events that follow dopamine receptor activation, and brain systems in which dopamine functions. At a behavioral level, we describe theories of learning and dopamine function that could describe the fundamental rules underlying how dopamine modulates different aspects of learning and memory processes.
Several lines of evidence indicate an important role for the hippocampus in the recovery of fear memory after extinction. For example, hippocampal inactivation prevents the renewal of fear to an extinguished conditioned stimulus (CS) when it is presented outside the extinction context. Renewal of extinguished responding is accompanied by associative novelty (an unexpected occurrence of a familiar CS in a familiar place), the detection of which may require the hippocampus. We therefore examined whether the hippocampus also mediates the recovery of extinguished fear caused by other unexpected events, including presenting a familiar CS in a novel context or presenting a novel cue with the CS in a familiar context (e.g., external disinhibition). Rats underwent Pavlovian fear conditioning and extinction using an auditory CS and freezing behavior served as the index of conditioned fear. In Experiment 1, conditioned freezing to the extinguished CS was renewed in a novel context and this was eliminated by intra-hippocampal infusions of the GABAA agonist, muscimol, prior to the test. In Experiment 2, muscimol inactivation of the hippocampus reduced the external disinhibition of conditioned freezing that occurred when a novel white noise accompanied the extinguished tone CS. Collectively, these results suggest that the hippocampus mediates the return of fear when extinguished CSs are unexpected, or when unexpected stimuli accompany CS presentation. Ultimately, a violation of expectations about when, where, and with what other stimuli an extinguished CS will occur may form the basis of spontaneous recovery, renewal, and external disinhibition.
Since it was demonstrated the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) is critical to reversal learning, there has been considerable interest in specifying its role in flexible, outcome-guided behavior. Behavioral paradigms from the learning theory tradition, such as outcome devaluation, blocking, Pavlovian to instrumental transfer, and overexpectation have been a driving force in this research. The use of these procedures has revealed OFC's unique role in forming and integrating information about specific features of events and outcomes to drive behavior and learning. These studies highlight the power and importance of learning theory principles in guiding neuroscience research.
These studies examined the roles of dopamine D1- and D2-like receptors within the nucleus accumbens (Acb) in the acquisition and expression of ethanol-induced (2g/kg) conditioned place preference (CPP) in adult male DBA/2J mice. Bilateral intra-Acb infusions of the D1-like dopamine receptor antagonist SCH23390 (0.05, 0.5g/side) or the D2-like dopamine receptor antagonist raclopride (0.5-5.0g/side) were administered 30min before each ethanol conditioning trial (acquisition studies) or before preference tests (expression studies). CPP was conditioned to tactile cues using an unbiased apparatus and procedure. Intra-Acb infusion of SCH23390 prevented CPP acquisition, whereas intra-Acb infusion of raclopride did not. Intra-Acb infusion of both antagonists, however, dose-dependently reduced ethanol-stimulated locomotor activity during conditioning. In contrast, intra-Acb antagonist infusion had no effect on ethanol CPP expression, suggesting that dopamine's role in the Acb is limited to neurobiological processes engaged during the learning of the relationship between contextual cues and ethanol reward. Control experiments showed that intra-Acb injection of SCH23390 alone produced no place conditioning and did not interfere with the acquisition of conditioned place aversion induced by lithium chloride, suggesting that the antagonist's effect on ethanol CPP was not due to a more general detrimental effect on associative learning. Overall, these data suggest that D1-like (but not D2-like) dopamine Acb receptors play an important role in the learning of context-ethanol associations, either by modulating the magnitude of ethanol reward or the rate of learning about ethanol reward.
McGill-R-Thy1-APP rats express the human amyloid precursor protein carrying the Swedish and Indiana mutations. We examined the neurochemical content of the dorsal hippocampus in three-months-old male and female transgenic rats and healthy age- and gender-matched controls using in vivo (1)H MRS in order to assess early metabolite alterations and whether these were similar for both genders. Whereas male and female controls had similar levels of all metabolites, differences were evident between male and female McGill-R-Thy1-APP rats. Compared with McGill-R-Thy1-APP females, McGill-R-Thy1-APP males had lower levels of myo-inositol and N-acetylaspartate (NAA). No differences in metabolite levels were evident when female control and McGill-R-Thy1-APP rats were compared, whereas McGill-R-Thy1-APP males had lower levels of glutamate, NAA and total choline compared with male controls. In addition to metabolite concentrations, metabolite ratios are reported as these are widely used. The results from this preliminary study demonstrate early metabolite alterations in the dorsal hippocampus of males in this rat model of Alzheimer's disease, and imply that very early possible neurochemical markers of the disease are different for males and females.
Several lines of evidence suggest that the mechanism underlying drug-induced neuronal apoptosis is initiated by the increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). 1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), a neurotoxin, has been shown to initiate an apoptotic cascade by increasing ROS in the dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra, leading to the morphological and physiological features associated with Parkinson's disease. Recently, it has been reported that autophagy, a type of programmed cell death independent of the apoptotic cascade, also plays a role in neuronal damage. Although autophagy is negatively regulated by the mammalian target of rapamycin receptor (mTOR), there is some evidence showing a novel function for the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. Bcl-2 is proposed to play a role in negatively regulating autophagy by blocking an essential protein in the signaling pathway, Beclin 1. Nevertheless, it is unclear whether autophagy is also correlated with apoptotic signaling in 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)) toxicity. Therefore, we hypothesized that the MPP(+) toxicity generally associated with initiating the apoptotic signaling cascade also increases an autophagic phenotype in neuronal cells. Using the SK-N-SH dopaminergic cell lines, we demonstrate that MPP(+) increases the expression of microtubule-associated protein light chain 3 (LC3-II), an autophagosome membrane marker and the mTOR signaling pathway, and Beclin 1 while decreasing the Bcl-2 levels. Moreover, these expressions correlate with a decreased binding ratio between Bcl-2 and Beclin 1, in effect limiting the regulation of the downstream autophagic markers, such as LC3-II. Our results indicate that MPP(+) can induce autophagy in SK-N-SH cells by decreasing the Bcl-2/Beclin 1 complex.

Understanding the dynamic relationship between cerebral blood flow (CBF) and the circulation of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) can facilitate management of cerebral pathologies. For this reason, various hydrodynamic models have been introduced in order to simulate the phenomena governing the interaction between CBF and CSF. The identification of hydrodynamic models requires an array of signals as input, with the most common of them being arterial blood pressure, intracranial pressure, and cerebral blood flow velocity; monitoring all of them is considered as a standard practice in neurointensive care. Based on these signals, physiological parameters like cerebrovascular resistance, compliances of cerebrovascular bed, and CSF space could then be estimated. Various secondary model-based indices describing cerebrovascular dynamics have been introduced, like the cerebral arterial time constant or critical closing pressure. This review presents model-derived indices that describe cerebrovascular phenomena, the nature of which is both physiological (carbon dioxide reactivity and arterial hypotension) and pathological (cerebral artery stenosis, intracranial hypertension, and cerebral vasospasm). In a neurointensive environment, real-time monitoring of a patient with these indices may be able to provide a detection of the onset of a cerebrovascular phenomenon, which could have otherwise been missed. This potentially &quot;early warning&quot; indicator may then prove to be important for the therapeutic management of the patient.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia and represents a major public health problem. From a clinical perspective, AD is devastating to patients and their families. The genetic approach to the study of dementia undoubtedly continues to provide a significant contribution to understanding the pathogenesis, diagnosis and therapeutic perspectives, but also raises important ethical implications. With advances in new technology, including genetics and PET/MRI scanning, the role of genetic studies and neuroimaging is being redefined as an aid in the clinical diagnosis of AD, and also in presymptomatic evaluation. Here, we review some of the issues related to the neuroimaging-genetic relationship in AD with a possible clinical implication as a preclinical biomarker for dementia and also for tracking disease progression.

We investigated the neural systems underlying conflict detection and error monitoring during rapid online error correction/monitoring mechanisms. We combined data from four separate cognitive tasks and 64 subjects in which EEG and EMG (muscle activity from the thumb used to respond) were recorded. In typical neuroscience experiments, behavioral responses are classified as &quot;error&quot; or &quot;correct&quot;; however, closer inspection of our data revealed that correct responses were often accompanied by &quot;partial errors&quot; - a muscle twitch of the incorrect hand (&quot;mixed correct trials,&quot; ~13% of the trials). We found that these muscle twitches dissociated conflicts from errors in time-frequency domain analyses of EEG data. In particular, both mixed-correct trials and full error trials were associated with enhanced theta-band power (4-9Hz) compared to correct trials. However, full errors were additionally associated with power and frontal-parietal synchrony in the delta band. Single-trial robust multiple regression analyses revealed a significant modulation of theta power as a function of partial error correction time, thus linking trial-to-trial fluctuations in power to conflict. Furthermore, single-trial correlation analyses revealed a qualitative dissociation between conflict and error processing, such that mixed correct trials were associated with positive theta-RT correlations whereas full error trials were associated with negative delta-RT correlations. These findings shed new light on the local and global network mechanisms of conflict monitoring and error detection, and their relationship to online action adjustment.
To perceive a coherent environment, incomplete or overlapping visual forms must be integrated into meaningful coherent percepts, a process referred to as &quot;Gestalt&quot; formation or perceptual completion. Increasing evidence suggests that this process engages oscillatory neuronal activity in a distributed neuronal assembly. A separate line of evidence suggests that Gestalt formation requires top-down feedback from higher order brain regions to early visual cortex. Here we combine magnetoencephalography (MEG) and effective connectivity analysis in the frequency domain to specifically address the effective coupling between sources of oscillatory brain activity during Gestalt formation. We demonstrate that perceptual completion of two-tone &quot;Mooney&quot; faces induces increased gamma frequency band power (55-71Hz) in human early visual, fusiform and parietal cortices. Within this distributed neuronal assembly fusiform and parietal gamma oscillators are coupled by forward and backward connectivity during Mooney face perception, indicating reciprocal influences of gamma activity between these higher order visual brain regions. Critically, gamma band oscillations in early visual cortex are modulated by top-down feedback connectivity from both fusiform and parietal cortices. Thus, we provide a mechanistic account of Gestalt perception in which gamma oscillations in feature sensitive and spatial attention-relevant brain regions reciprocally drive one another and convey global stimulus aspects to local processing units at low levels of the sensory hierarchy by top-down feedback. Our data therefore support the notion of inverse hierarchical processing within the visual system underlying awareness of coherent percepts.
The Rubber Hand Illusion (RHI) is an established paradigm for studying body ownership, and several studies have implicated premotor and temporo-parietal brain regions in its neuronal foundation. Here we used an automated setup to induce a novel multi-site version of the RHI in healthy human participants inside an MR-scanner, with a RHI and control condition that were matched in terms of synchrony of visual and tactile stimulation. Importantly, as previous research has shown that most of the ownership-related brain areas also respond to observed human actions and touch, or body parts of others, here such potential effects of the experimenter were eliminated by the automated procedure. The RHI condition induced a strong ownership illusion; we found correspondingly stronger brain activity during the RHI versus control condition in contralateral middle occipital gyrus (mOCG) and bilateral anterior insula, which have previously been related to illusory body ownership. Using independent functional localizers, we confirmed that the activity in mOCG was located within the body-part selective extrastriate body area (EBA). Crucially, activity differences in participants' peak voxels within the left EBA correlated strongly positively with their behavioral illusion scores. Thus EBA activity also reflected interindividual differences in the experienced intensity of illusory limb ownership. Moreover, psychophysiological interaction analyses (PPI) revealed that contralateral primary somatosensory cortex had stronger brain connectivity with EBA during the RHI versus control condition, while EBA was more strongly interacting with temporo-parietal multisensory regions. In sum, our findings demonstrate a direct involvement of EBA in limb ownership.
Magnetoencephalography and electroencephalography (M/EEG) measure the weak electromagnetic signals originating from neural currents in the brain. Using these signals to characterize and locate brain activity is a challenging task, as evidenced by several decades of methodological contributions. MNE, whose name stems from its capability to compute cortically-constrained minimum-norm current estimates from M/EEG data, is a software package that provides comprehensive analysis tools and workflows including preprocessing, source estimation, time-frequency analysis, statistical analysis, and several methods to estimate functional connectivity between distributed brain regions. The present paper gives detailed information about the MNE package and describes typical use cases while also warning about potential caveats in analysis. The MNE package is a collaborative effort of multiple institutes striving to implement and share best methods and to facilitate distribution of analysis pipelines to advance reproducibility of research. Full documentation is available at http://martinos.org/mne.
Voluntary action control requires selection of appropriate responses and stopping of inappropriate responses. Selection and stopping are often investigated separately, but they appear to recruit similar brain regions, including the pre-supplementary motor area (preSMA) and inferior frontal gyrus. We therefore examined the evidence for overlap of selection and stopping using two approaches: a meta-analysis of existing studies of selection and stopping, and a novel within-subject fMRI study in which action selection and a stop signal task were combined factorially. The novel fMRI study also permitted us to investigate hypotheses regarding a common mechanism for selection and stopping. The preSMA was identified by both methods as common to selection and stopping. However, stopping a selected action did not recruit preSMA more than stopping a specified action, nor did stop signal reaction times differ significantly across the two conditions. These findings suggest that the preSMA supports both action selection and stopping, but the two processes may not require access to a common inhibition mechanism. Instead, the preSMA might represent information about potential actions that is used in both action selection and stopping in order to resolve conflict between competing available responses.
Healthy participants tend to show systematic biases in spatial attention, usually to the left. However, these biases can shift rightward as a result of a number of experimental manipulations. Using electroencephalography (EEG) and a computerized line bisection task, here we investigated for the first time the neural correlates of changes in spatial attention bias induced by line-length (the so-called line-length effect). In accordance with previous studies, an overall systematic left bias (pseudoneglect) was present during long line but not during short line bisection performance. This effect of line-length on behavioral bias was associated with stronger right parieto-occipital responses to long as compared to short lines in an early time window (100-200ms) post-stimulus onset. This early differential activation to long as compared to short lines was task-independent (present even in a non-spatial control task not requiring line bisection), suggesting that it reflects a reflexive attentional response to long lines. This was corroborated by further analyses source-localizing the line-length effect to the right temporo-parietal junction (TPJ) and revealing a positive correlation between the strength of this effect and the magnitude by which long lines (relative to short lines) drive a behavioral left bias across individuals. Therefore, stimulus-driven left bisection bias was associated with increased right hemispheric engagement of areas of the ventral attention network. This further substantiates that this network plays a key role in the genesis of spatial bias, and suggests that post-stimulus TPJ-activity at early information processing stages (around the latency of the N1 component) contributes to the left bias.
Seizure freedom after resective epilepsy surgery is not obtained in a substantial number of patients with medically intractable epilepsy. Functional neural network analysis is a promising technique for more accurate identification of the target areas for epilepsy surgery, but a better understanding of the correlations between changes in functional network organization due to surgery and postoperative seizure status is required. We explored these correlations in longitudinal magnetoencephalography (MEG) recordings of 20 lesional epilepsy patients. Resting-state MEG recordings were obtained at baseline (preoperatively; T0) and at 3-7 (T1) and 9-15months after resection (T2). We assessed frequency-specific functional connectivity and performed a minimum spanning tree (MST) network analysis. The MST captures the most important connections in the network. We found a significant positive correlation between functional connectivity in the lower alpha band and seizure frequency at T0, especially in regions where lesions were located. MST leaf fraction, a measure of integration of information in the network, was significantly increased between T0 and T2, only for the seizure-free patients. This is in line with previous work, which showed that lower functional network integration in lesional epilepsy patients is related to higher epilepsy burden. Finally, eccentricity and betweenness centrality, which are measures of hub-status, decreased between T0 and T2 in seizure free patients, also in regions that were anatomically close to resection cavities. Our results increase insight into functional network changes in successful epilepsy surgery and might eventually be utilized for optimization of neurosurgical approaches.
Previous studies have reported low repeatability of BOLD activation measures during emotion processing tasks. It is not clear, however, whether low repeatability is a result of changes in the underlying neural signal over time, or due to insufficient reliability of the acquired BOLD signal caused by noise contamination. The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of &quot;cleaning&quot; the BOLD signal, by correcting for physiological noise and for differences in BOLD responsiveness, on measures of repeatability. Fifteen healthy volunteers were scanned on two different occasions, performing an emotion provocation task with faces (neutral, 50% fearful, 100% fearful) followed by a breath-hold paradigm to provide a marker of BOLD responsiveness. Repeatability of signal distribution (spatial repeatability) and repeatability of signal amplitude within two regions of interest (amygdala and fusiform gyrus) were estimated by calculating the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). Significant repeatability of signal amplitude was only found within the right amygdala during the perception of 50% fearful faces, but disappeared when physiological noise correction was performed. Spatial repeatability was higher within the fusiform gyrus than within the amygdala, and better at the group level than at the participant level. Neither physiological noise correction, nor consideration of BOLD responsiveness, assessed through the breath-holding, increased repeatability. The findings lead to the conclusion that low repeatability of BOLD response amplitude to emotional faces is more likely to be explained by the lack of stability in the underlying neural signal than by physiological noise contamination. Furthermore, reported repeatability might be a result of repeatability of task-correlated physiological variation rather than neural activity. This means that the emotion paradigm used in this study might not be useful for studies that require the BOLD response to be a stable measure of emotional processing, for example in the context of biomarkers.

In monkey neuroimaging, head restraint is currently achieved via surgical implants. Eradicating such invasive head restraint from otherwise non-invasive monkey studies could represent a substantial progress in terms of Reduction and Refinement. Two non-invasive helmet-based methods are available but they are used exclusively by the pioneering research groups who designed them. In the absence of independent replication, they have had little impact in replacing the surgical implants. Here, we built a modified version of the helmet system proposed by Srihasam et al. (2010 NeuroImage, 51(1), 267-73) and tested it for resting state fMRI in awake monkeys. Extremely vulnerable to motion artifacts, resting state fMRI represents a decisive test for non-invasive head restraint systems. We compared two monkeys restrained with the helmet to one monkey with a surgically implanted head post using both a seed-based approach and an independent component analysis. Technically, the helmet system proved relatively easy to develop. Scientifically, although it allowed more extensive movements than the head post system, the helmet proved viable for resting state fMRI, in particular when combined with the independent component analysis that deals more effectively with movement-related noise than the seed-based approach. We also discuss the pros and cons of such device in light of the European Union new 2013 regulation on non-human primate research and its firm Reduction and Refinement requests.
Accurate estimation of location and extent of neuronal sources from EEG/MEG remain challenging. In the present study, a new source imaging method, i.e. variation and wavelet based sparse source imaging (VW-SSI), is proposed to better estimate cortical source locations and extents. VW-SSI utilizes the L1-norm regularization method with the enforcement of transform sparseness in both variation and wavelet domains. The performance of the proposed method is assessed by both simulated and experimental MEG data, obtained from a language task and a motor task. Compared to L2-norm regularizations, VW-SSI demonstrates significantly improved capability in reconstructing multiple extended cortical sources with less spatial blurredness and less localization error. With the use of transform sparseness, VW-SSI overcomes the over-focused problem in classic SSI methods. With the use of two transformations, VW-SSI further indicates significantly better performance in estimating MEG source locations and extents than other SSI methods with single transformations. The present experimental results indicate that VW-SSI can successfully estimate neural sources (and their spatial coverage) located in close areas while responsible for different functions, i.e. temporal cortical sources for auditory and language processing, and sources on the pre-bank and post-bank of the central sulcus. Meantime, all other methods investigated in the present study fail to recover these phenomena. Precise estimation of cortical source locations and extents from EEG/MEG is of significance for applications in neuroscience and neurology.
Grey matter (GM) atrophy occurs early in primary progressive MS (PPMS), but it is unknown whether its progression involves different brain regions at different rates, as is seen in other neurodegenerative diseases. We aimed to investigate the temporal and regional evolution of GM volume loss over 5years and its relationship with disability progression in early PPMS. We studied 36 patients with PPMS within five years from onset and 19 age and gender-matched healthy controls with clinical and imaging assessments at study entry and yearly for 3years and then at 5years. Patients were scored on the expanded disability status scale (EDSS) and MS Functional Composite (MSFC) at each time-point. An unbiased longitudinal voxel-based morphometry approach, based on high-dimensional spatial alignment within-subject, was applied to the serial imaging data. The rate of local (voxel-wise) volume change per year was compared between groups and its relationship with clinical outcomes was assessed. Patients deteriorated significantly during the five years follow-up. Patients showed a greater decline of GM volume (p&lt;0.05, FWE-corrected) bilaterally in the cingulate cortex, thalamus, putamen, precentral gyrus, insula and cerebellum when compared to healthy controls over five years, although the rate of volume loss varied across the brain, and was the fastest in the cingulate cortex. Significant (p&lt;0.05, FWE-corrected) volume loss was detected in the left insula, left precuneus, and right cingulate cortex in patients at three years, as compared to baseline, whilst the bilateral putamen and the left superior temporal gyrus showed volume loss at five years. In patients, there was a relationship between a higher rate of volume loss in the bilateral cingulate cortex and greater clinical disability, as measured by the MSFC, at five years (Pearson's r=0.49, p=0.003). Longitudinal VBM demonstrated that the progression of GM atrophy in PPMS occurs at different rates in different regions across the brain. The involvement of the cingulate cortex occurs early in the disease course, continues at a steady rate throughout the follow-up period and is associated with patient outcome. These findings provide new insights into the characteristics of GM atrophy across the brain in MS, and have potential consequences for the selection of brain atrophy as an outcome measure in neuroprotective clinical trials.
Structural brain networks constructed from diffusion MRI (dMRI) and tractography have been demonstrated in healthy volunteers and more recently in various disorders affecting brain connectivity. However, few studies have addressed the reproducibility of the resulting networks. We measured the test-retest properties of such networks by varying several factors affecting network construction using ten healthy volunteers who underwent a dMRI protocol at 1.5T on two separate occasions. Each T1-weighted brain was parcellated into 84 regions-of-interest and network connections were identified using dMRI and two alternative tractography algorithms, two alternative seeding strategies, a white matter waypoint constraint and three alternative network weightings. In each case, four common graph-theoretic measures were obtained. Network properties were assessed both node-wise and per network in terms of the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and by comparing within- and between-subject differences. Our findings suggest that test-retest performance was improved when: 1) seeding from white matter, rather than grey; and 2) using probabilistic tractography with a two-fibre model and sufficient streamlines, rather than deterministic tensor tractography. In terms of network weighting, a measure of streamline density produced better test-retest performance than tract-averaged diffusion anisotropy, although it remains unclear which is a more accurate representation of the underlying connectivity. For the best performing configuration, the global within-subject differences were between 3.2% and 11.9% with ICCs between 0.62 and 0.76. The mean nodal within-subject differences were between 5.2% and 24.2% with mean ICCs between 0.46 and 0.62. For 83.3% (70/84) of nodes, the within-subject differences were smaller than between-subject differences. Overall, these findings suggest that whilst current techniques produce networks capable of characterising the genuine between-subject differences in connectivity, future work must be undertaken to improve network reliability.
Most previous neuroimaging studies of age-related brain structural changes in older individuals have been cross-sectional and/or restricted to clinical samples. The present study of 345 community-dwelling non-demented individuals aged 70-90years aimed to examine age-related brain volumetric changes over two years. T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging scans were obtained at baseline and at 2-year follow-up and analyzed using the FMRIB Software Library and FreeSurfer to investigate cortical thickness and shape and volumetric changes of subcortical structures. The results showed significant atrophy across much of the cerebral cortex with bilateral transverse temporal regions shrinking the fastest. Atrophy was also found in a number of subcortical structures, including the CA1 and subiculum subfields of the hippocampus. In some regions, such as left and right entorhinal cortices, right hippocampus and right precentral area, the rate of atrophy increased with age. Our analysis also showed that rostral middle frontal regions were thicker bilaterally in older participants, which may indicate its ability to compensate for medial temporal lobe atrophy. Compared to men, women had thicker cortical regions but greater rates of cortical atrophy. Women also had smaller subcortical structures. A longer period of education was associated with greater thickness in a number of cortical regions. Our results suggest a pattern of brain atrophy with non-demented people that resembles a less extreme form of the changes associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD).
The uncinate fasciculus is a major white matter tract that provides a crucial link between areas of the human brain that underlie emotion processing and regulation. Specifically, the uncinate fasciculus is the major direct fiber tract that connects the prefrontal cortex and the amygdala. The aim of the present study was to use a multi-modal imaging approach in order to simultaneously examine the relation between structural connectivity of the uncinate fasciculus and functional activation of the amygdala in a youth sample (children and adolescents). Participants were 9 to 19years old and underwent diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Results indicate that greater structural connectivity of the uncinate fasciculus predicts reduced amygdala activation to sad and happy faces. This effect is moderated by age, with younger participants exhibiting a stronger relation. Further, decreased amygdala activation to sad faces predicts lower internalizing symptoms. These results provide important insights into brain structure-function relationships during adolescence, and suggest that greater structural connectivity of the uncinate fasciculus may facilitate regulation of the amygdala, particularly during early adolescence. These findings also have implications for understanding the relation between brain structure, function, and the development of emotion regulation difficulties, such as internalizing symptoms.
Previously, modulations in power of neuronal oscillations have been functionally linked to sensory, motor and cognitive operations. Such links are commonly established by relating the power modulations to specific target variables such as reaction times or task ratings. Consequently, the resulting spatio-spectral representation is subjected to neurophysiological interpretation. As an alternative, independent component analysis (ICA) or alternative decomposition methods can be applied and the power of the components may be related to the target variable. In this paper we show that these standard approaches are suboptimal as the first does not take into account the superposition of many sources due to volume conduction, while the second is unable to exploit available information about the target variable. To improve upon these approaches we introduce a novel (supervised) source separation framework called Source Power Comodulation (SPoC). SPoC makes use of the target variable in the decomposition process in order to give preference to components whose power comodulates with the target variable. We present two algorithms that implement the SPoC approach. Using simulations with a realistic head model, we show that the SPoC algorithms are able extract neuronal components exhibiting high correlation of power with the target variable. In this task, the SPoC algorithms outperform other commonly used techniques that are based on the sensor data or ICA approaches. Furthermore, using real electroencephalography (EEG) recordings during an auditory steady state paradigm, we demonstrate the utility of the SPoC algorithms by extracting neuronal components exhibiting high correlation of power with the intensity of the auditory input. Taking into account the results of the simulations and real EEG recordings, we conclude that SPoC represents an adequate approach for the optimal extraction of neuronal components showing coupling of power with continuously changing behaviorally relevant parameters.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies rarely consider statistical power when setting a sample size. This raises concerns since undersized studies may fail to detect effects of interest and encourage data dredging. Although sample size methodology in this field exists, implementation requires specifications of estimated effect size and variance components. We therefore systematically evaluated how often estimates of effect size and variance components were reported in observational fMRI studies involving clinical human participants published in six leading journals between January 2010 and December 2011. A random sample of 100 eligible articles was included in data extraction and analyses. Two independent reviewers assessed the reporting of sample size calculations and the data components required to perform the calculations in the fMRI literature. One article (1%) reported sample size calculations. The reporting of parameter estimates for effect size (8%), between-subject variance (4%), within-subject variance (1%) and temporal autocorrelation matrix (0%) was uncommon. Three articles (3%) reported Cohen's d or F effect sizes. The majority (83%) reported peak or average t, z or F statistics. The inter-rater agreement was very good, with a prevalence-adjusted bias-adjusted kappa (PABAK) value greater than 0.88. We concluded that sample size calculations were seldom reported in fMRI studies. Moreover, omission of parameter estimates for effect size, between- and within-subject variances, and temporal autocorrelation matrix could limit investigators' ability to perform power analyses for new studies. We suggest routine reporting of these quantities, and recommend strategies for reducing bias in their reported values.
Top-down control is critical to select goal-directed actions in changeable environments, particularly when several options compete for selection. This control system is thought to involve a mechanism that suppresses activation of unwanted response representations. We tested this hypothesis, in humans, by measuring motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) elicited by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) in a left finger muscle during motor preparation in an adapted Eriksen flanker task. Subjects reported, by a left or right button-press, the orientation of a left- or right-facing central arrow, flanked by two distractor arrows on each side. Central and peripheral arrows either pointed in the same (congruent trial) or in the opposite direction (incongruent trial). Top-down control was manipulated by changing the probability of congruent and incongruent trials in a given block. In the &quot;mostly incongruent&quot; (MI) blocks, 80% of trials were incongruent, producing a context in which subjects strongly anticipated that they would have to face conflict. In the &quot;mostly congruent&quot; (MC) blocks, 80% of trials were congruent and thus subjects barely anticipated conflict in that context. Thus, we assume that top-down control was stronger in the MI than in the MC condition. Accordingly, subjects displayed a lower error rate and shorter reaction times for the incongruent trials in the MI context than for similar trials in the MC context. More interestingly, we found that top-down control specifically reduced activation of the incompatible motor representation during response selection under high conflict. That is, when the central arrow specified a right hand response, left (non-selected) MEPs became smaller in the MI than in the MC condition, but only for incongruent trials, and this measure was positively correlated with performance. In contrast, MEPs elicited in the non-selected hand during congruent trials, or during all trials in which the left hand was selected, tended to increase more after the imperative signal in the MI than the MC condition. Another important observation was that, overall, MEPs were already strongly suppressed at the onset of the imperative signal and that this effect was particularly pronounced in the MI context. Hence, suppression of motor excitability seems to be a key component of conflict resolution.
A central finding of functional MRI studies is the highly selective response of distinct brain areas in the occipital temporal cortex to faces and places. However, little is known about the association of white matter fibers with the processing of these object categories. In the current study we used DTI-based tractography to reconstruct two main fibers that connect the occipital lobe with the anterior temporal lobe (inferior longitudinal fasciculus-ILF) and with the frontal lobe (inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus-IFOF) in normal individuals. In addition to MRI scans subjects performed face, scene and body recognition tasks outside the scanner. Results show that recognition of faces and scenes were selectively associated with separate parts of the ILF. In particular, face recognition was highly associated with the fractional anisotropy (FA) of the anterior part of the ILF in the right hemisphere. In contrast, scene recognition was strongly correlated with the FA of the posterior and middle but not the anterior part of the ILF bilaterally. Our findings provide the first demonstration that faces and places are not only associated with distinct brain areas but also with separate parts of white matter fibers.
Precise MEG estimates of neuronal current flow are undermined by uncertain knowledge of the head location with respect to the MEG sensors. This is either due to head movements within the scanning session or systematic errors in co-registration to anatomy. Here we show how such errors can be minimized using subject-specific head-casts produced using 3D printing technology. The casts fit the scalp of the subject internally and the inside of the MEG dewar externally, reducing within session and between session head movements. Systematic errors in matching to MRI coordinate system are also reduced through the use of MRI-visible fiducial markers placed on the same cast. Bootstrap estimates of absolute co-registration error were of the order of 1mm. Estimates of relative co-registration error were &lt;1.5mm between sessions. We corroborated these scalp based estimates by looking at the MEG data recorded over a 6month period. We found that the between session sensor variability of the subject's evoked response was of the order of the within session noise, showing no appreciable noise due to between-session movement. Simulations suggest that the between-session sensor level amplitude SNR improved by a factor of 5 over conventional strategies. We show that at this level of coregistration accuracy there is strong evidence for anatomical models based on the individual rather than canonical anatomy; but that this advantage disappears for errors of greater than 5mm. This work paves the way for source reconstruction methods which can exploit very high SNR signals and accurate anatomical models; and also significantly increases the sensitivity of longitudinal studies with MEG.
Quantification of a number of neurochemicals within localised regions of tissue has long been possible using Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS). In recent years, MRS has increasingly been utilised as a method to indirectly assess neuronal activity in vivo, primarily via measurement of the major neurotransmitters glutamate and -aminobutyric acid (GABA). To date a number of studies have highlighted relationships between local GABA levels and behaviour, and have demonstrated the modulation of GABA by protocols designed to induce synaptic plasticity. This review aims to examine the literature on MRS-assessed GABA changes in synaptic plasticity, focussing on the primary motor cortex (M1), to relate these to animal studies on the role of GABA in synaptic plasticity, and to highlight some of the important outstanding questions in interpreting MRS findings.
Transcranial MRI-guided focused ultrasound (TcMRgFUS) is an old idea but a new technology that may change the entire clinical field of the neurosciences. TcMRgFUS has no cumulative effect, and it is applicable for repeatable treatments, controlled by real-time dosimetry, and capable of immediate tissue destruction. Most importantly, it has extremely accurate targeting and constant monitoring. It is potentially more precise than proton beam therapy and definitely more cost effective. Neuro-oncology may be the most promising area of future TcMRgFUS applications.



Over the past decade there have been major advances in defining the genetic basis of the majority of congenital myopathy subtypes. However the relationship between each congenital myopathy, defined on histological grounds, and the genetic cause is complex. Many of the congenital myopathies are due to mutations in more than one gene, and mutations in the same gene can cause different muscle pathologies. The International Standard of Care Committee for Congenital Myopathies performed a literature review and consulted a group of experts in the field to develop a summary of (1) the key features common to all forms of congenital myopathy and (2) the specific features that help to discriminate between the different genetic subtypes. The consensus statement was refined by two rounds of on-line survey, and a three-day workshop. This consensus statement provides guidelines to the physician assessing the infant or child with hypotonia and weakness. We summarise the clinical features that are most suggestive of a congenital myopathy, the major differential diagnoses and the features on clinical examination, investigations, muscle pathology and muscle imaging that are suggestive of a specific genetic diagnosis to assist in prioritisation of genetic testing of known genes. As next generation sequencing becomes increasingly used as a diagnostic tool in clinical practise, these guidelines will assist in determining which sequence variations are likely to be pathogenic.
Congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMS) result from the failure to achieve muscle depolarisation due to disorders in the structure and/or function of the neuromuscular synapse. Mutations of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) form a major subset of CMS. We describe a patient who presented with recurrent apnoeic crises in the neonatal period requiring ventilator support. Electromyography revealed compound muscle action potential decrement upon repetitive stimulation. Sequencing of nAChR subunit genes revealed two missense mutations. One previously reported null mutation p.Tyr15His, and a second novel missense mutation, p.Thr38Lys, that is well expressed in mammalian cell culture and thus likely to exert its effect via alteration of ion channel kinetics. Functional analysis revealed abbreviated ion channel bursts characteristic of a fast channel CMS. The mutation p.Thr38Lys occurs at the interface between the  and  subunits of the nAChR pentamer and leads to instability of the open channel. The effects of this mutation on channel function were investigated in relation to other fast channel mutants at an analogous subunit interface within the nAChR pentamer. Fast channel syndromes are frequently characterised by severe myasthenic weakness with apnoeic crises; knowledge of the underlying mutation and its functional consequences can be vital for appropriate therapy and patient management.
During the past 40 years brain tissue grafting techniques have been used both to study fundamental neurobiological questions and to treat neurological diseases. Motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease are largely due to degeneration of midbrain dopamine neurones. Because the nigrostriatal pathology is relatively focused anatomically, Parkinson's disease is considered the ideal candidate for brain repair by neural grafting and dopamine neurone transplantation for it has led the way in the neural transplantation research field. In this mini-review, we briefly highlight four important areas of development. First, we describe marked functional benefits up to 18 years after transplantation surgery in patients with Parkinson's disease. This is proof-of-principle that, using optimal techniques and patient selection, grafted dopamine neurones can work in humans and the duration of the benefit exceeds placebo effects associated with surgery. Second, we describe that eventually protein aggregates containing -synuclein, identical to Lewy bodies, develop inside foetal dopamine neurones transplanted to patients with Parkinson's disease. This gives clues about pathogenetic mechanisms operating in Parkinson's disease, and also raises the question whether neural graft function will eventually decline as the result of the disease process. Third, we describe new emerging sources of transplantable dopamine neurones derived from pluripotent stem cells or reprogrammed adult somatic cells. Fourth, we highlight an important European Union-funded multicentre clinical trial involving transplantation of foetal dopamine neurones in Parkinson's disease. We describe the design of this ongoing trial and how it can impact on the overall future of cell therapy in Parkinson's disease.
Environmental enrichment (EE) increases levels of novelty and complexity, inducing enhanced sensory, cognitive and motor stimulation. In wild-type rodents, EE has been found to have a range of effects, such as enhancing experience-dependent cellular plasticity and cognitive performance, relative to standard-housed controls. Whilst environmental enrichment is of course a relative term, dependent on the nature of control environmental conditions, epidemiological studies suggest that EE has direct clinical relevance to a range of neurological and psychiatric disorders. EE has been demonstrated to induce beneficial effects in animal models of a wide variety of brain disorders. The first evidence of beneficial effects of EE in a genetically targeted animal model was generated using Huntington's disease transgenic mice. Subsequent studies found that EE was also therapeutic in mouse models of Alzheimer's disease, consistent with epidemiological studies of relevant environmental modifiers. EE has also been found to ameliorate behavioural, cellular and molecular deficits in animal models of various neurological and psychiatric disorders, including Parkinson's disease, stroke, traumatic brain injury, epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, depression, schizophrenia and autism spectrum disorders. This review will focus on the effects of EE observed in animal models of neurodegenerative brain diseases, at molecular, cellular and behavioural levels. The proposal that EE may act synergistically with other approaches, such as drug and cell therapies, to facilitate brain repair will be discussed. I will also discuss the therapeutic potential of 'enviromimetics', drugs which mimic or enhance the therapeutic effects of cognitive activity and physical exercise, for both neuroprotection and brain repair.
Neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) in the mammalian brain retain the ability to generate new neurones throughout life in discrete brain regions, through a process called adult neurogenesis. Adult neurogenesis, a dramatic form of adult brain circuitry plasticity, has been implicated in physiological brain function and appears to be of pivotal importance for certain forms of learning and memory. In addition, failing or altered neurogenesis has been associated with a variety of brain diseases such as major depression, epilepsy and age-related cognitive decline. Here we review recent advances in our understanding of the basic biology underlying the neurogenic process in the adult brain, focusing on mechanisms that regulate quiescence, proliferation and differentiation of NSPCs. In addition, we discuss how neurogenesis influences normal brain function, and in particular its role in memory formation, as well as its contribution to neuropsychiatric diseases. Finally, we evaluate the potential of targeting endogenous NSPCs for brain repair.
To explore the molecular pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), the nuclear function of TAR-DNA binding protein 43 kDa (TDP-43) must be elucidated. TDP-43 is a nuclear protein that colocalizes with Cajal body or Gem in cultured cells. Several recent studies have reported that the decreasing number of Gems accompanied the depletion of the causative genes for ALS, TDP-43 and FUS. Gems play an important role in the pathogenesis of spinal muscular atrophy. Gems are the sites of the maturation of spliceosomes, which are composed of uridylate-rich (U) snRNAs (small nuclear RNAs) and protein complex, small nuclear ribonuclearprotein (snRNP). Spliceosomes regulate the splicing of pre-mRNA and are classified into the major or minor classes, according to the consensus sequence of acceptor and donor sites of pre-mRNA splicing. Although the major class of spliceosomes regulates most pre-mRNA splicing, minor spliceosomes also play an important role in regulating the splicing or global speed of pre-mRNA processing. A mouse model of spinal muscular atrophy, in which the number of Gems is decreased, shows fewer subsets U snRNAs. Interestingly, in the central nervous system, U snRNAs belonging to the minor spliceosomes are markedly reduced. In ALS, the U12 snRNA is decreased only in the tissue affected by ALS and not in other tissues. Although the molecular mechanisms underlying the decreased U12 snRNA resulting in cell dysfunction and cell death in motor neuron diseases remain unclear, these findings suggest that the disturbance of nuclear bodies and minor splicing may underlie the common molecular pathogenesis of motor neuron diseases.
We performed clinicopathological analyses of two amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients with homozygous Q398X optineurin (OPTN) mutation. Clinically, both patients presented signs of upper and lower motor neuron degeneration, but only Patient 1 showed gradual frontal dysfunction and extrapyramidal signs, and temporal lobe and motor cortex atrophy. Neuropathological examination of Patient 1 revealed extensive cortical and spinal motor neuron degeneration and widespread degeneration of the basal ganglia. Bilateral corticospinal tracts exhibited degeneration. Loss of spinal anterior horn cells (AHCs) and gliosis were observed, whereas posterior columns, Clarke's columns, intermediate lateral columns, and the Onuf's nucleus were spared. In the brainstem, moderate neuronal loss and gliosis were noted in the hypoglossal and facial motor nuclei. No Bunina bodies were found in the surviving spinal and brainstem motor neurons. Transactivation response (TAR) DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43)-positive neuronal and glial cytoplasmic inclusions were observed throughout the central nervous system. The Golgi apparatus in motor neurons of the brainstem and spinal cord was often fragmented. Immunoreactivity for OPTN was not observed in the brain and spinal cord, consistent with nonsense-mediated mRNA decay of OPTN. The TDP-43 pathology of Q398X was similar to that of an autosomal dominant E478G mutation. This result suggests that the loss-of-function, but not the proteinopathy itself, of OPTN results in TDP-43 deposits in neuronal and glial cytoplasm and Golgi apparatus fragmentation, leading to multisystem neurodegeneration.
Optic pathway gliomas (OPGs) account for 5% of all childhood brain tumors. For years it has been discussed which was the best method of examining tumor progression when the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan does not change. The role of chemotherapy in their treatment still remains controversial. We treated four consecutive patients affected by progressive OPG with lower cumulative doses of cisplatin/etoposide. The extension of disease was assessed by brain MRI scan. A complete ophthalmologic examination was performed. Ototoxicity was monitored. Our OPG patients had reduced visual acuity (VA) and/or visual field (VF) regardless of the MRI evaluation. All patients showed rapid visual recovery with improvement both in VA and in VF. At the time of writing, after a median follow-up of 34 months, all patients were alive and free from disease progression. Our results confirm the effectiveness and the low-toxicity profile of the cisplatin/etoposide regimen for treatment of children affected by OPG. We suggest that VA and VF can be considered as the most accurate parameters for defining the start of chemotherapy and tumor response.
Urocortin I (UCN I) is a structural analogue of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), which, together with arginine-vasopressin (AVP), are the principle adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretagogues in mammals. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of UCN I on the hypothalamic CRF and AVP concentration and its impact on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. First, male Wistar rats were injected intracerebroventricularly (ICV) with 0.5, 1, 2 and 5 g of UCN I. After 30 min hypothalamic CRF and AVP concentrations were determined by immunoassays. In parallel, the trunk blood was collected and plasma ACTH and corticosterone concentration was determined by ELISA and chemofluorescent assay, respectively. Second, rats were pretreated ICV with selective antagonists of receptors being implicated in the regulation of the HPA axis (0.1 g antalarmin for CRFR1, 1 g astressin 2B for CRFR2 or 0.1 g deamino-Pen1,Tyr2,Arg8-vasopressin for AVPR3) and treated ICV with the most effective dose of UCN I (5 g). After 30 min plasma corticosterone concentration was determined by chemofluorescent assay. UCN I induced dose-dependent augmentation of the hypothalamic CRF and AVP concentration, associated with dose-dependent elevation of the plasma ACTH and corticosterone concentration. The most significant effect of UCN I on the plasma corticosterone concentration was inhibited by antalarmin, but was not influenced by astressin 2B or deamino-Pen1,Tyr2,Arg8-vasopressin. The present study demonstrates that UCN I modulates the concentration of the hypothalamic ACTH secretagogues in parallel with the concentration of the plasma ACTH and corticosterone. Our results suggest that UCN I may activate the HPA axis by stimulation of the hypothalamic CRF production, and this process is mediated by CRFR1, and not by CRFR2. UCN I may stimulate the AVP production, as well, but, based on the results with AVPR3 antagonist, this effect is not involved in the regulation of the HPA axis.
The basolateral amygdala (BLA) plays an integral role in the etiology of anxiety disorders and alcoholism. Although much is known about the intrinsic circuitry that governs BLA excitability, our understanding of the neuromodulators that control BLA excitation is incomplete. In many brain regions, adenosine (ADO) regulates neuronal excitability, primarily via A receptor inhibition of glutamate release, and basal adenosinergic tone is high enough to tonically inhibit neuronal excitation. Although ADO signaling modulates many anxiety- and alcohol-related behaviors, little is known about ADO regulation of BLA neurotransmission. To that end, we used patch clamp methods in rodent brain slices to characterize adenosinergic modulation of excitatory neurotransmission onto BLA pyramidal cells. ADO significantly inhibited EPSCs evoked by stimulation of either medial or external glutamatergic inputs into the BLA. This effect was mimicked by an A, but not by an A(a), agonist. Paired-pulse ratio and miniature EPSC experiments revealed that A receptors reside at a presynaptic locus on BLA glutamatergic synapses. Moreover, bath application of an A1 receptor antagonist significantly enhanced EPSCs, providing evidence of tonic adenosinergic tone at BLA glutamatergic synapses. In addition, tonic ADO was regulated by adenosine kinase, but not adenosine deaminase. Finally, activation of A receptors had no direct effects on the intrinsic excitability of BLA pyramidal cells. Collectively, these data suggest that tonic A receptor signaling may play an important role in regulating BLA excitability and suggest a possible neurobiological substrate through which ADO may contribute to the pathophysiology of anxiety disorders and alcohol addiction.
Chronic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) blockade with high affinity competitive and uncompetitive antagonists can lead to seizure exacerbation, presumably due to an imbalance in glutamatergic and GABAergic transmission. Acute administration of the moderate affinity NMDAR antagonist memantine in vivo has been associated with pro- and anticonvulsive properties. Chronic treatment with memantine can exacerbate seizures. Therefore, we hypothesized that chronic memantine treatment would increase glutamatergic and decrease GABAergic transmission, similar to high affinity competitive and uncompetitive antagonists. To test this hypothesis, organotypic hippocampal slice culture were treated for 17-21 days with memantine and then subjected to electrophysiological recordings. Whole-cell recordings from dentate granule cells revealed that chronic memantine treatment slightly, but significantly increased sEPSC frequency, mEPSC amplitude and mEPSC charge transfer, consistent with minimally increased glutamatergic transmission. Chronic memantine treatment also increased both sIPSC and mIPSC frequency and amplitude, suggestive of increased GABAergic transmission. Results suggest that a simple imbalance between glutamatergic and GABAergic neurotransmission may not underlie memantine's ictogenic properties. That said, glutamatergic and GABAergic transmission were assayed independently of one another in the current study. More complex interactions between glutamatergic and GABAergic transmission may prevail under conditions of intact circuitry.

The neurotransmitter noradrenaline (NA) has anti-inflammatory properties and promotes expression of neurotrophic factors in the central nervous system (CNS) via activation of glial adrenoceptors. Here we examined the ability of conditioned media (CM) from NA-treated glial cells to impact upon neuronal complexity. Primary rat cortical neurons were treated either directly with NA (1-10 M), or treated with CM from NA-stimulated primary mixed glial cells. Neuronal complexity was assessed using Sholl analysis. Exposure of neurons to CM from NA-stimulated glial cells increased all indices of neuronal complexity, whereas direct exposure of neurons to NA did not. CM from NA-stimulated astrocytes, but not microglia, also increased neuronal complexity indicating a key role for astrocytes. The -adrenergic subtype was implicated in this response as the increase was blocked by the -adrenoceptor antagonist propanolol, but not by the -adrenoceptor antagonist phentolamine. CM from glial cells treated with the -adrenoceptor agonists salmeterol and clenbuterol, but not the -adrenoceptor agonist xamoterol, mimicked the ability of NA to increase neuronal complexity. NA induced expression of a range of growth factors (BDNF, NGF-, GDNF, FGF-2 and IL-6) in glial cells. In addition to this, the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) and JAK-STAT signalling pathways are implicated in NA CM-induced neuritic growth as inhibition of these pathways attenuated NA CM-induced neuritic growth. In conclusion, this study indicates a novel role for NA acting at glial -adrenoceptors to induce neuritic growth through the expression of soluble factors that elicit a neurotrophic action and increase neuronal complexity.
Dopamine signaling in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) plays a critical role in the regulation of motivational states. Recent studies in male rodents show that social defeat stress increases the activity of ventral tegmental dopamine neurons projecting to the NAc, and that this increased activity is necessary for stress-induced social withdrawal. Domestic female mice are not similarly aggressive, which has hindered complementary studies in females. Using the monogamous California mouse (Peromyscus californicus), we found that social defeat increased total dopamine, DOPAC, and HVA content in the NAc in both males and females. These results are generally consistent with previous studies in Mus, and suggest defeat stress also increases NAc dopamine signaling in females. However, these results do not explain our previous observations that defeat stress induces social withdrawal in female but not male California mice. Pharmacological manipulations provided more insights. When 500 ng of the D1 agonist SKF38393 was infused in the NAc shell of females that were nave to defeat, social interaction behavior was reduced. This same dose of SKF38393 had no effect in males, suggesting that D1 receptor activation is sufficient to induce social withdrawal in females but not males. Intra-accumbens infusion of the D1 antagonist SCH23390 increased social approach behavior in females exposed to defeat but not in females nave to defeat. This result suggests that D1 receptors are necessary for defeat-induced social withdrawal. Overall, our results suggest that sex differences in molecular pathways that are regulated by D1 receptors contribute to sex differences in social withdrawal behavior.
Because tobacco use has a large negative health and financial impact on society, it is critical to identify the factors that drive excessive use. These factors include the aversive withdrawal symptoms that manifest upon cessation of tobacco use, and may include increases in nociceptive processing. Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) signalling in the central amygdala (CeA) has been attributed an important role in: (1) central processing of pain, (2) excessive nicotine use that results in nicotine dependence, and (3) in mediating the aversive symptoms that manifest following cessation of tobacco exposure. Here, we describe three experiments in which the main hypothesis was that CRF/CRF1 receptor (CRF1R) signalling in the CeA mediates nicotine withdrawal-induced increases in nociceptive sensitivity in rats that are dependent on nicotine. In Experiment 1, nicotine-dependent rats withdrawn from chronic intermittent (14-h/day) nicotine vapor exhibited decreased hind paw withdrawal latencies in response to a painful thermal stimulus in the Hargreaves test, and this effect was attenuated by systemic administration of the CRF1R antagonist, R121919. In Experiment 2, nicotine-dependent rats withdrawn from nicotine vapor exhibited robust increases in mRNA for CRF and CRF1Rs in CeA. In Experiment 3, intra-CeA administration of R121919 reduced thermal nociception only in nicotine-dependent rats. Collectively, these results suggest that nicotine dependence increases CRF/CRF1R signalling in the CeA that mediates withdrawal-induced increases in sensitivity to a painful stimulus. Future studies will build on these findings by exploring the hypothesis that nicotine withdrawal-induced reduction in pain thresholds drive excessive nicotine use via CRF/CRF1R signalling pathways.
Phosphodiesterase type 4 inhibitors (PDE4-Is) have received increasing attention as cognition-enhancers and putative treatment strategies for Alzheimer's disease (AD). By preventing cAMP breakdown, PDE4-Is can enhance intracellular signal transduction and increase the phosphorylation of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) and transcription of proteins related to synaptic plasticity and associated memory formation. Unfortunately, clinical development of PDE4-Is has been seriously hampered by emetic side effects. The new isoform-specific PDE4D-I, GEBR-7b, has shown to have beneficial effects on memory at non-emetic doses. The aim of the current study was to investigate chronic cognition-enhancing effects of GEBR-7b in a mouse model of AD. To this extent, 5-month-old (5M) APPswe/PS1dE9 mice received daily subcutaneous injections with GEBR-7b (0.001 mg/kg) or vehicle for a period of 3 weeks, and were tested on affective and cognitive behavior at 7M. We demonstrated a cognition-enhancing potential in APPswe/PS1dE9 mice as their spatial memory function at 7M in the object location test was improved by prior GEBR-7b treatment. APPswe/PS1dE9 mice displayed lower levels of CREB phosphorylation, which remained unaltered after chronic GEBR-7b treatment, and higher levels of tau in the hippocampus. Hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels and synaptic densities were not different between experimental groups and no effects were observed on hippocampal GSK3 and tau phosphorylation or A levels. In conclusion, GEBR-7b can enhance spatial memory function in the APPswe/PS1dE9 mouse model of AD. Although the underlying mechanisms of its cognition-enhancing potential remain to be elucidated, PDE4D inhibition appears an interesting novel therapeutic option for cognitive deficits in AD.
Dopamine (DA) replacement therapy with l-DOPA is the standard treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD). Unfortunately chronic treatment often leads to the development of abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) referred to as L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID). Accumulating evidence has shown that compensatory plasticity in serotonin (5-HT) neurons contributes to LID and recent work has indicated that acute 5-HT transporter (SERT) blockade provides anti-dyskinetic protection. However neither the persistence nor the mechanism(s) of these effects have been investigated. Therefore the current endeavor sought to mimic a prolonged regimen of SERT inhibition in L-DOPA-primed and -nave hemi-parkinsonian rats. Rats received 3 weeks of daily co-treatment of the selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) citalopram (0, 3, or 5 mg/kg) or paroxetine (0, 0.5, or 1.25 mg/kg) with L-DOPA (6 mg/kg) during which AIMs and motor performance were monitored. In order to investigate potential mechanisms of action, tissue levels of striatal monoamines were monitored and the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY100635 (0.5 mg/kg) was used. Results revealed that prolonged SSRIs attenuated AIMs expression and development in L-DOPA-primed and -nave subjects, respectively, without interfering with motor performance. Neurochemical analysis of striatal tissue indicated that a 3 week SERT blockade increased DA levels in L-DOPA-treated rats. Pharmacologically, anti-dyskinetic effects were partially reversed with WAY100635 signifying involvement of the 5-HT1A receptor. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that prolonged SERT inhibition provides enduring anti-dyskinetic effects in part via 5-HT(1A) receptors while maintaining L-DOPA's anti-parkinsonian efficacy by enhancing striatal DA levels.
Pasteurella multocida toxin (PMT) activates the G-proteins Gi(), G(q), G, G and G by deamidation of specific glutamine residues. A number of these alpha subunits have signalling roles in neurones. Hence we studied the action of this toxin on rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG) neurones and NG108-15 neuronal cells. Both G(q) and G could be identified in SCGs with immunocytochemistry. PMT had no direct action on Kv7 or Cav2 channels in SCGs. However PMT treatment enhanced muscarinic receptor mediated inhibition of M-current (Kv7.2 + 7. 3) as measured by a 19-fold leftward shift in the oxotremorine-M concentration-inhibition curve. Agonists of other receptors, such as bradykinin or angiotensin, that inhibit M-current did not produce this effect. However the amount of PIP hydrolysis could be enhanced by PMT for all three agonists. In a transduction system in SCGs that is unlikely to be affected by PMT, Go mediated inhibition of calcium current, PMT was ineffective whereas the response was blocked by pertussis toxin as expected. M1 muscarinic receptor evoked calcium mobilisation in transformed NG108-15 cells was enhanced by PMT. The calcium rises evoked by uridine triphosphate acting on endogenous P2Y receptors in NG108-15 cells were enhanced by PMT. The time and concentration dependence of the PMT effect was different for the resting calcium compared to the calcium rise produced by activation of P2Y receptors. PMT's action on these neuronal cells would suggest that if it got into the brain, symptoms of a hyperexcitable nature would be seen, such as seizures.
Schizophrenia is a heterogeneous and complex mental disorder with high rates of disability, non-recovery, and relapse. The primary pharmacological treatments for schizophrenia are antipsychotics. Notwithstanding the efficacy of antipsychotics in ameliorating positive symptoms and reducing relapse rates, cognitive deficits and negative symptoms are not sufficiently treated with available pharmaceutical agents. Moreover, schizophrenia is associated with consistent, replicable, and clinically significant deficits in cognition. The importance of cognitive deficits in schizophrenia is emphasized by reports indicating that the severity of cognitive deficits is predictive of treatment compliance, adherence, and risk of relapse among first-episode individuals. Taken together, this review highlights epigenetic modulations involving histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors as a potential avenue for novel treatment toward improvements in cognition and functional outcomes in patients with schizophrenia. The combination of epigenetic modulation with pharmacological interventions that engage multiple disparate physiological systems implicated in schizophrenia are discussed, and may represent a more effective strategy in ameliorating cognitive deficits and mitigating symptoms for improved functionality.
Behavioral sensitization to cocaine is associated with increased AMPA receptor (AMPAR) surface expression in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). This upregulation is withdrawal-dependent, as it is not detected on withdrawal day (WD) 1, but is observed on WD7-21. Its underlying mechanisms have not been clearly established. Nitric oxide (NO) regulates AMPAR trafficking in the brain by S-nitrosylation of the AMPAR auxiliary subunit, stargazin, leading to increased AMPAR surface expression. Our goal was to determine if stargazin S-nitrosylation contributes to AMPAR upregulation during sensitization. First, we measured stargazin S-nitrosylation in NAc core and shell subregions on WD14 after 8 daily injections of saline or 15 mg/kg cocaine. Stargazin S-nitrosylation was markedly increased in NAc shell but not core. To determine if this is associated with AMPAR upregulation, rats received 8 cocaine or saline injections followed by twice-daily treatments with vehicle or the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor l-NAME (50 mg/kg) on WD1-6, the time when AMPAR upregulation is developing in cocaine-exposed rats. Cocaine/vehicle rats showed elevated stargazin and GluA1 surface expression on WD7 compared to saline/vehicle rats; the GluA1 increase was more robust in core, while stargazin increased more robustly in shell. These effects of cocaine were attenuated in shell but not core when cocaine injections were followed by l-NAME treatment on WD1-6. Together, these results indicate that elevated S-nitrosylation of stargazin contributes to AMPAR upregulation during sensitization selectively in the NAc shell. It is possible that AMPAR upregulation in core involves a different TARP, 4, which also upregulates in the NAc of sensitized rats.

Mental strategies have been suggested to constitute a promising approach to improve motor abilities in both healthy subjects and patients. This behavioural effect has been shown to be associated with changes of neural activity in premotor areas, not only during movement execution, but also while performing motor imagery or action observation. However, how well such mental tasks are performed is often difficult to assess, especially in patients. We here used a novel mental training paradigm based on the serial prediction task (SPT) in order to activate premotor circuits in the absence of a motor task. We then tested whether this intervention improves motor-related performance such as sensorimotor transformation. Two groups of healthy young participants underwent a single-blinded five-day cognitive training schedule and were tested in four different motor tests on the day before and after training. One group (N=22) received the SPT-training and the other one (N=21) received a control training based on a serial match-to-sample task. The results revealed significant improvements of the SPT-group in a sensorimotor timing task, i.e. synchronization of finger tapping to a visually presented rhythm, as well as improved visuomotor coordination in a sensory-guided pointing task compared to the group that received the control training. However, mental training did not show transfer effects on motor abilities in healthy subjects beyond the trained modalities as evident by non-significant changes in the Jebsen-Taylor handfunctiontest. In summary, the data suggest that mental training based on the serial prediction task effectively engages sensorimotor circuits and thereby improves motor behaviour.
Trafficking and stabilization of AMPA receptors at synapses in response to cocaine exposure is thought to be critical for expression of cocaine addiction and relapse. Glutamate receptor-interacting protein (GRIP) is a neuronal scaffolding protein that stabilizes GluA2 AMPARs at synapses but its role in cocaine addiction has not been examined. The current study demonstrates that conditional deletion of GRIP within the nucleus accumbens potentiates cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking without affecting operant learning, locomotor activity, or reinstatement of natural reward seeking. This is the first study to demonstrate a role for accumbal GRIP in behavior. Electrophysiological recordings revealed increased rectification of AMPAR-mediated currents in the nucleus accumbens and increased AMPAR sensitivity to the GluA2-lacking AMPAR antagonist, 1-naphthylacetyl spermine, indicative of an increased contribution of GluA2-lacking calcium-permeable AMPARs. In addition, accumbal GRIP deletion was associated with blunted long-term depression, similar to what is seen following cocaine self-administration. Taken together, these results indicate that GRIP may modulate addictive phenotypes through its regulation of synaptic AMPARs by controlling their subunit composition and susceptibility to LTD. These effects are associated with changes in vulnerability to cocaine relapse and highlight GRIP as a novel target for the development of cocaine addiction therapeutics.
Signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 (STAT1) has an important role in inflammation and the innate immune response, but its role in the central nervous system is less well understood. Here, we examined the role of STAT1 in spatial learning and memory, and assessed the involvement of STAT1 in mediating the memory-impairing effect of amyloid-beta (A). We found that water maze training downregulated STAT1 expression in the rat hippocampal CA1 area, and spatial learning and memory function was enhanced in Stat1-knockout mice. Conversely, overexpression of STAT1 impaired water maze performance. STAT1 strongly upregulated the expression of the extracellular matrix protein laminin 1 (LB1), which also impaired water maze performance in rats. Furthermore, A impaired spatial learning and memory in association with a dose-dependent increase in STAT1 and LB1 expression, but knockdown of STAT1 and LB1 both reversed this effect of A. This A-induced increase in STAT1 and LB1 expression was also associated with a decrease in the expression of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) subunits, NR1, and NR2B. Overexpression of NR1 or NR2B or exogenous application of NMDA reversed A-induced learning and memory deficits as well as A-induced STAT1 and LB1 expression. Our results demonstrate that STAT1 negatively regulates spatial learning and memory through transcriptional regulation of LB1 expression. We also identified a novel mechanism for A pathogenesis through STAT1 induction. Notably, impairment of spatial learning and memory by this STAT1-mediated mechanism is independent of cAMP responsive element-binding protein signaling.
The cerebellum is emerging as a key anatomical structure underlying normal attentional and cognitive control mechanisms. Dysregulation within cerebellar circuits may contribute to the core symptoms of Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). In the present study we aimed to characterize surface morphological features of the cerebellum in ADHD and healthy comparison youths. Further, we studied the association of cerebellar morphology with the severity of ADHD symptoms and the effects of stimulant treatment. We examined 46 youths with ADHD and 59 comparison youths 8-18 years of age in a cross-sectional, case-control study using magnetic resonance imaging. Measures of cerebellar surface morphology were the primary outcome. Relative to comparison participants, youths with ADHD exhibited smaller regional volumes corresponding to the lateral surface of the left anterior and the right posterior cerebellar hemispheres. Stimulant medication was associated with larger regional volumes over the left cerebellar surface, whereas more severe ADHD symptoms were associated with smaller regional volumes in the vermis. We used optimized measures of morphology to detect alterations in cerebellar anatomy specific to ADHD, dimensions of symptomology, and stimulant treatment. Duration of treatment correlated positively with volumes of specific cerebellar subregions, supporting a model whereby compensatory morphological changes support the effects of stimulant treatment.
Using a well-established model of ethanol dependence and relapse, this study examined adaptations in glutamatergic transmission in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and their role in regulating voluntary ethanol drinking. Mice were first trained to drink ethanol in a free-choice, limited access (2h/day) paradigm. One group (EtOH mice) received repeated weekly cycles of chronic intermittent ethanol (CIE) exposure with intervening weeks of test drinking sessions, whereas the remaining mice (CTL mice) were similarly treated but did not receive CIE treatment. Over repeated cycles of CIE exposure, EtOH mice exhibited significant escalation in drinking (up to 3.5g/kg), whereas drinking remained relatively stable at baseline levels (2-2.5g/kg) in CTL mice. Using in vivo microdialysis procedures, extracellular glutamate (GLUEX) levels in the NAc were increased approximately twofold in EtOH mice compared with CTL mice, and this difference was observed 7 days after final CIE exposure, indicating that this hyperglutamatergic state persisted beyond acute withdrawal. This finding prompted additional studies examining the effects of pharmacologically manipulating GLUEX in the NAc on ethanol drinking in the CIE model. The non-selective glutamate reuptake antagonist, threo--benzyloxyaspartate (TBOA), was bilaterally microinjected into the NAc and found to dose-dependently increase drinking in nondependent (CTL) mice to levels attained by dependent (EtOH) mice. TBOA also further increased drinking in EtOH mice. In contrast, reducing glutamatergic transmission in the NAc via bilateral injections of the metabotropic glutamate receptor-2/3 agonist LY379268 reduced drinking in dependent (EtOH) mice to nondependent (CTL) levels, whereas having a more modest effect in decreasing ethanol consumption in CTL mice. Taken together, these data support an important role of glutamatergic transmission in the NAc in regulating ethanol drinking. Additionally, these results indicate that ethanol dependence produces adaptations that favor elevated glutamate activity in the NAc which, in turn, promote excessive levels of ethanol consumption associated with dependence.
FosB, a FosB gene product, is induced in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) by repeated exposure to several stimuli including antipsychotic drugs such as haloperidol. However, the functional consequences of increased FosB expression following antipsychotic treatment have not been explored. Here, we assessed whether FosB induction by haloperidol mediates the positive or negative consequences or clinical-related actions of antipsychotic treatment. We show that individuals with schizophrenia who were medicated with antipsychotic drugs at their time of death display increased FosB levels in the PFC, an effect that is replicated in rats treated chronically with haloperidol. In contrast, individuals with schizophrenia who were medication-free did not exhibit this effect. Viral-mediated overexpression of FosB in the PFC of rodents induced cognitive deficits as measured by inhibitory avoidance, increased startle responses in prepulse inhibition tasks, and increased MK-801-induced anxiety-like behaviors. Together, these results suggest that FosB induction in the PFC by antipsychotic treatment contributes to the deleterious effects of these drugs and not to their therapeutic actions.
Histamine H1 receptor systems have been shown in animal studies to have important roles in the reversal of sensorimotor gating deficits, as measured by prepulse inhibition (PPI). H1-antagonist treatment attenuates the PPI impairments caused by either blockade of NMDA glutamate receptors or facilitation of dopamine transmission. The current experiment brought the investigation of H1 effects on sensorimotor gating to human studies. The effects of the histamine H1 antagonist meclizine on the startle response and PPI were investigated in healthy male subjects with high baseline startle responses and low PPI levels. Meclizine was administered to participants (n=24) using a within-subjects design with each participant receiving 0, 12.5, and 25mg of meclizine in a counterbalanced order. Startle response, PPI, heart rate response, galvanic skin response, and changes in self-report ratings of alertness levels and affective states (arousal and valence) were assessed. When compared with the control (placebo) condition, the two doses of meclizine analyzed (12.5 and 25mg) produced significant increases in PPI without affecting the magnitude of the startle response or other physiological variables. Meclizine also caused a significant increase in overall self-reported arousal levels, which was not correlated with the observed increase in PPI. These results are in agreement with previous reports in the animal literature and suggest that H1 antagonists may have beneficial effects in the treatment of subjects with compromised sensorimotor gating and enhanced motor responses to sensory stimuli.
Psychiatric disorders have been hypothesized to originate during development, with genetic and environmental factors interacting in the etiology of disease. Therefore, developmentally regulated genes have received attention as risk modulators in psychiatric diseases. Reelin is an extracellular protein essential for neuronal migration and maturation during development, and its expression levels are reduced in psychiatric disorders. Interestingly, several perinatal insults that increase the risk of behavioral deficits alter Reelin signaling. However, it is not known whether a dysfunction in Reelin signaling during perinatal stages increases the risk of psychiatric disorders. Here we used a floxed dab1 allele to study whether a transient decrease in Dab1, a key component of the Reelin pathway, is sufficient to induce behavioral deficits related to psychiatric disorders. We found that transient Dab1 downregulation during perinatal stages leads to permanent abnormalities of structural layering in the neocortex and hippocampus. In contrast, conditional inactivation of the dab1 gene in the adult brain does not result in additional layering abnormalities. Furthermore, perinatal Dab1 downregulation causes behavior impairments in adult mice, such as deficits in memory, maternal care, pre-pulse inhibition, and response to cocaine. Some of these deficits were also found to be present in adolescence. We also show that D-cycloserine rescues the cognitive deficits observed in floxed dab1 mice with layering alterations in the hippocampus and neocortex. Our results indicate a causal relation between the downregulation of Dab1 protein levels during development and the structural and behavioral deficits associated with psychiatric diseases in the adult.
NMDA receptors are glutamate receptor ion channels that contribute to synaptic plasticity and are important for many forms of learning and memory. In the amygdala, NMDA receptors are critical for the acquisition, retention, and extinction of classically conditioned fear responses. Although the GluN2B subunit has been implicated in both the acquisition and extinction of conditioned fear, GluN2C-knockout mice show reduced conditioned fear responses. Moreover, D-cycloserine (DCS), which facilitates fear extinction, selectively enhances the activity of GluN2C-containing NMDA receptors. To further define the contribution of GluN2C receptors to fear learning, we infused the GluN2C/GluN2D-selective potentiator CIQ bilaterally into the basolateral amygdala (3, 10, or 30g/side) following either fear conditioning or fear extinction training. CIQ both increased the expression of conditioned fear 24h later and enhanced the extinction of the previously conditioned fear response. These results support a critical role for GluN2C receptors in the amygdala in the consolidation of learned fear responses and suggest that increased activity of GluN2C receptors may underlie the therapeutic actions of DCS.
The adipose-derived hormone leptin signals in the medial nucleus tractus solitarius (mNTS) to suppress food intake, in part, by amplifying within-meal gastrointestinal (GI) satiation signals. Here we show that mNTS leptin receptor (LepRb) signaling also reduces appetitive and motivational aspects of feeding, and that these effects can depend on energy status. Using the lowest dose that significantly suppressed 3-h cumulative food intake, unilateral leptin (0.3g) administration to the mNTS (3h before testing) reduced operant lever pressing for sucrose under increasing work demands (progressive ratio reinforcement schedule) regardless of whether animals were energy deplete (food restricted) or replete (ad libitum fed). However, in a separate test of food-motivated responding in which there was no opportunity to consume food (conditioned place preference (CPP) for an environment previously associated with a palatable food reward), mNTS leptin administration suppressed food-seeking behavior only in chronically food-restricted rats. On the other hand, mNTS LepRb signaling did not reduce CPP expression for morphine reinforcement regardless of energy status, suggesting that mNTS leptin signaling differentially influences motivated responding for food vs opioid reward. Overall results show that mNTS LepRb signaling reduces food intake and appetitive food-motivated responding independent of energy status in situations involving orosensory and postingestive contact with food, whereas food-seeking behavior independent of food consumption is only reduced by mNTS LepRb activation in a state of energy deficit. These findings reveal a novel appetitive role for LepRb signaling in the mNTS, a brain region traditionally linked with processing of meal-related GI satiation signals.
Dopamine (DA) neurotransmission is critical for motivational processing. We assessed whether disruption of DA synthesis in healthy controls using an amino-acid beverage devoid of catecholamine precursors (tyrosine-phenylalanine depletion (TPD)) would blunt recruitment of the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) by rewards. Sixteen controls ingested each of a tyr/phe-depleting beverage (DEP) or a tyr/phe-balanced (BAL) control beverage in two laboratory visits. Five hours after consumption of each drink, subjects underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging while they viewed anticipatory cues to respond to a target to either win money or avoid losing money. TPD did not exert main effects on mood or on task behavior, but affected brain activation. In right NAcc, TPD blunted activation by anticipation of high rewards. In left NAcc, recruitment anticipating high rewards was modulated by individual differences in mood change across the DEP drink day, where subjects whose mood worsened following TPD (relative to within-day mood change under BAL conditions) also showed lower activation under DEP conditions relative to BAL conditions. Exploratory analysis indicated that TPD qualitatively blunted the voxel-wise spatial extent of suprathreshold activation by reward anticipation. Finally, loss outcomes activated anterior insula under DEP conditions but not under BAL conditions. These data indicate that: (1) dietary depletion of catacholamine precursors will blunt dopaminergic mesolimbic activity, and (2) in controls, synthetic pathways of this neurocircuitry maintain sufficient buffering capacity to resist an effect on motivated behavior. Additional studies are needed to determine if clinical populations would show similar resistance to behavioral effects of TPD.
The striatum is a brain area implicated in the pharmacological action of drugs of abuse. Adenosine A2A receptors (A2ARs) are highly expressed in the striatum and mediate, at least in part, cocaine-induced psychomotor effects in vivo. Here we studied the synaptic mechanisms implicated in the pharmacological action of cocaine in the striatum and investigated the influence of A2ARs. We found that synaptic transmission was depressed in corticostriatal slices after perfusion with cocaine (10M). This effect was reduced by the A2AR antagonist ZM241385 and almost abolished in striatal A2AR-knockout mice (mice lacking A2ARs in striatal neurons, stA2ARKO). The effect of cocaine on synaptic transmission was also prevented by the protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) inhibitor sodium orthovanadate (Na3VO4). In synaptosomes prepared from striatal slices, we found that the activity of striatal-enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase (STEP) was upregulated by cocaine, prevented by ZM241385, and absent in synaptosomes from stA2ARKO. The role played by STEP in cocaine modulation of synaptic transmission was investigated in whole-cell voltage clamp recordings from medium spiny neurons of the striatum. We found that TAT-STEP, a peptide that renders STEP enzymatically inactive, prevented cocaine-induced reduction in AMPA- and NMDA-mediated excitatory post-synaptic currents, whereas the control peptide, TAT-myc, had no effect. These results demonstrate that striatal A2ARs modulate cocaine-induced synaptic depression in the striatum and highlight the potential role of PTPs and specifically STEP in the effects of cocaine.
The ability to recognize and properly respond to instances of protection from impending danger is critical for preventing chronic stress and anxiety-central symptoms of anxiety and affective disorders afflicting large populations of people. Learned safety encompasses learning processes, which lead to the identification of episodes of security and regulation of fear responses. On the basis of insights into the neural circuitry and molecular mechanisms involved in learned safety in mice and humans, we describe learned safety as a tool for understanding neural mechanisms involved in the pathomechanisms of specific affective disorders. This review summarizes our current knowledge on the neurobiological underpinnings of learned safety and discusses potential applications in basic and translational neurosciences.

Our understanding of chronic pain involves complex brain circuits that include sensory, emotional, cognitive and interoceptive processing. The feed-forward interactions between physical (e.g., trauma) and emotional pain and the consequences of altered psychological status on the expression of pain have made the evaluation and treatment of chronic pain a challenge in the clinic. By understanding the neural circuits involved in psychological processes, a mechanistic approach to the implementation of psychology-based treatments may be better understood. In this review we evaluate some of the principle processes that may be altered as a consequence of chronic pain in the context of localized and integrated neural networks. These changes are ongoing, vary in their magnitude, and their hierarchical manifestations, and may be temporally and sequentially altered by treatments, and all contribute to an overall pain phenotype. Furthermore, we link altered psychological processes to specific evidence-based treatments to put forth a model of pain neuroscience psychology.
The prevalence, age of onset, and symptomatology of many neuropsychiatric conditions differ between males and females. To understand the causes and consequences of sex differences it is important to establish where they occur in the human brain. We report the first meta-analysis of typical sex differences on global brain volume, a descriptive account of the breakdown of studies of each compartmental volume by six age categories, and whole-brain voxel-wise meta-analyses on brain volume and density. Gaussian-process regression coordinate-based meta-analysis was used to examine sex differences in voxel-based regional volume and density. On average, males have larger total brain volumes than females. Examination of the breakdown of studies providing total volumes by age categories indicated a bias towards the 18-59 year-old category. Regional sex differences in volume and tissue density include the amygdala, hippocampus and insula, areas known to be implicated in sex-biased neuropsychiatric conditions. Together, these results suggest candidate regions for investigating the asymmetric effect that sex has on the developing brain, and for understanding sex-biased neurological and psychiatric conditions.
The existence of a close relationship between psychosocial factors and cardiovascular morbidity is not just a hypothesis anymore. Research on humans has been attempting to unravel the significance of this association by investigating psychological and social characteristics in relation to cardiovascular health. However, this research is limited by the difficulty to control and standardize for the individual social history, the impossibility to apply psychosocial stress stimuli for mere experimental purposes, as well as the long time span of cardiovascular pathogenesis in humans. Animal studies controlling for social environment and adverse social episodes since weaning allow for partially overcoming these limitations. The aim of this review is to provide an up-to-date reference of the experimental evidence so far collected on the link between psychosocial factors and cardiovascular (dys-)function in rodent species, with special emphasis on social conflict, aggressiveness and negative mood states, which have been significantly associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease.
Neuroimaging studies have investigated differences in neural correlates between abstract and concrete concepts but this has not been done with Japanese participants. Concrete words have higher imageability than abstract words, such that they elicit more visual imagery. The present study used functional MRI to investigate brain activity of Japanese participants (N=16) during generation of visual images for written concrete or abstract Japanese kanji words. Concrete words elicited significantly more activation than abstract words in the left middle frontal gyrus (LMFG), bilateral superior frontal gyrus, and left fusiform gyrus (LFG). Psychophysiological interaction (PPI) analyses were performed to assess LMFG and LFG functional connections. LMFG activity was accompanied by increased functional interaction with the left superior parietal lobule (LSPL), and LFG activity was accompanied by increased functional interaction with the LMFG. This finding suggests that the LMFG plays an important role in visual imagery, with interactions between this region and both the LSPL and LFG.
Despite tremendous research effort in the field, our current understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying neuropathic pain is still incomplete. In the present study, our objective was to elucidate the involvement of the Wnt/-catenin signaling pathway in the development of neuropathic pain. We showed that Wnt/-catenin signaling is activated in the spinal cord dorsal horn after partial sciatic nerve ligation (PSL). Expression of Wnt3a, a prototypic Wnt ligand that activates the Wnt/-catenin pathway, was also upregulated in the dorsal horn. We then tested the effect of intrathecal administration of XAV939, a Wnt/-catenin signaling inhibitor, and found that this treatment effectively attenuated the induction of neuropathic pain. Conversely, intrathecal administration of Wnt3a to the lumbar spinal cord of nave animals triggered the development of allodynia. These results suggest a critical involvement of the Wnt/-catenin pathway in the development of neuropathic pain. Moreover, we also found that PSL-induced microglial activation was significantly suppressed by intrathecal administration of XAV939 treatment. Because it was revealed that Wnt3a treatment triggered brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) release from microglial cells in vitro, it is possible that Wnt3a upregulation in the dorsal horn leads to the activation of microglial cells, then triggers BDNF secretion that is responsible for the establishment of neuropathic pain. Further studies will be needed for the comprehensive understanding of the roles of Wnt/-catenin signaling in the development of neuropathic pain.
Hyperthermia during pregnancy is a significant cause of reproductive problems ranging from abortion to congenital defects of the central nervous system (CNS), including neural tube defects and microcephaly. Neural stem cells (NSCs) can proliferate and differentiate into neurons and glia, playing a key role in the formation of the CNS. Here, we examined the effects of heat shock on homogeneous proliferating NSCs derived from mouse embryonic stem cells. After heat shock at 42 C for 20 min, the proliferating NSCs continued to proliferate, although subtle changes were observed in gene expression and cell survival and proliferation. In contrast, heat shock at 43 C caused a variety of responses: the up-regulation of genes encoding heat shock proteins (HSP), induction of apoptosis, temporal inhibition of cell proliferation and retardation of differentiation. Finally, effects of heat shock at 44 C were severe, with almost all cells disappearing and the remaining cells losing the capacity to proliferate and differentiate. These temperature-dependent effects of heat shock on NSCs may be valuable in elucidating the mechanisms by which hyperthermia during pregnancy causes various reproductive problems.
Prenatal exposure to nicotine (PNE) has been associated with a myriad of physiological, cognitive, and behavioral effects in the developing offspring. In this study, CD-1 dams were given injections of nicotine or control vehicle throughout gestation and their offspring were raised to 6 months of age. Adult mice were administered a battery of behavioral tests (the Suok test, the elevated platform test, and the elevated plus maze test) to assess anxiety and sensorimotor integration. PNE resulted in a decreased likelihood of jumping during the elevated platform test and decreased directed exploration in the Suok test, both indicative of increased anxiety. Also, PNE mice showed increased numbers of missteps while traversing an elevated rod in the Suok test, demonstrating altered sensorimotor integration. No significant differences were found in falls, segments traveled, latency to leave the central zone, vegetative responses, risk assessment behaviors, or autogroom behaviors. The elevated plus maze test revealed no significant differences between groups. No significant differences in body and brain weights, or cortical thickness within motor, somatosensory, and visual cortices were observed between PNE and control mice. Although neuroanatomical effects of PNE may be rescued as development progresses, defects in sensorimotor integration and increased anxiety persist into adulthood.
Ionotropic glutamate receptors of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)- and AMPA-type, as well as metabotropic glutamate receptors have been extensively invoked in plasticity. Until relatively recently, however, kainate-type receptors (KARs) had been the most elusive to study because of the lack of appropriate pharmacological tools to specifically address their roles. With the development of selective glutamate receptor antagonists, and knockout mice with specific KAR subunits deleted, the functions of KARs in neuromodulation and synaptic transmission, together with their involvement in some types of plasticity, have been extensively probed in the central nervous system. In this review, we summarize the findings related to the roles of KARs in short- and long-term forms of plasticity, primarily in the hippocampus, where KAR function and synaptic plasticity have received avid attention.
Stroke is the fourth leading cause of death in the United States. Intracranial atherosclerotic disease accounts for 8%-10% of ischemic stroke in the United States. So far, surgical bypass has not proved to be superior to medical therapy. As both medical and endovascular therapies for intracranial atherosclerosis evolve, so too do the guidelines for treatment. Initial reports on the results of stent placement for symptomatic high-grade intracranial atherosclerotic disease were encouraging; however, recent trials suggest that initial medical management may be preferable. Currently, intracranial angioplasty and stenting for symptomatic intracranial atherosclerosis is now more controversial. Further trials are necessary to help determine which patients are ideal for endovascular therapies.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, ecstasy) is an amphetamine derivative widely abused by young adults. Although many studies have reported that relatively high doses of MDMA deplete serotonin (5-HT) content and decrease the availability of serotonin transporters (5-HTT), limited evidence is available as to the adaptive mechanisms taking place in gene expression levels in the brain following a dosing regimen of MDMA comparable to human consumption. In order to further clarify this issue, we used quantitative PCR to study the long-term changes induced by acute administration of MDMA (5mg/kg3) in the expression of genes related to serotonergic and dopaminergic systems, as well as those related to cellular toxicity in the cortex, hippocampus, striatum, and brain stem of rats. Seven days after MDMA administration, we found a significantly lower expression of the 5-HTT (Slc6a4) and the vesicular monoamine transporter (Slc18a2) genes in the brain stem area. In the hippocampus, monoamine oxidase B (Maob) and tryptophan hydroxylase 2 (Tph2) gene expressions were increased. In the striatum, tyrosine hydroxylase (Th) expression was decreased, and a lower expression of -synuclein (Snca) was observed in the cortex. In contrast, no significant changes were observed in the genes considered to be biomarkers of toxicity including the glial fibrillary acidic protein (Gfap) and the heat-shock 70kD protein 1A (Hspa1a) in any of the structures assayed. These results suggest that MDMA promotes adaptive changes in genes related to serotonergic and dopaminergic functionality, but not in genes related to neurotoxicity.
Methamphetamine (METH) abuse results in long-term damage to the dopaminergic system, manifesting as decreases in dopamine (DA) tissue content, DA transporter binding, as well as tyrosine hydroxylase and vesicular monoamine transporter immunostaining. However, the exact cascade of events that ultimately result in this damage has not been clearly elucidated. One factor that has been heavily implicated in METH-induced DA terminal degeneration is the production of nitric oxide (NO). Unfortunately, many of the studies attempting to clarify the role of NO in METH-induced neurotoxicity have been confounded by issues such as the disruption of METH-induced hyperthermia, preventing the formation of strong conclusions. As a result, there is a body of work suggesting that NO is sufficient for METH-induced neurotoxicity, while other studies suggest that NO does not play a role in METH-induced degeneration of DA nerve terminals. This review summarizes the existing studies investigating the role of NO in METH-induced neurotoxicity, and argues that while NO may be necessary for METH-induced neurotoxicity, it is not sufficient. Finally, important areas of future investigation are highlighted and discussed.

Chemical exchange saturation transfer (CEST)-derived, pH-weighted, amide proton transfer (APT) MRI has shown promise in animal studies for the prediction of infarction risk in ischemic tissue. Here, APT MRI was translated to patients with acute stroke (1-24h post-symptom onset), and assessments of APT contrast, perfusion, diffusion, disability and final infarct volume (23-92days post-stroke) are reported. Healthy volunteers (n=5) and patients (n=10) with acute onset of symptoms (0-4h, n=7; uncertain onset &lt;24h, n=3) were scanned with diffusion- and perfusion-weighted MRI, fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) and CEST. Traditional asymmetry and a Lorentzian-based APT index were calculated in the infarct core, at-risk tissue (time-to-peak, TTP; lengthening) and final infarct volume. On average (meanstandard deviation), control white matter APT values (asymmetry, 0.0190.005; Lorentzian, 0.0450.006) were not significantly different (p&gt;0.05) from APT values in normal-appearing white matter (NAWM) of patients (asymmetry, 0.0220.003; Lorentzian, 0.0480.003); however, ischemic regions in patients showed reduced (p=0.03) APT effects compared with NAWM. Representative cases are presented, whereby the APT contrast is compared quantitatively with contrast from other imaging modalities. The findings vary between patients; in some patients, a trend for a reduction in the APT signal in the final infarct region compared with at-risk tissue was observed, consistent with tissue acidosis. However, in other patients, no relationship was observed in the infarct core and final infarct volume. Larger clinical studies, in combination with focused efforts on sequence development at clinically available field strengths (e.g. 3.0T), are necessary to fully understand the potential of APT imaging for guiding the hyperacute management of patients.
Ribosome biogenesis is fundamental for cellular life, but surprisingly little is known about the underlying pathway. In eukaryotes a comprehensive collection of experimentally verified ribosome biogenesis factors (RBFs) exists only for Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Far less is known for other fungi, animals or plants, and insights are even more limited for archaea. Starting from 255 yeast RBFs, we integrated ortholog searches, domain architecture comparisons and, in part, manual curation to investigate the inventories of RBF candidates in 261 eukaryotes, 26 archaea and 57 bacteria. The resulting phylogenetic profiles reveal the evolutionary ancestry of the yeast pathway. The oldest core comprising 20 RBF lineages dates back to the last universal common ancestor, while the youngest 20 factors are confined to the Saccharomycotina. On this basis, we outline similarities and differences of ribosome biogenesis across contemporary species. Archaea, so far a rather uncharted domain, possess 38 well-supported RBF candidates of which some are known to form functional sub-complexes in yeast. This provides initial evidence that ribosome biogenesis in eukaryotes and archaea follows similar principles. Within eukaryotes, RBF repertoires vary considerably. A comparison of yeast and human reveals that lineage-specific adaptation via RBF exclusion and addition characterizes the evolution of this ancient pathway.




Inflammatory and degenerative diseases of the joint are major causes of chronic pain. Long-lasting pain symptoms are thought to result from a central sensitization of nociceptive circuits. These processes include activation of microglia and spinal disinhibition. Using a monoarthritic rat model of pain, we tried to potentiate neural inhibition by using etifoxine (EFX), a nonbenzodiazepine anxiolytic that acts as an allosteric-positive modulator of gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABAA) receptor function. Interestingly, EFX also can bind to the mitochondrial translocator protein (TSPO) complex and stimulate the synthesis of 3-reduced neurosteroids, the most potent positive allosteric modulator of GABAA receptor function. Here we show that a curative and a preventive treatment with 50mg/kg of EFX efficiently reduced neuropathic pain symptoms. In the spinal cord, EFX analgesia was accompanied by a reduction in microglial activation and in the levels of proinflammatory mediators. Using electrophysiological tools, we found that EFX treatment not only amplified spinal GABAergic inhibition, but also prevented prostaglandin E2-induced glycinergic disinhibition and restored a &quot;normal&quot; spinal pain processing. Because EFX is already distributed in several countries under the trade name of Stresam for its anxiolytic actions in humans, new clinical trials are now required to further extend its therapeutic indications as pain killer.







This study examined rates of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) over 10years of prospective follow-up among recovered and non-recovered patients with borderline personality disorder (BPD). Subsequently, risk factors for IBS were examined in female BPD patients. As part of the McLean Study of Adult Development, 264 BPD patients were assessed at baseline, and their medical conditions and time-varying predictors of IBS were assessed over five waves of follow-up (from 6-year follow-up to 16-year follow-up). Semi-structured interviews were used to assess both our IBS outcome variable and our baseline and time-varying predictor variables. Rates of IBS were not significantly different between recovered and non-recovered borderline patients when men and women were considered together and when men were considered alone. However, a significant difference in IBS rates was found between recovered and non-recovered female BPD patients, with the latter reporting significantly higher rates. The rates of IBS in women with BPD were found to be significantly predicted by a family history of IBS and a childhood history of verbal, emotional and/or physical abuse. Taken together, the results of this study suggest that both biological/social learning factors and childhood adversity may be risk factors for IBS in women with BPD.
Synapsins are neuronal phosphoproteins crucial to regulating the processes required for normal neurotransmitter release. Synapsin II, in particular, has been implied as a candidate gene for schizophrenia. This study investigated synapsin II mRNA expression, using real-time reverse transcriptase-PCR, in coded dorsolateral prefrontal cortical samples provided by the Stanley Foundation Neuropathology Consortium. Synapsin IIa was decreased in patients with schizophrenia when compared with both healthy subjects and patients with bipolar disorder, whereas synapsin IIb was only significantly reduced in patients with schizophrenia when compared with healthy subjects but not in patients with bipolar disorder. Furthermore, lifetime antipsychotic drug use was positively associated with synapsin IIa expression in patients with schizophrenia. Results suggest that impairment of synaptic transmission by synapsin II reduction may contribute to dysregulated convergent molecular mechanisms, which result in aberrant neural circuits that characterize schizophrenia, while implicating involvement of synapsin II in therapeutic mechanisms of currently prescribed antipsychotic drugs.
3-4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) increases self-reported positive social feelings and decreases the ability to detect social threat in faces, but its effects on experiences of social acceptance and rejection have not been determined. We examined how an acute dose of MDMA affects subjective and autonomic responses to simulated social acceptance and rejection. We predicted that MDMA would decrease subjective responses to rejection. On an exploratory basis, we also examined the effect of MDMA on respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA), a measure of parasympathetic cardiac control often thought to index social engagement and emotional regulation. Over three sessions, healthy adult volunteers with previous MDMA experience (N=36) received capsules containing placebo, 0.75 or 1.5 mg/kg of MDMA under counter-balanced double-blind conditions. During expected peak drug effect, participants played two rounds of a virtual social simulation task called &quot;Cyberball&quot; during which they experienced acceptance in one round and rejection in the other. During the task we also obtained electrocardiograms (ECGs), from which we calculated RSA. After each round, participants answered questionnaires about their mood and self-esteem. As predicted, MDMA decreased the effect of simulated social rejection on self-reported mood and self-esteem and decreased perceived intensity of rejection, measured as the percent of ball tosses participants reported receiving. Consistent with its sympathomimetic properties, MDMA decreased RSA as compared to placebo. Our finding that MDMA decreases perceptions of rejection in simulated social situations extends previous results indicating that MDMA reduces perception of social threat in faces. Together these findings suggest a cognitive mechanism by which MDMA might produce pro-social behavior and feelings and how the drug might function as an adjunct to psychotherapy. These phenomena merit further study in non-simulated social environments.
Studies in male rodents have shown that stress-induced increases in circulating corticosterone are increased by both CB1 receptor (CB1R) antagonist treatment and genetic deletion. The purposes of the current study were to determine whether female mice respond in the same manner as males, and whether indirect CB1R agonists accelerate the return of corticosterone to baseline. In agreement with earlier studies, CB1R null and rimonabant-treated male mice had significantly increased circulating corticosterone 30 min following the end of a restraint episode compared to wild type and vehicle-treated, respectively. Females treated with rimonabant had significantly higher circulating corticosterone compared to vehicle. However, corticosterone concentrations were not different between CB1R null and wild type females at 30 min recovery, although CB1R null mice had higher corticosterone concentrations at 90 min of recovery. Female CB1R null mice exhibited greater serum binding capacity for corticosterone than wild type. The monoacylglycerol lipase inhibitor, JZL184, attenuated corticosterone concentrations at restraint offset in male, and at 30 min recovery in female mice compared to vehicle. Male mice treated with JZL184 exhibited greater concentrations of circulating corticosterone at 120 min recovery, even in the absence of restraint. JZL184 had no effect on corticosterone concentrations in CB1R null mice. The fatty acid amide hydrolase inhibitor, URB597, did not affect corticosterone responses to restraint in male or female, wild type or CB1R null mice. These data suggest that 2-arachidonoylglycerol is the primary endocannabinoid involved in CB1R regulation of the recovery of the HPA axis from restraint stress. These data support a role for endocannabinoid-CB1R signaling in the regulation of the corticosterone response to restraint stress and suggest that female mice with life-long loss of the CB1R undergo compensatory changes that minimize the impact of loss of endocannabinoid signaling on circulating corticosterone.
High-content screening led to the identification of the N-isobutylamide guineensine from Piper nigrum as novel nanomolar inhibitor (EC50=290nM) of cellular uptake of the endocannabinoid anandamide (AEA). Noteworthy, guineensine did not inhibit endocannabinoid degrading enzymes fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) or monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL) nor interact with cannabinoid receptors or fatty acid binding protein 5 (FABP5), a major cytoplasmic AEA carrier. Activity-based protein profiling showed no inhibition of serine hydrolases. Guineensine also inhibited the cellular uptake of 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG). Preliminary structure-activity relationships between natural guineensine analogs indicate the importance of the alkyl chain length interconnecting the pharmacophoric isobutylamide and benzodioxol moieties for AEA cellular uptake inhibition. Guineensine dose-dependently induced cannabimimetic effects in BALB/c mice shown by strong catalepsy, hypothermia, reduced locomotion and analgesia. The catalepsy and analgesia were blocked by the CB1 receptor antagonist rimonabant (SR141716A). Guineensine is a novel plant natural product which specifically inhibits endocannabinoid uptake in different cell lines independent of FAAH. Its scaffold may be useful to identify yet unknown targets involved in endocannabinoid transport.

Hypertension induced by chronic administration of angiotensin II (AngII) is exacerbated by high-salt intake. Previous studies have demonstrated that this salt-sensitive component is due to increased activity of the sympathetic nervous system, suggesting an interaction of plasma AngII with sodium-sensitive regions of the brain. This study tested the hypothesis that the salt-sensitive component of AngII-induced hypertension would be prevented by intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of the sodium channel/transporter blocker benzamil. Male Sprague Dawley rats were instrumented to measure mean arterial pressure (MAP) by radio telemetry and for ICV administration of benzamil or vehicle and placed in metabolic cages for measurement of sodium and water intake and excretion. In rats consuming a high-salt diet (2.0% NaCl) and treated with ICV vehicle, administration of AngII (150 ng/kg/min, sc) for 13 days increased MAP by ~30 mmHg. ICV administration of benzamil (16 nmol/day) had no effect during the first 5 days of AngII, but returned MAP to control levels by Day 13. There were minimal or no differences between ICV vehicle or benzamil groups in regards to sodium and water balance. A lower dose of ICV benzamil administered ICV at 8 nmol/day had no effect on the MAP response to AngII in rats on a high-salt diet. Finally, in contrast to rats on a high-salt diet, AngII had negligible effects on MAP in rats consuming a low-salt diet (0.1% NaCl) and there were no differences in any variable between ICV benzamil (16 nmol/day) and ICV vehicle-treated groups. We conclude that the salt-sensitive component of AngII-induced hypertension is dependent on benzamil blockable sodium channels or transporters in the brain.
Fear of heights occurs when a visual stimulus causes the apprehension of losing balance and falling. A moderate form of visual height intolerance (vHI) affects about one third of the general population and has relevant consequences for the quality of life. A quantitative evaluation of balance mechanisms in persons susceptible to vHI during height exposure is missing. VHI-related changes in postural control were assessed by center-of-pressure displacements and electromyographic recordings of selected leg, arm, and neck muscles in 16 subjects with vHI while standing at heights on an emergency balcony versus standing in the laboratory at ground level. Characteristics of open- and closed-loop postural control were analyzed. Body sway and muscle activity parameters were correlated with the subjective estimates of fear at heights. During height exposure, (1) open-loop control was disturbed by a higher diffusion activity (P &lt; 0.001) and (2) the sensory feedback threshold for closed-loop control was lowered (P &lt; 0.010). Altered postural control was predominantly associated with increased co-contraction of leg muscles. Body sway and leg and neck muscle co-contraction correlated with the severity of subjective anxiety (P &lt; 0.050). Alterations in postural control diminished if there were nearby stationary contrasts in the visual surrounding or if subjects stood with eyes closed. The performance of a cognitive dual task also improved impaired balance. Visual heights have two behavioral effects in vHI subjects: A change occurs in (1) open- and closed-loop postural control strategy and (2) co-contraction of anti-gravity leg and neck muscles, both of which depend on the severity of evoked fear at heights.


Developmental programming links growth in early life with health status in adulthood. Although environmental factors such as maternal diet can influence the growth and adult health status of offspring, the genetic influences on this process are poorly understood. Using the mouse as a model, we identify the imprinted gene Grb10 as a mediator of nutrient supply and demand in the postnatal period. The combined actions of Grb10 expressed in the mother, controlling supply, and Grb10 expressed in the offspring, controlling demand, jointly regulate offspring growth. Furthermore, Grb10 determines the proportions of lean and fat tissue during development, thereby influencing energy homeostasis in the adult. Most strikingly, we show that the development of normal lean/fat proportions depends on the combined effects of Grb10 expressed in the mother, which has the greater effect on offspring adiposity, and Grb10 expressed in the offspring, which influences lean mass. These distinct functions of Grb10 in mother and pup act complementarily, which is consistent with a coadaptation model of imprinting evolution, a model predicted but for which there is limited experimental evidence. In addition, our findings identify Grb10 as a key genetic component of developmental programming, and highlight the need for a better understanding of mother-offspring interactions at the genetic level in predicting adult disease risk.
A venerable history of classical work on autoassociative memory has significantly shaped our understanding of several features of the hippocampus, and most prominently of its CA3 area, in relation to memory storage and retrieval. However, existing theories of hippocampal memory processing ignore a key biological constraint affecting memory storage in neural circuits: the bounded dynamical range of synapses. Recent treatments based on the notion of metaplasticity provide a powerful model for individual bounded synapses; however, their implications for the ability of the hippocampus to retrieve memories well and the dynamics of neurons associated with that retrieval are both unknown. Here, we develop a theoretical framework for memory storage and recall with bounded synapses. We formulate the recall of a previously stored pattern from a noisy recall cue and limited-capacity (and therefore lossy) synapses as a probabilistic inference problem, and derive neural dynamics that implement approximate inference algorithms to solve this problem efficiently. In particular, for binary synapses with metaplastic states, we demonstrate for the first time that memories can be efficiently read out with biologically plausible network dynamics that are completely constrained by the synaptic plasticity rule, and the statistics of the stored patterns and of the recall cue. Our theory organises into a coherent framework a wide range of existing data about the regulation of excitability, feedback inhibition, and network oscillations in area CA3, and makes novel and directly testable predictions that can guide future experiments.
Self-motion, steering, and obstacle avoidance during navigation in the real world require humans to travel along curved paths. Many perceptual models have been proposed that focus on heading, which specifies the direction of travel along straight paths, but not on path curvature, which humans accurately perceive and is critical to everyday locomotion. In primates, including humans, dorsal medial superior temporal area (MSTd) has been implicated in heading perception. However, the majority of MSTd neurons respond optimally to spiral patterns, rather than to the radial expansion patterns associated with heading. No existing theory of curved path perception explains the neural mechanisms by which humans accurately assess path and no functional role for spiral-tuned cells has yet been proposed. Here we present a computational model that demonstrates how the continuum of observed cells (radial to circular) in MSTd can simultaneously code curvature and heading across the neural population. Curvature is encoded through the spirality of the most active cell, and heading is encoded through the visuotopic location of the center of the most active cell's receptive field. Model curvature and heading errors fit those made by humans. Our model challenges the view that the function of MSTd is heading estimation, based on our analysis we claim that it is primarily concerned with trajectory estimation and the simultaneous representation of both curvature and heading. In our model, temporal dynamics afford time-history in the neural representation of optic flow, which may modulate its structure. This has far-reaching implications for the interpretation of studies that assume that optic flow is, and should be, represented as an instantaneous vector field. Our results suggest that spiral motion patterns that emerge in spatio-temporal optic flow are essential for guiding self-motion along complex trajectories, and that cells in MSTd are specifically tuned to extract complex trajectory estimation from flow.
Over repeat presentations of the same stimulus, sensory neurons show variable responses. This &quot;noise&quot; is typically correlated between pairs of cells, and a question with rich history in neuroscience is how these noise correlations impact the population's ability to encode the stimulus. Here, we consider a very general setting for population coding, investigating how information varies as a function of noise correlations, with all other aspects of the problem - neural tuning curves, etc. - held fixed. This work yields unifying insights into the role of noise correlations. These are summarized in the form of theorems, and illustrated with numerical examples involving neurons with diverse tuning curves. Our main contributions are as follows. (1) We generalize previous results to prove a sign rule (SR) - if noise correlations between pairs of neurons have opposite signs vs. their signal correlations, then coding performance will improve compared to the independent case. This holds for three different metrics of coding performance, and for arbitrary tuning curves and levels of heterogeneity. This generality is true for our other results as well. (2) As also pointed out in the literature, the SR does not provide a necessary condition for good coding. We show that a diverse set of correlation structures can improve coding. Many of these violate the SR, as do experimentally observed correlations. There is structure to this diversity: we prove that the optimal correlation structures must lie on boundaries of the possible set of noise correlations. (3) We provide a novel set of necessary and sufficient conditions, under which the coding performance (in the presence of noise) will be as good as it would be if there were no noise present at all.
Reinforcement Learning has greatly influenced models of conditioning, providing powerful explanations of acquired behaviour and underlying physiological observations. However, in recent autoshaping experiments in rats, variation in the form of Pavlovian conditioned responses (CRs) and associated dopamine activity, have questioned the classical hypothesis that phasic dopamine activity corresponds to a reward prediction error-like signal arising from a classical Model-Free system, necessary for Pavlovian conditioning. Over the course of Pavlovian conditioning using food as the unconditioned stimulus (US), some rats (sign-trackers) come to approach and engage the conditioned stimulus (CS) itself - a lever - more and more avidly, whereas other rats (goal-trackers) learn to approach the location of food delivery upon CS presentation. Importantly, although both sign-trackers and goal-trackers learn the CS-US association equally well, only in sign-trackers does phasic dopamine activity show classical reward prediction error-like bursts. Furthermore, neither the acquisition nor the expression of a goal-tracking CR is dopamine-dependent. Here we present a computational model that can account for such individual variations. We show that a combination of a Model-Based system and a revised Model-Free system can account for the development of distinct CRs in rats. Moreover, we show that revising a classical Model-Free system to individually process stimuli by using factored representations can explain why classical dopaminergic patterns may be observed for some rats and not for others depending on the CR they develop. In addition, the model can account for other behavioural and pharmacological results obtained using the same, or similar, autoshaping procedures. Finally, the model makes it possible to draw a set of experimental predictions that may be verified in a modified experimental protocol. We suggest that further investigation of factored representations in computational neuroscience studies may be useful.
Genetic variation in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) affects CD4CD8 lineage commitment and MHC expression. However, the contribution of specific genes in this gene-dense region has not yet been resolved. Nor has it been established whether the same genes regulate MHC expression and T cell selection. Here, we assessed the impact of natural genetic variation on MHC expression and CD4CD8 lineage commitment using two genetic models in the rat. First, we mapped Quantitative Trait Loci (QTLs) associated with variation in MHC class I and II protein expression and the CD4CD8 T cell ratio in outbred Heterogeneous Stock rats. We identified 10 QTLs across the genome and found that QTLs for the individual traits colocalized within a region spanning the MHC. To identify the genes underlying these overlapping QTLs, we generated a large panel of MHC-recombinant congenic strains, and refined the QTLs to two adjacent intervals of 0.25 Mb in the MHC-I and II regions, respectively. An interaction between these intervals affected MHC class I expression as well as negative selection and lineage commitment of CD8 single-positive (SP) thymocytes. We mapped this effect to the transporter associated with antigen processing 2 (Tap2) in the MHC-II region and the classical MHC class I gene(s) (RT1-A) in the MHC-I region. This interaction was revealed by a recombination between RT1-A and Tap2, which occurred in 0.2% of the rats. Variants of Tap2 have previously been shown to influence the antigenicity of MHC class I molecules by altering the MHC class I ligandome. Our results show that a restricted peptide repertoire on MHC class I molecules leads to reduced negative selection of CD8SP cells. To our knowledge, this is the first study showing how a recombination between natural alleles of genes in the MHC influences lineage commitment of T cells.
Metabolic traits are molecular phenotypes that can drive clinical phenotypes and may predict disease progression. Here, we report results from a metabolome- and genome-wide association study on (1)H-NMR urine metabolic profiles. The study was conducted within an untargeted approach, employing a novel method for compound identification. From our discovery cohort of 835 Caucasian individuals who participated in the CoLaus study, we identified 139 suggestively significant (P&lt;510(-8)) and independent associations between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) and metabolome features. Fifty-six of these associations replicated in the TasteSensomics cohort, comprising 601 individuals from So Paulo of vastly diverse ethnic background. They correspond to eleven gene-metabolite associations, six of which had been previously identified in the urine metabolome and three in the serum metabolome. Our key novel findings are the associations of two SNPs with NMR spectral signatures pointing to fucose (rs492602, P=6.910(-44)) and lysine (rs8101881, P=1.210(-33)), respectively. Fine-mapping of the first locus pinpointed the FUT2 gene, which encodes a fucosyltransferase enzyme and has previously been associated with Crohn's disease. This implicates fucose as a potential prognostic disease marker, for which there is already published evidence from a mouse model. The second SNP lies within the SLC7A9 gene, rare mutations of which have been linked to severe kidney damage. The replication of previous associations and our new discoveries demonstrate the potential of untargeted metabolomics GWAS to robustly identify molecular disease markers.
The accumulation of somatic mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations is implicated in aging and common diseases of the elderly, including cancer and neurodegenerative disease. However, the mechanisms that influence the frequency of somatic mtDNA mutations are poorly understood. To develop a simple invertebrate model system to address this matter, we used the Random Mutation Capture (RMC) assay to characterize the age-dependent frequency and distribution of mtDNA mutations in the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster. Because oxidative stress is a major suspect in the age-dependent accumulation of somatic mtDNA mutations, we also used the RMC assay to explore the influence of oxidative stress on the somatic mtDNA mutation frequency. We found that many of the features associated with mtDNA mutations in vertebrates are conserved in Drosophila, including a comparable somatic mtDNA mutation frequency (10(-5)), an increased frequency of mtDNA mutations with age, and a prevalence of transition mutations. Only a small fraction of the mtDNA mutations detected in young or old animals were GC to TA transversions, a signature of oxidative damage, and loss-of-function mutations in the mitochondrial superoxide dismutase, Sod2, had no detectable influence on the somatic mtDNA mutation frequency. Moreover, a loss-of-function mutation in Ogg1, which encodes a DNA repair enzyme that removes oxidatively damaged deoxyguanosine residues (8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine), did not significantly influence the somatic mtDNA mutation frequency of Sod2 mutants. Together, these findings indicate that oxidative stress is not a major cause of somatic mtDNA mutations. Our data instead suggests that somatic mtDNA mutations arise primarily from errors that occur during mtDNA replication. Further studies using Drosophila should aid in the identification of factors that influence the frequency of somatic mtDNA mutations.
The pattern recognition receptor RIG-I is critical for Type-I interferon production. However, the global regulation of RIG-I signaling is only partially understood. Using a human genome-wide RNAi-screen, we identified 226 novel regulatory proteins of RIG-I mediated interferon- production. Furthermore, the screen identified a metabolic pathway that synthesizes the inositol pyrophosphate 1-IP7 as a previously unrecognized positive regulator of interferon production. Detailed genetic and biochemical experiments demonstrated that the kinase activities of IPPK, PPIP5K1 and PPIP5K2 (which convert IP5 to1-IP7) were critical for both interferon induction, and the control of cellular infection by Sendai and influenza A viruses. Conversely, ectopically expressed inositol pyrophosphate-hydrolases DIPPs attenuated interferon transcription. Mechanistic experiments in intact cells revealed that the expression of IPPK, PPIP5K1 and PPIP5K2 was needed for the phosphorylation and activation of IRF3, a transcription factor for interferon. The addition of purified individual inositol pyrophosphates to a cell free reconstituted RIG-I signaling assay further identified 1-IP7 as an essential component required for IRF3 activation. The inositol pyrophosphate may act by -phosphoryl transfer, since its action was not recapitulated by a synthetic phosphonoacetate analogue of 1-IP7. This study thus identified several novel regulators of RIG-I, and a new role for inositol pyrophosphates in augmenting innate immune responses to viral infection that may have therapeutic applications.
The essential herpesvirus adaptor protein HVS ORF57, which has homologs in all other herpesviruses, promotes viral mRNA export by utilizing the cellular mRNA export machinery. ORF57 protein specifically recognizes viral mRNA transcripts, and binds to proteins of the cellular transcription-export (TREX) complex, in particular ALYREF. This interaction introduces viral mRNA to the NXF1 pathway, subsequently directing it to the nuclear pore for export to the cytoplasm. Here we have used a range of techniques to reveal the sites for direct contact between RNA and ORF57 in the absence and presence of ALYREF. A binding site within ORF57 was characterized which recognizes specific viral mRNA motifs. When ALYREF is present, part of this ORF57 RNA binding site, composed of an -helix, binds preferentially to ALYREF. This competitively displaces viral RNA from the -helix, but contact with RNA is still maintained by a flanking region. At the same time, the flexible N-terminal domain of ALYREF comes into contact with the viral RNA, which becomes engaged in an extensive network of synergistic interactions with both ALYREF and ORF57. Transfer of RNA to ALYREF in the ternary complex, and involvement of individual ORF57 residues in RNA recognition, were confirmed by UV cross-linking and mutagenesis. The atomic-resolution structure of the ORF57-ALYREF interface was determined, which noticeably differed from the homologous ICP27-ALYREF structure. Together, the data provides the first site-specific description of how viral mRNA is locked by a herpes viral adaptor protein in complex with cellular ALYREF, giving herpesvirus access to the cellular mRNA export machinery. The NMR strategy used may be more generally applicable to the study of fuzzy protein-protein-RNA complexes which involve flexible polypeptide regions.

Anti-Ma2 encephalitis is a paraneoplastic disorder characterised by brainstem and/or limbic involvement. Eye movement abnormalities can occur in this condition, often with confusion or somnolence. We describe a patient with progressive oscillopsia (with upbeat nystagmus) and unsteadiness, followed by acute pancreatitis. She did not respond to immunomodulatory treatment and subsequently died of complications related to pancreatitis and sepsis. There was no tumour identified at autopsy, but the anti-Ma2 antibodies in her serum and the discovery of a brainstem-predominant inflammatory infiltrate at autopsy strongly suggest a paraneoplastic disorder. Our case illustrates that upbeat nystagmus can be a predominant feature in anti-Ma2 encephalitis; clinicians should consider testing for anti-Ma2 antibodies in patients with upbeat nystagmus of unknown cause.
We present a patient with opsoclonus and diffuse cerebellar signs who had an anti-Ma2 antibody-associated paraneoplastic syndrome secondary to a sarcomatoid mesothelioma. This case highlights the importance of early tumour detection, instigation of therapeutic measures, and the heterogeneity of underlying malignancies in neurological paraneoplastic syndromes.

Allopregnanolone, a neuroactive steroid derived from progesterone, is synthesized within the nervous tissue, by means of specific enzymes. Contrary to progesterone and its first metabolite dihydroprogesterone, allopregnanolone is able to interact with GABA-A receptor and not with the classical progesterone receptor. This suggests that the effect of progesterone administration may be due to activation of progesterone receptor, or of GABA-A receptor, or both. However, this is rarely considered in the experimental studies. Here we summarize and discuss the hot topics involving the actions of allopregnanolone within the nervous tissue. One major role of this neuroactive steroid is neuroprotection in case of lesion, ischemia or peripheral neuropathies (i.e., diabetes). In addition, allopregnanolone may reduce the symptoms of neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., Alzheimer, Parkinson, Niemann-Pick type C, multiple sclerosis) in animal models and now translational studies are developed for its therapeutic use. Allopregnanolone may exert a beneficial effect also in case of neuropathic pain and it is also a potential candidate for the treatment of mood and anxiety disorders. Finally, this neuroactive steroid seems to have important physiological roles in the early differentiation of some neural circuits (in particular at hippocampal level), and to reduce stress during pregnancy. In conclusion, it appears that allopregnanolone is a key regulator of physiological functions and may have interesting therapeutic perspectives for neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders.
Despite major advances in neuroscience, a comprehensive understanding of the structural and functional components of the adult brain compartments remains to be fully elucidated at a quantitative molecular level. Indeed, over half of the soluble- and membrane-annotated proteins are currently unmapped within online digital brain atlases. In this study, two complementary approaches were used to assess the unique repertoire of proteins enriched within select regions of the adult mouse CNS, including the brain stem, cerebellum, and remaining brain hemispheres. Of the 1200 proteins visualized by 2D-DIGE, approximately 150 (including cytosolic and membrane proteins) were found to exhibit statistically significant changes in relative abundance thus representing putative region-specific brain markers. In addition to using a high-precision (18) O-labeling strategy for the quantitative LC-MS/MS mapping of membrane proteins isolated from myelin-enriched fractions, we have identified over 1000 proteins that have yet to be described in any other mammalian myelin proteome. A comparison of our myelin proteome was made to an existing transcriptome database containing mRNA abundance profiles during oligodendrocyte differentiation and has confirmed statistically significant abundance changes for 500 of these newly mapped proteins, thus revealing new roles in oligodendrocyte and myelin biology. These data offer a resource for the neuroscience community studying the molecular basis for specialized neuronal activities in the CNS and myelin-related disorders. The MS proteomics data associated with this manuscript have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium with the dataset identifier PXD000327 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000327).
Individuals with autism spectrum disorders often show low levels of melatonin, and it has been suggested that this decrease may be because of the low activity of the acetylserotonin O-methyltransferase (ASMT), the last enzyme in the melatonin-synthesis pathway. Also, genetic variants in ASMT have been associated with autism, as well as with low ASMT activity and melatonin levels, suggesting that the low ASMT activity observed in autism may partly be because of variations within the ASMT gene. In this study, we present a symptom-based approach to investigate possible associations between ASMT and autistic-like traits in the general population. To this end, continuous measures of autistic-like traits were assessed in a nationally representative twin cohort (n=1771) from Sweden and six single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), and a duplication of exons 2-8 in ASMT were genotyped. Our results show a nominally significant association, in girls, between one single nucleotide polymorphism (rs5949028) in the last intron of ASMT and social interaction impairments. No significant association, however, was observed with traits related to language impairment or restricted and repetitive behavior. In conclusion, our results support the possible involvement of the ASMT gene in autism spectrum disorders, and our finding that only one of the three traits shows association suggests that genetic research may benefit from adopting a symptom-specific approach to identify genes involved in autism psychopathology.




Using functional MRI, we examined how the affective experience of choice, the means by which individuals exercise control, is modulated by the valence of potential outcomes (gains, losses). When trials involved potential gains, participants reported liking cues predicting a choice opportunity better than cues predicting no choice opportunity--an effect that corresponded with blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) increases in ventral striatum (VS) activity. Surprisingly, no differences were observed between choice and no-choice cues when participants anticipated potential losses. Individual differences in subjective choice preference in the loss condition, however, corresponded to choice-related BOLD activity in VS. We conducted a second experiment to examine whether monetary losses were perceived differently in the context of simultaneous gains. When losses occurred in the absence of gains, participants showed an increased affective experience of choice--they reported greater liking of choice than no-choice trials, and VS activity was greater for choice than for no-choice cues. Collectively, the findings suggest that the affective experience of choice involves reward-processing circuitry when people anticipate appetitive and aversive outcomes, but the choice experience may be sensitive to context and individual differences.
People perceive spatial form and temporal frequency through touch. Although distinct somatosensory neurons represent spatial and temporal information, these neural populations are intermixed throughout the somatosensory system. Here, we show that spatial and temporal touch can be dissociated and separately enhanced via cortical pathways that are normally associated with vision and audition. In Experiments 1 and 2, we found that anodal transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) applied over visual cortex, but not auditory cortex, enhances tactile perception of spatial orientation. In Experiments 3 and 4, we found that anodal tDCS over auditory cortex, but not visual cortex, enhances tactile perception of temporal frequency. This double dissociation reveals separate cortical pathways that selectively support spatial and temporal channels. These results bolster the emerging view that sensory areas process multiple modalities and suggest that supramodal domains may be more fundamental to cortical organization.
The controversy over multiple category-learning systems is reminiscent of the controversy over multiple memory systems. Researchers continue to seek paradigms to sharply dissociate explicit category-learning processes (featuring category rules that can be verbalized) from implicit category-learning processes (featuring learned stimulus-response associations that lie outside declarative cognition). We contribute a new dissociative paradigm, adapting the technique of deferred-rearranged reinforcement from comparative psychology. Participants learned matched category tasks that had either a one-dimensional, rule-based solution or a multidimensional, information-integration solution. They received feedback either immediately or after each block of trials, with the feedback organized such that positive outcomes were grouped and negative outcomes were grouped (deferred-rearranged reinforcement). Deferred reinforcement qualitatively eliminated implicit, information-integration category learning. It left intact explicit, rule-based category learning. Moreover, implicit-category learners facing deferred-rearranged reinforcement turned by default and information-processing necessity to rule-based strategies that poorly suited their nominal category task. The results represent one of the strongest explicit-implicit dissociations yet seen in the categorization literature.
This study compared common deployment-related health issues and correlates of mental health service utilization among rural and urban veterans of Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF), Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF), and Operation New Dawn (OND) living in Hawaii. Frequency of utilization of a broad range of mental health resources, including clergy/spiritual leaders, videoconference/online programs, and traditional/alternative healers, was also characterized. A random sample of 116 rural and 117 urban ethnoracially diverse veterans completed a mail survey. Rural veterans were more likely than urban veterans to meet screening criteria for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), deployment-related concussion with persistent postconcussive symptoms, and alcohol use problems. Over one third of veterans who desired help for a mental health problem reported no current use of any services. Rural veterans were more likely than urban veterans to have accessed Veteran Readjustment Centers, but they did not differ with respect to utilization of other services. Correlates of mental health service utilization included higher education, PTSD, and lower mental-health-related quality of life. Results of this study underscore the need for dissemination efforts to enable OEF/OIF/OND veterans to access mental health resources.
Accruing evidence indicates that neuropeptide Y (NPY), a peptide neurotransmitter, is a resilience-to-stress factor in humans. We previously reported reduced cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) NPY concentrations in combat-related posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) subjects as compared with healthy, non-combat-exposed volunteers. Here we report CSF NPY in combat-exposed veterans with and without PTSD. We quantified NPY concentrations in morning CSF from 11 male subjects with PTSD from combat in Iraq and/or Afghanistan and from 14 combat-exposed subjects without PTSD. NPY-like immunoreactivity (NPY-LI) was measured by EIA. The relationship between CSF NPY and clinical symptoms, as measured by the Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS) and Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), was assessed, as was the relationship between combat exposure scale (CES) scores and CSF NPY. As compared with the combat-exposed comparison subjects without PTSD, individuals with PTSD had significantly lower concentrations of CSF NPY [mean CSF NPY was 258. 6  21.64 pg/mL in the combat trauma-no PTSD group but only 180.5  12.62 pg/mL in PTSD patients (p=0.008)]. After adjusting for CES and BDI scores the two groups were still significantly different with respect to NPY. Importantly, CSF NPY was negatively correlated with composite CAPS score and intrusive (re-experiencing) subscale scores, but did not significantly correlate with CES or BDI scores. Our current findings further suggest that NPY may regulate the manifestation of PTSD symptomatology, and extend previous observations of low CSF NPY concentrations in the disorder. Central nervous system NPY may be a clinically important pharmacotherapeutic target, and/or diagnostic measure, for PTSD.
Corticosteroids induce rapid non-genomic effects followed by slower genomic effects that are thought to modulate cognitive function in opposite and complementary ways. It is presently unknown how these time-dependent effects of cortisol affect fear memory of delay and trace conditioning. This distinction is of special interest because the neural substrates underlying these types of conditioning may be differently affected by time-dependent cortisol effects. Delay conditioning is predominantly amygdala-dependent, while trace conditioning additionally requires the hippocampus. Here, we manipulated the timing of cortisol action during acquisition of delay and trace fear conditioning, by randomly assigning 63 men to one of three possible groups: (1) receiving 10mg hydrocortisone 240 min (slow cort) or (2) 60 min (rapid cort) before delay and trace acquisition, or (3) placebo at both times, in a double-blind design. The next day, we tested memory for trace and delay conditioning. Fear potentiated startle responses, skin conductance responses and unconditioned stimulus expectancy scores were measured throughout the experiment. The fear potentiated startle data show that cortisol intake 240 min before actual fear acquisition (slow cort) uniquely strengthened subsequent trace conditioned memory. No effects of cortisol delivery 60 min prior to fear acquisition were found on any measure of fear memory. Our findings emphasize that slow, presumably genomic, but not more rapid effects of corticosteroids enhance hippocampal-dependent fear memories. On a broader level, our findings underline that basic experimental research and clinically relevant pharmacological treatments employing corticosteroids should acknowledge the timing of corticosteroid administration relative to the learning phase, or therapeutic intervention.
Anabolic-androgenic steroids (AAS) increase impulsive and uncontrolled aggressive ('roid rage) in humans and enhance agonistic behavior in animals. However, the underlying mechanisms for AAS-induced aggression remain unclear. Potential contributing elements include an increase risk-taking and/or motor impulsivity due to AAS. This study addressed the effects of chronic high-dose testosterone on risk tolerance using a risky decision-making task (RDT) and motor impulsivity with a go/no-go task in operant chambers. Male Long-Evans rats were treated for at least 4 weeks with testosterone (7.5mg/kg) or vehicle beginning in late adolescence. Testosterone was used because it is popular among human AAS users. In RDT testing, one lever was paired with delivery of a small &quot;safe&quot; food reward, while the other was paired with a large &quot;risky&quot; reward associated with an increasing risk of footshock (0%, 25%, 50%, 75%, 100%) in successive test blocks. Three shock intensities were used: 1.0, 1.2, and 1.4mA/kg. As shock intensity and risk of shock increased, preference for the lever signifying a large reward significantly declined for both vehicle- and testosterone-treated rats (p&lt;0.05). There was also a significant effect of drug (p&lt;0.05), where testosterone-treated rats showed greater preference for the large reward, compared to vehicle-treated controls. Increased preference for the large reward, despite risk of footshock, is consistent with increased risk tolerance. In go/no-go testing, rats were trained to press a single lever if the go cue was presented (stimulus light) or to refrain from pressing during the no-go cue (tone). There was no effect of testosterone on pre-cue responses, or performance in go and no-go trials. These results suggest that AAS may increase risk-tolerance without altering motor impulsivity.
Chronic stress as well as chronic treatment with glucocorticoids (GCs) primes the neuroinflammatory response to a subsequent pro-inflammatory challenge. However, it remains unclear whether chronic GCs sensitize the response of key CNS immune substrates (i.e. microglia) to pro-inflammatory stimuli. In the present set of studies, male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent sham surgery or were adrenalectomized and then treated with varying concentrations of corticosterone (CORT; 0, 25, 50, and 75 g/ml) administered in their drinking water. After 10 days of CORT exposure, whole hippocampus was collected and expression of glial activation markers measured or hippocampal microglia were isolated and challenged with LPS to probe for CORT-induced sensitization of pro-inflammatory responses. Chronic CORT exposure increased the gene expression of NLRP3, Iba-1, MHCII, and NF-BI in a concentration dependent manner. Chronic CORT (75 g/ml) exposure potentiated the microglial proinflammatory response (TNF, IL-1, IL-6 and NLRP3) to LPS compared to the microglial response of sham surgery animals treated with vehicle. The present set of results demonstrate that chronic exposure to GCs primes microglia to pro-inflammatory stimuli and add to a growing body of evidence suggesting that a permissive function of GCs is that of an endogenous danger signal or alarmin.
Substantial research has been conducted investigating the association between life adversity and genetic vulnerability for depression, but clear mechanistic links are rarely identified and investigation often focused on single genetic variants. Complex phenotypes like depression, however, are likely determined by multiple variants in interaction with environmental factors. As variations in the mineralocorticoid receptor gene (NR3C2) have been related to a higher risk for depression, we investigated whether NR3C2 variance is related to negative memory bias, an established endophenotype for depression, in healthy participants. Furthermore, we explored the influence of life adversity on this association. We used a set-based analysis to simultaneously test all measured variation in NR3C2 for an association with negative memory bias in 483 participants and an interaction with life adversity. To further specify this interaction, we split the sample into low and high live adversity groups and repeated the analyses in both groups separately. NR3C2 variance was associated with negative memory bias, especially in the high life adversity group. Additionally, we identified a functional polymorphism (rs5534) related to negative memory bias and demonstrating a genelife adversity interaction. Variations in NR3C2 are associated with negative memory bias and this relationship appears to be influenced by life adversity. As negative memory bias is implicated in the susceptibility to depression, our findings provide mechanistic support for the notion that variations in NR3C2 - which could compromise the proper function of this receptor - are a risk factor for the development of mood disorders.
This study investigated the actions of blocking the GnRH receptor using a specific agonist on the response of male and female sheep to a novel object placed in their pen. The study is part of a series performed on 46 same sex twin animals. One of the pair received a subcutaneous implant of the GnRH agonist Goserelin acetate every four weeks while the other remained untreated. Implantation began immediately prior to puberty; at 8 weeks in the males and 28 weeks in the females (as timing of puberty is sex specific). To determine the effects of agonist treatment on the reproductive axis blood samples were collected for measurement of testosterone in the males and progesterone in the females. In addition the volume of the scrotum was determined. The present study aimed to determine whether there are sexually differentiated behavioural responses to a novel object at different stages of brain development (8, 28 and 48 weeks of age) and whether these responses are altered by GnRHa treatment. Approach behaviour towards and interactions with the novel object were monitored as was the number of vocalisations per unit time during the test period. GnRHa treatment suppressed testosterone concentrations and testicular growth in the males and progesterone release in the females. Sheep vocalised significantly more prior to weaning (8 weeks of age) than post weaning (28 and 48 weeks of age) suggesting stress on separation from their dams. Our current study shows that males are more likely to leave their conspecifics to approach a novel object than females. As this behaviour was not altered by suppression of the reproductive axis we suggest that, although sex differences are more obviously expressed in the phenotype after puberty, these may be developed during adolescence but not primarily altered during puberty by sex hormones.
Chronic stress produces both morphological and functional alternations of the rat medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) glutamate receptor inhibition may alleviate such stress-induced dendritic reorganization in the mPFC. However, it is unknown whether administration of a NMDAR antagonist would also prevent alterations in PFC-mediated cognitive functions. Here, we investigated whether administration of ketamine, the noncompetitive antagonist of NMDA receptors before each stress session would prevent cognitive impairments in a rat model of prefrontal cortex (PFC)-dependent attentional set-shifting task (ASST), a measure of cognitive flexibility. Repeated restraint stress (1h daily for 7 days) significantly and specifically impaired extra-dimensional (ED) set-shifting ability of rats. Pretreatment with ketamine (10mg/kg, IP) completely and specifically prevented this stress-induced cognitive inflexibility. The present study demonstrates procognitive efficacy of ketamine in an animal stress model, which confirms and extends the role of the NMDA receptors in mediating stress-evoked prefrontal dysfunctions.

The current study assessed which specific burnout symptoms were most predictive of distinct diurnal cortisol profiles. Participants included 401 day-shift workers employed in a random sampling of 34 Canadian workplaces. The 16-item Maslach Burnout Inventory was used to extract burnout sub-scales that included emotional exhaustion, cynicism, professional inefficacy, as well as a global burnout average. Consenting workers provided five saliva samples a day (awaking, 30 min after awaking, 1,400 h, 1,600 h, and bedtime) repeated three times over the course of a week (Saturday, Tuesday, Thursday) to capture workday and non-workday variations. Multilevel regression models were estimated from cortisol measurements at each occasion within a day at level-1, workers at level-2, and workplaces at level-3. Multilevel regression analyses found that emotional exhaustion and a global burnout showed the strongest and consistent negative associations to cortisol in the afternoon and evening. In a separate analysis using regression coefficients, emotional exhaustion and a global burnout average were associated with low cortisol levels 30 min upon awakening. By contrast, professional inefficacy was associated only with lower bedtime cortisol. No associations were detected for cynicism and sex did not emerge as a moderator in secondary analyses. Our findings are discussed in a theoretical framework postulating different pathophysiological stages of burnout development. Specifically, professional inefficacy may be the earliest warning signal culminating with emotional exhaustion that may dampen diurnal cortisol levels.
The orexin/hypocretin system interacts with many of the same circuitries contributing to stress-associated disorders like depression and anxiety. These include potentially reciprocal connections with corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) neurons which drive the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) endocrine response in addition to having an anxiogenic effect in the central amygdala (CeA). Antagonism of the orexin type 1 receptor (Orx1) in the hypothalamus has also been shown to block panic attacks. However, few studies have investigated the effect of orexinergic signaling in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) which is responsible for contextual fear, and modulates the activity of the CeA. To this end, we chronically stressed c57bl/6 mice with social defeat and examined the gene expression of the orexin receptors in the BLA. We found that the transcripts for the Orx1 and Orx2 receptors diverged in the BLA with Orx1 increasing and Orx2 decreasing in animals that were susceptible to the chronic defeat. These changes were not seen in the prelimbic cortex (PrL) which sends efferents to the BLA. We then tried to recapitulate these expression patterns in the BLA using short hairpin interfering sequences delivered by adeno-associated viruses to knock down the orexin receptors. While the Orx1 knockdown did reduce locomotor activity, it did not decrease depressive or anxious behaviors. Knocking down the Orx2 receptors in the BLA increased anxious behavior as measured by reduced social preference and reduced time spent in the center of an open field. Due to the divergent expression patterns of the two receptors in response to chronic stress, orexinergic activity in the BLA may be responsible for bidirectional modulation of anxious behavior. Furthermore, these data raise the possibility that an Orx2 agonist may serve as an effective means to treat anxiety disorders.







In this account, we attempt to integrate two parallel, but thus far, separate lines of research on auditory novelty detection: (1) human studies of EEG recordings of the mismatch negativity (MMN), and (2) animal studies of single-neuron recordings of stimulus-specific adaptation (SSA). The studies demonstrating the existence of novelty neurons showing SSA at different levels along the auditory pathway's hierarchy, together with the recent results showing human auditory-evoked potential correlates of deviance detection at very short latencies, that is, at 20-40 ms from change onset, support the view that novelty detection is a key principle that governs the functional organization of the auditory system. Furthermore, the generation of the MMN recorded from the human scalp seems to involve a cascade of neuronal processing that occurs at different successive levels of the auditory system's hierarchy.

Most free-recall experiments employ a paradigm in which participants are given a preset amount of time to retrieve items from a list. While much has been learned using this paradigm, it ignores an important component of many real-world retrieval tasks: the decision to terminate memory search. The present study examines the temporal characteristics underlying memory search by comparing within subjects a standard retrieval paradigm with a finite, preset amount of time (closed interval) to a design that allows participants to terminate memory search on their own (open interval). Calling on the results of several presented simulations, we anticipated that the threshold for number of retrieval failures varied as a function of the nature of the recall paradigm, such that open intervals should result in lower thresholds than closed intervals. Moreover, this effect was expected to manifest in interretrieval times (IRTs). Although retrieval-interval type did not significantly impact the number of items recalled or error rates, IRTs were sensitive to the manipulation. Specifically, the final IRTs in the closed-interval paradigm were longer than those of the open-interval paradigm. This pattern suggests that providing participants with a preset retrieval interval not only masks an important component of the retrieval process (the memory search termination decision), but also alters temporal retrieval dynamics. Task demands may compel people to strategically control aspects of their retrieval by implementing different stopping rules.

The present study compared two different types of orientation strategies: an assistive technology program (AT, i.e., remotely controlled sound/light devices) and a backward chaining procedure (BC) for promoting indoor traveling in four persons with moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease (AD). A social validation assessment of the two strategies was also conducted employing undergraduate students as raters. For three out of four participants, AT intervention was more effective than the BC procedure, whilst for the fourth participant the two types of intervention had a comparably satisfying efficacy. A doubly Multivariate Analysis of Variance on social validation assessment data provided generally more positive scores for the AT intervention. These results suggest that AT programs (a) can be valuably employed for restoring and maintaining independence in indoor traveling in people with moderate to severe AD, and (b) might be perceived as preferable to conventional teaching strategies within daily contexts.
The present study examined whether atypical visual processing is related to the level of social skills in children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Thirty-eight young children with ASD (29 boys, 9 girls) were included. Atypical visual processing was assessed by coding the number of lateral glances and the amount of object grouping behavior on videotaped observations of the ADOS (aged 35  9 months). The level of social skills was measured using the subscale interpersonal relationships of the Vineland SEEC (32  7 months). A negative relationship with a medium effect size was found between lateral glances and interpersonal relationships. Object grouping behavior and interpersonal relationships were not related. This study suggests that visual perception may be a mechanism in the development of interpersonal relationships in ASD, which is in accordance with an embodied approach to social cognition.
This study investigated the role of visual-perceptual input in writing Chinese characters among senior school-aged children who had handwriting difficulties (CHD). The participants were 27 CHD (9-11 years old) and 61 normally developed control. There were three writing conditions: copying, and dictations with or without visual feedback. The motor-free subtests of the Developmental Test of Visual Perception (DTVP-2) were conducted. The CHD group showed significantly slower mean speeds of character production and less legibility of produced characters than the control group in all writing conditions (ps&lt;0.001). There were significant deteriorations in legibility from copying to dictation without visual feedback. Nevertheless, the Group by Condition interaction effect was not statistically significant. Only position in space of DTVP-2 was significantly correlated with the legibility among CHD (r=-0.62, p=0.001). Poor legibility seems to be related to the less-intact spatial representation of the characters in working memory, which can be rectified by viewing the characters during writing. Visual feedback regarding one's own actions in writing can also improve legibility of characters among these children.
It is important to identify Developmental Coordination Disorder (DCD) early in a child's life to allow for proper and timely intervention and support, and to reduce the negative secondary consequences associated with this condition. In this study we assessed the psychometric properties (construct validity, concurrent validity, reliability and test accuracy) of the Developmental Coordination Disorder Questionnaire (DCD-Q-07) in preschool children. A community-based sample of children ages 4-6 (n=181) were screened for motor difficulties using the Movement Assessment Battery for Children (M-ABC-2). Use of the M-ABC-2 resulted in the identification of 29 children below the 15th percentile, which we classified as probable DCD. Parents of these children concurrently completed the DCD-Q-07 to report their child's motor performance. The DCD-Q-07 demonstrated high internal consistency for both the full scale (alpha=0.881) and each subscale: control during movement (alpha=0.813), fine motor and handwriting (alpha=0.869) and general coordination (alpha=0.728). Moderate correlations (r=0.47-0.63) were also seen between the subscales on the DCD-Q-07, the strongest correlation being between control during movement and general coordination (r=0.63). Based on published age and sex cut points, the DCD-Q-07 showed poor sensitivity (20.7%) but high specificity (92.1%) against the M-ABC-2. Overall agreement with the M-ABC-2 was low using ROC analysis (area under the curve=0.654). Although it is important to screen for DCD in young children, the DCD-Q-07 may not be the best choice as a screening tool for DCD in preschool children ages 4-6 due to its low test accuracy.
There is reduced integrity of corticospinal projections that traverse the posterior limb of the internal capsule (PLIC) in children with unilateral cerebral palsy (CP). It remains unclear whether there are changes in integrity of other projections traversing the PLIC. Forty children with congenital hemiparesis and 15 typically developing children underwent structural and diffusion-weighted MRI. All children with congenital hemiparesis showed lesions to the periventricular white matter. Structural images were parcellated into 34 cortical regions per hemisphere and posterior limb of the internal capsule was identified. PLIC connections to each cortical region were extracted using probabilistic tractography. Differences between hemispheres for each cortical projection (asymmetry index (AI)) and tract microstructure (fractional anisotropy (FA), mean diffusivity (MD)) were assessed. The results showed that 17 children (42.5%) with congenital hemiparesis showed bilateral lesions on structural MRI. Projections to the primary motor cortex (precentral gyrus and paracentral lobule) showed greater asymmetry in unilateral CP group compared to typically developing children and indicate reduced projections on the hemisphere contralateral to the impaired limb (i.e., contralateral hemisphere). Reduced FA and increased MD were also observed for connections with the primary motor cortex, primary sensory cortex (postcentral gyrus) and precuneus on the contralateral hemisphere in children with congenital hemiparesis. Similar changes were observed between children with unilateral and bilateral lesions on structural MRI. Notably, microstructural changes were associated with deficits in both sensory and motor function. The findings further unravel the underlying neuroanatomical correlates of sensorimotor deficits in children with congenital hemiparesis.
Bilateral subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation for Parkinson's disease improves limb function. Unpublished observations from our clinic noted that some subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation patients complain of post-operative dyspnea. Therefore, we designed a prospective, longitudinal study to characterize this in greater depth. We used specific questionnaires to assess dyspnea in patients with electrodes in the subthalamic nucleus (n=13) or ventral intermediate thalamus (n=7). St. George's Hospital Respiratory Questionnaire symptom subscale scores were greater in subthalamic nucleus patients (median=18.60, interquartile range=40.80) than ventral intermediate thalamus patients (median = 0.00, interquartile range=15.38) at greater than 6 months post-operatively (p&lt;0.05). Several of the subthalamic nucleus patients exhibited functional impairments as judged by the St. George's Hospital Respiratory Questionnaire impact subscale, the Medical Research Council Dyspnoea Scale, and the Dyspnoea-12 Questionnaire. There was no correlation between limb function ratings, stimulation parameters, or precise electrode position and dyspnea severity. We have shown, for the first time, that dyspnea can be a side effect of subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation, and that this dyspnea may be highly disabling.



Evidence-based decisions on indicated prevention in early psychosis require large-scale studies on the pathways to care in high-risk subjects. EPOS (The European Prediction of Psychosis Study), a prospective multi-center, naturalistic field study in four European countries (Finland, Germany, The Netherlands and England), was designed to acquire accurate knowledge about pathways to care and delay in obtaining specialized high risk care. Our high risk sample (n=233) reported on average 2.9 help-seeking contacts, with an average delay between onset of relevant problems to initial help-seeking contact of 72.6 weeks, and between initial help-seeking contact and reaching specialized high risk care of 110.9 weeks. This resulted in a total estimated duration of an unrecognized risk for psychosis of 3  years. Across EPOS EU regions, about 90% of care pathway contacts were within professional health care sectors. Between EPOS regions, differences in the pathways parameters including early detection and health-care systems were often very pronounced. High-risk participants who later made transition to a full psychotic disorder had significantly longer delays between initial help-seeking and receiving appropriate interventions. Our study underlines the need for regionally adapted implementation of early detection and intervention programs within respective mental health and health care networks, including enhancing public awareness of early psychosis.
Similarly to subjects with degenerative parkinsonism, (123)I-FP-CIT SPECT has been reported either normal or abnormal in patients with drug-induced parkinsonism (DIP), challenging the notion that parkinsonism might be entirely due to post-synaptic D2-receptors blockade by antipsychotic drugs. In a previous multicenter cross-sectional study conducted on a large sample of patients with schizophrenia, we identified 97 patients who developed parkinsonism with a similar bi-modal distribution of DAT-SPECT. In this longitudinal study, we reported clinical and imaging features associated with progression of motor disability over 2-year follow-up in 60 out of those 97 patients with schizophrenia and parkinsonism who underwent (123)I-FP-CIT SPECT at baseline evaluation (normal SPECT=33; abnormal SPECT=27). As second end-point, chronic response to levodopa over a 3-month period was tested in a subgroup of subjects. Motor Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) at follow-up significantly increased in patients with abnormal SPECT. Specifically, a 6-point worsening was demonstrated in 18.5% of the subjects with abnormal SPECT and in none of the subjects with normal SPECT. Levodopa treatment improved motor UPDRS only in the group with abnormal SPECT. After adjustment for possible confounders, linear regression analysis demonstrated that abnormal SPECT findings at baseline were the only predictor of motor disability progression and of better outcome of levodopa treatment. Our results support the notion that a degenerative disease might underlie parkinsonism in a minority of schizophrenic patients chronically exposed to antipsychotics. Functional imaging of the dopamine transporter can be helpful to select this patient sub-group that might benefit from levodopa therapy.
In Ultra High Risk (UHR) studies, intellectual functioning is commonly assessed using premorbid IQ tools as a covariate. The aim of this study was to show that the use of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) could yield accurate neuropsychological profiling and that an alternative approach such as a multiple-case study could be a more interesting way to isolate discrete cognitive processes in the early stage of illness. The studied population consisted of 198 adolescents and young adults (16-30 y.o.) referred to our outpatient clinic. After the CAARMS' interview, we defined 3 subgroups: UHR (N=104), First Episode (FE; N=30), and Help-Seekers (HS; N=64) who were neither UHR nor psychotic. Intellectual functioning was assessed by the WAIS-III (9 subtests version) and 'heterogeneous' intellectual profiles were defined based on the existence of a 3-point difference in scoring at subtests constitutive of the same WAIS index. While UHR did not differ from FE or HS on WAIS' scores and sub-scores, the multiple-case study indicated a higher proportion of 'heterogeneous' profiles in the Verbal Comprehension Index in the UHR sample than in FE and HS (p=0.04). The disease progression could heterogeneously impact on specific domains, in patterns depending on the stage of the illness. This approach exploring intra-subject WAIS performances might be more relevant than the use of global scores in detecting the subtle cognitive alteration of emerging psychosis.
The cerebral cortex is highly convoluted, and principal folding patterns are determined early in life. Degree of cortical folding in adult life may index aberrations in brain development. Results from previous studies of cortical folding in schizophrenia are inconsistent. Here we investigated cortical folding patterns in the hitherto largest sample of patients with schizophrenia drawn from two independent cohorts. Magnetic resonance imaging scans were acquired from 207 patients and 206 healthy subjects recruited to two separate research projects in Sweden and Norway. Local gyrification index (lGI) was estimated continuously across the cortex using automated methods. Group differences in lGI were analyzed using general linear models. Patients had lower lGI in three large clusters of the cortex with peak differences found in the left precentral gyrus, right middle temporal gyrus, and right precuneus. Similar, although not completely overlapping results were found when the two cohorts were analyzed separately. There were no significant interaction effects between age and diagnosis and gender and diagnosis. The finding of reduced degree of folding in large regions of the cerebral cortex across two independent samples indicates that reduced gyrification is an inherent feature of the brain pathology in schizophrenia.
It has been well established that neurocognitive deficits are a core feature in schizophrenia and predict difficulties in functional independence. However, few studies have assessed the longitudinal stability of cognition and key aspects of functional outcome concurrently. Even less attention has been directed at the contingency of cognitive change on real world outcome changes. Accordingly, this study will assess the extent to which significant changes in cognition and community status are independent or related. As a point of comparison, the stability of clinical symptom status and the relationship between symptom and outcome change are evaluated. Symptoms, cognitive abilities, and community outcome was assessed in 128 patients with schizophrenia at baseline and again one year later. Intraclass correlation coefficients were used to index stability and reliable change index analyses quantified the prevalence of significant improvement or deterioration in each of the three illness features. Results from these analyses revealed that symptom status, cognitive functioning, and community outcome are similarly stable in treated schizophrenia outpatients. A small proportion of the sample demonstrated significant improvement or deterioration in these domains, with only weak evidence that such change was predicted by changes in symptoms or cognition. Further, there was no strong evidence of a preferential relationship for cognition relative to symptoms in relation to functional outcome. These results shed light on the strength and nature of the cognition-real world outcome relationship in schizophrenia and have implications for pharmacological and behavioral interventions aimed at improving real world outcome.
The large majority of individuals with a first episode of schizophrenia will experience a remission of symptoms within their first year of treatment. It is not clear how long treatment with antipsychotic medications should be continued in this situation. The possibility that a percentage of patients may not require ongoing treatment and may be unnecessarily exposed to the long-term risks of antipsychotic medications has led to the development of a number of studies to address this question. We carried out a systematic review to determine the risk of experiencing a recurrence of psychotic symptoms in individuals who have discontinued antipsychotic medications after achieving symptomatic remission from a first episode of non-affective psychosis (FEP). Six studies were identified that met our criteria and these reported a weighted mean one-year recurrence rate of 77% following discontinuation of antipsychotic medication. By two years, the risk of recurrence had increased to over 90%. By comparison, we estimated the one-year recurrence rate for patients who continued antipsychotic medication to be 3%. These findings suggest that in the absence of uncertainty about the diagnosis or concerns about the contribution of medication side effects to problems with health or functioning, a trial off of antipsychotic medications is associated with a very high risk of symptom recurrence and should thus not be recommended.


With the introduction of combination antiretroviral therapy, many human immunodeficiency virus-positive (HIV+) individuals are reaching advanced age. The proportion of people living with HIV older than 50 years already exceeds 50% in many communities, and is expected to reach this level nationally by 2015. HIV and aging are independently associated with neuropathological changes, but their concurrence may have a more deleterious effect on the central nervous system (CNS). Published data about neurocognitive and neuroimaging markers of HIV and aging are reviewed. Putative factors contributing to neurocognitive impairment and neuroimaging changes in the aging HIV+ brain, such as metabolic disturbances, cardiovascular risk factors, immune senescence, and neuroinflammation, are described. The possible relationship between HIV and some markers of Alzheimer's disease is presented. Current research findings emphasize multiple mechanisms related to HIV and combination antiretroviral therapy that compromise CNS structure and function with advancing age.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection of the central nervous system (CNS) begins early in systemic infection and continues throughout its untreated course. Despite a common cerebrospinal fluid inflammatory response, it is usually neurologically asymptomatic for much of this course, but can evolve in some individuals to HIV-associated dementia (HAD), a severe encephalopathy with characteristic cognitive and motor dysfunction. While widespread use of combination antiretroviral therapy (ART) has led to a marked decline in both the CNS infection and its neurologic severe consequence, HAD continues to afflict individuals presenting with advanced systemic infection in the developed world and a larger number in resource-poor settings where ART is more restricted. Additionally, milder CNS injury and dysfunction have broader prevalence, including in those treated with ART. Here we review the history and evolving nomenclature of HAD, its viral pathogenesis, clinical presentation and diagnosis, and treatment.





Neuromodulators such as serotonin, oxytocin and testosterone play an important role in social behavior. Studies examining the effects of these neuromodulators and others on social cognition and behavior (and their neural underpinnings) are becoming increasingly common. Here, we provide an overview of methodological considerations for those wishing to evaluate or conduct empirical studies of neuromodulation in social neuroscience.
Understanding the neural processes that characterize elite performers is a first step to develop a neuroscience model that can be used to improve performance in stressful circumstances. Adventure racers are elite athletes that operate in small teams in the context of environmental and physical extremes. In particular, awareness of team member's emotional status is critical to the team's ability to navigate high-magnitude stressors. Thus, this functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study examined the hypothesis that adventure racers would show altered emotion processing in brain areas that are important for resilience and social awareness. Elite adventure racers (n = 10) were compared with healthy volunteers (n = 12) while performing a simple emotion face-processing (modified Hariri) task during fMRI. Across three types of emotional faces, adventure racers showed greater activation in right insula, left amygdala and dorsal anterior cingulate. Additionally, compared with healthy controls adventure racers showed attenuated right medial prefrontal cortex activation. These results are consistent with previous studies showing elite performers differentially activate neural substrates underlying interoception. Thus, adventure racers differentially deploy brain resources in an effort to recognize and process the internal sensations associated with emotions in others, which could be advantageous for team-based performance under stress.
The fundamentally social nature of humans is revealed in their exquisitely high sensitivity to potentially negative evaluations held by others. At present, however, little is known about neurocortical correlates of the response to such social-evaluative threat. Here, we addressed this issue by showing that mere exposure to an image of a watching face is sufficient to automatically evoke a social-evaluative threat for those who are relatively high in interdependent self-construal. Both European American and Asian participants performed a flanker task while primed with a face (vs control) image. The relative increase of the error-related negativity (ERN) in the face (vs control) priming condition became more pronounced as a function of interdependent (vs independent) self-construal. Relative to European Americans, Asians were more interdependent and, as predicted, they showed a reliably stronger ERN in the face (vs control) priming condition. Our findings suggest that the ERN can serve as a robust empirical marker of self-threat that is closely modulated by socio-cultural variables.
Although research in moral psychology in the last decade has relied heavily on hypothetical moral dilemmas and has been effective in understanding moral judgment, how these judgments translate into behaviors remains a largely unexplored issue due to the harmful nature of the acts involved. To study this link, we follow a new approach based on a desktop virtual reality environment. In our within-subjects experiment, participants exhibited an order-dependent judgment-behavior discrepancy across temporally separated sessions, with many of them behaving in utilitarian manner in virtual reality dilemmas despite their nonutilitarian judgments for the same dilemmas in textual descriptions. This change in decisions reflected in the autonomic arousal of participants, with dilemmas in virtual reality being perceived more emotionally arousing than the ones in text, after controlling for general differences between the two presentation modalities (virtual reality vs. text). This suggests that moral decision-making in hypothetical moral dilemmas is susceptible to contextual saliency of the presentation of these dilemmas.
This study used functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine the neural substrates of empathy, Theory of Mind (ToM), and self-other differentiation involved in the adaptive understanding of people's internal states. Three conditions were distinguished in both sad and neutral (no obvious emotion) contexts. The empathy condition involved imagining what another person is feeling while the more cognitively loaded ToM condition involved imagining what would make another person feel better. The self-reference condition required participants to imagine how they would feel in someone else's situation. Areas previously implicated in empathy, ToM, and self-other differentiation were identified within the different conditions, regardless of emotional context. Specifically, the frontal and temporal poles responded more strongly for ToM than for empathy. The self-reference condition was associated with stronger dorsolateral prefrontal response than the empathy condition, while the reverse comparison revealed a stronger role for right frontal pole. Activations in frontal pole and orbitofrontal cortex were shared between the three conditions. Contrasts of parameter estimates demonstrated modulation by emotional context. The findings of common and differential patterns of responding observed in prefrontal and temporal regions suggest that within the social cognition network empathy, ToM and self-other differentiation have distinct roles that are responsive to context.




Human neuronal models of hereditary spastic paraplegias (HSP) that recapitulate disease-specific axonal pathology hold the key to understanding why certain axons degenerate in patients and to developing therapies. SPG4, the most common form of HSP, is caused by autosomal dominant mutations in the SPAST gene, which encodes the microtubule-severing ATPase spastin. Here, we have generated a human neuronal model of SPG4 by establishing induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from an SPG4 patient and differentiating these cells into telencephalic glutamatergic neurons. The SPG4 neurons displayed a significant increase in axonal swellings, which stained strongly for mitochondria and tau, indicating the accumulation of axonal transport cargoes. In addition, mitochondrial transport was decreased in SPG4 neurons, revealing that these patient iPSC-derived neurons recapitulate disease-specific axonal phenotypes. Interestingly, spastin protein levels were significantly decreased in SPG4 neurons, supporting a haploinsufficiency mechanism. Furthermore, cortical neurons derived from spastin-knockdown human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) exhibited similar axonal swellings, confirming that the axonal defects can be caused by loss of spastin function. These spastin-knockdown hESCs serve as an additional model for studying HSP. Finally, levels of stabilized acetylated-tubulin were significantly increased in SPG4 neurons. Vinblastine, a microtubule-destabilizing drug, rescued this axonal swelling phenotype in neurons derived from both SPG4 iPSCs and spastin-knockdown hESCs. Thus, this study demonstrates the successful establishment of human pluripotent stem cell-based neuronal models of SPG4, which will be valuable for dissecting the pathogenic cellular mechanisms and screening compounds to rescue the axonal degeneration in HSP.
Stem cells have gained significant interest as a potential treatment of neurodegenerative diseases, including Huntington's disease (HD). One source of these cells is adult neural stem cells (aNSCs), which differentiate easily into neuronal lineages. However, these cells are vulnerable to immune responses following transplantation. Another source is bone-marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), which release neurotrophic factors and anti-inflammatory cytokines following transplantation, and are less vulnerable to rejection. The goal of this study was to compare the efficacy of transplants of MSCs, aNSCs, or cotransplants of MSCs and aNSCs for reducing deficits in a transgenic rat model of HD. HD rats received intrastriatal transplantations of 400,000 MSCs, aNSCs, or a combination of MSCs/aNSCs, while wild-type and HD controls were given vehicle. Rats were tested on the rotarod over the course of 20 weeks. The results indicated that transplants of: (a) aNSCs produced a strong immune response and conferred short-term behavioral benefits; (b) MSCs elicited a relatively weak immune response, and provided a longer term behavioral benefit; and (c) combined MSCs and aNSCs conferred long-term behavioral benefits and increased survival of the transplanted aNSCs. The finding that cotransplanting MSCs with aNSCs can prolong aNSC survival and provide greater behavioral sparing than when the transplants contains only aNSCs suggests that MSCs are capable of creating a more suitable microenvironment for aNSC survival. This cotransplantation strategy may be useful as a future therapeutic option for treating HD, especially if long-term survival of differentiated cells proves to be critically important for preserving lasting functional outcomes.











Our study sought to characterize mood disordered suicide ideators and attempters 50years and older admitted to a psychiatric ward either for a recent suicide attempt or for ongoing suicidal ideation. We enrolled 50 patients with suicide ideation consecutively admitted to an inpatient department and 50 patients admitted for a suicide attempt made in the last 48hours. Suicide attempters more frequently had low social support and an age of onset of mood disorder of 46years and older, and less frequently had a history of suicidal behaviors in the family members and pharmacological treatment, despite the fact that the groups did not differ with regard to antidepressants prescribed. The groups were not distinguishable based on several variables assumed to be risk factors for suicide behavior, such as proximal life events and stressors or alcohol use disorders. In both samples, comorbidity with organic diseases, the presence of stressful life events in the past 12months, and a diagnosis of major depression were frequently reported. In conclusion, the presence of low social support and the absence of a pharmacotherapy may increase suicidal behaviors in patients at risk.
In light of the recent events of terrorism and publicized cases of mass slayings and serial killings, there have been calls from the public and policy-makers alike for neuroscience and neurotechnology (neuroS/T) to be employed to intervene in ways that define and assess, if not prevent, such wanton acts of aggression and violence. Ongoing advancements in assessment neuroS/T have enabled heretofore unparalleled capabilities to evaluate the structure and function of the brain, yet each and all are constrained by certain technical and practical limitations. In this paper, we present an overview of the capabilities and constraints of current assessment neuroS/T, address neuro-ethical and legal issues fostered by the use and potential misuse of these approaches, and discuss how neuroethics may inform science and the law to guide right and sound applications of neuroS/T to &quot;deliver us from evil&quot; while not being led into temptations of ampliative claims and inapt use.


In this study, we used immunohistochemical techniques to determine the cell type of leucine-enkephalin (Leu-ENK)-immunoreactive cells in the axolotl (Ambystoma mexicanum) pituitary. Immunoreactive cells were scattered throughout the pars distalis except for the dorso-caudal portion. These cells were immuno-positive for luteinizing hormone (LH), but they were immuno-negative for adrenocorticotrophic, growth, and thyroid-stimulating hormones, as well as prolactin. Immunoelectron microscopy demonstrated that Leu-ENK-like substance and LH co-localized within the same secretory granules. Leu-ENK secreted from gonadotrophs may participate in LH secretion in an autocrine fashion, and/or may participate in the release of sex steroids together with LH.
Evidence from in vivo and epidemiological studies suggests that organophosphorus insecticides (OPs) are developmental neurotoxicants, but possible underlying mechanisms are still unclear. Astrocytes are increasingly recognized for their active role in normal neuronal development. This study sought to investigate whether the widely-used OP diazinon (DZ), and its oxygen metabolite diazoxon (DZO), would affect glial-neuronal interactions as a potential mechanism of developmental neurotoxicity. Specifically, we investigated the effects of DZ and DZO on the ability of astrocytes to foster neurite outgrowth in primary hippocampal neurons. The results show that both DZ and DZO adversely affect astrocyte function, resulting in inhibited neurite outgrowth in hippocampal neurons. This effect appears to be mediated by oxidative stress, as indicated by OP-induced increased reactive oxygen species production in astrocytes and prevention of neurite outgrowth inhibition by antioxidants. The concentrations of OPs were devoid of cytotoxicity, and cause limited acetylcholinesterase inhibition in astrocytes (18 and 25% for DZ and DZO, respectively). Among astrocytic neuritogenic factors, the most important one is the extracellular matrix protein fibronectin. DZ and DZO decreased levels of fibronectin in astrocytes, and this effect was also attenuated by antioxidants. Underscoring the importance of fibronectin in this context, adding exogenous fibronectin to the co-culture system successfully prevented inhibition of neurite outgrowth caused by DZ and DZO. These results indicate that DZ and DZO increase oxidative stress in astrocytes, and this in turn modulates astrocytic fibronectin, leading to impaired neurite outgrowth in hippocampal neurons.
For several decades, Morocco is confronted to medico-social problem of scorpion stings and envenomations. In 2009, epidemiological data established by the Poison Control Center recorded 29,816 stung patients, with an incidence of 1.1 and a fatality rate of 0.18%. The neurotoxins from scorpion venom are potent activators of the autonomic nervous system resulting a physiopathological disorder of vital systems. The most serious clinical manifestations are neurotoxic effects, pulmonary edema and cardiovascular distress. This present work reports the cases of three children (4 years and 6 months, 8 months and 15 days, 4 years), hospitalized in intensive care for an envenomation by Androctonus mauritanicus (the most fatal scorpion specie). The children presented cardiac dysfunction where pulmonary edema and state of shock were complications resultants. Two cases survived after supportive and symptomatic treatment based on dobutamine as primordial treatment in cardiovascular and pulmonary correction and other drugs. The third case died. The objective of this work was to detect the limit of the effectiveness of symptomatic treatment during a severe scorpion envenomation.

Imaging biomarkers capable of early quantification of tumor response to therapy would provide an opportunity to individualize patient care. Image registration of longitudinal scans provides a method of detecting treatment associated changes within heterogeneous tumors by monitoring alterations in the quantitative value of individual voxels over time, which is unattainable by traditional volumetric-based histogram methods. The concepts involved in the use of image registration for tracking and quantifying breast cancer treatment response using parametric response mapping (PRM), a voxel-based analysis of diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DW-MRI) scans, are presented. Application of PRM to breast tumor response detection is described, wherein robust registration solutions for tracking small changes in water diffusivity in breast tumors during therapy are required. Methodologies that employ simulations are presented for measuring expected statistical accuracy of PRM for response assessment. Test-retest clinical scans are used to yield estimates of system noise to indicate significant changes in voxel-based changes in water diffusivity. Overall, registration-based PRM image analysis provides significant opportunities for voxel-based image analysis to provide the required accuracy for early assessment of response to treatment in breast cancer patients receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
Ischemic stroke contributes to the majority of brain injuries and remains to be a leading cause of death and long-term disability. Despite the devastating pathology and high incidence of disease, there remain only few treatment options (TPA and endovascular procedures), which may be hampered by time-dependent administration among a variety of other factors. Promising research of glutamate receptor antagonists has been unsuccessful in clinical trial. But, the mechanism by which glutamate receptors initiate injury by excessive calcium overload has spurred investigation of new and potentially successful candidates for stroke therapy. Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) may contribute to poor stroke prognosis due to localized drop in brain pH, resulting in excessive calcium overload, independent of glutamate activation. Accumulating studies targeting ASICs have underscored the importance of understanding inhibition, regulation, desensitization, and trafficking of this channel and its role in disease. This review will discuss potential directions in translational ASIC research for future stroke therapies.
Stroke causes a rapid cell death in the core of the injured region and triggers mechanisms in surrounding penumbra area that leads to changes in concentrations of several ions like intracellular Ca, Na, H, K, and radicals such as reactive oxygen species and reactive nitrogen species. When a dysregulation of homeostasis of these messengers occurs, it can trigger cell death. In particular, it is widely accepted that a critical factor in determining neuronal death during cerebral ischemia is progressive dysregulation of Ca, Na, K, and H homeostasis that activate several death pathways, including oxidative and nitrosative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, protease activation, and apoptosis. In the last decade, several seminal experimental works are markedly changing the scenario of research of principal players of an ischemic event. Indeed, some plasma membrane channels and transporters, involved in the control of Ca, Na, K, and H ion influx or efflux and, therefore, responsible for maintaining the homeostasis of these four cations, might function as crucial players in initiation of brain ischemic process. Indeed, these proteins, by regulating ionic homeostasis, may provide the molecular basis underlying glutamate-independent Ca and Na overload mechanisms in neuronal ischemic cell death and, most importantly, may represent more suitable molecular targets for therapeutic intervention. Recently, a great deal of interest has been devoted to clarify the role of the plasma membrane protein known as Na/Ca exchanger, a transporter able to control Na and Ca homeostasis. In this review, the pathophysiological role of NCX and its implication as a potential target in stroke intervention will be examined.
Microglia, resident immune cells in the brain, contribute both to the damage and resolution of ischemic stroke. However, the mechanisms of microglia's detrimental or beneficial role in the disease are poorly understood. The voltage-gated proton channel, Hv1, rapidly removes protons from depolarized cytoplasm, and is highly expressed in the immune system. In the brain, Hv1 is selectively and functionally expressed in microglia but not neurons. Although the physiological function of microglial Hv1 is still not clear, Hv1 is one of major ion channels expressed in resting microglia. Under pathological conditions, microglial Hv1 is required for NADPH oxidase (NOX)-dependent generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by providing charge compensation for exported electrons and relieving intracellular acidosis. In a mouse model of cerebral middle artery occlusion, Hv1 knockout mice are protected from ischemic damage, showing reduced NOX-dependent ROS production, microglial activation and neuronal cell death. Therefore, microglial Hv1 aids in NOX-dependent ROS generation, which subsequently induces neuronal cell death and a significant fraction of brain damage after ischemic stroke. These studies illuminate a critical role of microglial Hv1 in ischemic brain injury, providing a rationale for Hv1 as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of ischemic stroke. The current understanding of Hv1 in ischemic injury through NOX-dependent ROS production may serve as a common model to reveal the deleterious role of microglia in neurological diseases other than ischemic stroke, such as multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, and neuropathic pain.
Cells are capable of metabolizing a variety of carbon substrates, including glucose, fatty acids, ketone bodies, and amino acids. Cellular fuel choice not only fulfills specific biosynthetic needs, but also enables programmatic adaptations to stress conditions beyond compensating for changes in nutrient availability. Emerging evidence indicates that specific switches from utilization of one substrate to another can have protective or permissive roles in disease pathogenesis. Understanding the molecular determinants of cellular fuel preference may provide insights into the homeostatic control of stress responses, and unveil therapeutic targets. Here, we highlight overarching themes encompassing cellular fuel choice; its link to cell fate and function; its advantages in stress protection; and its contribution to metabolic dependencies and maladaptations in pathological conditions.
Circadian clocks coordinate physiology and behavior with the 24h solar day to provide temporal homeostasis with the external environment. The molecular clocks that drive these intrinsic rhythmic changes are based on interlocked transcription/translation feedback loops that integrate with diverse environmental and metabolic stimuli to generate internal 24h timing. In this review we highlight recent advances in our understanding of the core molecular clock and how it utilizes diverse transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanisms to impart temporal control onto mammalian physiology. Understanding the way in which biological rhythms are generated throughout the body may provide avenues for temporally directed therapeutics to improve health and prevent disease.
The past decade has been marked by historic opinions regarding the culpability of juveniles by the US Supreme Court. In 2005, the death penalty was abolished, 5 years later, life without parole for crimes, other than homicide, was banned, and then just last year, mandatory life sentences for any crime was abolished. The court referenced developmental science in all these cases. In this article, we highlight new scientific findings and their relevance to law and policy.
What are the neural mechanisms underlying working memory (WM)? One influential theory posits that neurons in the lateral prefrontal cortex (lPFC) store WM information via persistent activity. In this review, we critically evaluate recent findings that together indicate that this model of WM needs revision. We argue that sensory cortex, not the lPFC, maintains high-fidelity representations of WM content. By contrast, the lPFC simultaneously maintains representations of multiple goal-related variables that serve to bias stimulus-specific activity in sensory regions. This work highlights multiple neural mechanisms supporting WM, including temporally dynamic population coding in addition to persistent activity. These new insights focus the question on understanding how the mechanisms that underlie WM are related, interact, and are coordinated in the lPFC and sensory cortex.
The nervous system promotes adaptive responding to myriad environmental stimuli by ascribing emotion to specific stimulus domains. This affects the salience of different stimuli, facilitates learning, and likely involves the amygdala. Recent studies suggest a strong homology between adaptive responses that result from learning and those that emerge during development. As in motivated learning, developmental studies have found the salience of different classes of stimulus (e.g., peers) undergoes marked fluctuation across maturation and may involve differential amygdala engagement. In this review, by highlighting the importance of particular stimulus categories during sensitive periods of development, we suggest that variability in amygdala response to different stimulus domains has an active and functional role in shaping emerging cortical circuits across development.
Comparative neuroanatomy shows that new prefrontal areas emerged during the evolution of anthropoid primates to augment prefrontal, parietal, and temporal areas that had evolved in earlier primates. We recently proposed that the new anthropoid areas reduce foraging errors by generating goals from current contexts and learning to do so rapidly, sometimes based on single events. Among the contexts used to generate these goals, the posterior parietal cortex provides the new prefrontal areas with information about relational metrics such as order, number, duration, length, distance and proportion, which play a crucial role in foraging choices. Here we propose that this specialized network later became adapted to support the human capacity for reasoning and general problem-solving.
Are categories learned by forming abstract prototypes or by remembering specific exemplars? Mack, Preston, and Love observed that patterns of functional MRI (fMRI) brain activity were more consistent with patterns of representations predicted by exemplar models than by prototype models. Their work represents the theoretical power of emerging approaches to model-based cognitive neuroscience.
The evolution of speech remains an elusive scientific problem. A widespread notion is that vocal learning, underlined by vocal-fold control, is a key prerequisite for speech evolution. Although present in birds and non-primate mammals, vocal learning is ostensibly absent in non-human primates. Here we argue that the main road to speech evolution has been through controlling the supralaryngeal vocal tract, for which we find evidence for evolutionary continuity within the great apes.
Emerging findings suggest that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) serves widespread roles in regulating energy homeostasis by controlling patterns of feeding and physical activity, and by modulating glucose metabolism in peripheral tissues. BDNF mediates the beneficial effects of energetic challenges such as vigorous exercise and fasting on cognition, mood, cardiovascular function, and on peripheral metabolism. By stimulating glucose transport and mitochondrial biogenesis BDNF bolsters cellular bioenergetics and protects neurons against injury and disease. By acting in the brain and periphery, BDNF increases insulin sensitivity and parasympathetic tone. Genetic factors, a 'couch potato' lifestyle, and chronic stress impair BDNF signaling, and this may contribute to the pathogenesis of metabolic syndrome. Novel BDNF-focused interventions are being developed for obesity, diabetes, and neurological disorders.
The recently described generation of new neurons in the adult hypothalamus, the center for energy regulation, suggests that hypothalamic neurogenesis is a crucial part of the mechanisms that regulate food intake. Accordingly, neurogenesis in both the adult and embryonic hypothalamus is affected by nutritional cues and metabolic disorders such as obesity, with consequent effects on energy-balance. This review critically discusses recent findings on the contribution of adult hypothalamic neurogenesis to feeding regulation, the impact of energy-balance disorders on adult hypothalamic neurogenesis, and the influence of embryonic hypothalamic neurogenesis upon feeding regulation in the adult. Understanding how hypothalamic neurogenesis contributes to food intake control will change the paradigm on how we perceive energy-balance regulation.
The elucidation of disease etiologies and establishment of robust, scalable, high-throughput screening assays for autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) have been impeded by both inaccessibility of disease-relevant neuronal tissue and the genetic heterogeneity of the disorder. Neuronal cells derived from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from autism patients may circumvent these obstacles and serve as relevant cell models. To date, derived cells are characterized and screened by assessing their neuronal phenotypes. These characterizations are often etiology-specific or lack reproducibility and stability. In this review, we present an overview of efforts to study iPSC-derived neurons as a model for autism, and we explore the plausibility of gene expression profiling as a reproducible and stable disease marker.
The neuroscience research landscape has changed dramatically over the past decade. Specifically, an impressive array of new tools and technologies have been generated, including but not limited to: brain gene expression atlases, genetically encoded proteins to monitor and manipulate neuronal activity, and new methods for imaging and mapping circuits. However, despite these technological advances, several significant challenges must be overcome to enable a better understanding of brain function and to develop cell type-targeted therapeutics to treat brain disorders. This review provides an overview of some of the tools and technologies currently being used to advance the field of molecular neuroanatomy, and also discusses emerging technologies that may enable neuroscientists to address these crucial scientific challenges over the coming decade.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and intellectual disability (ID) are neurodevelopmental disorders with large genetic components, but identification of pathogenic genes has proceeded slowly because hundreds of loci are involved. New exome sequencing technology has identified novel rare variants and has found that sporadic cases of ASD/ID are enriched for disruptive de novo mutations. Targeted large-scale resequencing studies have confirmed the significance of specific loci, including chromodomain helicase DNA binding protein 8 (CHD8), sodium channel, voltage-gated, type II, alpha subunit (SCN2A), dual specificity tyrosine-phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1A (DYRK1A), and catenin (cadherin-associated protein), beta 1, 88 kDa (CTNNB1, beta-catenin). We review recent studies and suggest that they have led to a convergence on three functional pathways: (i) chromatin remodeling; (ii) wnt signaling during development; and (iii) synaptic function. These pathways and genes significantly expand the neurobiological targets for study, and suggest a path for future genetic and functional studies.
The zebrafish (Danio rerio) is rapidly becoming a popular model organism in pharmacogenetics and neuropharmacology. Both larval and adult zebrafish are currently used to increase our understanding of brain function, dysfunction, and their genetic and pharmacological modulation. Here we review the developing utility of zebrafish in the analysis of complex brain disorders (including, e.g., depression, autism, psychoses, drug abuse, and cognitive deficits), also covering zebrafish applications towards the goal of modeling major human neuropsychiatric and drug-induced syndromes. We argue that zebrafish models of complex brain disorders and drug-induced conditions are a rapidly emerging critical field in translational neuroscience and pharmacology research.










In depression, the ability to experience daily life positive affect predicts recovery and reduces relapse rates. Interventions based on the experience sampling method (ESM-I) are ideally suited to provide insight in personal, contextualized patterns of positive affect. The aim of this study was to examine whether add-on ESM-derived feedback on personalized patterns of positive affect is feasible and useful to patients, and results in a reduction of depressive symptomatology. Depressed outpatients (n=102) receiving pharmacological treatment participated in a randomized controlled trial with three arms: an experimental group receiving add-on ESM-derived feedback, a pseudo-experimental group participating in ESM but receiving no feedback, and a control group. The experimental group participated in an ESM procedure (three days per week over a 6-week period) using a palmtop. This group received weekly standardized feedback on personalized patterns of positive affect. Hamilton Depression Rating Scale - 17 (HDRS) and Inventory of Depressive Symptoms (IDS) scores were obtained before and after the intervention. During a 6-month follow-up period, five HDRS and IDS assessments were completed. Add-on ESM-derived feedback resulted in a significant and clinically relevant stronger decrease in HDRS score relative to the control group (p&lt;0.01; -5.5 point reduction in HDRS at 6 months). Compared to the pseudo-experimental group, a clinically relevant decrease in HDRS score was apparent at 6 months (B=-3.6, p=0.053). Self-reported depressive complaints (IDS) yielded the same pattern over time. The use of ESM-I was deemed acceptable and the provided feedback easy to understand. Patients attempted to apply suggestions from ESM-derived feedback to daily life. These data suggest that the efficacy of traditional passive pharmacological approach to treatment of major depression can be enhanced by using person-tailored daily life information regarding positive affect.



In 2008, the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) included in its new Strategic Plan the following aim: &quot;Develop, for research purposes, new ways of classifying mental disorders based on dimensions of observable behavior and neurobiological measures&quot;. The implementation of this aim was named the Research Domain Criteria project, or RDoC. RDoC is a programmatic initiative that will fund grants, contracts, early-phase trials, and similar activities for the purpose of generating studies to build a research literature that can inform future versions of psychiatric nosologies based upon neuroscience and behavioral science rather than descriptive phenomenology. RDoC departs markedly from the DSM and ICD processes, in which extensive workgroup meetings generate final and finely-honed sets of diagnoses that are modified in field tests only if problems with clinical utility arise. Rather, in keeping with its provenance as an experimental system, the RDoC provides a framework for conducting research in terms of fundamental circuit-based behavioral dimensions that cut across traditional diagnostic categories. While an important aim of the project is to validate particular dimensions as useful for eventual clinical work, an equally important goal is to provide information and experience about how to conceive and implement such an alternative approach to future diagnostic practices that can harness genetics and neuroscience in the service of more effective treatment and prevention. This paper summarizes the rationale for the RDoC project, its essential features, and potential methods of transitioning from DSM/ICD categories to dimensionally-oriented designs in research studies.
Several Internet interventions have been developed and tested for common mental disorders, and the evidence to date shows that these treatments often result in similar outcomes as in face-to-face psychotherapy and that they are cost-effective. In this paper, we first review the pros and cons of how participants in Internet treatment trials have been recruited. We then comment on the assessment procedures often involved in Internet interventions and conclude that, while online questionnaires yield robust results, diagnoses cannot be determined without any contact with the patient. We then review the role of the therapist and conclude that, although treatments including guidance seem to lead to better outcomes than unguided treatments, this guidance can be mainly practical and supportive rather than explicitly therapeutic in orientation. Then we briefly describe the advantages and disadvantages of treatments for mood and anxiety disorders and comment on ways to handle comorbidity often associated with these disorders. Finally we discuss challenges when disseminating Internet interventions. In conclusion, there is now a large body of evidence suggesting that Internet interventions work. Several research questions remain open, including how Internet interventions can be blended with traditional forms of care.
Objective To investigate the mechanisms underlying HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein 120 (gp120)-associated neurotoxicity on rat cortical neuronal cultures. Methods Experiments were carried out on primary cortical neuronal cultures prepared from fetal Sprague-Dawley fetal rats. Immunocytochemistry and Western blot techniques were employed to examine the changes of the expressions of N-methyl-D-asparate receptors 2B(NR2B) and postsynaptic density 95 (PSD-95) in cultured neurons in the presence and absence of gp120 in the culture media. Gp120-induced neurotoxicity was determined by MTT assay. Results MTT assay showed gp120 produced dose-dependent neuronal injury when added to the culture media and the gp120-induced neuronal injury was blocked by memantine, a specific NR2B receptor antagonist. Further studies revealed that gp120 induced neuronal injury by up-regulation of NR2B and down-regulation of PSD-95 expressions in rat cortical neurons. Conclusion These results demonstrated that gp120 injures neurons via an increase of NR2B and a decrease of PSD-95 expressions. The gp120-induced neuronal injury can be blocked by a specific NR2B receptor antagonist, suggesting NR2B may function as a potential target for the development of therapeutic strategies.
:Many pathological phenomena of male infertility are related to epigenetic changes in male germ cells.Epigenetic regulation during spermatogenesis plays an important role in mitotic/meiotic divisions and spermiogenesis.The histones have various post-translational modifications on different amino acid residues during spermatogenesis.These modifications are crucial to the precise regulation of spermatogenesis.Moreover,the histone-to-protamine transition will occur during spermiogenesis.Many studies have also found that abnormal changes of histone modifications during spermatogenesis may damage the sperm development,leading to male sterility.This article reviews the changes of histone modifications during spermatogenesis,the regulation of the development of male germ cells,and the relationship between histone abnormalities and male sterility.
For most aquatic vertebrates, axial movements play key roles in the performance of startle responses. In fishes, these axis-based startle behaviors fall into three distinct categories - the C-start, withdrawal, and S-start - defined by patterns of body bending and underlying motor control. Startle behaviors have been widely studied due to their importance for predator evasion. In addition, the neural circuits that control startles are relatively accessible, compared to other vertebrate circuits, and have provided opportunities to understand basic nervous system function. The C-start neural circuit has long been a model in systems neuroscience and considerable work on neural control of withdrawal response has been conducted in the larval lamprey. The S-start response has only recently been explored from a physiological perspective and we focus here on reviewing S-start motor control and movement in the context of the other two responses. Axial elongation has previously been associated with startle behavior in comparisons of C-starts and withdrawal, with extremely elongate animals performing withdrawals. We suggest that the S-start tends to occur with moderate body elongation, complementing the C-start in animals with this body form. As many larval fishes are moderately elongate, we suggest that the S-start may be common in larvae but may be secondarily lost with body shape change through development.









In our previous study, the CS-56 antibody, which recognizes a chondroitin sulfate moiety, labeled a subset of adult brain astrocytes, yielding a patchy extracellular matrix pattern. To explore the molecular nature of CS-56-labeled glycoproteins, we purified glycoproteins of the adult mouse cerebral cortex using a combination of anion-exchange, charge-transfer, and size-exclusion chromatographies. One of the purified proteins was identified as tenascin-R (TNR) by mass spectrometric analysis. When we compared TNR mRNA expression patterns with the distribution patterns of CS-56-positive cells, TNR mRNA was detected in CS-56-positive astrocytes. To examine the functions of TNR in astrocytes, we first confirmed that cultured astrocytes also expressed TNR protein. TNR knockdown by siRNA expression significantly reduced glutamate uptake in cultured astrocytes. Furthermore, expression of mRNA and protein of excitatory amino acid transporter 1 (GLAST), which is a major component of astrocytic glutamate transporters, was reduced by TNR knockdown. Our results suggest that TNR is expressed in a subset of astrocytes and contributes to glutamate homeostasis by regulating astrocytic GLAST expression.



Although the clearance of glutamate from the synapse under physiological conditions is performed by astrocytic glutamate transporters, their expression might be diminished under pathological conditions. Microglia glutamate transporters, however, might serve as a back-up system when astrocytic glutamate uptake is impaired, and could have a prominent neuroprotective function under pathological conditions. In the current study, the effect of nicotine, well known as a neuroprotective molecule, on the function of glutamate transporters in cultured rat cortical microglia was examined. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and pharmacological approaches demonstrated that, glutamate/aspartate transporter (GLAST), not glutamate transporter 1 (GLT-1), is the major functional glutamate transporter in cultured cortical microglia. Furthermore, the 7 subunit was demonstrated to be the key subunit comprising nicotinic acetylcholine (nACh) receptors in these cells. Treatment of cortical microglia with nicotine led to a significant increase of GLAST mRNA expression and (14)C-glutamate uptake in a concentration- and time-dependent manner, which were markedly inhibited by pretreatment with methyllycaconitine, a selective 7 nACh receptor antagonist. The nicotine-induced expression of GLAST mRNA and protein is mediated through an inositol trisphosphate (IP3) and Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) depend intracellular pathway, since pretreatment with either xestospongin C, an IP3 receptor antagonist, or KN-93, a CaMKII inhibitor, blocked GLAST expression. Together, these findings indicate that activation of nACh receptors, specifically those expressing the 7 subunit, on cortical microglia could be a key mechanism of the neuroprotective effect of nACh receptor ligands such as nicotine.
The transient exposure of immature rodents to ethanol during postnatal day 7 (P7), comparable to a time point within the third trimester of human pregnancy, induces neurodegeneration. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the deleterious effects of ethanol on the developing brain are poorly understood. In our previous study, we showed that a high dose administration of ethanol at P7 enhances G9a and leads to caspase-3-mediated degradation of dimethylated H3 on lysine 9 (H3K9me2). In this study, we investigated the potential role of epigenetic changes at G9a exon1, G9a-mediated H3 dimethylation on neurodegeneration and G9a-associated proteins in the P7 brain following exposure to a low dose of ethanol. We found that a low dose of ethanol induces mild neurodegeneration in P7 mice, enhances specific acetylation of H3 on lysine 14 (H3K14ace) at G9a exon1, G9a protein levels, augments the dimethylation of H3K9 and H3 lysine 27 (H3K27me2). However, neither dimethylated H3K9 nor K27 underwent degradation. Pharmacological inhibition of G9a activity prior to ethanol treatment prevented H3 dimethylation and neurodegeneration. Further, our immunoprecipitation data suggest that G9a directly associates with DNA methyltransferase (DNMT3A) and methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2). In addition, DNMT3A and MeCP2 protein levels were enhanced by a low dose of ethanol that was shown to induce mild neurodegeneration. Collectively, these epigenetic alterations lead to association of G9a, DNMT3A and MeCP2 to form a larger repressive complex and have a significant role in low-dose ethanol-induced neurodegeneration in the developing brain.
Subjective tinnitus is a chronic neurological disorder in which phantom sounds are perceived. Recent evidence supports the hypothesis that tinnitus is related to neuronal hyperactivity in auditory brain regions, and consequently drugs that increase GABAergic neurotransmission in the CNS, such as the GABA(B) receptor agonist L-baclofen, may be effective as a treatment. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of early (5 mg/kg s.c., 30 min and then every 24 h for 5 days following noise exposure) and late treatment (3 mg/kg/day s.c. for 4.5 weeks starting at 17.5 weeks following noise exposure) with l-baclofen on the psychophysical attributes of tinnitus in a conditioned lick suppression model following acoustic trauma in rats. Acoustic trauma (a 16-kHz, 115-dB pure tone presented unilaterally for 1h) resulted in a significant decrease in the suppression ratio (SR) compared to sham controls in response to 20-kHz tones at 2, 10 and 17.5 weeks post-exposure (P  0.009, P  0.02 and P  0.03, respectively). However, l-baclofen failed to prevent the development of tinnitus when administered during the first 5 days following the acoustic trauma and also failed to reverse it when treatment was carried out every day for 4.5 weeks. We also found that treatment with L-baclofen did not alter the expression of the GABA(B)-R2 subunit in the cochlear nucleus of noise-exposed animals.
Human modalities play a vital role in the way the brain produces mental representations of the world around us. Although congenital blindness limits the understanding of the environment in some aspects, blind individuals may have other superior capabilities from long-term experience and neural plasticity. This study investigated the effects of congenital blindness on temporal and spectral neural encoding of speech at the subcortical level. The study included 26 congenitally blind individuals and 24 normal-sighted individuals with normal hearing. Auditory brainstem response (ABR) was recorded with both click and speech synthetic 40-ms /da/ stimuli. No significant difference was observed between the two groups in wave latencies or amplitudes of click ABR. Latencies of speech ABR D (p=0.012) and O (p=0.014) waves were significantly shorter in blind individuals than in normal-sighted individuals. Amplitudes of the A (p&lt;0.001) and E (p=0.001) speech ABR (sABR) waves were also significantly higher in blind subjects. Blind individuals had significantly better results for duration (p&lt;0.001) amplitude (p=0.015) and slope of the V-A complex (p=0.004), signal-to-noise ratio (p&lt;0.001), and amplitude of the stimulus fundamental frequency (F0) (p=0.009), first formant (F1) (p&lt;0.001) and higher-frequency region (HF) (p&lt;0.001) ranges. Results indicate that congenitally blind subjects have improved hearing function in response to the /da/ syllable in both source and filter classes of sABR. It is possible that these subjects have enhanced neural representation of vocal cord vibrations and improved neural synchronization in temporal encoding of the onset and offset parts of speech stimuli at the brainstem level. This may result from the compensatory mechanism of neural reorganization in blind subjects influenced from top-down corticofugal connections with the auditory cortex.
Recently we demonstrated that it is possible to influence tactile perception by applying a placebo manipulation consisting of verbal suggestion and conditioning and that this influence is associated to changes in the late components (N140 and P200) of somatosensory-evoked potentials (SEPs) (Fiorio et al., 2012). Due to the powerful effects of words in changing symptoms perception in the clinical domain, aim of this study was to investigate whether even in the tactile modality, perception can be changed by the mere use of persuasive words in a specific context. To this purpose, we adopted the same experimental setting of our previous study, apart from the conditioning procedure. A group of subjects (experimental group) has been verbally suggested about the effect of an inert cream in enhancing tactile perception, while a control group was informed about the inefficacy of the cream. In order to unveil the neurophysiological underpinnings of this effect, we compared the amplitude of late SEPs (P100, N140, P200), before and after treatment. Results showed that the experimental group did not perceive an increase of tactile sensation after the treatment and no modification occurred in the late SEPs. This study proves that verbal suggestion alone is not sufficient to induce enhanced tactile perception (at least with this experimental setting), suggesting that a conditioning procedure may be necessary in the tactile modality. The absence of changes in the late SEP components could reflect the lack of strong expectation following the placebo procedure.
The cochlear nucleus (CN) and superior olivary complex are auditory brainstem centers with essential roles in encoding temporal features of vocalizations, localization of sound sources and descending modulation of the cochlea. Numerous neuronal populations, across a multitude of laboratory mammals, have been characterized within these brainstem centers based on cell body morphology, dendritic architecture, afferent/efferent connections and neurochemistry. However, scant details are available for these neuronal populations in humans. The objective of this study is to further characterize human auditory hindbrain nuclei and examine the axonal connections between these structures. To this end, we have used immunohistochemistry and morphometric techniques to characterize neuronal populations and axonal projections in the human brainstem. Herein, we provide evidence for calretinin immunoreactive neurons and synaptic boutons in the ventral CN, axons in the trapezoid body, peridendritic boutons in the medial superior olive and calyceal endings in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB). Further, we demonstrate that the majority of neurons in the human MNTB are calbindin and Kv3.1b immunoreactive and that perisomatic profiles in this nucleus are vesicular glutamate transporter and Rab3a positive, suggesting that such profiles are in fact synaptic terminals.
Vascular endothelial growth factor B (VEGF-B) has recently been shown to be a promising novel neuroprotective agent for several neurodegenerative conditions. In the current study we extended previous work on neuroprotective potential for Parkinson's disease (PD) by testing an expanded dose range of VEGF-B (1 and 10 g) and directly comparing both neuroprotective and neurorestorative effects of VEGF-B in progressive unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) PD models to a single dose of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF, 10 g), that has been established by several groups as a standard in both preclinical PD models. In the amphetamine-induced rotational tests the treatment with 1 and 10 g VEGF-B resulted in significantly improved motor function of 6-OHDA-lesioned rats compared to vehicle-treated 6-OHDA-lesioned rats in the neuroprotection paradigm. Both doses of VEGF-B caused an increase in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive cell and fiber count in the substantia nigra (SN) and striatum in the neuroprotective experiment. The effect size was comparable to the effects seen with GDNF. In the neurorestoration paradigm, VEGF-B injection had no significant effect in either the behavioral or the immunohistochemical analyses, whereas GDNF injection significantly improved the amphetamine-induced rotational behavior and reduced TH-positive neuronal cell loss in the SN. We also present a strong positive correlation (p=1.9e-50) of the expression of VEGF-B with nuclear-encoded mitochondrial genes involved in fatty acid metabolism in rat midbrain, pointing to the mitochondria as a site of action of VEGF-B. GDNF showed a positive correlation with nuclear-encoded mitochondrial genes that was not nearly as strong (p=0.018). VEGF-B counteracted rotenone-induced reduction of (a) fatty acid transport protein 1 and 4 levels and (b) both Akt protein and phosphorylation levels in SH-SY5Y cells. We further verified VEGF-B expression in the human SN pars compacta of healthy controls and PD patients, in neuronal cells that show co-expression with neuromelanin. These results have demonstrated that VEGF-B has potential as a neuroprotective agent for PD therapy and should be further investigated.
We have developed a classifier capable of locating and identifying speech sounds using activity from rat auditory cortex with an accuracy equivalent to behavioral performance and without the need to specify the onset time of the speech sounds. This classifier can identify speech sounds from a large speech set within 40 ms of stimulus presentation. To compare the temporal limits of the classifier to behavior, we developed a novel task that requires rats to identify individual consonant sounds from a stream of distracter consonants. The classifier successfully predicted the ability of rats to accurately identify speech sounds for syllable presentation rates up to 10 syllables per second (up to 17.9  1.5 bits/s), which is comparable to human performance. Our results demonstrate that the spatiotemporal patterns generated in primary auditory cortex can be used to quickly and accurately identify consonant sounds from a continuous speech stream without prior knowledge of the stimulus onset times. Improved understanding of the neural mechanisms that support robust speech processing in difficult listening conditions could improve the identification and treatment of a variety of speech-processing disorders.
The rat retrotrapezoid nucleus (RTN) contains neurons that have a well-defined phenotype characterized by the presence of vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2) mRNA and a paired-like homeobox 2b (Phox2b)-immunoreactive (ir) nucleus and the absence of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). These neurons are important to chemoreception. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that the chemically-coded RTN neurons (ccRTN) (Phox2b(+)/TH(-)) are activated during an acute episode of running exercise. Since most RTN neurons are excited by the activation of perifornical and lateral hypothalamus (PeF/LH), a region that regulates breathing during exercise, we also tested the hypothesis that PeF/LH projections to RTN neurons contribute to their activation during acute exercise. In adult male Wistar rats that underwent an acute episode of treadmill exercise, there was a significant increase in c-Fos immunoreactive (c-Fos-ir) in PeF/LH neurons and RTN neurons that were Phox2b(+)TH(-) (p&lt;0.05) compared to rats that did not exercise. Also the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold that was injected into RTN was detected in c-Fos-ir PeF/LH (p&lt;0.05). In summary, the ccRTN neurons (Phox2b(+)TH(-)) are excited by running exercise. Thus, ccRTN neurons may contribute to both the chemical drive to breath and the feed-forward control of breathing associated with exercise.
The majority of work examining the nucleus accumbens core (NAc) has focused on functions pertaining to behaviors guided by appetitive outcomes. These studies have pointed to the NAc as being critical for motivating behavior toward desirable outcomes. For example, we have recently shown that lesions of the NAc impaired performance on a reward-guided decision-making task that required rats to choose between differently valued rewards. Unfortunately, much less is known about the role that the NAc plays in motivating behavior when aversive outcomes are predicted. To address this issue we asked if NAc lesions impact performance on a two-way active avoidance task in which rats must learn to shuttle back and forth in a behavioral training box in order to avoid a footshock predicted by an auditory tone. Although bilateral NAc lesions initially impaired reward-guided decision-making, we found that the same lesions improved acquisition and retention of two-way active avoidance.
The intrinsic properties of spherical neurons play a fundamental role in the sensory processing of self-generated signals along a fast electrosensory pathway in electric fish. Previous results indicate that the spherical neuron's intrinsic properties depend mainly on the presence of two resonant currents that tend to clamp the voltage near the resting potential. Here we show that these are: a low-threshold potassium current blocked by 4-aminopyridine and a mixed cationic current blocked by cesium chloride. We also show that the low-threshold potassium current also causes the long refractory period, explaining the necessary properties that implement the dynamic filtering of the self-generated signals previously described. Comparative data from other fish and from the auditory system indicate that other single spiking onset neurons might differ in the channel repertoire observed in the spherical neurons of Gymnotus omarorum.
This study examined the proposed automatic and involuntary nature of synesthetic experiences in grapheme-color synesthetes by comparing behavioral and blood-oxygen level dependent (BOLD) responses in a synesthetic and a standard version of the Stroop task. Clear interference effects in terms of slower reaction times and stronger BOLD responses in the rostral cingulate zone (RCZ) were found in synesthetes performing the synesthetic version of the Stroop task. Surprisingly, less interference was found in synesthetes compared with controls performing the standard Stroop task. This smaller interference effect, expressed as the difference in reaction time between incongruent and neutral stimuli, was explained in terms of experienced interference during the neutral condition of the Stroop task in synesthetes. This was confirmed by stronger BOLD responses in the RCZ for synesthetes specifically in the neutral condition. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to show different performance of synesthetes in a standard Stroop task and the presented data can be seen as strong evidence for the automatic and involuntary nature of synesthetic experiences.
Neuromedin U (NMU) is a highly conserved neuropeptide which regulates food intake and body weight. Transgenic mice lacking NMU are hyperphagic and obese, making NMU a novel target for understanding and treating obesity. Neuromedin U receptor 2 (NMUR2) is a high-affinity receptor for NMU found in discrete regions of the central nervous system, in particular the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), where it may be responsible for mediating the anorectic effects of NMU. We hypothesized that selective knock down of NMUR2 in the PVN of rats would increase their sensitivity to the reinforcing properties of food resulting in increased intake and preference for high-fat obesogenic food. To this end, we used viral-mediated RNAi to selectively knock down NMUR2 gene expression in the PVN. In rats fed a standard chow, NMUR2 knockdown produced no significant effect on food intake or body weight. However, when the same rats were fed a high-fat diet (45% fat), they consumed significantly more food, gained more body weight, and had increased feed efficiency relative to controls. Furthermore, NMUR2 knockdown rats demonstrated significantly greater binge-type food consumption of the high-fat diet and showed a greater preference for higher-fat food. These results demonstrate that NMUR2 signaling in the PVN regulates consumption and preference for high-fat foods without disrupting feeding behavior associated with non-obesogenic standard chow.
Levo-tetrahydropalmatine (l-THP) is an alkaloid purified from corydalis and has been used in many traditional Chinese herbal preparations for its analgesic, sedative, and hypnotic properties. Previous studies indicated that l-THP has modest antagonist activity against dopamine receptors and thus it might have potential therapeutic effects on drug addiction. However, whether and how l-THP contributes to methamphetamine (METH)-induced locomotor sensitization remains unclear. Therefore, the current study aims to examine the roles of l-THP in the development and expression of METH-induced locomotor sensitization as well as the accompanying extracellular-regulated kinase (ERK) activation in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), caudate putamen (CPu) and prefrontal cortex (PFc) in mice. We found that moderate doses of METH (0.5 and 2 mg/kg) induced hyper-locomotor activity in mice on all METH injection days whereas high dose of METH (5 mg/kg)-treated mice displayed only acute locomotor response to METH and severe stereotyped behaviors on the first day after drug injection. Interestingly, only 2 mg/kg dose of METH-induced locomotor sensitization which was accompanied by the activation of ERK1/2 in the NAc and CPu in mice. Although l-THP (5 and 10 mg/kg) per se did not induce obvious changes in locomotor activities in mice, its co-administration with METH could significantly attenuate acute METH-induced hyper-locomotor activity, the development and expression of METH-induced locomotor sensitization, and the accompanying ERK1/2 activation in the NAc and CPu. These results suggest that l-THP has potential therapeutic effect on METH-induced locomotor sensitization, and the underlying molecular mechanism might be related to its inhibitory effect on ERK1/2 phosphorylation in the NAc and CPu.
The axons of transected and re-apposed vestibulocochlear nerve of the frog, in contrast to mammalian species, regenerate and establish functional contacts within their original termination areas of the vestibular nuclear complex and the cerebellum. The lack of regenerative capability of the mammalian central nervous system (CNS) is partially attributed to various extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules, such as chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPG) and tenascin-R (TN-R), which exert inhibition on axon regeneration. In contrast to these molecules, hyaluronan (HA) was reported to be permissive for CNS regeneration. Using histochemical and immunohistochemical methods, we investigated the distribution pattern of these molecules in the medial (MVN), lateral (LVN), superior and descending vestibular nuclei and the cerebellum of the frog and detected regional differences in the organization of the ECM. In the vestibular nuclear complex, pericellular condensation of the ECM, the perineuronal nets (PNNs) were recognizable in the LVN and MVN and were positive only for HA. The neuropil of the vestibular nuclei showed either a diffuse appearance with varying intensity of reactions, or dots and ring-like structures, which may represent the perinodal ECM of the vestibular fibers. In the cerebellum, indistinct PNNs that were only labeled for HA were present in the granular layer. Our findings suggest that the HA-rich, but CSPG and TN-R-free PNNs may be associated with the high degree of plasticity and regenerative potential of the amphibian vestibular system.
The central integration of thermal (i.e. cold) and mechanical (i.e. pressure) sensory afferents is suggested as to underpin the perception of skin wetness. However, the role of temperature and mechanical inputs, and their interaction, is still unclear. Also, it is unknown whether this intra-sensory interaction changes according to the activity performed or the environmental conditions. Hence, we investigated the role of peripheral cold afferents, and their interaction with tactile afferents, in the perception of local skin wetness during rest and exercise in thermo-neutral and warm environments. Six cold-dry stimuli, characterized by decreasing temperatures [i.e. -4, -8 and -15 C below the local skin temperature (T(sk))] and by different mechanical pressures [i.e. low pressure (LP): 7 kPa; high pressure (HP): 10 kPa], were applied on the back of 8 female participants (age 21  1 years), while they were resting or cycling in 22 or 33 C ambient temperature. Mean and local Tsk, thermal and wetness perceptions were recorded during the tests. Cold-dry stimuli produced drops in Tsk with cooling rates in a range of 0.06-0.4 C/s. Colder stimuli resulted in increasing coldness and in stimuli being significantly more often perceived as wet, particularly when producing skin cooling rates of 0.18 C/s and 0.35 C/s. However, when stimuli were applied with HP, local wetness perceptions were significantly attenuated. Wetter perceptions were recorded during exercise in the warm environment. We conclude that thermal inputs from peripheral cutaneous afferents are critical in characterizing the perception of local skin wetness. However, the role of these inputs might be modulated by an intra-sensory interaction with the tactile afferents. These findings indicate that human sensory integration is remarkably multimodal.
The cytokine erythropoietin (Epo) initiates adaptive cellular responses to both moderate environmental challenges and tissue damaging insults in various non-hematopoietic mammalian tissues including the nervous system. Neuroprotective and neuroregenerative functions of Epo in mammals are mediated through receptor-associated Janus kinase 2 and intracellular signaling cascades that modify the transcription of Epo-regulated genes. Signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) and phosphoinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) represent key components of two important Epo-induced transduction pathways. Our previous study on insects revealed neuroprotective and regenerative functions of recombinant human Epo (rhEpo) similar to those in mammalian nervous tissues. Here we demonstrate that rhEpo effectively rescues primary cultured locust brain neurons from apoptotic cell death induced by hypoxia or the chemical compound H-7. The Janus kinase inhibitor AG-490 and the STAT inhibitor sc-355797 abolished protective effects of rhEpo on locust brain neurons. In contrast, inhibition of PI3K with LY294002 had no effect on rhEpo-mediated neuroprotection. The results indicate that rhEpo mediates the protection of locust brain neurons through interference with apoptotic pathways by the activation of a Janus kinase-associated receptor and STAT transcription factor(s). The involvement of similar transduction pathways in mammals and insects for the mediation of neuroprotection and support of neural regeneration by Epo indicates that an Epo/Epo receptor-like signaling system with high structural and functional similarity exists in both groups of animals. Epo-like signaling involved in tissue protection appears to be an ancient beneficial function shared by vertebrates and invertebrates.
Death-associated protein kinase (DAPK) has been found promoting cell death under stress conditions, including cell death during brain ischemia. However, little is known about the mechanisms how DAPK is involved in the neuronal death-promoting process during ischemia. The present study was to examine the DAPK signal transduction pathways using an ischemia mimicking model, oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD). OGD was induced by incubating SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells in glucose-free culture medium flushed with a mixture of N and CO. DAPK expression was inhibited by transfection of SH-SY5Y cells with DAPK short hairpin RNA (shRNA). Cell death induced by OGD exposure was assessed by Annexin V-FITC and propidium iodide (PI) assay. Protein expressions were examined by Western blot and protein interactions were detected with immunoprecipitation followed by Western blot. OGD treatment resulted in neuronal death and led to DAPK activation as demonstrated by increase of DAPK (active form) and decrease of phospho-DAPK (inactive form). The activation of DAPK in turn led to BimEL up-regulation and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress activation. Further analyses showed that DAPK mediated BimEL expression through extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase1/2 (ERK1/2) inactivation and c-Jun-N-terminal kinase1/2 (JNK1/2) activation. These findings revealed novel signal transduction pathways leading to neuronal death in response to OGD.
The dorsal hippocampus (DH) is a structure of the limbic system that is involved in emotional, learning and memory processes. There is evidence indicating that the DH modulates cardiovascular correlates of behavioral responses to stressful stimuli. Acute restraint stress (RS) is an unavoidable stress situation that evokes marked and sustained autonomic changes, which are characterized by elevated blood pressure (BP), intense heart rate (HR) increase and a decrease in cutaneous temperature. In the present study, we investigated the involvement of an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor/nitric oxide (NO) pathway of the DH in the modulation of autonomic (arterial BP, HR and tail skin temperature) responses evoked by RS in rats. Bilateral microinjection of the NMDA receptor antagonist AP-7 (10 nmol/500 nL) into the DH attenuated RS-evoked autonomic responses. Moreover, RS evoked an increase in the content of NO/NO in the DH, which are products of the spontaneous oxidation of NO under physiological conditions that can provide an indirect measurement of NO production. Bilateral microinjection of N-propyl-L-arginine (0.1 nmol/500 nL; N-propyl, a neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) inhibitor) or carboxy-PTIO (2 nmol/500 nL; c-PTIO, an NO scavenger) into the DH also attenuated autonomic responses evoked by RS. Therefore, our findings suggest that a glutamatergic system present in the DH is involved in the autonomic modulation during RS, acting via NMDA receptors and nNOS activation. Furthermore, the present results suggest that NMDA receptor/nNO activation has a facilitatory influence on RS-evoked autonomic responses.
It was the aim of the present study to investigate menstrual cycle effects on selective attention and its underlying functional cerebral networks. Twenty-one healthy, right-handed, normally cycling women were investigated by means of functional magnetic resonance imaging using a go/no-go paradigm during the menstrual, follicular and luteal phase. On the behavioral level there was a significant interaction between visual half field and cycle phase with reaction times to right-sided compared to left-sided stimuli being faster in the menstrual compared to the follicular phase. These results might argue for a more pronounced functional cerebral asymmetry toward the left hemisphere in selective attention during the menstrual phase with low estradiol and progesterone levels. Functional imaging, however, did not reveal clear-cut menstrual phase-related changes in activation pattern in parallel to these behavioral findings. A functional connectivity analysis identified differences between the menstrual and the luteal phase: During the menstrual phase, left inferior parietal cortex showed a stronger negative correlation with the right middle frontal gyrus while the left medial frontal cortex showed a stronger negative correlation with the left middle frontal gyrus. These results can serve as further evidence of a modulatory effect of steroid hormones on networks of lateralized cognitive functions not only by interhemispheric inhibition but also by affecting intrahemispheric functional connectivity.
Neurons in the auditory system are spatially organized in their responses to pure tones, and this tonotopy is expected to predict neuronal responses to more complex sounds such as vocalizations. We presented vocalizations with low-, medium- and high-frequency content to determine if selectivity of neurons in the inferior colliculus (IC) of mice respects the tonotopic spatial structure. Tonotopy in the IC predicts that neurons located in dorsal regions should only respond to low-frequency vocalizations and only neurons located in ventral regions should respond to high-frequency vocalizations. We found that responses to vocalizations were independent of location, and many neurons in the dorsal, low-frequency region of IC responded to high-frequency vocalizations. To test whether this was due to dorsal neurons having broad frequency tuning curves, we convolved each neuron's frequency tuning curve with each vocalization, and found that the tuning curves were not good predictors of the actual neural responses to the vocalizations. We then used a nonlinear model of signal transduction in the cochlea that generates distortion products to predict neural responses to the vocalizations. We found that these predictions more closely matched the actual neural responses. Our findings suggest that the cochlea distorts the frequency representation in vocalizations and some neurons use this distorted representation to encode the vocalizations.
Previous research has demonstrated that diabetes induces learning and memory deficits. However, the mechanism of memory impairment induced by diabetes is poorly understood. Dietary fatty acids, especially polyunsaturated fatty acids, have been shown to enhance learning and memory and prevent memory deficits in various experimental conditions. The present study investigated the effects of fish oil supplementation on the lipid peroxidation, inflammation and neuron apoptosis in the hippocampus of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes rats. The effects of diabetes and fish oil treatment on the spatial learning and memory were also evaluated using the Morris Water Maze. STZ-induced diabetes impaired spatial learning and memory of rats, which was associated with the inflammation, oxidative stress and apoptosis of hippocampal neurons. Fish oil administration ameliorated cognitive deficit, reduced oxidative stress and tumor necrosis factor  (TNF-), protected the hippocampal neurons by increasing Protein Kinase B (AKT) phosphorylation and decreasing caspase-9 expression. These results suggested that the principle mechanisms involved in the antidiabetic and neuroprotective effect of fish oil were its antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptosis potential, supporting a potential role for fish oil as an adjuvant therapy for the prevention and treatment of diabetic complications.
Prolactin (PRL) has many functions in the CNS, including neuroprotection. During lactation, the dorsal hippocampus is protected from excitotoxic kainic acid (KA)-induced cellular damage. We have previously reported that systemic pre-treatment with ovine PRL had similar protective effects in female rats. Here, we asked (1) whether intracerebral human PRL (hPRL) would have the same action, (2) because phosphorylated PRL is high in lactation, whether a mimic of phosphorylated hPRL, human prolactin in which the normally phosphorylated serine at position 179 is replaced with an aspartate (S179D-PRL), had similar activity, and (3) what signaling pathways mediated the protective effect. Female ovariectomized (OVX, 1 month) rats were implanted with micro-osmotic pumps connected to unilateral icv cannulae directed at the right lateral ventricle. The pumps delivered 0.10 ng/h of hPRL, S179D-PRL, a combination of hPRL+S179D-PRL, or saline vehicle for 7 days prior to a systemic dose of 7.5mg/kg of KA. Rats were sacrificed 48 h after KA injection. Immunostaining for neuronal nuclei (Neu-N) revealed a significant KA-induced decrease in cell number in the CA1, CA3, and CA4 hippocampal areas of rats (55% of control). Treatment with either hPRL or S179D-PRL or the combination prevented the damaging effect of KA in these hippocampal regions (95% of corresponding control), but was not completely effective at preventing early seizure-related behaviors such as staring and wet dog shakes. Analysis of signals generated by hPRL and S179D-PRL showed no activation of signal transducer and activation of transcription 5 (Stat5) or other signaling molecules in the hippocampus, but activation of extracellular-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2 in the amygdala. These results support a central protective effect of both PRL forms and suggest that PRL could be exerting its protective action by indirectly modulating input signals to the hippocampus and thus regulating excitability.
Phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN) is a tumor suppressor gene that regulates various cell processes including proliferation, growth, synaptogenesis, neural and glioma stem/progenitor cell renewal. In addition, PTEN can regulate sensory cell proliferation and differentiation of hair bundles in the mammalian cochlea. In this study we use immunofluorescence, Western blot and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) to reveal the expression of PTEN in the developing cochlear lateral wall, which is crucial for regulating K(+) homeostasis. Relatively high levels of PTEN are initially expressed in the marginal cells (MCs) of the lateral wall at embryonic day (E) 17.5 when they start to differentiate. Similarly high levels are subsequently expressed in differentiating root cells (RCs) at postnatal day (P) 3 and then in spiral ligament fibrocytes (SLFs) at P 10. In the mature cochlea, PTEN expression is low or undetectable in MCs and SLFs but it remains high in RCs and their processes. The expression pattern for PTEN in the developing lateral wall suggests that it plays a critical role in the differentiation of the cellular pathways that regulate K(+) homeostasis in the cochlea.
Perceptual integration of sensory input from our two nostrils has received little attention in comparison to lateralized inputs for vision and hearing. Here, we investigated whether a binary odor mixture of eugenol and l-carvone (smells of cloves and caraway) would be perceived differently if presented as a mixture in one nostril (physical mixture), vs. the same two odorants in separate nostrils (dichorhinic mixture). In parallel, we investigated whether the different types of presentation resulted in differences in olfactory event-related potentials (OERP). Psychophysical ratings showed that the dichorhinic mixtures were perceived as more intense than the physical mixtures. A tendency for shift in perceived quality was also observed. In line with these perceptual changes, the OERP showed a shift in latencies and amplitudes for early (more &quot;sensory&quot;) peaks P1 and N1 whereas no significant differences were observed for the later (more &quot;cognitive&quot;) peak P2. The results altogether suggest that the peripheral level is a site of interaction between odorants. Both psychophysical ratings and, for the first time, electrophysiological measurements converge on this conclusion.
Anxiety-related disorders are among the most common psychiatric illnesses, thought to have both genetic and environmental causes. Early-life trauma, such as abuse from a caregiver, can be predictable or unpredictable, each resulting in increased prevalence and severity of a unique set of disorders. In this study, we examined the influence of early unpredictable trauma on both the behavioral expression of adult anxiety and gene expression within the amygdala. Neonatal rats were exposed to unpaired odor-shock conditioning for 5 days, which produces deficits in adult behavior and amygdala dysfunction. In adulthood, we used the Light/Dark box test to measure anxiety-related behaviors, measuring the latency to enter the lit area and quantified urination and defecation. The amygdala was then dissected and a microarray analysis was performed to examine changes in gene expression. Animals that had received early unpredictable trauma displayed significantly longer latencies to enter the lit area and more defecation and urination. The microarray analysis revealed over-represented genes related to learning and memory, synaptic transmission and trans-membrane transport. Gene ontology and pathway analysis identified highly represented disease states related to anxiety phenotypes, including social anxiety, obsessive-compulsive disorders, post-traumatic stress disorder and bipolar disorder. Addiction-related genes were also overrepresented in this analysis. Unpredictable shock during early development increased anxiety-like behaviors in adulthood with concomitant changes in genes related to neurotransmission, resulting in gene expression patterns similar to anxiety-related psychiatric disorders.
Although it is a general consensus that opioids modulate growth, the mechanism of this phenomenon is largely unknown. Since endogenous opiates use the same receptor family as morphine, these peptides may be one of the key regulators of growth in humans by impacting growth hormone (GH) secretion, either directly, or indirectly, via growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) release. However, the exact mechanism of this regulation has not been elucidated yet. In the present study we identified close juxtapositions between the enkephalinergic/endorphinergic/dynorphinergic axonal varicosities and GHRH-immunoreactive (IR) perikarya in the human hypothalamus. Due to the long post mortem period electron microscopy could not be utilized to detect the presence of synapses between the enkephalinergic/endorphinergic/dynorphinergic and GHRH neurons. Therefore, we used light microscopic double-label immunocytochemistry to identify putative juxtapositions between these systems. Our findings revealed that the majority of the GHRH-IR perikarya formed intimate associations with enkephalinergic axonal varicosities in the infundibular nucleus/median eminence, while endorphinergic-GHRH juxtapositions were much less frequent. In contrast, no significant dynorphinergic-GHRH associations were detected. The density of the abutting enkephalinergic fibers on the surface of the GHRH perikarya suggests that these juxtapositions may be functional synapses and may represent the morphological substrate of the impact of enkephalin on growth. The small number of GHRH neurons innervated by the endorphin and dynorphin systems indicates significant differences between the regulatory roles of endogenous opiates on growth in humans.
Subliminal electromagnetic fields (EMFs) triggered nonlinear evoked potentials in awake but not anesthetized animals, and increased glucose metabolism in the hindbrain. Field detection occurred somewhere in the head and possibly was an unrecognized function of sensory neurons in facial skin, which synapse in the trigeminal nucleus and project to the thalamus via glutamate-dependent pathways. If so, anesthetic agents that antagonize glutamate neurotransmission would be expected to degrade EMF-evoked potentials (EEPs) to a greater extent than agents having different pharmacological effects. We tested the hypothesis using ketamine which blocks N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors (NMDARs), and xylazine which is an -adrenoreceptor agonist. Electroencephalograms (EEGs) of rats were examined using recurrence analysis to observe EEPs in the presence and absence of ketamine and/or xylazine anesthesia. Auditory evoked potentials (AEPs) served as positive controls. The frequency of observation of evoked potentials in a given condition (wake or anesthesia) was compared with that due to chance using the Fisher's exact test. EEPs were observed in awake rats but not while they were under anesthesia produced using a cocktail of xylazine and ketamine. In another experiment each rat was measured while awake and while under anesthesia produced using either xylazine or ketamine. EEPs and AEPs were detected during wake and under xylazine (P&lt;0.05 in each of the four measurements). In contrast, neither EEPs nor AEPs were observed when anesthesia was produced partly or wholly using ketamine. The duration and latency of the EEPs was unaltered by xylazine anesthesia. The afferent signal triggered by the transduction of weak EMFs was likely mediated by NMDAR-mediated glutamate neurotransmission.
Endometriosis pain is a very common and extremely disabling condition whose mechanism is still poorly understood. While increased levels of leptin have been reported in patients with endometriosis, their contribution to endometriosis pain has not been explored. Using a rodent model of endometriosis we provide evidence for an estrogen-dependent contribution of leptin in endometriosis-induced pain. Rats implanted with autologous uterine tissue onto the gastrocnemius muscle developed endometriosis-like lesions and local chronic pain. Compared to eutopic uterine tissue, leptin mRNA and protein were up-regulated in the endometriosis-like lesions. Intramuscular injection of recombinant leptin in naive rats produced dose-dependent local mechanical hyperalgesia and nociceptor sensitization to mechanical stimulation. Ovariectomy attenuated the mechanical hyperalgesia induced by recombinant leptin, in rats treated with vehicle compared to those treated with 17-estradiol replacement, at 1 and 24 h after leptin injection. Finally, intralesional injections of a pegylated leptin receptor (Ob-R) antagonist or of an inhibitor of Janus kinase2, which transduces the Ob-R signal, markedly attenuated pain in the endometriosis model. Taken together these data support the hypothesis that leptin, generated in ectopic endometrial lesions produces mechanical hyperalgesia by acting on nociceptors innervating the lesion. This sensitivity to leptin is dependent on estrogen levels. Thus, interventions targeting leptin signaling, especially in combination with interventions that lower estrogen levels, might be useful for the treatment of endometriosis pain.
Psychostimulant reward, as assessed via the conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm, exhibits a daily rhythm with peaks in the late dark and early light periods, and a nadir near the light-to-dark transition. While this diurnal rhythm is correlated with neural activity in several corticolimbic structures, the brain regions mediating this behavioral rhythm remain unknown. Here, we examine the role of the ventral medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). The effects of excitotoxic mPFC lesions on daily rhythms in amphetamine CPP were examined at previously observed peak (zeitgeber time [ZT] 23) and nadir times (ZT11). mPFC lesions encompassing the prelimbic and infralimbic subregions increased the CPP for amphetamine at the nadir time, thereby eliminating the daily rhythm in amphetamine reward. To examine the effects of transient mPFC inactivation, rats received intra-mPFC infusions of GABA receptor agonists during the acquisition or expression phases of CPP testing. Inactivation of the ventral mPFC at either of these phases also eliminated the daily rhythm in amphetamine-induced CPP via an increase in drug-paired chamber dwell time at the baseline nadir. Together, these results indicate that the ventral mPFC plays a critical role in mediating the diurnal rhythm in amphetamine CPP during both the acquisition and expression of learned reward-context associations. Moreover, as the loss of rhythmicity occurs via an increase at the nadir point, these results suggest that excitatory output from the ventral mPFC normally inhibits context-elicited reward seeking prior to the light-to-dark transition.
Numerous epidemiological studies have shown an association between pesticide exposure and the increased risk of developing Parkinson's disease. Previously we have reported that Dichlorvos exposure can induce oxidative stress, resulting in over-expression of pro-apoptotic genes and finally caspase-dependent nigrostriatal dopaminergic neuronal cell death in rat brain. Here, we examined the effect of caspase inhibition on PC12 cell death induced by Dichlorvos (30 M). Reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation followed by protein carbonylation, lipid peroxidation, decreased antioxidant defenses (decreased Mn-superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) activity and decreased glutathione levels) and subsequent caspase activation mediated the apoptosis. Inhibition of caspase cascade with Boc-aspartyl(OMe)-fluoromethylketone (BAF) enhanced the Dichlorvos-induced PC12 cell death, as assessed by the increased cellular efflux of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). This increase in cell death was accompanied by a marked increase in poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP1) activity, increased oxidative stress, a reduction in the mitochondrial membrane potential and reduced cellular NAD and ATP levels. Pretreatment of cells with PJ34, a PARP1 inhibitor prevented the cells from undergoing cell death and preserved intracellular NAD and ATP levels. Subsequent release of the apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) from mitochondria and its translocation into the nucleus was also prevented by PJ34 pretreatment. In conclusion, the results of the present study show that caspase inhibition without concurrent inhibition of PARP1 is unlikely to be effective in preventing cell death because in the presence of the caspase inhibitor, caspase-independent cell death predominates due to PARP activation. These results suggest that combined therapeutic strategies directed at multiple cell death pathways may provide superior neuroprotection than those directed at a single mechanism.
Functional interactions between dopaminergic and noradrenergic systems occur in many brain areas, including the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Biochemical, electrophysiological and behavioral data indicate crosstalk between D1 dopamine receptor (D1R) and 1-adrenergic receptor (1AR) signaling in the PFC. However, it is unknown whether these interactions occur within the same neurons, or between neurons expressing either receptor. In this study, we used electron microscopy immunocytochemistry to demonstrate that D1Rs and 1ARs co-localize in rat PFC neuronal elements, most prominently in dendrites (60-70%), but also significantly in axon terminals, unmyelinated axons and spines (20-30%). Our data also showed that the ratio of plasma membrane-bound to intracellular 1ARs is significantly reduced in D1R-expressing dendrites. Similar results were obtained using either a pan-1AR or a selective 1bAR antibody to label noradrenergic receptors. Thus, these results demonstrate that D1Rs and 1ARs co-localize in PFC dendrites, thereby suggesting that the catecholaminergic effects on PFC function may be driven, at least in part, by cell-autonomous D1R-1AR interactions.
Dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) serotonin (5-HT) neurons play an important role in feeding, mood control and stress responses. One important feature of their activity across the sleep-wake cycle is their reduced firing during rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep which stands in stark contrast to the wake/REM-on discharge pattern of brainstem cholinergic neurons. A prominent model of REM sleep control posits a reciprocal interaction between these cell groups. 5-HT inhibits cholinergic neurons, and activation of nicotinic receptors can excite DRN 5-HT neurons but the cholinergic effect on inhibitory inputs is incompletely understood. Here, in vitro, in DRN brain slices prepared from GAD67-GFP knock-in mice, a brief (3 min) bath application of carbachol (50 M) increased the frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) in GFP-negative, putative 5-HT neurons but did not affect miniature (tetrodotoxin-insensitive) IPSCs. Carbachol had no direct postsynaptic effect. Thus, carbachol likely increases the activity of local GABAergic neurons which synapse on 5-HT neurons. Removal of dorsal regions of the slice including the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (vlPAG) region where GABAergic neurons projecting to the DRN have been identified, abolished the effect of carbachol on sIPSCs whereas the removal of ventral regions containing the oral region of the pontine reticular nucleus (PnO) did not. In addition, carbachol directly excited GFP-positive, GABAergic vlPAG neurons. Antagonism of both muscarinic and nicotinic receptors completely abolished the effects of carbachol. We suggest cholinergic neurons inhibit DRN 5-HT neurons when acetylcholine levels are lower i.e. during quiet wakefulness and the beginning of REM sleep periods, in part via excitation of muscarinic and nicotinic receptors located on local vlPAG and DRN GABAergic neurons. Higher firing rates or burst firing of cholinergic neurons associated with attentive wakefulness or phasic REM sleep periods leads to excitation of 5-HT neurons via the activation of nicotinic receptors located postsynaptically and presynaptically on excitatory afferents.
Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) exert its biological functions by interacting with membrane bound receptors. However, functions of BMPs are also regulated in the extracellular space by secreted antagonistic regulators. Chordin is an extracellular BMP antagonist that binds BMP-2, 4, and 7 with high affinity and thus interferes with binding to BMP receptors. Although chordin expression has been well described in the early development of the CNS, little information is available for its expression in the adult CNS. We, thus, investigated chordin expression in the adult rat CNS using immunohistochemistry. Chordin was intensely expressed in most neurons, and their dendrites and axons. In addition, abundant chordin expression was also observed in the neuropil of the gray matters where high plasticity is reported, such as the molecular layer of the cerebellum and the superficial layer of the superior colliculus. Furthermore, we found that astrocytes and ependymal cells also express chordin protein. These data indicate that chordin is more widely expressed throughout the adult CNS than previously reported, and its continued abundant expression in the adult brain strongly supports the idea that chordin plays pivotal roles also in the adult brain.
Social isolation during the vulnerable period of adolescence produces emotional dysregulation manifested by abnormalities in adult behaviors that require emotional processing. The affected brain regions may include the basolateral amygdala (BLA), where plasticity of glutamatergic synapses in principal neurons plays a role in conditioned emotional responses. This plasticity is dependent on NMDA receptor trafficking denoted by intracellular mobilization of the obligatory NR1 NMDA subunit. We tested the hypothesis that the psychosocial stress of adolescent social isolation (ASI) produces a lasting change in NMDA receptor distribution in principal neurons in the BLA of adults that express maladaptive emotional responses to sensory cues. For this, we used behavioral testing and dual electron microscopic immunolabeling of NR1 and calcium calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), a protein predominantly expressed in principal neurons of the BLA in adult C57Bl/6 mice housed in isolation or in social groups from post-weaning day 22 until adulthood (3 months of age). The isolates showed persistent deficits in sensorimotor gating evidenced by altered prepulse inhibition (PPI) of acoustic startle and hyperlocomotor activity in a novel environment. Immunogold-silver labeling for NR1 alone or together with CaMKII was seen in many somatodendritic profiles in the BLA of all mice irrespective of rearing conditions. However, isolates compared with group-reared mice had a significantly lower cytoplasmic (4.72  0.517 vs 6.31  0.517) and higher plasmalemmal (0.397  0.0779 vs 0.216  0.026) density of NR1 immunogold particles in CaMKII-containing dendritic spines. There was no rearing-dependent difference in the size or number of these spines or those of other dendritic profiles within the neuropil, which also failed to show an impact of ASI on NR1 immunogold labeling. These results provide the first evidence that ASI enhances the surface trafficking of NMDA receptors in dendritic spines of principal neurons in the BLA of adult mice showing maladaptive behaviors that are consistent with emotional dysregulation.
The modulatory neurotransmitter dopamine induces concentration-dependent changes in synaptic transmission in the entorhinal cortex, in which high concentrations of dopamine suppress evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) and lower concentrations induce an acute synaptic facilitation. Whole-cell current-clamp recordings were used to investigate the dopaminergic facilitation of synaptic responses in layer II neurons of the rat lateral entorhinal cortex. A constant bath application of 1 M dopamine resulted in a consistent facilitation of EPSPs evoked in layer II fan cells by layer I stimulation; the size of the facilitation was more variable in pyramidal neurons, and synaptic responses in a small group of multiform neurons were not modulated by dopamine. Isolated inhibitory synaptic responses were not affected by dopamine, and the facilitation of EPSPs was not associated with a change in paired-pulse facilitation ratio. Voltage-clamp recordings of -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) glutamate receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were facilitated by dopamine, but N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated currents were not. Bath application of the dopamine D-like receptor blocker SCH23390 (50 M), but not the D-like receptor blocker sulpiride (50 M), prevented the facilitation, indicating that it is dependent upon D-like receptor activation. Dopamine D receptors lead to activation of protein kinase A (PKA), and including the PKA inhibitor H-89 or KT 5720 in the recording pipette solution prevented the facilitation of EPSCs. PKA-dependent phosphorylation of inhibitor 1 or the dopamine- and cAMP-regulated protein phosphatase (DARPP-32) can lead to a facilitation of AMPA receptor responses by inhibiting the activity of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) that reduces dephosphorylation of AMPA receptors, and we found here that inhibition of PP1 occluded the facilitatory effect of dopamine. The dopamine-induced facilitation of AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic responses in layer II neurons of the lateral entorhinal cortex is therefore likely mediated via a D receptor-dependent increase in PKA activity and a resulting inhibition in PP1-dependent dephosphorylation of AMPA receptors.
Illicit use of prescription opioid analgesics (e.g., oxycodone) in adolescence is a pressing public health issue. Our goal was to determine whether oxycodone self administration differentially affects striatal neurotransmitter receptor gene expression in the dorsal striatum of adolescent compared to adult C57BL/6J mice. Groups of adolescent mice (4 weeks old, n=12) and of adult mice (11 weeks old, n=11) underwent surgery during which a catheter was implanted into their jugular veins. After recovering from surgery, mice self administered oxycodone (0.25 mg/kg/infusion) 2 h/day for 14 consecutive days or served as yoked saline controls. Mice were sacrificed within 1h after the last self-administration session and the dorsal striatum was isolated for mRNA analysis. Gene expression was analyzed with real time PCR using a commercially available neurotransmitter receptor PCR array containing 84 genes. We found that adolescent mice self administered less oxycodone than adult mice over the 14 days. Monoamine oxidase A (Maoa) and neuropeptide Y receptor 5 mRNA levels were lower in adolescent mice than in adult mice without oxycodone exposure. Oxycodone self administration increased Maoa mRNA levels compared to controls in both age groups. There was a positive correlation of the amount of oxycodone self administered in the last session or across 14 sessions with Maoa mRNA levels. Gastrin-releasing peptide receptor mRNA showed a significant Drug  Age interaction, with point-wise significance. More genes in the dorsal striatum of adolescents (19) changed in response to oxycodone self administration compared to controls than in adult (4) mice. Overall, this study demonstrates that repeated oxycodone self administration alters neurotransmitter receptors gene expression in the dorsal striatum of adolescent and adult mice.
A fundamental role of the taste system is to discriminate between nutritive and toxic foods. However, it is unknown whether bacterial pathogens that might contaminate food and water modulate the transmission of taste input to the brain. We hypothesized that exogenous, bacterially-derived lipopolysaccharide (LPS), modulates neural responses to taste stimuli. Neurophysiological responses from the chorda tympani nerve, which innervates taste cells on the anterior tongue, were unchanged by acute exposure to LPS. Instead, neural responses to sucrose were selectively inhibited in mice that drank LPS during a single overnight period. Decreased sucrose sensitivity appeared 7days after LPS ingestion, in parallel with decreased lingual expression of Tas1r2 and Tas1r3 transcripts, which are translated to T1R2+T1R3 subunits forming the sweet taste receptor. Tas1r2 and Tas1r3 mRNA expression levels and neural responses to sucrose were restored by 14 days after LPS consumption. Ingestion of LPS, rather than contact with taste receptor cells, appears to be necessary to suppress sucrose responses. Furthermore, mice lacking the Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 for LPS were resistant to neurophysiological changes following LPS consumption. These findings demonstrate that ingestion of LPS during a single period specifically and transiently inhibits neural responses to sucrose. We suggest that LPS drinking initiates TLR4-dependent hormonal signals that downregulate sweet taste receptor genes in taste buds. Delayed inhibition of sweet taste signaling may influence food selection and the complex interplay between gastrointestinal bacteria and obesity.
Voluntary exercise (VEx) has profound effects on neural and behavioral plasticity, including recovery of CNS trauma and disease. However, the unique regional cortical adaption to VEx has not been elucidated. In a series of experiments, we first examined whether VEx would restore and retain neurotrophin levels in several cortical regions (frontal cortex [FC], retrosplenial cortex [RSC], occipital cortex [OC]) in an animal model (pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency [PTD]) of the amnestic disorder Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome. In addition, we assessed the time-dependent effect of VEx to rescue performance on a spontaneous alternation task. Following 2-weeks of VEx or stationary housing conditions (Stat), rats were behaviorally tested and brains were harvested either the day after VEx (24-h) or after an additional 2-week period (2-wk). In both control pair-fed (PF) rats and PTD rats, all neurotrophin levels (brain-derived neurotrophic factor [BDNF], nerve growth factor [NGF], and vascular endothelial growth factor) increased at the 24-h period after VEx in the FC and RSC, but not OC. Two-weeks following VEx, BDNF remained elevated in both FC and RSC, whereas NGF remained elevated in only the FC. Interestingly, VEx only recovered cognitive performance in amnestic rats when there was an additional 2-wk adaptation period after VEx. Given this unique temporal profile, Experiment 2 examined the cortical cytogenetic responses in all three cortical regions following a 2-wk adaptation period after VEx. In healthy (PF) rats, VEx increased the survival of progenitor cells in both the FC and RSC, but only increased oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OLPs) in the FC. Furthermore, VEx had a selective effect of only recovering OLPs in the FC in PTD rats. These data reveal the therapeutic potential of exercise to restore cortical plasticity in the amnestic brain, and that the FC is one of the most responsive cortical regions to VEx.
It has been argued that arm movements are important during human gait because they affect leg activity due to neural coupling between arms and legs. Consequently, one would expect that locomotor-like alternating arm swing is more effective than in-phase swing in affecting the legs' motor output. Other alternating movements such as trunk rotation associated to arm swing could also affect leg reflexes. Here, we assessed how locomotor-like movement patterns would affect soleus H-reflexes in 13 subjects performing arm swing in the sagittal plane (ipsilateral, contralateral and bilateral in-phase versus locomotor-like anti-phase arm movements) and trunk rotation with the legs stationary, and leg stepping with the arms stationary. Findings revealed that soleus H-reflexes were suppressed for all arm, trunk or leg movements. However, a marked reflex modulation occurred during locomotor-like anti-phase arm swing, as was also the case during leg stepping, and this modulation flattened out during in-phase arm swing. This modulation had a peculiar bell shape and showed maximum suppression at a moment where the heel-strike would occur during a normal walking cycle. Furthermore, this modulation was independent from electromyographic activity, suggesting a spinal processing at premotoneuronal level. Therefore, trunk movement can affect legs' output, and a special neural coupling occurs between arms and legs when arms move in alternation. This may have implications for gait rehabilitation.








Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) is associated with a high risk of abnormal neurodevelopment. Underlying neuroanatomical substrates are partially documented. We hypothesized that at 12 months preterm infants would evidence specific white-matter microstructure alterations and gray-matter differences induced by severe IUGR. Twenty preterm infants with IUGR (26-34 weeks of gestation) were compared with 20 term-born infants and 20 appropriate for gestational age preterm infants of similar gestational age. Preterm groups showed no evidence of brain abnormalities. At 12 months, infants were scanned sleeping naturally. Gray-matter volumes were studied with voxel-based morphometry. White-matter microstructure was examined using tract-based spatial statistics. The relationship between diffusivity indices in white matter, gray matter volumes, and perinatal data was also investigated. Gray-matter decrements attributable to IUGR comprised amygdala, basal ganglia, thalamus and insula bilaterally, left occipital and parietal lobes, and right perirolandic area. Gray-matter volumes positively correlated with birth weight exclusively. Preterm infants had reduced FA in the corpus callosum, and increased FA in the anterior corona radiata. Additionally, IUGR infants had increased FA in the forceps minor, internal and external capsules, uncinate and fronto-occipital white matter tracts. Increased axial diffusivity was observed in several white matter tracts. Fractional anisotropy positively correlated with birth weight and gestational age at birth. These data suggest that IUGR differentially affects gray and white matter development preferentially affecting gray matter. At 12 months IUGR is associated with a specific set of structural gray-matter decrements. White matter follows an unusual developmental pattern, and is apparently affected by IUGR and prematurity combined.
Glioblastomas (GBMs) are the most common and malignant primary brain tumors and are aggressively treated with surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy. Despite this treatment, recurrence is inevitable and survival has improved minimally over the last 50 years. Recent studies have suggested that GBMs exhibit both heterogeneity and instability of differentiation states and varying sensitivities of these states to radiation. Here, we employed an iterative combined theoretical and experimental strategy that takes into account tumor cellular heterogeneity and dynamically acquired radioresistance to predict the effectiveness of different radiation schedules. Using this model, we identified two delivery schedules predicted to significantly improve efficacy by taking advantage of the dynamic instability of radioresistance. These schedules led to superior survival in mice. Our interdisciplinary approach may also be applicable to other human cancer types treated with radiotherapy and, hence, may lay the foundation for significantly increasing the effectiveness of a mainstay of oncologic therapy. PAPERCLIP:






Neural correlation with consciousness represents a main topic of neuroscience studies. New results of consciousness researches proved that based on a coherent function in between its components the default mode network activity is the condition for awake consciousness. The subject of consciousness is self. Tasks related with the self were proving a high default mode network activity. Using connections inside the network, results which were related with self, could be considered to represent a polymodal integration system are they are participating in fine processing of the highly integrated associative information. It could be a result of the convergence of cognitive binding. There is a strong connection between the level of consciousness and praecuneal activation. It was proved that the network activity is changing during sleeping (normal condition), trauma or under drug induced altered consciousness. The default network activity can be considered as the neural correlate of consciousness. Further researches are warranted to answer the question: is the activity of the network the cause or is just accompanying the development of human consciousness?







The cortical circuitry in the brain consists of structurally and functionally distinct neuronal assemblies with reciprocal axon connections. To generate cell culture-based systems that emulate axon tract systems of an in vivo neural network, we developed a living neural circuit consisting of compartmentalized neuronal populations connected by arrays of two millimeter-long axon tracts that are integrated on a planar multi-electrode array (MEA). The millimeter-scale node-to-node separation allows for pharmacological and electrophysiological manipulations to simultaneously target multiple neuronal populations. The results show controlled selectivity of dye absorption by neurons in different compartments. MEA-transmitted electrical stimulation of targeted neurons shows 46% increase of intracellular calcium levels with 20 Hz stimulation, but 22% decrease with 2k Hz stimulation. The unique feature of long distance axons promotes in vivo-like fasciculation. These axon tracts are determined to be inhibitory afferents by showing increased action potential firing of downstream node upon selective application of -aminobutyric acid (GABA) to the upstream node. Together, this model demonstrates integrated capabilities for assessing multiple endpoints including axon tract tracing, calcium influx, network architecture and activities. This system can be used as a multi-functional platform for studying axon tract-associated CNS disorders in vitro, such as diffuse axonal injury after brain trauma.


Isolation of microglia from CNS tissue is a powerful investigative tool used to study microglial biology ex vivo. The present method details a procedure for isolation of microglia from neonatal murine cortices by mechanical agitation with a rotary shaker. This microglia isolation method yields highly pure cortical microglia that exhibit morphological and functional characteristics indicative of quiescent microglia in normal, nonpathological conditions in vivo. This procedure also preserves the microglial immunophenotype and biochemical functionality as demonstrated by the induction of morphological changes, nuclear translocation of the p65 subunit of NF-B (p65), and secretion of the hallmark proinflammatory cytokine, tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-), upon lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and Pam3CSK4 (Pam) challenges. Therefore, the present isolation procedure preserves the immunophenotype of both quiescent and activated microglia, providing an experimental method of investigating microglia biology in ex vivo conditions.


Nitric oxide (NO) is a highly reactive gas with considerable diffusion power that is produced pre- and post synaptically in the central nervous system (CNS). In the visual system, it is involved in the processing of the visual information from the retina to superior visual centers. In this review we discuss the main mechanisms through which nitric oxide acts, in physiological levels, on the retina, lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and primary visual cortex. In the retina, the cGMP-dependent nitric oxide activity initially amplifies the signal, subsequently increasing the inhibitory activity, suggesting that the signal is &quot;filtered&quot;. In the thalamus, on dLGN, neuronal activity is amplified by NO derived from brainstem cholinergic cells, in a cGMP-independent mechanism; the result is the amplification of the signal arriving from retina. Finally, on the visual cortex (V1), NO acts through changes on the cGMP levels, increasing signal detection. These observations suggest that NO works like a filter, modulating the signal along the visual pathways.
Susceptibility to motion sickness is a predictor of postoperative nausea and vomiting, and studies in humans suggest that genetic factors determine sensitivity to motion sickness. The aim of the current study was to determine if a preclinical model could be selectively bred for motion-induced emesis and to assess a potential relationship to anesthesia-induced emesis. Musk shrews were tested for motion-induced emesis using a shaker plate (10min, 1Hz, and 4cm of lateral displacement). Animals were rank ordered for motion-induced emesis and selectively bred to produce high and low response strains. Shrews were also tested with nicotine (5mg/kg, sc), copper sulfate (CuSO4; 120mg/kg, ig), and isoflurane anesthesia (10min; 3%) to measure responses to a panel of emetic stimuli. High response strain shrews demonstrated significantly more emetic episodes to motion exposure compared to low response strain animals in the F1 and F2 generations. In F2 animals, there were no significant differences in total emetic responses or emetic latency between strains after nicotine injection or CuSO4 gavage. However, isoflurane exposure stimulated more emesis in F1 and F2 high versus low strain animals, which suggests a relationship between vestibular- and inhalational anesthesia-induced emesis. Overall, these results indicate genetic determinants of motion sickness in a preclinical model and a potential common mechanism for motion sickness and inhalational anesthesia-induced emesis. Future work may include genetic mapping of potential &quot;emetic sensitivity genes&quot; to develop novel therapies or diagnostics for patients with high risk of nausea and vomiting.
Most organisms display circadian rhythms that coordinate complex physiological and behavioral processes to optimize energy acquisition, storage, and expenditure. Disruptions to the circadian system with environmental manipulations such as nighttime light exposure alter metabolic energy homeostasis. Exercise is known to strengthen circadian rhythms and to prevent weight gain. Therefore, we hypothesized providing mice a running wheel for voluntary exercise would buffer against the effects of light at night (LAN) on weight gain. Mice were maintained in either dark (LD) or dim (dLAN) nights and provided either a running wheel or a locked wheel. Mice exposed to dim, rather than dark, nights increased weight gain. Access to a functional running wheel prevented body mass gain in mice exposed to dLAN. Voluntary exercise appeared to limit weight gain independently of rescuing changes to the circadian system caused by dLAN; increases in daytime food intake induced by dLAN were not diminished by increased voluntary exercise. Furthermore, although all of the LD mice displayed a 24h rhythm in wheel running, nearly half (4 out of 9) of the dLAN mice did not display a dominant 24h rhythm in wheel running. These results indicate that voluntary exercise can prevent weight gain induced by dLAN without rescuing circadian rhythm disruptions.
Acute stress increases the expression of cytokines and other inflammatory-related factors in the CNS, plasma, and endocrine glands, and activation of inflammatory signaling pathways within the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis may play a key role in later stress sensitization. In addition to providing a summary of stress effects on neuroimmune changes within the CNS, we present a series of experiments that characterize stress effects on members of the interleukin-1 (IL-1) super-family and other inflammatory-related genes in key structures comprising the HPA axis (PVN, pituitary and adrenal glands), followed by a series of experiments examining the impact of exogenous hormone administration (CRH and ACTH) and dexamethasone on the expression of inflammatory-related genes in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. The results demonstrated robust, time-dependent, and asynchronous expression patterns for IL-1 and IL-1R2 in the PVN, with substantial increases in IL-6 and COX-2 in the adrenal glands emerging as key findings. The effects of exogenous CRH and ACTH were predominantly isolated within the adrenals. Finally, pretreatment with dexamethasone severely blunted neuroimmune changes in the adrenal glands, but not in the PVN. These findings provide novel insight into the relationship between stress, the expression of inflammatory signaling factors within key structures comprising the HPA axis, and their interaction with HPA hormones, and provide a foundation for better understanding the role of cytokines as modulators of hypothalamic, pituitary and adrenal sensitivity.
Structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies have provided evidence for corpus callosum (CC) white matter abnormalities in bipolar disorder (BD) and schizophrenia (SZ). These findings include alterations in shape, volume, white matter intensity and structural integrity compared to healthy control populations. Although CC alterations are implicated in both SZ and BD, no study of which we are aware has investigated callosal subregion differences between these two patient populations. We used diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) to assess CC integrity in patients with BD (n=16), SZ (n=19) and healthy controls (HC) (n=24). Fractional anisotropy (FA) of CC subregions was measured using region of interest (ROI) analysis and compared in the three groups. Significant group differences of FA values were revealed in five CC subregions, including the anterior genu, middle genu, posterior genu, posterior body and anterior splenium. FA values of the same subregions were significantly reduced in patients with SZ compared with HC. FA values were also significantly reduced in patients with BD compared to the HC group in the same subregions, excepting the middle genu. No significant difference was found between patient groups in any region. Most of the alterations in CC subregions were present in both the BD and SZ groups. These results imply an overlap in potential pathology, possibly relating to risk factors common to both disorders. The one region that differed between patient groups, the middle genu area, may serve as an illness marker and is perhaps involved in the different cognitive impairments observed in BD and SZ.
The cognitive deficit profile is different among individuals with schizophrenia. We quantified the amount of electroencephalographic activity unlocked to stimuli onset (noise power) over frontal regions regarding deficit in cognitive domains. Forty-six patients with schizophrenia and 27 healthy controls underwent clinical, cognitive and electrophysiological assessments. Noise power studies may be considered complementary but not equivalent to induced power studies. We compared gamma and theta noise power magnitude during a P300 paradigm between subsets of patients divided according to cognitive deficit in key domains and controls. Patients displayed higher gamma noise power activity at Fz site and significantly lower performance in all cognitive domains when compared to controls. The subset of patients with cognitive deficit for working memory and problem solving/executive functions domains displayed significantly higher frontal-lateral noise power values in comparison to the subset of patients without cognitive deficit and controls. Patients with significant cognitive deficits in domains with greater frontal contribution are also characterized by an abnormally higher gamma band noise power over the frontal region. Our data may endorse various biological subsets within schizophrenia, characterized by the presence or absence of a significant cognitive deficit in frontal domains.
Sitting behaviours may, independent of physical activity behaviours, be a distinct risk factor for multiple adverse health outcomes in patients with schizophrenia. In order to combat sitting behaviours health care providers and policy makers require further understanding of its determinants in this population group. The aim of the present study was to investigate the variance in sitting time explained by a wide range of community design and recreational environmental variables, above and beyond the variance accounted for by demographic variables. One hundred and twenty-three patients (42) with schizophrenia (mean age=41.5  12.6 years) were included in the final analysis. The built environment was rated using the Instruments for Assessing Levels of Physical Activity and Fitness environmental questionnaire and sitting time was assessed using the International Physical Activity Questionnaire-short (IPAQ) version. Regression analysis showed that environmental variables were related to sitting time. The body mass index (BMI) and disease stage explained 8.4% of the variance in sitting, while environmental correlates explained an additional 16.8%. Clinical practice guidelines should incorporate strategies targeting changes in sitting behaviours, from encouraging environmental changes to the availability of exercise equipment.
Although 96-100% of individuals with eating disorders (EDs) report insecure attachment, the specific mechanisms by which adult insecure attachment dimensions affect ED symptomatology remain to date largely unknown. This study examined maladaptive perfectionism as both a mediator and a moderator of the relationship between insecure attachment (anxiety and avoidance) and ED symptomatology in a clinical, treatment seeking, sample. Insecure anxious and avoidant attachment, maladaptive perfectionism, and ED symptomatology were assessed in 403 participants from three medium size specialized care centres for EDs in Italy. Structural equation modeling indicated that maladaptive perfectionism served as mediator between both insecure attachment patterns and ED symptomatology. It also interacted with insecure attachment to predict higher levels of ED symptoms - highlighting the importance of both insecure attachment patterns and maladaptive aspects of perfectionism as treatment targets. Multiple-group comparison analysis did not reveal differences across diagnostic groups (AN, BN, EDNOS) in mediating, main and interaction effects of perfectionism. These findings are consistent with recent discussions on the classification and treatment of EDs that have highlighted similarities between ED diagnostic groups and could be viewed through the lens of the Trans-theoretical Model of EDs. Implications for future research and intervention are discussed.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and methamphetamine (MA) dependence are associated with neural injury preferentially involving frontostriatal circuits. Little is known, however, about how these commonly comorbid conditions impact behavioral presentations typically associated with frontal systems dysfunction. Our sample comprised 47 HIV-uninfected/MA-nondependent; 25 HIV-uninfected/MA-dependent; 36 HIV-infected/MA-nondependent; and 28 HIV-infected/MA-dependent subjects. Participants completed self-report measures of &quot;frontal systems&quot; behaviors, including impulsivity/disinhibition, sensation-seeking, and apathy. They also underwent comprehensive neurocognitive and neuropsychiatric assessments that allowed for detailed characterization of neurocognitive deficits and comorbid/premorbid conditions, including lifetime Mood and Substance Use Disorders, Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder, and Antisocial Personality Disorder. Multivariable regression models adjusting for potential confounds (i.e., demographics and comorbid/premorbid conditions) showed that MA dependence was independently associated with increased impulsivity/disinhibition, sensation-seeking and apathy, and HIV infection with greater apathy. However, we did not see synergistic/additive effects of HIV and MA on frontal systems behaviors. Global neurocognitive impairment was relatively independent of the frontal systems behaviors, which is consistent with the view that these constructs may have relatively separable biopsychosocial underpinnings. Future research should explore whether both neurocognitive impairment and frontal systems behaviors may independently contribute to everyday functioning outcomes relevant to HIV and MA.
A variety of studies were addressed to differentiate responders and non-responders to substitution treatment among heroin dependent patients, without conclusive findings. In particular, preliminary pharmacogenetic findings have been reported to predict treatment effectiveness in mental health and substance use disorders. Aim of the present study was to investigate the possible association of buprenorphine (BUP) treatment outcome with gene variants that may affect kappa-opioid receptors and dopamine system function. One hundred and seven heroin addicts (West European, Caucasians) who underwent buprenorphine maintenance treatment were genotyped and classified into two groups (A and B) on the basis of treatment outcome. Non-responders to buprenorphine (group B) have been identified taking into account early drop out, continuous use of heroin, severe behavioral or psychiatric problems, misbehavior and diversion during the 6 months treatment period. No difference was evidenced between responders and non-responders to BUP in the frequency of kappa opioid receptor (OPRK1) 36G&gt;T SNP. The frequency of dopamine transporter (DAT) gene polymorphism (SLC6A3/DAT1), allele 10, was evidently much higher in &quot;non-responder&quot; than in &quot;responder&quot; individuals (64.9% vs. 55.93%) whereas the frequency of the category of other alleles (6, 7 and 11) was higher in responder than in non-responder individuals (11.02% vs. 2.13% respectively). On one hand, the hypothesis that possible gene-related changes in kappa-opioid receptor could consistently affect buprenorphine pharmacological action and clinical effectiveness was not confirmed in our study, at least in relation to the single nucleotide polymorphism 36G&gt;T. On the other hand, the possibility that gene-related dopamine changes could have reduced BUP effectiveness and impaired maintenance treatment outcome was cautiously supported by our findings. DAT1 gene variants such as allele 10, previously reported in association with personality and behavioral problems, would have influenced the effects of BUP-induced dopamine release, modulated through mu and kappa opioid receptors, and probably the related reinforcing capacity of the drug.
The aim of this study was to investigate findings of positron emission tomography with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG PET) in normal subjects to clarify the effects of sex differences, aging, and cognitive reserve on cerebral glucose metabolism. Participants comprised 123 normal adults who underwent 18F-FDG PET and a neuropsychological battery. We used statistical parametric mapping (SPM8) to investigate sex differences, and aging effects. The effects of cognitive reserve on 18F-FDG uptake were investigated using years of education as a proxy. Finally, we studied the effect of cognitive reserve on the recruitment of glucose metabolism in a memory task by dichotomizing the data according to educational level. Our results showed that the overall cerebral glucose metabolism in females was higher than that in males, whereas male participants had higher glucose metabolism in the bilateral inferior temporal gyri and cerebellum than females. Age-related hypometabolism was found in anterior regions, including the anterior cingulate gyrus. These areas are part of the attentional system, which may decline with aging even in healthy elderly individuals. Highly educated subjects revealed focal hypermetabolism in the right hemisphere and lower recruitment of glucose metabolism in memory tasks. This phenomenon is likely a candidate for a neural substrate of cognitive reserve.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) studies have identified changes in white matter tracts in schizophrenia patients and those at high risk of transition. Schizotypal samples represent a group on the schizophrenia continuum that share some aetiological risk factors but without the confounds of illness. The aim of the current study was to compare tract microstructural coherence as measured by fractional anisotropy (FA) between 12 psychometrically defined schizotypes and controls. We investigated bilaterally the uncinate and arcuate fasciculi (UF and AF) via a probabilistic tractography algorithm (PICo), with FA values compared between groups. Partial correlations were also examined between measures of subclinical hallucinatory/delusional experiences and FA values. Participants with schizotypal features were found to have increased FA values in the left hemisphere UF only. In the whole sample there was a positive correlation between FA values and measures of hallucinatory experience in the right AF. These findings suggest subtle changes in microstructural coherence are found in individuals with schizotypal features, but are not similar to changes predominantly observed in clinical samples. Correlations between mild hallucinatory experience and FA values could indicate increasing tract coherence could be associated with symptom formation.
Increased Reaction Time (RT) studies intra-subject variability is an emerging and consistent finding in RT studies of schizophrenia. A group of 23 patients suffering from DSM-IV schizophrenia and a group of 23 age-matched control subjects performed two RT tasks requiring basic sensorimotor processing and engaging two different motor systems: the Finger Lift Reaction Time task and the Voluntary Saccade Reaction Time task. The Ex-Gaussian model was applied to the RT distributions measuring the mean (mu), and standard deviation (sigma) of a Gaussian component thought to reflect sensorimotor processing and an exponential component (tau), thought to reflect an intermediate decision process. In both tasks, a significantly larger RT intra-subject variability effectively dissociated patients from controls. RT intra-subject variability in the two tasks was highly correlated only for patients. Both sigma and tau were significantly higher in the patient group with tau being the best predictor of schizophrenia. Furthermore, only in the patient group were sigma and tau highly correlated between the two tasks. The results reflect a deficit in information processing that may not be confined to decision processes related to the frontal cortex; rather, they may indicate dysfunction in distributed neural networks modulating adaptive regulation of performance.
There is now considerable evidence that white matter abnormalities play a role in the neurobiology of autism. Little research has been directed, however, at understanding (a) typical white matter development in autism and how this relates to neurocognitive impairments observed in the disorder. In this study we used probabilistic tractography to identify the cingulum bundle in 21 adolescents and young adults with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), and 21 age- and sex-matched healthy volunteers. We investigated group differences in the relationships between age and fractional anisotropy, a putative measure of white matter integrity, within the cingulum bundle. Moreover, in a preliminary investigation, we examined the relationship between cingulum fractional anisotropy and executive functioning using the Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function (BRIEF). The ASD participants demonstrated significantly lower fractional anisotropy within the cingulum bundle compared to the typically developing volunteers. There was a significant group-by-age interaction such that the ASD group did not show the typical age-associated increases in fractional anisotropy observed among healthy individuals. Moreover, lower fractional anisotropy within the cingulum bundle was associated with worse BRIEF behavioral regulation index scores in the ASD group. The current findings implicate a dysregulation in cingulum bundle white matter development occurring in late adolescence and early adulthood in ASD, and suggest that greater disturbances in this trajectory are associated with executive dysfunction in ASD.
Whether alexithymia is a personality trait which increases the risk of Panic Disorder (PD) is still debated. In this prospective study, alexithymic levels were evaluated before, during and after an anxious episode. Therefore, the alexithymic levels, the presence of PD and the severity of anxious-depressive symptoms were evaluated, at intervals of about 1 month, in pregnant women, attending the Centers for Prenatal Care, using the Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20), the Primary Care Evaluation of Mental Disorders and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). Twenty-one women affected by PD and 256 healthy women (controls) were included in the study. Women who developed PD, compared to controls, showed similar TAS-20 and HADS scores during the pre-morbid phase, a significant increase of them during PD and a significant decrease after symptoms improvement, whereas no change was observed in controls. Our data suggest that in pregnant women alexithymia does not represent a personality trait that increases the risk of developing PD, and they support the hypothesis that alexithymia is a state dependent phenomenon in PD pregnant women.
Approximately one-half of all patients affected by bipolar disorder present psychotic features at least in one occasion. This factor worsens the personal and social burden of the disease. Several studies find an altered brain activity in mesolimbic and prefrontal regions in relation to aberrant attribution of salience to stimuli in delusional patients. The aim of the present study is to investigate gray matter (GM) structural correlates of the past history of delusions in a sample of bipolar patients. The sample includes 34 delusional and 39 non-delusional bipolar patients. Brain-imaging volumetric sequences were acquired on a 3.0 T scanner. Voxel based morphometry (VBM) was performed comparing delusional and non-delusional patients. VBM analysis found significant (p=0.001) differences in prefrontal areas and in the insula where delusional patients show lower GM volume compared to non-delusional patients. The main finding of the present study is a reduction of gray matter volume in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and in the insula of delusional patients. This result supports the hypothesis of abnormalities in salience and executive-control networks of delusional patients, which could be associated with an aberrant assignment of salience to the elements of one's own experience that is linked to delusion and psychotic symptoms.
The two objectives of the current study were: (1) to identify daily patterns of negative affect (NA) in obese individuals; and (2) to determine whether daily affect patterns were related to overeating without loss of control (OE-only), loss of control eating without overeating (LOC-only), and binge eating (BE) episodes. Fifty obese (BMI=40.3  08.5) adults (84.0% female) completed a two-week ecological momentary assessment protocol during which they completed assessments of NA and indicated whether their eating episodes were characterized by OE and/or LOC. Latent growth mixture modeling (LGMM) was used to identify daily trajectories of NA. GEE analysis was used to determine whether daily affect trajectories were differentially related to the frequency of OE-only, LOC-only, and BE episodes. The LGMM analyses identified nine unique trajectories of NA. Significantly higher frequencies of OE-only and BE episodes occurred on days characterized by high or increasing levels of NA. There were no significant differences between classes for the frequency of LOC-only episodes. These data suggest that NA may act as an antecedent to OE-only and BE episodes and that targeting &quot;problematic affect days&quot; may reduce the occurrence of OE-only and BE episodes among obese individuals.
Cognitive variables contribute to the etiology of affective disorders. With the differentiation between explicit and implicit measures some studies have indicated underlying depressogenic schemata even in bipolar disorders. We tested for differences in implicit motives and cognitive variables between patients with remitted unipolar and bipolar disorder compared to controls and in a high-risk sample. Additionally we investigated whether affective symptoms relate to those variables. We cross-sectionally examined N=164 participants (53 with bipolar disorder, 58 with major depression, and 53 without affective disorders) and a high-risk sample (N=49) of adolescent children of either parents with unipolar or bipolar disorder or of healthy parents. The Multi-Motive-Grid was used to measure the implicit motives achievement, affiliation, and power, in addition to the cognitive measures of self-esteem, dysfunctional attitudes, and perfectionism. Unipolar and bipolar groups did not differ from healthy controls in implicit motives but showed higher scores in the cognitive factors. Adolescents at high risk for unipolar disorder showed lower scores in the power and achievement motives compared to adolescents at low risk. Subsyndromal depressive symptoms were related to the cognitive variables in both samples. Our results underline the importance of cognitive-behavioral treatment for both unipolar and bipolar disorder.
While structural abnormalities of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) may pre-date and predict psychosis onset, the relationships between functional deficits, cognitive and psychosocial impairments has yet to be explored in the at-risk period. An established measure of cognitive control (AXCPT) was administered to demographically matched clinical-high-risk (CHR; n=25), first-episode schizophrenia (FE; n=35), and healthy control (HC; n=35) participants during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate these relationships. CHR and FE individuals demonstrated impaired context processing and reduced DLPFC activation relative to HC individuals during increased cognitive control demands. FE and CHR individuals' ability to increase DLPFC activity in response to cognitive control demands was associated with better task performance. Task performance was also associated with severity of disorganization and poverty symptoms in FE participants. These findings support more extensive studies using fMRI to examine the clinical significance of prefrontal cortical functioning in the earliest stages of psychosis.





Tinnitus, phantom sound perception, is a worldwide highly prevalent disorder for which no clear underlying pathology has been established and for which no approved drug is on the market. Thus, there is an urgent need for new approaches to understand this condition. We used a network pharmacology side-effect analysis to search for genes that are involved in tinnitus generation. We analyzed a network of 1,313 drug-target pairs, based on 275 compounds that elicit tinnitus as side effect and their targets reported in databases, and used a quantitative score to identify emergent significant targets that were more common than expected at random. Cyclooxigenase 1 and 2 were significant, which validates our approach, since salicylate is a known tinnitus generator. More importantly, we predict previously unknown tinnitus-related targets. The present results have important implications toward understanding tinnitus pathophysiology and might pave the way toward the design of novel pharmacotherapies.CPT Pharmacometrics Syst. Pharmacol. (2014) 3, e97; doi:10.1038/psp.2013.75; published online 29 January 2014.


Sensory hair cell (HC) loss is a major cause of permanent hearing and balance impairments for humans and other mammals. Yet, fish, amphibians, reptiles, and birds readily replace HCs and recover from such sensory deficits. It is unknown what prevents replacement in mammals, but cell replacement capacity declines contemporaneously with massive postnatal thickening of F-actin bands at the junctions between vestibular supporting cells (SCs). In non-mammals, SCs can give rise to regenerated HCs, and the bands remain thin even in adults. Here we investigated the stability of the F-actin bands between SCs in ears from chickens and mice and Madin-Darby canine kidney cells. Pharmacological experiments and fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) of SC junctions in utricles from mice that express a -actin-GFP fusion protein showed that the thickening F-actin bands develop increased resistance to depolymerization and exceptional stability that parallels a sharp decline in the cell replacement capacity of the maturing mammalian ear. The FRAP recovery rate and the mobile fraction of -actin-GFP both decreased as the bands thickened with age and became highly stabilized. In utricles from neonatal mice, time-lapse recordings in the vicinity of dying HCs showed that numerous SCs change shape and organize multicellular actin purse strings that reseal the epithelium. In contrast, adult SCs appeared resistant to deformation, with resealing responses limited to just a few neighboring SCs that did not form purse strings. The exceptional stability of the uniquely thick F-actin bands at the junctions of mature SCs may play an important role in restricting dynamic repair responses in mammalian vestibular epithelia.
Whisker-based object localization requires activation and plasticity of somatosensory and motor cortex. These parts of the cerebral cortex receive strong projections from the cerebellum via the thalamus, but it is unclear whether and to what extent cerebellar processing may contribute to such a sensorimotor task. Here, we subjected knock-out mice, which suffer from impaired intrinsic plasticity in their Purkinje cells and long-term potentiation at their parallel fiber-to-Purkinje cell synapses (L7-PP2B), to an object localization task with a time response window (RW). Water-deprived animals had to learn to localize an object with their whiskers, and based upon this location they were trained to lick within a particular period (&quot;go&quot; trial) or refrain from licking (&quot;no-go&quot; trial). L7-PP2B mice were not ataxic and showed proper basic motor performance during whisking and licking, but were severely impaired in learning this task compared with wild-type littermates. Significantly fewer L7-PP2B mice were able to learn the task at long RWs. Those L7-PP2B mice that eventually learned the task made unstable progress, were significantly slower in learning, and showed deficiencies in temporal tuning. These differences became greater as the RW became narrower. Trained wild-type mice, but not L7-PP2B mice, showed a net increase in simple spikes and complex spikes of their Purkinje cells during the task. We conclude that cerebellar processing, and potentiation in particular, can contribute to learning a whisker-based object localization task when timing is relevant. This study points toward a relevant role of cerebellum-cerebrum interaction in a sophisticated cognitive task requiring strict temporal processing.
Subjects performing simple reaction-time tasks can improve reaction times by learning the expected timing of action-imperative stimuli and preparing movements in advance. Success or failure on the previous trial is often an important factor for determining whether a subject will attempt to time the stimulus or wait for it to occur before initiating action. The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) has been implicated in enabling the top-down control of action depending on the outcome of the previous trial. Analysis of spike activity from the rat mPFC suggests that neural integration is a key mechanism for adaptive control in precisely timed tasks. We show through simulation that a spiking neural network consisting of coupled neural integrators captures the neural dynamics of the experimentally recorded mPFC. Errors lead to deviations in the normal dynamics of the system, a process that could enable learning from past mistakes. We expand on this coupled integrator network to construct a spiking neural network that performs a reaction-time task by following either a cue-response or timing strategy, and show that it performs the task with similar reaction times as experimental subjects while maintaining the same spiking dynamics as the experimentally recorded mPFC.
Sleep impairments are comorbid with a variety of neurological and psychiatric disorders including depression, epilepsy, and alcohol abuse. Despite the prevalence of these disorders, the cellular mechanisms underlying the interaction between sleep disruption and behavior remain poorly understood. In this study, the impact of chronic sleep loss on sleep homeostasis was examined in C57BL/6J mice following 3 d of sleep restriction. The electroencephalographic power of slow-wave activity (SWA; 0.5-4 Hz) in nonrapid eye movement (NREM) sleep and adenosine tone were measured during and after sleep restriction, and following subsequent acute sleep deprivation. During the first day of sleep restriction, SWA and adenosine tone increased, indicating a homeostatic response to sleep loss. On subsequent days, SWA declined, and this was accompanied by a corresponding reduction in adenosine tone caused by a loss of one source of extracellular adenosine. Furthermore, the response to acute sleep deprivation (6 h) was significantly attenuated in sleep-restricted mice. These effects were long-lasting with reduced SWA and adenosine tone persisting for at least 2 weeks. To investigate the behavioral consequences of chronic sleep restriction, sensitivity to the motor-impairing effects of alcohol was also examined. Sleep-restricted mice were significantly less sensitive to alcohol when tested 24 h after sleep restriction, an effect that persisted for 4 weeks. Intracerebroventricular infusion of an adenosine A1 receptor antagonist produced a similar decrease in sensitivity to alcohol. These results suggest that chronic sleep restriction induces a sustained impairment in adenosine-regulated sleep homeostasis and consequentially impacts the response to alcohol.
Transplantation of Schwann cells (SCs) is a promising therapeutic strategy for spinal cord repair. SCs introduced into lesions support axon regeneration, but because these axons do not exit the transplant, additional approaches with SCs are needed. Here, we transplanted SCs genetically modified to secrete a bifunctional neurotrophin (D15A) and chondroitinase ABC (ChABC) into a subacute contusion injury in rats. We examined the effects of these modifications on graft volume, SC number, degradation of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs), astrogliosis, SC myelination of axons, propriospinal and supraspinal axon numbers, locomotor outcome (BBB scoring, CatWalk gait analysis), and mechanical and thermal sensitivity on the hind paws. D15A secreted from transplanted SCs increased graft volume and SC number and myelinated axon number. SCs secreting ChABC significantly decreased CSPGs, led to some egress of SCs from the graft, and increased propriospinal and 5-HT-positive axons in the graft. SCs secreting both D15A and ChABC yielded the best responses: (1) the largest number of SC myelinated axons, (2) more propriospinal axons in the graft and host tissue around and caudal to it, (3) more corticospinal axons closer to the graft and around and caudal to it, (4) more brainstem neurons projecting caudal to the transplant, (5) increased 5-HT-positive axons in the graft and caudal to it, (6) significant improvement in aspects of locomotion, and (7) improvement in mechanical and thermal allodynia. This is the first evidence that the combination of SC transplants engineered to secrete neurotrophin and chondroitinase further improves axonal regeneration and locomotor and sensory function.
Recent theories of voluntary control predict that multiple motor strategies can be precomputed and expressed throughout movement. We examined online decisional processing in humans by asking them to make reaching movements with obstacles located just to the sides of a direct path between start and end targets. On random trials, the limb was perturbed with one of four mechanical loads that varied in direction and amplitude. Notably, we observed two different strategies when we applied a perturbation (left medium-sized) that deviated the participants' hand directly toward an obstacle. In some trials, subjects directed their hand between the obstacles and in other trials to the left of the obstacles. Importantly, changes in the muscle stretch response between these two strategies were observed in &lt;60 ms after perturbation, during the R2 long-latency epoch (~45-75 ms). As predicted, the selected strategy depended on the estimated position of the limb when it was perturbed. In our second experiment, we presented either one or three potential goal targets. Movements initially directed to the closest target could be quickly redirected to other potential targets after a perturbation. Differences in muscle stretch responses for redirected movements were observed ~75 ms after perturbation during the R3 long-latency epoch (~75-105 ms). The results show that decisional processes are rapidly implemented during movement execution. In addition, our data suggest a hierarchical process with corrective responses on &quot;how&quot; to attain a behavioral goal expressed during the R2 epoch and responses on &quot;what&quot; goal to attain during the R3 epoch.
The adult olfactory bulb is continuously supplied with neuronal precursors that differentiate into granule and periglomerular cells. Little is known about the structural dynamic of adult-born granule cells (GCs) at their different maturational stages, the mechanisms controlling the integration of new neurons into the pre-existing neuronal circuitry, or the role of principal cell activity in these processes. We used two-photon time-lapse imaging to reveal a high level of filopodia formation and retraction on the distal dendrites of adult-born GCs at their early maturational stages. This dynamic decreased as the adult-born interneurons matured. Filopodia formation/retraction on the dendrites of adult-born GCs at the early maturational stages depended on the activation of NMDA receptors (NMDARs). The stimulation of mitral cells using a pattern that mimics activity of these principal neurons to odor presentation promotes the NMDAR-dependent filopodia dynamic of adult-born GCs during their early but not late maturational stages. Moreover, NMDA iontophoresis was sufficient to induce the formation of new filopodia on the distal dendrites of immature adult-born GCs. The maturation of adult-born interneurons was accompanied by a progressive hyperpolarization of the membrane potential and an increased Mg(2+) block of NMDARs. Decreasing the extracellular Mg(2+) concentration led to filopodia formation on the dendrites of mature adult-born GCs following NMDA iontophoresis. Our findings reveal an increased structural dynamic of adult-born GCs during the early stages of their integration into the mouse bulbar circuitry and highlight a critical period during which the principal cells' activity influences filopodia formation/retraction on the dendrites of interneurons.
Axon development and elongation require strictly controlled new membrane addition. Previously, we have shown the involvement of Rab10 in directional membrane insertion of plasmalemmal precursor vesicles (PPVs) during neuronal polarization and axonal growth. However, the mechanism responsible for PPV transportation remains unclear. Here we show that c-Jun N-terminal kinase-interacting protein 1 (JIP1) interacts with GTP-locked active form of Rab10 and directly connects Rab10 to kinesin-1 light chain (KLC). The kinesin-1/JIP1/Rab10 complex is required for anterograde transport of PPVs during axonal growth. Downregulation of JIP1 or KLC or disrupting the formation of this complex reduces anterograde transport of PPVs in developing axons and causes neuronal polarity defect. Furthermore, this complex plays an important role in neocortical neuronal polarization of rats in vivo. Thus, this study has demonstrated a mechanism underlying directional membrane trafficking involved in axon development.
Muscle tone abnormalities are associated with many CNS pathologies and severely limit recovery of motor control. Muscle tone depends on the level of excitability of spinal motoneurons and interneurons. The present study investigated the following hypotheses: (1) direct current flowing from spinal cord to sciatic nerve [spinal-to-sciatic direct current stimulation (DCS)] would inhibit spinal motor neurons and interneurons, hence reducing muscle tone; and (2) direct current flowing in the opposite direction (sciatic-to-spinal DCS) would excite spinal motor neurons and interneurons, hence increasing muscle tone. Current intensity was biased to be ~170 times greater at the spinal column than at the sciatic nerve. The results showed marked effects of DCS on muscle tone. In controls and mice with spinal cord injuries with spasticity, spinal-to-sciatic DCS reduced transit and steady stretch-induced nerve and muscle responses. Sciatic-to-spinal DCS caused opposite effects. These findings provide the first direct evidence that trans-spinal DCS can alter muscle tone and suggest that this approach could be used to reduce both hypotonia and hypertonia.
Previous studies demonstrated that Schwann cells (SCs) express distinct motor and sensory phenotypes, which impact the ability of these pathways to selectively support regenerating neurons. In the present study, unbiased microarray analysis was used to examine differential gene expression in denervated motor and sensory pathways in rats. Several genes that were significantly upregulated in either denervated sensory or motor pathways were identified and two secreted factors were selected for further analysis: osteopontin (OPN) and clusterin (CLU) which were upregulated in denervated motor and sensory pathways, respectively. Sciatic nerve transection induced upregulation of OPN and CLU and expression of both returned to baseline levels with ensuing regeneration. In vitro analysis using exogenously applied OPN induced outgrowth of motor but not sensory neurons. CLU, however, induced outgrowth of sensory neurons, but not motor neurons. To assess the functional importance of OPN and CLU, peripheral nerve regeneration was examined in OPN and CLU(-/-) mice. When compared with OPN(+/+) mice, motor neuron regeneration was reduced in OPN(-/-) mice. Impaired regeneration through OPN(-/-) peripheral nerves grafted into OPN(+/+) mice indicated that loss of OPN in SCs was responsible for reduced motor regeneration. Sensory neuron regeneration was impaired in CLU(-/-) mice following sciatic nerve crush and impaired regeneration nerve fibers through CLU(-/-) nerve grafts transplanted into CLU(+/+) mice indicated that reduced sensory regeneration is likely due to SC-derived CLU. Together, these studies suggest unique roles for SC-derived OPN and CLU in regeneration of peripheral motor and sensory axons.
Synapse loss occurs normally during development and pathologically during neurodegenerative disease. Long-term depression, a proposed physiological correlate of synapse elimination, requires caspase-3 and the mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis. Here, we show that caspase-3 activity is essential--and can act locally within neurons--for regulation of spine density and dendrite morphology. By photostimulation of Mito-KillerRed, we induced caspase-3 activity in defined dendritic regions of cultured neurons. Within the photostimulated region, local elimination of dendritic spines and dendrite retraction occurred in a caspase-3-dependent manner without inducing cell death. However, pharmacological inhibition of inhibitor of apoptosis proteins or proteasome function led to neuronal death, suggesting that caspase activation is spatially restricted by these &quot;molecular brakes&quot; on apoptosis. Caspase-3 knock-out mice have increased spine density and altered miniature EPSCs, confirming a physiological involvement of caspase-3 in the regulation of spines in vivo.
The frontal eye fields (FEF) are thought to mediate response selection during oculomotor decision tasks. In addition, many FEF neurons have robust postsaccadic responses, but their role in postchoice evaluative processes (online performance monitoring) is only beginning to become apparent. Here we report error-related neural activity in FEF while monkeys performed a biased speed-categorization task that enticed the animals to make impulsive errors. Twenty-three percent of cells in macaque FEF coded an internally generated error-related signal, and many of the same cells also coded task difficulty. The observed responses are primarily consistent with three related concepts that have been associated with performance monitoring: (1) response conflict; (2) uncertainty; and (3) reward prediction. Overall, our findings suggest a novel role for the FEF as part of the neural network that evaluates the preceding choice to optimize behavior in the future.
Within neurons, mitochondria are nonuniformly distributed and are retained at sites of high activity and metabolic demand. Glutamate transport and the concomitant activation of the Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase represent a substantial energetic demand on astrocytes. We hypothesized that mitochondrial mobility within astrocytic processes might be regulated by neuronal activity and glutamate transport. We imaged organotypic hippocampal slice cultures of rat, in which astrocytes maintain their highly branched morphologies and express glutamate transporters. Using time-lapse confocal microscopy, the mobility of mitochondria within individual astrocytic processes and neuronal dendrites was tracked. Within neurons, a greater percentage of mitochondria were mobile than in astrocytes. Furthermore, they moved faster and farther than in astrocytes. Inhibiting neuronal activity with tetrodotoxin (TTX) increased the percentage of mobile mitochondria in astrocytes. Mitochondrial movement in astrocytes was inhibited by vinblastine and cytochalasin D, demonstrating that this mobility depends on both the microtubule and actin cytoskeletons. Inhibition of glutamate transport tripled the percentage of mobile mitochondria in astrocytes. Conversely, application of the transporter substrate d-aspartate reversed the TTX-induced increase in the percentage of mobile mitochondria. Inhibition of reversed Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange also increased the percentage of mitochondria that were mobile. Last, we demonstrated that neuronal activity increases the probability that mitochondria appose GLT-1 particles within astrocyte processes, without changing the proximity of GLT-1 particles to VGLUT1. These results imply that neuronal activity and the resulting clearance of glutamate by astrocytes regulate the movement of astrocytic mitochondria and suggest a mechanism by which glutamate transporters might retain mitochondria at sites of glutamate uptake.
Human working memory capacity develops during childhood and is a strong predictor of future academic performance, in particular, achievements in mathematics and reading. Predicting working memory development is important for the early identification of children at risk for poor cognitive and academic development. Here we show that structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging data explain variance in children's working memory capacity 2 years later, which was unique variance in addition to that predicted using cognitive tests. While current working memory capacity correlated with frontoparietal cortical activity, the future capacity could be inferred from structure and activity in basal ganglia and thalamus. This gives a novel insight into the neural mechanisms of childhood development and supports the idea that neuroimaging can have a unique role in predicting children's cognitive development.
Neuromodulators released during and after a fearful experience promote the consolidation of long-term memory for that experience. Because overconsolidation may contribute to the recurrent and intrusive memories of post-traumatic stress disorder, neuromodulatory receptors provide a potential pharmacological target for prevention. Stimulation of muscarinic receptors promotes memory consolidation in several conditioning paradigms, an effect primarily associated with the M1 receptor (M1R). However, neither inhibiting nor genetically disrupting M1R impairs the consolidation of cued fear memory. Using the M1R agonist cevimeline and antagonist telenzepine, as well as M1R knock-out mice, we show here that M1R, along with 2-adrenergic (2AR) and D5-dopaminergic (D5R) receptors, regulates the consolidation of cued fear memory by redundantly activating phospholipase C (PLC) in the basolateral amygdala (BLA). We also demonstrate that fear memory consolidation in the BLA is mediated in part by neuromodulatory inhibition of the M-current, which is conducted by KCNQ channels and is known to be inhibited by muscarinic receptors. Manipulating the M-current by administering the KCNQ channel blocker XE991 or the KCNQ channel opener retigabine reverses the effects on consolidation caused by manipulating 2AR, D5R, M1R, and PLC. Finally, we show that cAMP and protein kinase A (cAMP/PKA) signaling relevant to this stage of consolidation is upstream of these neuromodulators and PLC, suggesting an important presynaptic role for cAMP/PKA in consolidation. These results support the idea that neuromodulatory regulation of ion channel activity and neuronal excitability is a critical mechanism for promoting consolidation well after acquisition has occurred.
The human foot is characterized by a pronounced longitudinal arch (LA) that compresses and recoils in response to external load during locomotion, allowing for storage and return of elastic energy within the passive structures of the arch and contributing to metabolic energy savings. Here, we examine the potential for active muscular contribution to the biomechanics of arch deformation and recoil. We test the hypotheses that activation of the three largest plantar intrinsic foot muscles, abductor hallucis, flexor digitorum and quadratus plantae is associated with muscle stretch in response to external load on the foot and that activation of these muscles (via electrical stimulation) will generate sufficient force to counter the deformation of LA caused by the external load. We found that recruitment of the intrinsic foot muscles increased with increasing load, beyond specific load thresholds. Interestingly, LA deformation and muscle stretch plateaued towards the maximum load of 150% body weight, when muscle activity was greatest. Electrical stimulation of the plantar intrinsic muscles countered the deformation that occurred owing to the application of external load by reducing the length and increasing the height of the LA. These findings demonstrate that these muscles have the capacity to control foot posture and LA stiffness and may provide a buttressing effect during foot loading. This active arch stiffening mechanism may have important implications for how forces are transmitted during locomotion and postural activities as well as consequences for metabolic energy saving.

Critical analysis of recent research suggesting that light pollution causes Parkinson's disease (PD) reveals that such a hypothesis is unsustainable in the context of therapeutic use of light in treating various neuropsychiatric conditions. Reinterpretation of their findings suggests that retinal damage caused by prolonged light exposure may have contributed to the observed enhancement of experimental PD. To test this hypothesis further, forty-two Sprague Dawley rats received microinjections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), 1-methyl-4-phenyl-2, 4, 6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), paraquat or rotenone into the vitreal mass in doses so minute that the effects could not be attributed to diffusion into brain. Significant changes in five motor parameters consistent with symptoms of experimental PD were observed. These findings support the interpretation that the retina is involved in the control of motor function and in the aetiology of PD.




We used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and the statistical parametric mapping (SPM) image analysis technique to localize lesions in post-stroke patients with attention deficits. SPM can be used to combine image data from multiple participants and correlate these images with other data sets. Magnetic resonance imaging acquisitions were obtained from 115 post-stroke patients, who were systemically assessed for attention deficits using a standardized test (the Clinical Assessment for Attention; CAT) that probes various domains of attention. We created an SPM that displayed an association between lesion location and attention deficit severity. The overlay plots were localized to the right hemisphere during a visual cancellation test, and were localized to the left hemisphere during other attention tests. Cortical lesion varied across specific test domain, whereas lesions from the thalamus to the basal ganglia on the dominant side were associated with performance across all attention tests/domains. Our findings are suggestive of a large-scale multimodal attentional network associated with the thalamus/basal ganglia.
This study first showed the behavioural benefits of novel combination therapy of L-dopa with acupuncture on Parkinson's disease, and its underlying mechanisms within basal ganglia. The previous study reported that acupuncture may improve the motor function of a Parkinson's disease (PD) mouse model by increasing the dopamine efflux and turnover ratio of dopamine. Hence, we hypothesised that combining L-dopa with acupuncture would have a behavioural benefit for those with PD. We performed unilateral injections of 6-OHDA into the striatum of C57Bl/6 mice to model hemi-Parkinsonian attributes. To test motor function and dyskinetic anomalies, we examined cylinder behaviour and abnormal involuntary movement (AIM), respectively. We found that (1) a 50% reduced dose of L-dopa (7.5 mg/kg) combined with acupuncture showed an improvement in motor function that was comparable to mice given the standard dose of L-dopa treatment (15 mg/kg) only, and that (2) the combination treatment (L-dopa +acupuncture) was significantly superior in reducing AIM scores when equivalent doses of L-dopa were used. The combination treatment also significantly reduces the abnormal increase of GABA contents in the substantia nigra compared to the standard L-dopa treatment. Furthermore, abnormal expression of FosB, the immediate early gene of L-dopa induced dyskinesia (LID), was mitigated in the striatum by the combination treatment. All of these results indicate that acupuncture enhances the benefits of L-dopa on motor function with reduced dose of L-dopa and alleviating LID by normalising neurochemical imbalance within the basal ganglia.
The original theory of the multi-step process of colorectal cancer (CRC), suggesting that the disease resulted from the accumulation of mutations in oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes in colonic mucosa cells, has been largely revised following the observation that epigenetic modifications of several genes occur in the average CRC genome. Therefore, the current opinion is that CRCs are the consequence of the accumulation of both mutations and epigenetic modifications of several genes. This mini-review article focuses on DNA methylation biomarkers in CRC. Recent large-scale DNA methylation studies suggest that CRCs can be divided into at least three-four subtypes according to the frequency of DNA methylation and those of mutations in key CRC genes. Despite hundreds of genes might be epigenetically modified in CRC cells, there is interest in the identification of DNA methylation biomarkers to be used for CRC diagnosis, progression, tendency to tissue invasion and metastasis, prognosis, and response to chemotherapeutic agents. Moreover, DNA methylation largely depends on one-carbon metabolism, the metabolic pathway required for the production of S-adenosylmethionine, the major intracellular methylating agent. Complex interactions are emerging among dietary one-carbon nutrients (folates, vitamin B6, vitamin B12, methionine, and others), their metabolic genes, CRC risk, and DNA methylation profiles in CRC. Moreover, active research is also focused on the possible contribution of folic acid dietary fortification during pregnancy and the possible methylation of CRC-related genes in the offspring.



Adenosine receptors (ARs) comprise a group of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) which mediate the physiological actions of adenosine. To date, four AR subtypes have been cloned and identified in different tissues. These receptors have distinct localization, signal transduction pathways and different means of regulation upon exposure to agonists. This review will describe the biochemical characteristics and signaling cascade associated with each receptor and provide insight into how these receptors are regulated in response to agonists. A key property of some of these receptors is their ability to serve as sensors of cellular oxidative stress, which is transmitted by transcription factors, such as nuclear factor (NF)-B, to regulate the expression of ARs. Recent observations of oligomerization of these receptors into homo- and heterodimers will be discussed. In addition, the importance of these receptors in the regulation of normal and pathological processes such as sleep, the development of cancers and in protection against hearing loss will be examined.










How homeostatic processes contribute to map plasticity and stability in sensory cortex is not well-understood. Classically, sensory deprivation first drives rapid Hebbian weakening of spiking responses to deprived inputs, which is followed days later by a slow homeostatic increase in spiking responses mediated by excitatory synaptic scaling. Recently, more rapid homeostasis by inhibitory circuit plasticity has been discovered in visual cortex, but whether this process occurs in other brain areas is not known. We tested for rapid homeostasis in layer 2/3 (L2/3) of rodent somatosensory cortex, where D-row whisker deprivation drives Hebbian weakening of whisker-evoked spiking responses after an unexplained initial delay, but no homeostasis of deprived whisker responses is known. We hypothesized that the delay reflects rapid homeostasis through disinhibition, which masks the onset of Hebbian weakening of L2/3 excitatory input. We found that deprivation (3 d) transiently increased whisker-evoked spiking responses in L2/3 single units before classical Hebbian weakening (5 d), whereas whisker-evoked synaptic input was reduced during both periods. This finding suggests a transient homeostatic increase in L2/3 excitability. In whole-cell recordings from L2/3 neurons in vivo, brief deprivation decreased whisker-evoked inhibition more than excitation and increased the excitation-inhibition ratio. In contrast, synaptic scaling and increased intrinsic excitability were absent. Thus, disinhibition is a rapid homeostatic plasticity mechanism in rodent somatosensory cortex that transiently maintains whisker-evoked spiking in L2/3, despite the onset of Hebbian weakening of excitatory input.
Sweet taste cells play critical roles in food selection and feeding behaviors. Drosophila sweet neurons express eight gustatory receptors (Grs) belonging to a highly conserved clade in insects. Despite ongoing efforts, little is known about the fundamental principles that underlie how sweet tastants are detected by these receptors. Here, we provide a systematic functional analysis of Drosophila sweet receptors using the ab1C CO2-sensing olfactory neuron as a unique in vivo decoder. We find that each of the eight receptors of this group confers sensitivity to one or more sweet tastants, indicating direct roles in ligand recognition for all sweet receptors. Receptor response profiles are validated by analysis of taste responses in corresponding Gr mutants. The response matrix shows extensive overlap in Gr-ligand interactions and loosely separates sweet receptors into two groups matching their relationships by sequence. We then show that expression of a bitter taste receptor confers sensitivity to selected aversive tastants that match the responses of the neuron that the Gr is derived from. Finally, we characterize an internal fructose-sensing receptor, Gr43a, and its ortholog in the malaria mosquito, AgGr25, in the ab1C expression system. We find that both receptors show robust responses to fructose along with a number of other sweet tastants. Our results provide a molecular basis for tastant detection by the entire repertoire of sweet taste receptors in the fly and lay the foundation for studying Grs in mosquitoes and other insects that transmit deadly diseases.
Growing access to large-scale longitudinal structural neuroimaging data has fundamentally altered our understanding of cortical development en route to human adulthood, with consequences for basic science, medicine, and public policy. In striking contrast, basic anatomical development of subcortical structures such as the striatum, pallidum, and thalamus has remained poorly described--despite these evolutionarily ancient structures being both intimate working partners of the cortical sheet and critical to diverse developmentally emergent skills and disorders. Here, to begin addressing this disparity, we apply methods for the measurement of subcortical volume and shape to 1,171 longitudinally acquired structural magnetic resonance imaging brain scans from 618 typically developing males and females aged 5-25 y. We show that the striatum, pallidum, and thalamus each follow curvilinear trajectories of volume change, which, for the striatum and thalamus, peak after cortical volume has already begun to decline and show a relative delay in males. Four-dimensional mapping of subcortical shape reveals that (i) striatal, pallidal, and thalamic domains linked to specific fronto-parietal association cortices contract with age whereas other subcortical territories expand, and (ii) each structure harbors hotspots of sexually dimorphic change over adolescence--with relevance for sex-biased mental disorders emerging in youth. By establishing the developmental dynamism, spatial heterochonicity, and sexual dimorphism of human subcortical maturation, these data bring our spatiotemporal understanding of subcortical development closer to that of the cortex--allowing evolutionary, basic, and clinical neuroscience to be conducted within a more comprehensive developmental framework.

Stroke survivors often experience social isolation. Social interaction improves quality of life and decreases mortality after stroke. Male mice (20-25 g; C57BL/6N), all initially pair housed, were subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Mice were subsequently assigned into one of three housing conditions: (1) Isolated (SI); (2) Paired with their original cage mate who was also subjected to stroke (stroke partner (PH-SP)); or (3) Paired with their original cage mate who underwent sham surgery (healthy partner (PH-HP)). Infarct analysis was performed 72 h after stroke and chronic survival was assessed at day 30. Immediate post-stroke isolation led to a significant increase in infarct size and mortality. Interestingly, mice paired with a healthy partner had significantly lower mortality than mice paired with a stroke partner, despite equivalent infarct damage. To control for changes in infarct size induced by immediate post-stroke isolation, additional cohorts were assessed that remained pair housed for three days after stroke prior to randomization. Levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) were assessed at 90 days and cell proliferation (in cohorts injected with 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine, BrdU) was evaluated at 8 and 90 days after stroke. All mice in the delayed housing protocol had equivalent infarct volumes (SI, PH-HP and PH-SP). Mice paired with a healthy partner showed enhanced behavioral recovery compared with either isolated mice or mice paired with a stroke partner. Behavioral improvements paralleled changes in BDNF levels and neurogenesis. These findings suggest that the social environment has an important role in recovery after ischemic brain injury.


Although membrane shape varies greatly throughout the cell, the contribution of membrane curvature totransmembrane protein targeting is unknown because of the numerous sorting mechanisms that take place concurrently in cells. To isolate the effect of membrane shape, we used cell-sized giant unilamellar vesicles (GUVs) containing either the potassium channel KvAP or the water channel AQP0 to form membrane nanotubes with controlled radii. Whereas the AQP0 concentrations in flat and curved membranes were indistinguishable, KvAP was enriched in the tubes, with greater enrichment in more highly curved membranes. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching measurements showed that both proteins could freely diffuse through the neck between the tube and GUV, and the effect of each protein on membrane shape and stiffness was characterized using a thermodynamic sorting model. Thisstudy establishes the importance of membrane shape for targeting transmembrane proteins and provides a method for determining the effective shape and flexibility of membrane proteins.
Action potentials (APs) propagating along axons require the activation of voltage-gated Na(+) (Nav) channels. How Nav channels are transported into axons is unknown. We show that KIF5/kinesin-1 directly binds to ankyrin-G (AnkG) to transport Nav channels into axons. KIF5 and Nav1.2 channels bind to multiple sites in the AnkG N-terminal domain that contains 24 ankyrin repeats. Disrupting AnkG-KIF5 binding with small interfering RNA or dominant-negative constructs markedly reduced Nav channel levels at the axon initial segment (AIS) and along entire axons, thereby decreasing AP firing. Live-cell imaging showed that fluorescently tagged AnkG or Nav1.2 cotransported with KIF5 along axons. Deleting AnkG invivo or virus-mediated expression of a dominant-negative KIF5 construct specifically decreased the axonal level of Nav, but not Kv1.2, channels inmouse cerebellum. These results indicate that AnkG functions as an adaptor to link Nav channels to KIF5 during axonal transport before anchoring them to the AIS and nodes of Ranvier.
Developing countries in Africa and other regions share a similar profile of insufficient human resources for mental health, poor funding, a high unmet need for services and a low official prioritisation of mental health. This situation is worsened by misconceptions about the causes of mental disorders, stigma and discrimination that frequently result in harmful practices against persons with mental illness. Previous explorations of the required response to these challenges have identified the need for strong leadership and consistent advocacy as potential drivers of the desired change. The Mental Health Leadership and Advocacy Program (mhLAP) is a project that aims to provide and enhance the acquisition of skills in mental health leadership, service development, advocacy and policy planning and to build partnerships for action. Launched in 2010 to serve the Anglophone countries of The Gambia, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, this paper describes the components of the program, the experience gained since its initiation, and the achievements made during the three years of its implementation. These achievements include: 1) the annual training in mental health leadership and advocacy which has graduated 96 participants from 9 different African countries and 2) the establishment of a broad coalition of service user groups, non-governmental organizations, media practitioners and mental health professionals in each participating country to implement concerted mental health advocacy efforts that are focused on country-specific priorities.


















G protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) are a large superfamily of integral cell surface plasma membrane proteins that play key roles in transducing extracellular signals, including sensory stimuli, hormones, neurotransmitters, or paracrine factors into the intracellular environment through the activation of one or more heterotrimeric G proteins. Structural alterations provoked by mutations or variations in the genes coding for GPCRs may lead to misfolding, altered plasma membrane expression of the receptor protein and frequently to disease. A number of GPCRs regulate reproductive function at different levels; these receptors include the gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor (GnRHR) and the gonadotropin receptors (follicle-stimulating hormone receptor and luteinizing hormone receptor), which regulate the function of the pituitary-gonadal axis. Loss-of-function mutations in these receptors may lead to hypogonadotropic or hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, which encompass a broad spectrum of clinical phenotypes. In this review we describe mutations that provoke misfolding and failure of these receptors to traffick from the endoplasmic reticulum to the plasma membrane. We also discuss some aspects related to the therapeutic potential of some target-specific drugs that selectively bind to and rescue function of misfolded mutant GnRHR and gonadotropin receptors, and that represent potentially valuable strategies to treat diseases caused by inactivating mutations of these receptors.




Cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) plays an important role in reverse cholesterol transport, with decreased CETP activity increasing HDL levels. Formation of an alternative splice form lacking exon 9 (9-CETP) has been associated with two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in high linkage disequilibrium with each other, namely rs9930761 T&gt;C located in intron 8 in a putative splicing branch site and rs5883 C&gt;T in a possible exonic splicing enhancer (ESE) site in exon 9. To assess the relative effect of rs9930761 and rs5883 on splicing, mini-gene constructs spanning CETP exons 8 to 10, carrying all four possible allele combinations, were transfected into HEK293 and HepG2 cells. The minor T allele of rs5883 enhanced splicing significantly in both cell lines whereas the minor C allele of rs9930761 did not. In combination, the two alleles did not yield greater splicing than the rs5883 T allele alone in HepG2 cells. These results indicate that the genetic effect on CETP splicing is largely attributable to rs5883. We also confirm that 9-CETP protein is expressed in the liver but fails to circulate in the blood.





Several studies suggest that sleep improves perceptual skills in the visual texture discrimination task (TDT). Here we report that besides consolidation, sleep also generalizes the learned perceptual abilities to the untrained eye. Healthy volunteers (n = 32) were trained on the TDT, in which they had to discriminate between horizontal and vertical target textures briefly presented in the periphery of the visual field (left upper quadrant). After a 10-hr interval filled with either sleep or wakefulness, they were retested first on the trained eye in the trained quadrant and then on the untrained eye and quadrant. In line with prior findings, visual discrimination was globally higher after sleep than after wakefulness, as compared to performance levels at the end of training. Furthermore, discrimination performance was significantly improved only in the sleep condition for the untrained eye in the same quadrant, but also showed a trend to generalize to the untrained eye and untrained quadrant. Our results suggest that sleep-dependent perceptual skills continue developing at a later visual-process stage than the V1 area, where learning is not monocular anymore.

Neural stem cells (NSCs) have been the focus of an intensive effort to direct their differentiation in vitro towards desired neuronal phenotypes for cell replacement therapies. It is thought that NSCs derived from older embryos have limited neurogenic capacity and are restricted towards an astroglial fate. This idea is largely based on studies that typically analysed NSC-derived progeny following one week of in vitro differentiation. In this report, the neurogenic capacity of older ventral midbrain (VM) NSCs was assessed. When the older NSCs were differentiated for three weeks, there were significant increases in the numbers of newly born neurons at 14 and 21 days, as assessed by 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation. Therefore this study demonstrates that older NSCs retain significantly more neurogenic potential than was previously thought. These data have implications for NSC preparatory protocols and the choice of donor age for cell transplantation studies, and contributes to the understanding of NSC behaviour in vitro.
Circulating levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are known to be affected by aerobic exercise. As the previous research focus in humans has been to examine peripheral BDNF levels through blood, serum, and platelet assay, the present study investigated the association between basal urinary BDNF concentration and indices of aerobic fitness in a sample of young adults (n=52). Aerobic fitness was evaluated with self-report of exercise habits and heart rate (HR) assessment during a sub-maximal Step Test. BDNF concentration was determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and adjusted for creatinine. Results indicated that the basal BDNFlog/creatinine ratio was positively associated with greater frequency of exercise and, during aerobic challenge, a quicker rise in HR upon exercise, lower peak HR during exercise, and lower HR during the recovery period, each indicative of enhanced fitness. These results highlight the utility of urine capture as a non-invasive technique to assess for exercise-mediated changes in peripheral BDNF.
The primate somatosensory neuroaxis provides an excellent model system with which to investigate adult neural plasticity. Here, we report immunohistochemical staining data for AMPA and GABAA/B receptor subunits in the cuneate nucleus of adult squirrel monkeys 1 and 5 months after median nerve compression. This method of nerve injury allowed the investigation of the way in which patterns of receptor correlates change during peripheral nerve regeneration. These results are compared to cortical data collected within the same animals. As observed in the cortex, the pattern of subunit staining in the brainstem 1 month after nerve compression suggests that the sensory deprived nucleus enters a state of reorganization. That is, the expression of GluR2/3 AMPA receptor subunits is significantly increased, while GABA 1 and GABABR1b receptor subunits are significantly decreased. Five months after nerve injury, the pattern of subunit expression is again very similar to that observed in the infragranular layers of cortex. At this later time we observe a significant increase in GluR2/3 and GABABR1a, with no change in GABAA1, and a significant decrease in GABABR1b. Together these results suggest that during reorganization and recovery from injury the brainstem and cortex are governed by homogeneous mechanisms of plasticity.
Daily photic resetting of the circadian system relies on the transmission of light information from the retina to retinorecipient cells within the ventrolateral suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) core, and subsequent activation of rhythmic clock cells in the dorsolateral region. Some neurochemicals such as gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) mimic the phase shifting effects of light and induce Ca(2+)-dependent gene expression in the SCN. Activation of the cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB) is necessary for Ca(2+)-dependent transcription to occur and accompanies behavioral phase shifting; however, several biochemical cascades are involved in this phenomenon. One pathway that has been implicated in photic responses involves protein kinase A (PKA). It is not known if this pathway participates in mediating phase shifts to GRP. Here we show that preventing PKA activation attenuates both light- and GRP-induced phase shifts in locomotor behavior, but only during the early-subjective night. This finding demonstrates that activation of PKA is an important component in the photic signaling pathway and may mediate GRP output signaling from the SCN core to the shell; however, this effect appears to be temporally dependent.
A gene-environment (GxE) interaction is implicated in both the pathophysiology and treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD). This study modeled the effects of genetic vulnerability by using the Flinders sensitive line (FSL), a rat model of depression and its control counterpart-the Flinders resistant line (FRL). The effects of environmental vulnerability (e.g., early-life stress) were modeled by using maternal separation. Rats (n=105) were drawn from four groups reflecting experimental crossing of strain (FSL vs. FRL) and early-life stress (high vs. low) to assess the effects of two antidepressants (escitalopram or nortriptyline) compared to vehicle. Quantitative in vitro autoradiography was performed using [(125)I]MPPI (5-HT1A) and [(125)I]CYP (5-HT1B) in prefrontal cortex (PFC) and hippocampus. Stringent, Bonferroni-corrected statistical analyses showed significant strain-by-rearing-by-treatment (three-way) interactions in PFC 5-HT1A and hippocampal 5-HT1B receptors. Either vulnerability reduced serotonergic binding; no additive effects were associated with the two vulnerabilities. Both antidepressants increased hippocampal 5-HT1B receptor binding; however, only nortriptyline selectively increased PFC 5-HT1A receptor binding. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that antidepressant effects on the serotonergic system are shaped by a GxE interaction that depends on antidepressant class and brain region.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is highly prevalent in children and adolescents and both environmental and genetic factors play major roles. Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) are postulated to contribute to the development of the infant brain and an imbalance in these may increase the risk of ADHD. In recent clinical studies, supplementation with PUFAs improved symptoms of ADHD in some cases. Similarly, some beneficial effects were observed with PUFA treatment in neuronal cell cultures. Therefore, in this study, we hypothesized that a specific PUFA combination (available on the market as Equazen [Vifor Pharma, Switzerland]) along with iron, zinc, or vitamin B5 (vitB5) would produce an additive beneficial effect on the viability of rat pheochromocytoma-12 dopaminergic cells. The specific PUFA combination alone, as well as added to each of the three nutrients, was tested in a dose-response manner. The specific PUFAs significantly improved cell viability, starting at very low doses (100pM) from 60h up to 90h; while the combined treatment with vitB5 and minerals did not provide additional benefit. Our results confirmed the beneficial effect of the specific PUFAs on neuronal cell viability; although supplementation with minerals and vitB5 did not enhance this effect.
A strong link between obesity and dopamine (DA) has been established by studies associating body weight status to variants of genes related to DA signalling. Human and animal studies investigating this relationship have so far focused mainly on the role of DA within the mesolimbic pathway. The aim of this study was to investigate potential DA receptor dysregulation in the brainstem, where these receptors play a potential role in meal termination, during high-fat high-sugar diet (HFHS) exposure. Expression of other key genes, including proopiomelanocortin (POMC), was also analyzed. We randomized rats into three groups; ad libitum access to HFHS (n=24), restricted HFHS access (n=10), or controls (chow-fed, n=10). After 5 weeks, brainstem gene expression was investigated by qRT-PCR. We observed an increase in POMC expression in ad libitum HFHS-fed rats compared to chow-fed controls (p&lt;0.05). Further, expression of DA D2 receptor mRNA was down-regulated in the brainstem of the HFHS ad libitum-fed rats (p&lt;0.05), whereas expression of the DA D1 receptor was upregulated (p&lt;0.05) in these animals compared to chow-fed rats. In control experiments, we observed no effect relative to chow-fed controls on DA-receptor or POMC gene expression in the hypothalamus of HFHS diet-exposed rats, or in the brainstem of acutely food deprived rats. The present findings suggest brainstem POMC to be responsive to palatable foods, and that DA dysregulation after access to energy-dense diets occurs not only in striatal regions, but also in the brainstem, which could be relevant for overeating and for the development and maintenance of obesity.


Connexin43 (Cx43), the main gap junction channel-forming protein in astrocytes, is downregulated in malignant gliomas. These tumors are composed of a heterogeneous population of cells that include many with stem-cell-like properties, called glioma stem cells (GSCs), which are highly tumorigenic and lack Cx43 expression. Interestingly, restoring Cx43 reverses GSC phenotype and consequently reduces their tumorigenicity. In this study, we investigated the mechanism by which Cx43 exerts its antitumorigenic effects on GSCs. We have focused on the tyrosine kinase c-Src, which interacts with the intracellular carboxy tail of Cx43. We found that Cx43 regulates c-Src activity and proliferation in human GSCs expanded in adherent culture. Thus, restoring Cx43 in GSCs inhibited c-Src activity, which in turn promoted the downregulation of the inhibitor of differentiation Id1. Id1 sustains stem cell phenotype as it controls the expression of Sox2, responsible for stem cell self-renewal, and promotes cadherin switching, which has been associated to epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Our results show that both the ectopic expression of Cx43 and the inhibition of c-Src reduced Id1, Sox2 expression and promoted the switch from N- to E-cadherin, suggesting that Cx43, by inhibiting c-Src, downregulates Id1 with the subsequent changes in stem cell phenotype. On the basis of this mechanism, we found that a cell-penetrating peptide, containing the region of Cx43 that interacts with c-Src, mimics the effect of Cx43 on GSC phenotype, confirming the relevance of the interaction between Cx43 and c-Src in the regulation of the malignant phenotype and pinpointing this interaction as a promising therapeutic target.
Altered synaptic function is considered one of the first features of Alzheimer disease (AD). Currently, no treatment is available to prevent the dysfunction of excitatory synapses in AD. Identification of the key modulators of synaptopathy is of particular significance in the treatment of AD. We here characterized the pathways leading to synaptopathy in TgCRND8 mice and showed that c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) is activated at the spine prior to the onset of cognitive impairment. The specific inhibition of JNK, with its specific inhibiting peptide D-JNKI1, prevented synaptic dysfunction in TgCRND8 mice. D-JNKI1 avoided both the loss of postsynaptic proteins and glutamate receptors from the postsynaptic density and the reduction in size of excitatory synapses, reverting their dysfunction. This set of data reveals that JNK is a key signaling pathway in AD synaptic injury and that its specific inhibition offers an innovative therapeutic strategy to prevent spine degeneration in AD.
The transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) for treating neurodegenerative disorders has received growing attention recently because these cells are readily available, easily expanded in culture, and when transplanted, survive for relatively long periods of time. Given that such transplants have been shown to be safe in a variety of applications, in addition to recent findings that MSCs have useful immunomodulatory and chemotactic properties, the use of these cells as vehicles for delivering or producing beneficial proteins for therapeutic purposes has been the focus of several labs. In our lab, the use of genetic modified MSCs to release neurotrophic factors for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases is of particular interest. Specifically, glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), nerve growth factor (NGF), and brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) have been recognized as therapeutic trophic factors for Parkinson's, Alzheimer's and Huntington's diseases, respectively. The aim of this literature review is to provide insights into: (1) the inherent properties of MSCs as a platform for neurotrophic factor delivery; (2) the molecular tools available for genetic manipulation of MSCs; (3) the rationale for utilizing various neurotrophic factors for particular neurodegenerative diseases; and (4) the clinical challenges of utilizing genetically modified MSCs.



Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified several risk variants for late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD). These common variants have replicable but small effects on LOAD risk and generally do not have obvious functional effects. Low-frequency coding variants, not detected by GWAS, are predicted to include functional variants with larger effects on risk. To identify low-frequency coding variants with large effects on LOAD risk, we carried out whole-exome sequencing (WES) in 14 large LOAD families and follow-up analyses of the candidate variants in several large LOAD case-control data sets. A rare variant in PLD3 (phospholipase D3; Val232Met) segregated with disease status in two independent families and doubled risk for Alzheimer's disease in seven independent case-control series with a total of more than 11,000 cases and controls of European descent. Gene-based burden analyses in 4,387 cases and controls of European descent and 302 African American cases and controls, with complete sequence data for PLD3, reveal that several variants in this gene increase risk for Alzheimer's disease in both populations. PLD3 is highly expressed in brain regions that are vulnerable to Alzheimer's disease pathology, including hippocampus and cortex, and is expressed at significantly lower levels in neurons from Alzheimer's disease brains compared to control brains. Overexpression of PLD3 leads to a significant decrease in intracellular amyloid- precursor protein (APP) and extracellular A42 and A40 (the 42- and 40-residue isoforms of the amyloid- peptide), and knockdown of PLD3 leads to a significant increase in extracellular A42 and A40. Together, our genetic and functional data indicate that carriers of PLD3 coding variants have a twofold increased risk for LOAD and that PLD3 influences APP processing. This study provides an example of how densely affected families may help to identify rare variants with large effects on risk for disease or other complex traits.



How do physical interactions with others change our own motor behavior? Utilizing a novel motor learning paradigm in which the hands of two - individuals are physically connected without their conscious awareness, we investigated how the interaction forces from a partner adapt the motor behavior in physically interacting humans. We observed the motor adaptations during physical interactions to be mutually beneficial such that both the worse and better of the interacting partners improve motor performance during and after interactive practice. We show that these benefits cannot be explained by multi-sensory integration by an individual, but require physical interaction with a reactive partner. Furthermore, the benefits are determined by both the interacting partner's performance and similarity of the partner's behavior to one's own. Our results demonstrate the fundamental neural processes underlying human physical interactions and suggest advantages of interactive paradigms for sport-training and physical rehabilitation.
Although L-dopa continues to be the gold standard for treating motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD), it presents long-term complications. Deep brain stimulation is effective, but only a small percentage of idiopathic PD patients are eligible. Based on results in animal models and a handful of patients, dorsal column stimulation (DCS) has been proposed as a potential therapy for PD. To date, the long-term effects of DCS in animal models have not been quantified. Here, we report that DCS applied twice a week in rats treated with bilateral 6-OHDA striatal infusions led to a significant improvement in symptoms. DCS-treated rats exhibited a higher density of dopaminergic innervation in the striatum and higher neuronal cell count in the substantia nigra pars compacta compared to a control group. These results suggest that DCS has a chronic therapeutical and neuroprotective effect, increasing its potential as a new clinical option for treating PD patients.










During running, muscles of the lower limb act like a linear spring bouncing on the ground. When approaching an obstacle, the overall stiffness of this leg-spring system (k(leg)) is modified during the two steps preceding the jump to enhance the movement of the center of mass of the body while leaping the obstacle. The aim of the present study is to understand how k(leg) is modified during the running steps preceding the jump. Since k(leg) depends on the joint torsional stiffness and on the leg geometry, we analyzed the changes in these two parameters in eight subjects approaching and leaping a 0.65 m-high barrier at 15 km h(-1). Ground reaction force (F) was measured during 5-6 steps preceding the obstacle using force platform and the lower limb movements were recorded by camera. From these data, the net muscular moment (M(j)), the angular displacement ((j)) and the lever arm of F were evaluated at the hip, knee and ankle. At the level of the hip, the M(j)-(j) relation shows that muscles are not acting like torsional springs. At the level of the knee and ankle, the M(j)-(j) relation shows that muscles are acting like torsional springs: as compared to steady-state running, the torsional stiffness k(j) decreases from ~1/3 two contacts before the obstacle, and increases from ~2/3 during the last contact. These modifications in k(j) reflect in changes in the magnitude of F but also to changes in the leg geometry, i.e. in the lever arms of F.

A major challenge in the neuroscience field is the identification of molecules and pathways that control synaptic plasticity and memory. Dendritic spines play a pivotal role in these processes, as the major sites of excitatory synapses in neuronal communication. Previous studies have shown that the scaffold protein p140Cap localizes into dendritic spines and that its knockdown negatively modulates spine shape in culture. However, so far, there is no information on its in vivo relevance. By using a knock-out mouse model, we here demonstrate that p140Cap is a key element for both learning and synaptic plasticity. Indeed, p140Cap(-/-) mice are impaired in object recognition test, as well as in LTP and in LTD measurements. The in vivo effects of p140Cap loss are presumably attenuated by noncell-autonomous events, since primary neurons obtained from p140Cap(-/-) mice show a strong reduction in number of mushroom spines and abnormal organization of synapse-associated F-actin. These phenotypes are most likely caused by a local reduction of the inhibitory control of RhoA and of cortactin toward the actin-depolymerizing factor cofilin. These events can be controlled by p140Cap through its capability to directly inhibit the activation of Src kinase and by its binding to the scaffold protein Citron-N. Altogether, our results provide new insight into how protein associated with dynamic microtubules may regulate spine actin organization through interaction with postsynaptic density components.
The temporal envelope of speech is an important cue contributing to speech intelligibility. Theories about the neural foundations of speech perception postulate that the left and right auditory cortices are functionally specialized in analyzing speech envelope information at different time scales: the right hemisphere is thought to be specialized in processing syllable rate modulations, whereas a bilateral or left hemispheric specialization is assumed for phoneme rate modulations. Recently, it has been found that this functional hemispheric asymmetry is different in individuals with language-related disorders such as dyslexia. Most studies were, however, performed in adults and school-aged children, and only a little is known about how neural auditory processing at these specific rates manifests and develops in very young children before reading acquisition. Yet, studying hemispheric specialization for processing syllable and phoneme rate modulations in preliterate children may reveal early neural markers for dyslexia. In the present study, human cortical evoked potentials to syllable and phoneme rate modulations were measured in 5-year-old children at high and low hereditary risk for dyslexia. The results demonstrate a right hemispheric preference for processing syllable rate modulations and a symmetric pattern for phoneme rate modulations, regardless of hereditary risk for dyslexia. These results suggest that, while hemispheric specialization for processing syllable rate modulations seems to be mature in prereading children, hemispheric specialization for phoneme rate modulation processing may still be developing. These findings could have important implications for the development of phonological and reading skills.
Interkinetic nuclear migration (INM) is a key feature of cortical neurogenesis. INM functions to maximize the output of the neuroepithelium, and more importantly, balance the self-renewal and differentiation of the progenitors. Although INM has been reported to be highly correlated with the cell cycle, little is known about the effects of cell cycle regulators on INM. In this study, by crossing Foxm1(fl/fl) mice with Emx1-Cre line, we report that a conditional disruption of forkhead transcription factor M1 (Foxm1) in dorsal telencephalon results in abnormal cell cycle progression, leading to impaired INM through the downregulation of Cyclin b1 and Cdc25b. The impairment of INM disturbs the synchronization of apical progenitors (APs) and promotes the transition from APs to basal progenitors (BPs) in a cell-autonomous fashion. Moreover, ablation of Foxm1 causes anxiety-related behaviors in adulthood. Thus, this study provides evidence of linkages among the cell cycle regulator Foxm1, INM, and adult behavior.
Cell cycle exit is an obligatory step for the differentiation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) into myelinating cells. A key regulator of the transition from proliferation to quiescence is the E2F/Rb pathway, whose activity is highly regulated in physiological conditions and deregulated in tumors. In this paper we report a lineage-specific decline of nuclear E2F1 during differentiation of rodent OPC into oligodendrocytes (OLs) in developing white matter tracts and in cultured cells. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and deep-sequencing in mouse and rat OPCs, we identified cell cycle genes (i.e., Cdc2) and chromatin components (i.e., Hmgn1, Hmgn2), including those modulating DNA methylation (i.e., Uhrf1), as E2F1 targets. Binding of E2F1 to chromatin on the gene targets was validated and their expression assessed in developing white matter tracts and cultured OPCs. Increased expression of E2F1 gene targets was also detected in mouse gliomas (that were induced by retroviral transformation of OPCs) compared with normal brain. Together, these data identify E2F1 as a key transcription factor modulating the expression of chromatin components in OPC during the transition from proliferation to differentiation.
The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) has been studied for its role in various cognitive functions, but the roles of its subregions remain unclear. We performed tetrode recordings simultaneously from prelimbic (PL) and rostral (rACC) and caudal (cACC) anterior cingulate subregions of the rabbit mPFC to understand their interactions during learning and tests of remote memory retention for whisker-signaled trace eyeblink conditioning. cACC neurons exhibited an innate response to the conditioning stimulus (CS) that rapidly decreased across sessions, suggesting an attentional role for facilitating CS-US associations. rACC neurons from conditioned rabbits exhibited robust responses to the CS that decreased within each session, possibly evaluating its emotional salience. PL neurons exhibited robust persistent activity during the trace interval during tests of remote memory retention, suggesting its involvement in retrieval and execution of a consolidated response. Mechanistically, conditioning was associated with a greater percentage of persistently responsive neurons than neurons from pseudoconditioned control rabbits, and responses differed significantly between trials with and without conditioned responses. Collectively, these responses reflect a functional reorganization of neural activity within the prefrontal network from an attentional mode to one that orchestrates the retrieval and execution of the learned response.
Formation of proper neuromuscular connections is a process coordinated by both motoneuron-intrinsic and target-dependent programs. Under these programs, motoneurons innervate target muscles, escape programmed cell death during fetal development, and form neuromuscular junctions (NMJ). Although a number of studies have revealed molecules involved in axon guidance to target muscles and NMJ formation, little is known about the molecular mechanisms linking intramuscular innervation and target-derived trophic factor-dependent prevention of motoneuron apoptosis. Here we studied the physiological function of CLAC-P/collagen XXV, a transmembrane-type collagen originally identified as a component of senile plaque amyloid of Alzheimer's disease brains, by means of generating Col25a1-deficient (KO) mice. Col25a1 KO mice died immediately after birth of respiratory failure. In Col25a1 KO mice, motor axons projected properly toward the target muscles but failed to elongate and branch within the muscle, followed by degeneration of axons. Failure of muscular innervation in Col25a1 KO mice led to excessive apoptosis during development, resulting in almost complete and exclusive loss of spinal motoneurons and immaturity in skeletal muscle development. Bax deletion in Col25a1 KO mice rescued motoneurons from apoptosis, although motor axons remained halted around the muscle entry site. Furthermore, these motoneurons were positive for phosphorylated c-Jun, an indicator of insufficient supply of target-derived survival signals. Together, these observations indicate that CLAC-P/collagen XXV is a novel essential factor that regulates the initial phase of intramuscular motor innervation, which is required for subsequent target-dependent motoneuron survival and NMJ formation during development.
Decision-making depends on the ability to extract predictive information from the environment to guide future actions. Outcome-specific Pavlovian-instrumental transfer (PIT) provides an animal model of this process in which a stimulus predicting a particular outcome biases choice toward actions earning that outcome. Recent evidence suggests that cellular adaptations of -opioid receptors (DORs) on cholinergic interneurons (CINs) in the nucleus accumbens shell (NAc-S) are necessary for PIT. Here we found that modulation of DORs in CINs critically influences D1-receptor (D1R)-expressing projection neurons in the NAc-S to promote PIT. First, we assessed PIT-induced changes in signaling processes in dopamine D1- and D2-receptor-expressing neurons using drd2-eGFP mice, and found that PIT-related signaling was restricted to non-D2R-eGFP-expressing neurons, suggesting major involvement of D1R-neurons. Next we confirmed the role of D1Rs pharmacologically: the D1R antagonist SCH-23390, but not the D2R antagonist raclopride, infused into the NAc-S abolished PIT in rats, an effect that depended on DOR activity. Moreover, asymmetrical infusion of SCH-23390 and the DOR antagonist naltrindole into the NAc-S also abolished PIT. DOR agonists were found to sensitize the firing responses of CINs in brain slices prepared immediately after the PIT test. We confirmed the opioid-acetylcholinergic influence over D1R-neurons by selectively blocking muscarinic M4 receptors in the NAc-S, which tightly regulate the activity of D1Rs, a treatment that rescued the deficit in PIT induced by naltrindole. We describe a model of NAc-S function in which DORs modulate CINs to influence both D1R-neurons and stimulus-guided choice between goal-directed actions.
The dentate gyrus (DG) serves as a primary gate to control information transfer from the cortex to the hippocampus. Activation of incoming cortical inputs results in rapid synaptic excitation followed by slow GABA-mediated (GABAergic) synaptic inhibition onto DG granule cells (GCs). GABAergic inhibitory interneurons (INs) in the DG comprise fast-spiking (FS) and non-fast-spiking (non-FS) cells. Anatomical analyses of DG INs reveal that FS cells are soma-targeting INs, whereas non-FS cells are dendrite-targeting INs. These two IN classes are differentially recruited by excitatory inputs and in turn provide exquisite spatiotemporal control over GC activity. Yet, little is known how FS and non-FS cells transform their presynaptic dynamics into varying postsynaptic response amplitudes. Using paired recordings in rat hippocampal slices, we show that inhibition in the DG is dominated by somatic GABAergic inputs during periods of sparse presynaptic activity, whereas dendritic GABAergic inputs are rapidly shifted to powerful and sustained inhibition during periods of intense presynaptic activity. The variant dynamics of dendritic inhibition is dependent on presynaptic IN subtypes and their activity patterns and is attributed to Ca(2+)-dependent increases in the probability of release and the size of the readily releasable pool. Furthermore, the degree of dynamic GABA release can be reduced by blocking voltage-gated K(+) channels, which increases the efficacy of dendrite-targeting IN output synapses during sparse firing. Such rapid dynamic modulation of dendritic inhibition may act as a frequency-dependent filter to prevent overexcitation of GC dendrites and thus set the excitatory-inhibitory synaptic balance in the DG circuits.
Plp1 gene expression occurs very early in development, well before the onset of myelination, creating a conundrum with regard to the function of myelin proteolipid protein (PLP), one of the major proteins in compact myelin. Using PLP-EGFP mice to investigate Plp1 promoter activity, we found that, at very early time points, PLP-EGFP was expressed in Sox2+ undifferentiated precursors in the spinal cord ventricular zone (VZ), as well as in the progenitors of both neuronal and glial lineages. As development progressed, most PLP-EGFP-expressing cells gave rise to oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs). The expression of PLP-EGFP in the spinal cord was quite dynamic during development. PLP-EGFP was highly expressed as cells delaminated from the VZ. Expression was downregulated as cells moved laterally through the cord, and then robustly upregulated as OPCs differentiated into mature myelinating oligodendrocytes. The presence of PLP-EGFP expression in OPCs raises the question of its role in this migratory population. We crossed PLP-EGFP reporter mice into a Plp1-null background to investigate the role of PLP in early OPC development. In the absence of PLP, normal numbers of OPCs were generated and their distribution throughout the spinal cord was unaffected. However, the orientation and length of OPC processes during migration was abnormal in Plp1-null mice, suggesting that PLP plays a role either in the structural integrity of OPC processes or in their response to extracellular cues that orient process outgrowth.
Establishing neural determinants of psychophysical performance requires both behavioral and neurophysiological metrics amenable to correlative analyses. It is often assumed that organisms use neural information optimally, such that any information available in a neural code that could improve behavioral performance is used. Studies have shown that detection of amplitude-modulated (AM) auditory tones by humans is correlated to neural synchrony thresholds, as recorded in rabbit at the level of the inferior colliculus, the first level of the ascending auditory pathway where neurons are tuned to AM stimuli. Behavioral thresholds in rabbit, however, are 10 dB higher (i.e., 3 times less sensitive) than in humans, and are better correlated to rate-based than temporal coding schemes in the auditory midbrain. The behavioral and physiological results shown here illustrate an unexpected, suboptimal utilization of available neural information that could provide new insights into the mechanisms that link neuronal function to behavior.
Little is known about how neuron firing recorded in vivo retrogradely influences synaptic strength. We injected the firing of a rat hippocampal neurogliaform cell (NGFC), a widely expressed GABAergic neuron type, detected in vivo during theta rhythm, into NGFCs of rat or neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS)-Cre-tdTomato mouse recorded in vitro. We found that the &quot;in vivo firing pattern&quot; produced a transient firing-induced suppression of synaptic inhibition (FSI) evoked by a presynaptic NGFC. Imaging experiments demonstrate that FSI was associated with action potential backpropagation (bAP) and a supralinear increase in dendritic Ca(2+). The application of the L-type Ca(2+) channel antagonist nimodipine blocked FSI. Further pharmacological experiments, such as the application of a nitric oxide-sensitive guanylyl cyclase (NO-sGC) receptor antagonist, a NOS inhibitor, and NO donors, suggested that NO released from postsynaptic cells mediated FSI and likely activated presynaptic receptors to inhibit GABA release. The in vivo firing pattern modulated the size of unitary EPSPs impinging on NGFCs through FSI and not via a direct effect on excitatory synaptic transmission. Our data demonstrate: (1) retrograde signaling initiated by in vivo firing pattern, (2) interneuron bAPs detected with fast temporal resolution, and (3) a novel role for NO expressed by specific interneuron types.
Multiple features of the environment are often imbued with motivational significance, and the relative importance of these can change across contexts. The ability to flexibly adjust evaluative processes so that currently important features of the environment alone drive behavior is critical to adaptive routines. We know relatively little about the neural mechanisms involved, including whether motivationally significant features are obligatorily evaluated or whether current relevance gates access to value-sensitive regions. We addressed these questions using functional magnetic resonance imaging data and a task design where human subjects had to choose whether to accept or reject an offer indicated by visual and auditory stimuli. By manipulating, on a trial-by-trial basis, which stimulus determined the value of the offer, we show choice activity in the ventral striatum solely reflects the value of the currently relevant stimulus, consistent with a model wherein behavioral relevance modulates the impact of sensory stimuli on value processing. Choice outcome signals in this same region covaried positively with wins on accept trials, and negatively with wins on reject trials, consistent with striatal activity at feedback reflecting correctness of response rather than reward processing per se. We conclude that ventral striatum activity during decision making is dynamically modulated by behavioral context, indexed here by task relevance and action selection.
If we assume that the purpose of a movement is to acquire a rewarding state, the duration of the movement carries a cost because it delays acquisition of reward. For some people, passage of time carries a greater cost, as evidenced by how long they are willing to wait for a rewarding outcome. These steep discounters are considered impulsive. Is there a relationship between cost of time in decision making and cost of time in control of movements? Our theory predicts that people who are more impulsive should in general move faster than subjects who are less impulsive. To test our idea, we considered elementary voluntary movements: saccades of the eye. We found that in humans, saccadic vigor, assessed using velocity as a function of amplitude, was as much as 50% greater in one subject than another; that is, some people consistently moved their eyes with high vigor. We measured the cost of time in a decision-making task in which the same subjects were given a choice between smaller odds of success immediately and better odds if they waited. We measured how long they were willing to wait to obtain the better odds and how much they increased their wait period after they failed. We found that people that exhibited greater vigor in their movements tended to have a steep temporal discount function, as evidenced by their waiting patterns in the decision-making task. The cost of time may be shared between decision making and motor control.
The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small-bodied New World primate, offers several advantages to complement vision research in larger primates. Studies in the anesthetized marmoset have detailed the anatomy and physiology of their visual system (Rosa et al., 2009) while studies of auditory and vocal processing have established their utility for awake and behaving neurophysiological investigations (Lu et al., 2001a,b; Eliades and Wang, 2008a,b; Osmanski and Wang, 2011; Remington et al., 2012). However, a critical unknown is whether marmosets can perform visual tasks under head restraint. This has been essential for studies in macaques, enabling both accurate eye tracking and head stabilization for neurophysiology. In one set of experiments we compared the free viewing behavior of head-fixed marmosets to that of macaques, and found that their saccadic behavior is comparable across a number of saccade metrics and that saccades target similar regions of interest including faces. In a second set of experiments we applied behavioral conditioning techniques to determine whether the marmoset could control fixation for liquid reward. Two marmosets could fixate a central point and ignore peripheral flashing stimuli, as needed for receptive field mapping. Both marmosets also performed an orientation discrimination task, exhibiting a saturating psychometric function with reliable performance and shorter reaction times for easier discriminations. These data suggest that the marmoset is a viable model for studies of active vision and its underlying neural mechanisms.
In the current study we sought to dissociate the component processes of working memory (WM) (vigilance, encoding and maintenance) that may be differentially impaired in attention-deficit/ hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). We collected electroencephalographic (EEG) data from 52 children with ADHD and 47 typically developing (TD) children, ages 7-14 years, while they performed a spatial Sternberg working memory task. We used independent component analysis and time-frequency analysis to identify midoccipital alpha (8-12 Hz) to evaluate encoding processes and frontal midline theta (4-7 Hz) to evaluate maintenance processes. We tested for effects of task difficulty and cue processing to evaluate vigilance. Children with ADHD showed attenuated alpha band event-related desynchronization (ERD) during encoding. This effect was more pronounced when task difficulty was low (consistent with impaired vigilance) and was predictive of memory task performance and symptom severity. Correlated with alpha ERD during encoding were alpha power increases during the maintenance period (relative to baseline), suggesting a compensatory effort. Consistent with this interpretation, midfrontal theta power increases during maintenance were stronger in ADHD and in high-load memory conditions. Furthermore, children with ADHD exhibited a maturational lag in development of posterior alpha power whereas age-related changes in frontal theta power deviated from the TD pattern. Last, subjects with ADHD showed age-independent attenuation of evoked responses to warning cues, suggesting low vigilance. Combined, these three EEG measures predicted diagnosis with 70% accuracy. We conclude that the interplay of impaired vigilance and encoding in ADHD may compromise maintenance and lead to impaired WM performance in this group.
Concentrations of insulin in the brain are severalfold higher than blood plasma levels. Insulin in the brain regulates the metabolism, molecular composition, and cognitive performance of microcircuits and reduces food intake; cerebral insulin levels are altered in diabetes, aging, obesity, and Alzheimer's disease. Released by pancreatic  cells, insulin passes the blood-brain barrier, but sources of locally released insulin still remain unclear. We find that insulin is strongly expressed in GABAergic neurogliaform cells in the cerebral cortex of the rat detected by single-cell digital PCR. Focal application of glucose or glibenclamide to neurogliaform cells mimics the excitation suppressing effect of external insulin on local microcircuits via insulin receptors. Thus, neurogliaform cells might link GABAergic and insulinergic action in cortical microcircuits.



Moving is thought to take separate preparation and execution steps. During preparation, neural activity in primary motor and dorsal premotor cortices achieves a state specific to an upcoming action but movements are not performed until the execution phase. We investigated whether this preparatory state (more precisely, prepare-and-hold state) is required for movement execution using two complementary experiments. We compared monkeys' neural activity during delayed and nondelayed reaches and in a delayed reaching task in which the target switched locations on a small percentage of trials. Neural population activity bypassed the prepare-and-hold state both in the absence of a delay and if the wrong reach was prepared. However, the initial neural response to the target was similar across behavioral conditions. This suggests that the prepare-and-hold state can be bypassed if needed, but there is a short-latency preparatory step that is performed prior to movement even without a delay.
Theories of associative memory suggest that successful memory storage and recall depend on a balance between two complementary processes: pattern separation (to minimize interference) and pattern completion (to retrieve a memory when presented with partial or degraded input cues). Putative attractor circuitry in the hippocampal CA3 region is thought to be the final arbiter between these two processes. Here we present direct, quantitative evidence that CA3 produces an output pattern closer to the originally stored representation than its degraded input patterns from the dentate gyrus (DG). We simultaneously recorded activity from CA3 and DG of behaving rats when local and global reference frames were placed in conflict. CA3 showed a coherent population response to the conflict (pattern completion), even though its DG inputs were severely disrupted (pattern separation). The results thus confirm the hallmark predictions of a longstanding computational model of hippocampal memory processing.
Place coding in the hippocampus requires flexible combination of sensory inputs (e.g., environmental and self-motion information) with memory of past events. We show that mouse CA1 hippocampal spatial representations may either be anchored to external landmarks (place memory) or reflect memorized sequences of cell assemblies depending on the behavioral strategy spontaneously selected. These computational modalities correspond to different CA1 dynamical states, as expressed by theta and low- and high-frequency gamma oscillations, when switching from place to sequence memory-based processing. These changes are consistent with a shift from entorhinal to CA3 input dominance on CA1. In mice with a deletion of forebrain NMDA receptors, the ability of place cells to maintain a map based on sequence memory is selectively impaired and oscillatory dynamics are correspondingly altered, suggesting that oscillations contribute to selecting behaviorally appropriate computations in the hippocampus and that NMDA receptors are crucial for this function.
Selective neuronal loss is the hallmark of neurodegenerative diseases. In patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), most motor neurons die but those innervating extraocular, pelvic sphincter, and slow limb muscles exhibit selective resistance. We identified 18 genes that show &gt;10-fold differential expression between resistant and vulnerable motor neurons. One of these, matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), is expressed only by fast motor neurons, which are selectively vulnerable. In ALS model mice expressing mutant superoxide dismutase (SOD1), reduction of MMP-9 function using gene ablation, viral gene therapy, or pharmacological inhibition significantly delayed muscle denervation. In the presence of mutant SOD1, MMP-9 expressed by fast motor neurons themselves enhances activation of ER stress and is sufficient to trigger axonal die-back. These findings define MMP-9 as a candidate therapeutic target for ALS. The molecular basis of neuronal diversity thus provides significant insights into mechanisms of selective vulnerability to neurodegeneration.
The brain demands high-energy supply and obstruction of blood flow causes rapid deterioration of the healthiness of brain cells. Two major events occur upon ischemia: acidosis and liberation of excess glutamate, which leads to excitotoxicity. However, cellular source of glutamate and its release mechanism upon ischemia remained unknown. Here we show a causal relationship between glial acidosis and neuronal excitotoxicity. As the major cation that flows through channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) is proton, this could be regarded as an optogenetic tool for instant intracellular acidification. Optical activation of ChR2 expressed in glial cells led to glial acidification and to release of glutamate. On the other hand, glial alkalization via optogenetic activation of a proton pump, archaerhodopsin (ArchT), led to cessation of glutamate release and to the relief of ischemic brain damage in vivo. Our results suggest that controlling glial pH may be an effective therapeutic strategy for intervention of ischemic brain damage.
Orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) has long been known to play an important role in decision making. However, the exact nature of that role has remained elusive. Here, we propose a unifying theory of OFC function. We hypothesize that OFC provides an abstraction of currently available information in the form of a labeling of the current task state, which is used for reinforcement learning (RL) elsewhere in the brain. This function is especially critical when task states include unobservable information, for instance, from working memory. We use this framework to explain classic findings in reversal learning, delayed alternation, extinction, and devaluation as well as more recent findings showing the effect of OFC lesions on the firing of dopaminergic neurons in ventral tegmental area (VTA) in rodents performing an RL task. In addition, we generate a number of testable experimental predictions that can distinguish our theory from other accounts of OFC function.
The orchestration of brain function requires complex gene regulatory networks that are modulated, in part, by microRNAs (miRNAs). These noncoding RNAs associate with argonaute (Ago) proteins in order to direct posttranscriptional gene suppression via base pairing with target transcripts. In order to better understand how miRNAs contribute to human-specialized brain processes and neurological phenotypes, identifying their targets is of paramount importance. Here, we address the latter by profiling Ago2:RNA interactions using HITS-CLIP to generate a transcriptome-wide map of miRNA binding sites in human brain. We uncovered  7,000 stringent Ago2 binding sites that are highly enriched for conserved sequences corresponding to abundant brain miRNAs. This interactome points to functional miRNA:target pairs across &gt;3,000 genes and represents a valuable resource for accelerating our understanding of miRNA functions in brain. We demonstrate the utility of this map for exploring clinically relevant miRNA binding sites that may facilitate the translation of genetic studies of complex neuropsychiatric diseases into therapeutics.
Transcriptional events involved in the development of human cerebral neocortex are poorly understood. Here, we analyzed the temporal dynamics and laterality of gene expression in human and macaque monkey neocortex. We found that interareal differences exhibit a temporal hourglass pattern, dividing the human neocortical development into three major phases. The first phase, corresponding to prenatal development, is characterized by the highest number of differential expressed genes among areas and gradient-like expression patterns, including those that are different between human and macaque. The second, preadolescent phase, is characterized by lesser interareal expression differences and by an increased synchronization of areal transcriptomes. During the third phase, from adolescence onward, differential expression among areas increases again driven predominantly by a subset of areas, without obvious gradient-like patterns. Analyses of left-right gene expression revealed population-level global symmetry throughout the fetal and postnatal time span. Thus, human neocortical topographic gene expression is temporally specified and globally symmetric.
Men and women respond differently to the subjective effects of cocaine and cocaine-associated cues, which has implications for the development and maintenance of cocaine addiction. Preclinical studies performed in rats, modeling various aspects of cocaine addiction, have largely validated these results, indicating that female rats may be more sensitive to the rewarding properties of cocaine. The molecular mechanisms leading to sex differences in cocaine reward have largely not been determined, although sex hormones are thought to play a role. The mouse is commonly used as a model organism to study the molecular and genetic factors that influence a variety of psychiatric disorders. In particular, the inbred C57BL/6 mouse strain is often used for behavioral studies related to substance abuse. To begin to understand the hormonal, molecular and genetic mechanisms that might affect cocaine reward, we directly compared male and female C57BL/6J mice in cocaine conditioned place preference (CPP), a test that examines the rewarding and cue-associated properties of drugs of abuse. We conditioned mice at three doses of cocaine and examined preference and extinction of preference. We found that the acquisition of cocaine CPP did not differ between male and female mice. However, extinction of cocaine CPP was delayed in male mice compared with females at the lowest dose of cocaine. We conclude that sex differences in cocaine CPP can be observed in C57BL/6J mice at very low doses of cocaine.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has shown promise for relieving nociceptive and neuropathic symptoms of refractory chronic pain. We assessed the efficacy of a new target for the affective component of pain, the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). A 49-year-old man with neuropathic pain underwent bilateral ACC DBS. Patient-reported outcome measures were collected before and 2 years after surgery using a Visual Analogue Scale, Short-Form 36 quality of life survey, McGill pain questionnaire, EuroQol-5D questionnaires (EQ-5D; Health State) and neuropsychological assessments. The patient improved with DBS. Two years after surgery, the Visual Analogue Scale decreased from 6.7 to 3.0, McGill pain questionnaire improved by 42% and EQ-5D Health State increased by 150%. Stimulating the ACC at 130 Hz, 330 s and 3 V facilitated neuropathic pain relief. The DBS remained efficacious during the 2-year follow-up period. Affective ACC DBS can relieve chronic neuropathic pain refractory to pharmacotherapy and restore quality of life.

The understanding of physiological and molecular processes underlying the sense of smell has made considerable progress during the past three decades, revealing the cascade of molecular steps that lead to the activation of olfactory receptor (OR) neurons. However, the mode of primary interaction of odorant molecules with the OR proteins within the sensory cells is still enigmatic. Two different concepts try to explain these interactions: the 'odotope hypothesis' suggests that OR proteins recognize structural aspects of the odorant molecule, whereas the 'vibration hypothesis' proposes that intra-molecular vibrations are the basis for the recognition of the odorant by the receptor protein. The vibration hypothesis predicts that OR proteins should be able to discriminate compounds containing deuterium from their common counterparts which contain hydrogen instead of deuterium. This study tests this prediction in honeybees (Apis mellifera) using the proboscis extension reflex learning in a differential conditioning paradigm. Rewarding one odour (e.g. a deuterated compound) with sucrose and not rewarding the respective analogue (e.g. hydrogen-based odorant) shows that honeybees readily learn to discriminate hydrogen-based odorants from their deuterated counterparts and supports the idea that intra-molecular vibrations may contribute to odour discrimination.
The mechanisms regulating sexual behaviours in female vertebrates are still poorly understood, mainly because in most species sexual displays in females are more subtle and less frequent than displays in males. In a sex-role reversed population of a teleost fish, the peacock blenny Salaria pavo, an external fertilizer, females are the courting sex and their sexual displays are conspicuous and unambiguous. We took advantage of this to investigate the role of ovarian-synthesized hormones in the induction of sexual displays in females. In particular, the effects of the sex steroids oestradiol (E2) and testosterone (T) and of the prostaglandin F2 (PGF2) were tested. Females were ovariectomized and their sexual behaviour tested 7 days (sex steroids and PGF2) and 14 days (sex steroids) after ovariectomy by presenting females to an established nesting male. Ovariectomy reduced the expression of sexual behaviours, although a significant proportion of females still courted the male 14 days after the ovary removal. Administration of PGF2 to ovariectomized females recovered the frequency of approaches to the male's nest and of courtship displays towards the nesting male. However, E2 also had a positive effect on sexual behaviour, particularly on the frequency of approaches to the male's nest. T administration failed to recover sexual behaviours in ovariectomized females. These results suggest that the increase in E2 levels postulated to occur during the breeding season facilitates female mate-searching and assessment behaviours, whereas PGF2 acts as a short-latency endogenous signal informing the brain that oocytes are mature and ready to be spawned. In the light of these results, the classical view for female fishes, that sex steroids maintain sexual behaviour in internal fertilizers and that prostaglandins activate spawning behaviours in external fertilizers, needs to be reviewed.
Fever is commonly attenuated with antipyretic medication as a means to treat unpleasant symptoms of infectious diseases. We highlight a potentially important negative effect of fever suppression that becomes evident at the population level: reducing fever may increase transmission of associated infections. A higher transmission rate implies that a larger proportion of the population will be infected, so widespread antipyretic drug use is likely to lead to more illness and death than would be expected in a population that was not exposed to antipyretic pharmacotherapies. We assembled the published data available for estimating the magnitudes of these individual effects for seasonal influenza. While the data are incomplete and heterogeneous, they suggest that, overall, fever suppression increases the expected number of influenza cases and deaths in the US: for pandemic influenza with reproduction number , the estimated increase is 1% (95% CI: 0.0-2.7%), whereas for seasonal influenza with , the estimated increase is 5% (95% CI: 0.2-12.1%).

Neural stem cells (NSCs) generate new neurons in vivo and in vitro throughout adulthood and therefore are physiologically and clinically relevant. Unveiling the mechanisms regulating the lineage progression from NSCs to newborn neurons is critical for the transition from basic research to clinical application. However, the direct analysis of NSCs and their progeny is still elusive due to the problematic identification of the cells. We here describe the isolation of highly purified genetically unaltered NSCs and transit-amplifying precursors (TAPs) from the adult subependymal zone (SEZ). Using this approach we show that a primary cilium and high levels of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) at the cell membrane characterize quiescent and cycling NSCs, respectively. However, we also observed non-ciliated quiescent NSCs and NSCs progressing into the cell cycle without up-regulating EGFR expression. Thus, the existence of NSCs displaying distinct molecular and structural conformations provides more flexibility to the regulation of quiescence and cell cycle progression.
Cardiolipin (CL) is a unique phospholipid found in mitochondrial inner membrane. It is a key component for mitochondrial function in both respiration and apoptosis. The level of CL is an important parameter for investigating these intracellular events and is a critical indicator of a number of diseases associated with mitochondrial respiratory functions. 10-Nonyl acridine orange (NAO) is the only fluorescent dye currently available for CL detection. However, the performance of NAO is far from satisfactory in terms of selectivity and sensitivity. In this work, we report an aggregation-induced emission-active fluorogen, TTAPE-Me, for CL detection and quantification. With improved sensitivity and excellent selectivity to CL over other major mitochondrial membrane lipids, TTAPE-Me could serve as a valuable fluorescent sensor for CL quantification. The use of TTAPE-Me for the quantification of isolated mitochondria is also demonstrated.




The mu opioid receptor (MOR) is critical in mediating morphine analgesia. However, prolonged exposure to morphine induces adaptive changes in this receptor leading to the development of tolerance and addiction. In the present work we have studied whether the continuous administration of morphine induces changes in MOR protein levels, its pharmacological profile, and MOR-mediated G-protein activation in the striosomal compartment of the rat CPu, by using immunohistochemistry and receptor and DAMGO-stimulated [35S]GTPS autoradiography. MOR immunoreactivity, agonist binding density and its coupling to G proteins are up-regulated in the striosomes by continuous morphine treatment in the absence of changes in enkephalin and dynorphin mRNA levels. In addition, co-treatment of morphine with the dopamine D4 receptor (D4R) agonist PD168,077 fully counteracts these adaptive changes in MOR, in spite of the fact that continuous PD168,077 treatment increases the [3H]DAMGO Bmax values to the same degree as seen after continuous morphine treatment. Thus, in spite of the fact that both receptors can be coupled to Gi/0 protein, the present results give support for the existence of antagonistic functional D4R-MOR receptor-receptor interactions in the adaptive changes occurring in MOR of striosomes on continuous administration of morphine.
Prostate cancer (PC) is a frequent male malignancy and represents the second most diagnosed cancer in men. Since pre-cancerous lesions, i.e., the high-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (HGPIN), can be detected years before progression to PC, early diagnosis and chemoprevention are targeted strategies to reduce PC rates. Animal studies have shown that lycopene, a carotenoid contained in tomatoes, is a promising candidate for the chemoprevention of PC. However, its efficacy in humans remains controversial. The present study aimed to investigate the relevance of plasma and prostate concentration of lycopene after a lycopene-enriched diet in patients diagnosed with HGPIN. Thirty-two patients diagnosed with HGPIN were administered a lycopene-enriched diet (20-25 mg/day of lycopene; through 30 g/day of triple concentrated tomato paste) for 6 months. A 6-month follow-up prostate biopsy assessed progression to PC. Patients were classified into three groups according to the histopathological features of the 6-month follow-up biopsy results: prostatitis; HGPIN and PC. PSA and plasma lycopene levels were measured before and after the dietary lycopene supplementation. Prostatic lycopene concentration was only assessed after the supplementation diet. Only prostatic lycopene concentration showed significant differences between the three groups (p = 0.03). Prostatic lycopene concentration below a 1 ng/mg threshold was associated with PC at 6-month follow-up biopsy (p = 0.003). We observed no overall benefits from a 6-month lycopene supplementation, as the rate of HGPIN progression to PC in our population (9/32, 28%) was similar to rates reported in the literature. Baseline PSA levels also showed no significant changes after a lycopene-enriched diet. Our findings point to prostatic lycopene concentration as a promising biomarker of PC. Further prospective longitudinal studies are needed to assess the prognostic role of prostatic lycopene in PC.
A full-term 9-day-old girl presented with fever, irritability, and seizures. The routine CSF examination, cranial ultrasound, and laboratory tests were normal. Brain MRI showed diffuse white matter abnormality (figure). Human parechovirus (HPeV) type 3 was isolated in both CSF and blood. The neurodevelopmental outcome at 4 months is poor, and MRI shows an extensive cystic leukomalacia in the frontal white matter.




Darkness and brightness are very different perceptually. To understand the neural basis for the visual difference, we studied the dynamical states of populations of neurons in macaque primary visual cortex when a spatially uniform area (8  8) of the visual field alternated between black and white. Darkness evoked sustained nerve-impulse spiking in primary visual cortex neurons, but bright stimuli evoked only a transient response. A peak in the local field potential (LFP)  band (30-80 Hz) occurred during darkness; white-induced LFP fluctuations were of lower amplitude, peaking at 25 Hz. However, the sustained response to white in the evoked LFP was larger than for black. Together with the results on spiking, the LFP results imply that, throughout the stimulus period, bright fields evoked strong net sustained inhibition. Such cortical brightness adaptation can explain many perceptual phenomena: interocular speeding up of dark adaptation, tonic interocular suppression, and interocular masking.
Cells must sense extracellular signals and transfer the information contained about their environment reliably to make appropriate decisions. To perform these tasks, cells use signal transduction networks that are subject to various sources of noise. Here, we study the effects on information transfer of two particular types of noise: basal (leaky) network activity and cell-to-cell variability in the componentry of the network. Basal activity is the propensity for activation of the network output in the absence of the signal of interest. We show, using theoretical models of protein kinase signaling, that the combined effect of the two types of noise makes information transfer by such networks highly vulnerable to the loss of negative feedback. In an experimental study of ERK signaling by single cells with heterogeneous ERK expression levels, we verify our theoretical prediction: In the presence of basal network activity, negative feedback substantially increases information transfer to the nucleus by both preventing a near-flat average response curve and reducing sensitivity to variation in substrate expression levels. The interplay between basal network activity, heterogeneity in network componentry, and feedback is thus critical for the effectiveness of protein kinase signaling. Basal activity is widespread in signaling systems under physiological conditions, has phenotypic consequences, and is often raised in disease. Our results reveal an important role for negative feedback mechanisms in protecting the information transfer function of saturable, heterogeneous cell signaling systems from basal activity.
Gustatory cortex (GC), an assemblage of taste-responsive neurons in insular cortex, is widely regarded as integral to conditioned taste aversion (CTA) retention, a link that has been primarily established using lesion approaches in rats. In contrast to this prevailing view, we found that even the most complete bilateral damage to GC produced by ibotenic acid was insufficient to disrupt postsurgical expression of a presurgical CTA; nor were such lesions sufficient to disrupt postsurgical acquisition and initial expression of a second CTA. However, some rats with lesions were significantly impaired on these tests. Further examination of all conditioned rats with lesions, regardless of the lesion topography, revealed a significant positive association between damage in the posterior portion of GC and especially within adjacent posterior regions of insular cortex. Accordingly, we developed a high-resolution lesion-mapping program that permitted the overlay of the individual lesion maps from rats with CTA impairments to produce a groupwise aggregate lesion map. Comparison of this map with one derived from the unimpaired counterparts indicated a specific lesion &quot;hot spot&quot; associated with CTA deficits that included the most posterior end of GC and overlying granular layer and encompassed an area provisionally referred to in the literature as visceral cortex. Thus, the detailed mapping of the lesion in behaviorally defined subgroups of rats allowed us to exploit the variability in performance to uncloak an important potential component of the functional topography of insular cortex; such an approach could have general applicability to other brain structure-function endeavors as well.
Ocular dominance (OD) plasticity in mouse primary visual cortex (V1) declines during postnatal development and is absent beyond postnatal day 110 if mice are raised in standard cages (SCs). An enriched environment (EE) promotes OD plasticity in adult rats. Here, we explored cellular mechanisms of EE in mouse V1 and the therapeutic potential of EE to prevent impairments of plasticity after a cortical stroke. Using in vivo optical imaging, we observed that monocular deprivation in adult EE mice (i) caused a very strong OD plasticity previously only observed in 4-wk-old animals, (ii) restored already lost OD plasticity in adult SC-raised mice, and (iii) preserved OD plasticity after a stroke in the primary somatosensory cortex. Using patch-clamp electrophysiology in vitro, we also show that (iv) local inhibition was significantly reduced in V1 slices of adult EE mice and (v) the GABA/AMPA ratio was like that in 4-wk-old SC-raised animals. These observations were corroborated by in vivo analyses showing that diazepam treatment significantly reduced the OD shift of EE mice after monocular deprivation. Taken together, EE extended the sensitive phase for OD plasticity into late adulthood, rejuvenated V1 after 4 mo of SC-rearing, and protected adult mice from stroke-induced impairments of cortical plasticity. The EE effect was mediated most likely by preserving low juvenile levels of inhibition into adulthood, which potentially promoted adaptive changes in cortical circuits.
There remains much scientific, clinical, and ethical controversy concerning the use of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) for psychiatric disorders stemming from a lack of information and knowledge about how such treatment might work, given its nonspecific and spatially unfocused nature. The mode of action of ECT has even been ascribed to a &quot;barbaric&quot; form of placebo effect. Here we show differential, highly specific, spatially distributed effects of ECT on regional brain structure in two populations: patients with unipolar or bipolar disorder. Unipolar and bipolar disorders respond differentially to ECT and the associated local brain-volume changes, which occur in areas previously associated with these diseases, correlate with symptom severity and the therapeutic effect. Our unique evidence shows that electrophysical therapeutic effects, although applied generally, take on regional significance through interactions with brain pathophysiology.
In epilepsy it has been challenging to detect early changes in brain activity that occurs prior to seizure onset and to map their origin and evolution for possible intervention. Here we demonstrate using a rat model of generalized epilepsy that diffuse optical tomography (DOT) provides a unique functional neuroimaging modality for noninvasively and continuously tracking such brain activities with high spatiotemporal resolution. We detected early hemodynamic responses with heterogeneous patterns, along with intracranial electroencephalogram gamma power changes, several minutes preceding the electroencephalographic seizure onset, supporting the presence of a &quot;pre-seizure&quot; state. We also observed the decoupling between local hemodynamic and neural activities. We found widespread hemodynamic changes evolving from local regions of the bilateral cortex and thalamus to the entire brain, indicating that the onset of generalized seizures may originate locally rather than diffusely. Together, these findings suggest DOT represents a powerful tool for mapping early seizure onset and propagation pathways.

Myelination and neurite outgrowth both occur during brain development, and their disturbance has been previously been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Leucine-rich repeat and immunoglobulin domain-containing protein (Lingo-1) is a potent negative regulator of axonal myelination and neurite extension. As co-factors of Lingo-1 signaling (Nogo receptor (NgR), With No Lysine (K) (WNK1) and Myelin transcription factor 1 (Myt1)) have been implicated in the genetics of schizophrenia, we explored for the first time the role of Lingo-1 signaling pathways in this disorder. Lingo-1 protein, together with its co-receptor and co-factor proteins NgR, tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor orphan Y (TROY), p75, WNK1 and Myt1, have never been explored in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. We examined protein levels of Lingo-1, NgR, TROY, p75, WNK1, Myt1 and myelin basic protein (MBP) (as a marker of myelination) within the post-mortem dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) (37 schizophrenia patients versus 37 matched controls) and hippocampus (Cornu Ammonis, CA1 and CA3) (20 schizophrenia patients versus 20 matched controls from the same cohort). Both of these brain regions are highly disrupted in the schizophrenia pathophysiology. There were significant increases in Lingo-1 (P&lt;0.001) and Myt1 (P=0.023) and a reduction in NgR (P&lt;0.001) in the DLPFC in schizophrenia subjects compared with controls. There were also increases in both TROY (P=0.001) and WNK1 (P=0.011) in the CA1 of schizophrenia subjects and, in contrast to the DLPFC, there was an increase in NgR (P=0.006) in the CA3 of schizophrenia subjects compared with controls. No significant difference was reported for MBP levels (P&gt;0.05) between the schizophrenia and control groups in the three tested regions. This is the first time that a study has shown altered Lingo-1 signaling in the schizophrenia brain. Our novel findings may present a direct application for the use of a Lingo-1 antagonist to complement current and future schizophrenia therapies.
Sleep is critical for normal brain function and mental health. However, the molecular mechanisms mediating the impact of sleep loss on both cognition and the sleep electroencephalogram remain mostly unknown. Acute sleep loss impacts brain gene expression broadly. These data contributed to current hypotheses regarding the role for sleep in metabolism, synaptic plasticity and neuroprotection. These changes in gene expression likely underlie increased sleep intensity following sleep deprivation (SD). Here we tested the hypothesis that epigenetic mechanisms coordinate the gene expression response driven by SD. We found that SD altered the cortical genome-wide distribution of two major epigenetic marks: DNA methylation and hydroxymethylation. DNA methylation differences were enriched in gene pathways involved in neuritogenesis and synaptic plasticity, whereas large changes (&gt;4000 sites) in hydroxymethylation where observed in genes linked to cytoskeleton, signaling and neurotransmission, which closely matches SD-dependent changes in the transcriptome. Moreover, this epigenetic remodeling applied to elements previously linked to sleep need (for example, Arc and Egr1) and synaptic partners of Neuroligin-1 (Nlgn1; for example, Dlg4, Nrxn1 and Nlgn3), which we recently identified as a regulator of sleep intensity following SD. We show here that Nlgn1 mutant mice display an enhanced slow-wave slope during non-rapid eye movement sleep following SD but this mutation does not affect SD-dependent changes in gene expression, suggesting that the Nlgn pathway acts downstream to mechanisms triggering gene expression changes in SD. These data reveal that acute SD reprograms the epigenetic landscape, providing a unique molecular route by which sleep can impact brain function and health.



After viewing directional motion for a period of time, we experience a motion after-effect in which a subsequent stationary object appears to move in the opposite direction. A recent study demonstrates a novel motion after-effect that depends on the movement of the hand.
Withdrawal of attention from a visual scene as a result of perceptual load modulates overall levels of activity in human visual cortex [1], but its effects on cortical spatial tuning properties are unknown. Here we show attentional load at fixation affects the spatial tuning of population receptive fields (pRFs) in early visual cortex (V1-3) using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We found that, compared to low perceptual load, high perceptual load yielded a 'blurrier' representation of the visual field surrounding the attended location and a centrifugal 'repulsion' of pRFs. Additional data and control analyses confirmed that these effects were neither due to changes in overall activity levels nor to eye movements. These findings suggest neural 'tunnel vision' as a form of distractor suppression under high perceptual load.
Training can lead to long-lasting improvement in our perceptual ability, which is referred to as perceptual learning. Unraveling its neural mechanisms has proved difficult. With functional and structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), we addressed this issue by searching for the neural correlates of perceptual learning of face views over a long time course. Human subjects were trained to perform a face view discrimination task. Their behavioral performance and MRI signals were measured before, immediately after, and 1 month after training. We found that, across individual subjects, their behavioral learning effects correlated with the stability improvement of spatial activity pattern in the left fusiform cortex immediately after and 1 month after training. We also found that the thickness of the left fusiform cortex before training could predict subjects' behavioral learning effects. These findings, for the first time, not only suggest that, remarkably, the improved pattern stability contributes to the long-term mechanisms of perceptual learning, but also provide strong and converging evidence for the pivotal role of the left fusiform cortex in adaptive face processing.
Designed by biological and social evolutionary pressures, facial expressions of emotion comprise specific facial movements to support a near-optimal system of signaling and decoding. Although highly dynamical, little is known about the form and function of facial expression temporal dynamics. Do facial expressions transmit diagnostic signals simultaneously to optimize categorization of the six classic emotions, or sequentially to support a more complex communication system of successive categorizations over time? Our data support the latter. Using a combination of perceptual expectation modeling, information theory, and Bayesian classifiers, we show that dynamic facial expressions of emotion transmit an evolving hierarchy of &quot;biologically basic to socially specific&quot; information over time. Early in the signaling dynamics, facial expressions systematically transmit few, biologically rooted face signals supporting the categorization of fewer elementary categories (e.g., approach/avoidance). Later transmissions comprise more complex signals that support categorization of a larger number of socially specific categories (i.e., the six classic emotions). Here, we show that dynamic facial expressions of emotion provide a sophisticated signaling system, questioning the widely accepted notion that emotion communication is comprised of six basic (i.e., psychologically irreducible) categories, and instead suggesting four.
The question of how our body parts successfully interact with objects in the outside world is a fundamental problem in cognitive science and neuroscience. This problem is closely related to biologically important behaviors such as avoiding collisions or safely reaching for an object. Although previous studies have suggested that perceiving the space around one's own body is essential for interacting successfully with objects, how one's own body parts influence the ability to perceive the space around the body is unknown. Here, we report a visual motion aftereffect (MAE) that shows spatial selectivity in hand-centered coordinates. The MAE is an illusion of visual motion resulting from adaptation to a moving pattern and normally occurs with retinal overlap between adaptor and test. We found that the MAE occurs without retinal overlap between the adaptor and test when they are presented at the same position relative to a seen hand. This MAE appeared only when participants voluntarily controlled the hand that was felt to be their own. Our results reveal that sense of owning an actively moved body part generates a perceptual representation of the space encoded in body-part-centered coordinates that might be useful for guiding movements of one's body parts.


MicroRNAs have been identified as key regulators of gene expression and thus their potential in disease diagnostics, prognosis and therapy is being actively pursued. Deregulation of microRNAs in cerebral pathogenesis has been reported to a limited extent in both animal models and human. Due to the complexity of the pathology, identifying stroke specific microRNAs has been a challenge. This study shows that microRNA profiles reflect not only the temporal progression of stroke but also the specific etiologies. A panel of 32 microRNAs, which could differentiate stroke etiologies during acute phase was identified and verified using a customized TaqMan Low Density Array (TLDA). Furthermore we also found 5 microRNAs, miR-125b-2*, -27a*, -422a, -488 and -627 to be consistently altered in acute stroke irrespective of age or severity or confounding metabolic complications. Differential expression of these 5 microRNAs was also observed in rat stroke models. Hence, their specificity to the stroke pathology emphasizes the possibility of developing these microRNAs into accurate and useful tools for diagnosis of stroke.




The ability to control the speed of movement is compromised in neurological disorders involving the basal ganglia, a set of subcortical cerebral nuclei that receive prominent dopaminergic projections from the midbrain. For example, bradykinesia, slowness of movement, is a major symptom of Parkinson's disease, whereas rapid tics are observed in patients with Tourette syndrome. Recent experimental work has also implicated dopamine (DA) and the basal ganglia in action timing. Here, I advance the hypothesis that the basal ganglia control the rate of change in kinaesthetic perceptual variables. In particular, the sensorimotor cortico-basal ganglia network implements a feedback circuit for the control of movement velocity. By modulating activity in this network, DA can change the gain of velocity reference signals. The lack of DA thus reduces the output of the velocity control system which specifies the rate of change in body configurations, slowing the transition from one body configuration to another.
Sleep homoeostasis refers to a process in which the propensity to sleep increases as wakefulness progresses and decreases as sleep progresses. Sleep is tightly organized around the circadian clock and is regulated by genetic and epigenetic mechanisms. The homoeostatic response of sleep, which is classically triggered by sleep deprivation, is generally measured as a rebound effect of electrophysiological measures, for example delta sleep. However, more recently, gene expression changes following sleep loss have been investigated as biomarkers of sleep homoeostasis. The genetic background of an individual may affect this sleep-dependent gene expression phenotype. In this study, we investigated whether parental genetic background differentially modulates the expression of genes following sleep loss. We tested the progeny of reciprocal crosses of AKR/J and DBA/2J mouse strains and we show a parent-of-origin effect on the expression of circadian, sleep and neuronal plasticity genes following sleep deprivation. Thus, we further explored, by in silico, specific functions or upstream mechanisms of regulation and we observed that several upstream mechanisms involving signalling pathways (i.e. DICER1, PKA), growth factors (CSF3 and BDNF) and transcriptional regulators (EGR2 and ELK4) may be differentially modulated by parental effects. This is the first report showing that a behavioural manipulation (e.g. sleep deprivation) in adult animals triggers specific gene expression responses according to parent-of-origin genomic mechanisms. Our study suggests that the same mechanism may be extended to other behavioural domains and that the investigation of gene expression following experimental manipulations should take seriously into account parent-of-origin effects.

Sensitivity to time, including the time of reward, guides the behaviour of all organisms. Recent research suggests that all major reward structures of the brain process the time of reward occurrence, including midbrain dopamine neurons, striatum, frontal cortex and amygdala. Neuronal reward responses in dopamine neurons, striatum and frontal cortex show temporal discounting of reward value. The prediction error signal of dopamine neurons includes the predicted time of rewards. Neurons in the striatum, frontal cortex and amygdala show responses to reward delivery and activities anticipating rewards that are sensitive to the predicted time of reward and the instantaneous reward probability. Together these data suggest that internal timing processes have several well characterized effects on neuronal reward processing.
The precise timing of action potentials of sensory neurons relative to the time of stimulus presentation carries substantial sensory information that is lost or degraded when these responses are summed over longer time windows. However, it is unclear whether and how downstream networks can access information in precise time-varying neural responses. Here, we review approaches to test the hypothesis that the activity of neural populations provides the temporal reference frames needed to decode temporal spike patterns. These approaches are based on comparing the single-trial stimulus discriminability obtained from neural codes defined with respect to network-intrinsic reference frames to the discriminability obtained from codes defined relative to the experimenter's computer clock. Application of this formalism to auditory, visual and somatosensory data shows that information carried by millisecond-scale spike times can be decoded robustly even with little or no independent external knowledge of stimulus time. In cortex, key components of such intrinsic temporal reference frames include dedicated neural populations that signal stimulus onset with reliable and precise latencies, and low-frequency oscillations that can serve as reference for partitioning extended neuronal responses into informative spike patterns.
Mice with cytotoxic lesions of the dorsal hippocampus (DH) underestimated 15 s and 45 s target durations in a bi-peak procedure as evidenced by proportional leftward shifts of the peak functions that emerged during training as a result of decreases in both 'start' and 'stop' times. In contrast, mice with lesions of the ventral hippocampus (VH) displayed rightward shifts that were immediately present and were largely limited to increases in the 'stop' time for the 45 s target duration. Moreover, the effects of the DH lesions were congruent with the scalar property of interval timing in that the 15 s and 45 s functions superimposed when plotted on a relative timescale, whereas the effects of the VH lesions violated the scalar property. Mice with DH lesions also showed enhanced reversal learning in comparison to control and VH lesioned mice. These results are compared with the timing distortions observed in mice lacking -opioid receptors (Oprd1(-/-)) which were similar to mice with DH lesions. Taken together, these results suggest a balance between hippocampal-striatal interactions for interval timing and demonstrate possible functional dissociations along the septotemporal axis of the hippocampus in terms of motivation, timed response thresholds and encoding in temporal memory.
The rise of zebrafish as a neuroscience research model organism, in conjunction with recent progress in single-cell resolution whole-brain imaging of larval zebrafish, opens a new window of opportunity for research on interval timing. In this article, we review zebrafish neuroanatomy and neuromodulatory systems, with particular focus on identifying homologies between the zebrafish forebrain and the mammalian forebrain. The neuroanatomical and neurochemical basis of interval timing is summarized with emphasis on the potential of using zebrafish to reveal the neural circuits for interval timing. The behavioural repertoire of larval zebrafish is reviewed and we demonstrate that larval zebrafish are capable of expecting a stimulus at a precise time point with minimal training. In conclusion, we propose that interval timing research using zebrafish and whole-brain calcium imaging at single-cell resolution will contribute to our understanding of how timing and time perception originate in the vertebrate brain from the level of single cells to circuits.


Despite their genetic similarity to humans, our understanding of the role of genes on cognitive traits in chimpanzees remains virtually unexplored. Here, we examined the relationship between genetic variation in the arginine vasopressin V1a receptor gene (AVPR1A) and social cognition in chimpanzees. Studies have shown that chimpanzees are polymorphic for a deletion in a sequence in the 5' flanking region of the AVPR1A, DupB, which contains the variable RS3 repetitive element, which has been associated with variation in social behavior in humans. Results revealed that performance on the social cognition task was significantly heritable. Furthermore, males with one DupB(+) allele performed significantly better and were more responsive to socio-communicative cues than males homozygous for the DupB- deletion. Performance on a non-social cognition task was not associated with the AVPR1A genotype. The collective findings show that AVPR1A polymorphisms are associated with individual differences in performance on a receptive joint attention task in chimpanzees.
JC virus (JCV) lytically infects the oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system in a subset of immunocompromized patients and causes the demyelinating disease, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. JCV replicates and assembles into infectious virions in the nucleus. However, understanding the molecular mechanisms of its virion biogenesis remains elusive. In this report, we have attempted to shed more light on this process by investigating molecular interactions between large T antigen (LT-Ag), Hsp70 and minor capsid proteins, VP2/VP3. We demonstrated that Hsp70 interacts with VP2/VP3 and LT-Ag; and accumulates heavily in the nucleus of the infected cells. We also showed that VP2/VP3 associates with LT-Ag through their DNA binding domains resulting in enhancement in LT-Ag DNA binding to Ori and induction in viral DNA replication. Altogether, our results suggest that VP2/VP3 and Hsp70 actively participate in JCV DNA replication and may play critical roles in coupling of viral DNA replication to virion encapsidation.








Growing evidence has demonstrated that the aberrant expression of miRNA is a hallmark of malignancies, indicating the important roles of miRNA in the development and progression of cancer. MiR-7 is considered as a tumor suppressor miRNA in multiple types of cancer. However, the role of miR-7 in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and its underlying mechanism remain elusive. In this study, we found that overexpression of miR-7 arrested cell cycle at G1 to S transition in HCC. By combinational use of bioinformatic prediction, reporter assay, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and Western blot, we confirmed that CCNE1, an important mediator in G1/S transition is one of new direct target genes of miR-7. Further studies revealed that silencing of CCNE1 recapitulated the effects of miR-7 overexpression, whereas enforced expression of CCNE1 reversed the suppressive effects of miR-7 in cell cycle regulation. Finally, analysis of qRT-PCR showed a reciprocal relationship between miR-7 and CCNE1 in clinical cancer tissues and multiple types of tumor cell lines. These findings indicate that miR-7 exerts tumor-suppressive effects in hepatocarcinogenesis through the suppression of oncogene CCNE1 expression and suggest a therapeutic application of miR-7 in HCC.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in controlling hepatocyte proliferation during liver regeneration. In this study, we established the miRNAs-expression patterns of primary hepatocytes in vitro under stimulation of epidermal growth factor (EGF), and found that microRNA-21 (miR-21) was appreciably up-regulated and peaked at 12h. In addition, we further presented evidences indicating that miR-21 promotes primary hepatocyte proliferation through in vitro transfecting with miR-21 mimics or inhibitor. We further demonstrated that phosphatidylinositol 3'-OH kinase (PI3K)/Akt signaling was altered accordingly, it is, by targeting phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome 10, PI3K/Akt signaling is activated by miR-21 to accelerate hepatocyte rapid S-phase entry and proliferation in vitro.





The A2A adenosine receptor (A2AR) is a G protein-coupled receptor and a major target of caffeine. The A2AR gene encodes alternative transcripts that are initiated from at least two independent promoters. The different transcripts of the A2AR gene contain the same coding region and 3'-untranslated region and different 5'-untranslated regions that are highly conserved among species. We report here that in addition to the production of the A2AR protein, translation from an upstream, out-of-frame AUG of the rat A2AR gene produces a 134-amino acid protein (designated uORF5). An anti-uORF5 antibody recognized a protein of the predicted size of uORF5 in PC12 cells and rat brains. Up-regulation of A2AR transcripts by hypoxia led to increased levels of both the A2AR and uORF5 proteins. Moreover, stimulation of A2AR increased the level of the uORF5 protein via post-transcriptional regulation. Expression of the uORF5 protein suppressed the AP1-mediated transcription promoted by nerve growth factor and modulated the expression of several proteins that were implicated in the MAPK pathway. Taken together, our results show that the rat A2AR gene encodes two distinct proteins (A2AR and uORF5) in an A2AR-dependent manner. Our study reveals a new example of the complexity of the mammalian genome and provides novel insights into the function of A2AR.
Normal aging can result in a decline of memory and muscle function. Exercise may prevent or delay these changes. However, aging-associated frailty can preclude physical activity. In young sedentary animals, pharmacological activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a transcriptional regulator important for muscle physiology, enhanced spatial memory function, and endurance. In the present study we investigated effects of AMPK agonist 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide riboside (AICAR) on memory and motor function in young (5- to 7-wk-old) and aged (23-mo-old) female C57Bl/6 mice, and in young (4- to 6-wk-old) transgenic mice with muscle-specific mutated AMPK 2-subunit (AMPK-DN). Mice were injected with AICAR (500 mg/kg) for 3-14 d. Two weeks thereafter animals were tested in the Morris water maze, rotarod, and open field. Improved water maze performance and motor function were observed, albeit at longer duration of administration, in aged (14-d AICAR) than in young (3-d AICAR) mice. In the AMPK-DN mice, the compound did not enhance behavior, providing support for a muscle-mediated mechanism. In addition, microarray analysis of muscle and hippocampal tissue derived from aged mice treated with AICAR revealed changes in gene expression in both tissues, which correlated with behavioral effects in a dose-dependent manner. Pronounced up-regulation of mitochondrial genes in muscle was observed. In the hippocampus, genes relevant to neuronal development and plasticity were enriched. Altogether, endurance-related factors may mediate both muscle and brain health in aging, and could play a role in new therapeutic interventions.





Loss-of-function in the Parkin protein is thought to play a part in causing neuronal cell death in patients with Parkinson's disease. This study explores the effect of Parkin degradation, via the overexpression of nucleus accumbens 1 (NAC1), on cell viability. It was found that NAC1 and Parkin are co-localized within the cell and interact with one another, leading to a decrease in Parkin levels. Moreover, NAC1 down-regulates Parkin by presenting it for ubiquitin-dependent proteasome degradation, which causes a decrease in proteasomal activity in neuronal cells. Consequently, this decrease in proteasomal activity leads to an increase in the cells' susceptibility to proteasome inhibition-induced toxicity. It was also found that Parkin and NAC1 are key proteins found to be present mainly in the cytoplasm and are co-localized in neurons of Parkinson's disease patients. Interestingly, mutation in the POZ/BTB domain (Q23L) of NAC1 disrupts the co-localization and interaction of NAC1 with Parkin and it further abrogates the proteasome inhibition-induced toxicity. We further observed that co-transfection of the mutant form of NAC1 with Parkin reversed the proteasome activity and 20S proteasome protein levels. These results indicate a novel interaction between NAC1 and Parkin that leads to neuronal cell death, a main characteristic in Parkinson's disease.
The present study characterized fetal sulcation patterns and gyrification in the cerebrum of the New World monkey group, common marmosets, using a 3D T2-weighted high-resolution anatomical magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) sequence from the fixed brain at 7-tesla ex vivo. Fetal sulcation in the marmoset cerebrum began to indent the lateral fissure and hippocampal sulcus in gestational week (GW) 12, and then the following sulci emerged: the callosal and calcarine sulci on GW 15; the superior temporal sulcus on GW 17; and the circular and occipitotemporal sulci on GW 18. The degree of cortical convolution was evaluated quantitatively based on 2D MRI slices by the gyrification index (GI) and based on 3D MRI data by sulcation index (SI). Both the mean GI and SI increased from GW 16, and were closely correlated with the cortical volume and the cortical surface area during fetal periods (their correlation coefficients marked more than 0.95). After birth, both the mean GI and SI decreased slightly by 2years of age, whereas the cortical volume and surface area continuously increased. Notably, histological analysis showed that the outer subventricular zone (oSVZ) in non-sulcal regions was thicker than that in the presumptive calcarine sulcal region on GW 13, preceding the infolding of the calcarine sulcus. The present results showed definite sulcal infolding on the cerebral cortical surface of the marmosets, with similar pattern and sequence of their emergences to other higher-order primates such as macaques and humans. Differential expansion of the oSVZ may be involved in gyral convolution and sulcal infolding in the developing cerebrum.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) supports and maintains the neuromuscular system during development and through adulthood by promoting neuroplasticity. The aim of this study was to determine if different modes of exercise can promote changes in GDNF expression and neuromuscular junction (NMJ) morphology in slow- and fast-twitch muscles. Rats were randomly assigned to a run training (run group), swim training (swim group), or sedentary control group. GDNF protein content was determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay. GDNF protein content increased significantly in soleus (SOL) following both training protocols (P&lt;0.05). Although not significant, an increase of 60% in the extensor digitorum longus (EDL) followed swim-training (NS; P&lt;0.06). NMJ morphology was analyzed by measuring -bungarotoxin labeled post-synaptic end plates. GDNF content and total end plate area were positively correlated. End plate area decreased in EDL of the run group and increased in SOL of the swim group. The results indicate that GDNF expression and NMJ morphological changes are activity dependent and that different changes may be observed by varying the exercise intensity in slow- and fast-twitch fibers.
Persistent activation of GABAA receptors triggers compensatory changes in receptor function that are relevant to physiological, pathological and pharmacological conditions. Chronic treatment of cultured neurons with GABA for 48h has been shown to produce a down-regulation of receptor number and an uncoupling of GABA/benzodiazepine site interactions with a half-time of 24-25h. Down-regulation is the result of a transcriptional repression of GABAA receptor subunit genes and depends on activation of L-type voltage-gated calcium channels. The mechanism of this uncoupling is currently unknown. We have previously demonstrated that a single brief exposure of rat primary neocortical cultures to GABA for 5-10min (t=3min) initiates a process that results in uncoupling hours later (t=12h) without a change in receptor number. Uncoupling is contingent upon GABAA receptor activation and independent of voltage-gated calcium influx. This process is accompanied by a selective decrease in subunit mRNA levels. Here, we report that the brief GABA exposure induces a decrease in the percentage of 3-containing receptors, a receptor subtype that exhibits a high degree of coupling between GABA and benzodiazepine binding sites. Initiation of GABA-induced uncoupling is prevented by co-incubation of GABA with high concentrations of sucrose suggesting that it is dependent on a receptor internalization step. Moreover, results from immunocytochemical and biochemical experiments indicate that GABA exposure causes an increase in GABAA receptor endocytosis. Together, these data suggest that the uncoupling mechanism involves an initial increase in receptor internalization followed by activation of a signaling cascade that leads to selective changes in receptor subunit levels. These changes might result in the assembly of receptors with altered subunit compositions that display a lower degree of coupling between GABA and benzodiazepine sites. Uncoupling might represent a homeostatic mechanism that negatively regulates GABAergic transmission under physiological conditions in which synaptic GABAA receptors are transiently activated for several minutes.
Noradrenaline acting via -adrenoceptors (-ARs) in the CNS plays an important role in learning/memory and cognitive functions. -ARs have been shown to be expressed in cortical pyramidal and subcortical principal cells. However, little is known about -AR expression in different subtypes of GABAergic neurons. Here, we report that both 1- and 2-ARs are expressed in a majority of GABAergic interneurons in the medial prefrontal cortex of mice, including parvalbumin (PV)-, calretinin (CR)-, calbindin D-28k (CB)-, somatostatin (SST)- and Reelin-immunoreactive (ir) interneurons. Relative to PV-, CB-, SST- and Reelin-ir interneurons, CR-ir interneurons are less likely to express 1- and 2-ARs. SST-ir interneurons are more likely to express 2-AR compared with the other subtypes of interneurons. The present results are of significance for understanding the role of -ARs in prefrontal cortical functions.
Progesterone is a known anticonvulsant, with its inhibitory effects generally attributed to its secondary metabolite, 5,3-tetrahydroprogesterone (THP), and THP's enhancement of GABAA receptor activity. Accumulating evidence, however, suggests that progesterone may have non-genomic actions independent of the GABAA receptor. In this study, we explored THP/GABAA-independent anticonvulsive actions of progesterone in a mouse model of hippocampal kindling and in mouse entorhinal slices in vitro. Specifically, we examined the effects of progesterone in kindled mice with or without pretreatments with finasteride, a 5-reductase inhibitor known to block the metabolism of progesterone to THP. In addition, we examined the effects of progesterone on entorhinal epileptiform potentials in the presence of a GABAA receptor antagonist picrotoxin and finasteride. Adult male mice were kindled via a daily stimulation protocol. Electroencephalographic (EEG) discharges were recorded from the hippocampus or cortex to assess &quot;focal&quot; or &quot;generalized&quot; seizure activity. Kindled mice were treated with intra-peritoneal injections of progesterone (10, 35, 100 and 160mg/kg) with or without finasteride pretreatment (50 or 100mg/kg), THP (1, 3.5, 10 and 30mg/kg), midazolam (2mg/kg) and carbamazepine (50mg/kg). Entorhinal cortical slices were prepared from nave young mice, and repetitive epileptiform potentials were induced by 4-aminopyridine (100M), picrotoxin (100M) and finasteride (1M). Pretreatment with finasteride did not abolish the anticonvulsant effects of progesterone. In finasteride-pretreated mice, progesterone at 100 and 160mg/kg decreased cortical but not hippocampal afterdischarges (ADs). Carbamazepine mimicked the effects of progesterone with finasteride pretreatments in decreasing cortical discharges and motor seizures, whereas midazolam produced effects similar to progesterone alone or THP in decreasing hippocampal ADs and motor seizures. In brain slices, progesterone at 1M inhibited entorhinal epileptiform potentials in the presence of picrotoxin and finasteride. We suggest that progesterone may have THP/GABAA-dependent and independent anticonvulsive actions in the hippocampal-kindled mouse model.
Our previous study demonstrated that chronic prenatal methamphetamine (MA) exposure and a single dose of MA in adulthood decrease focally induced epileptiform activity in adult male rats. As seizures are known to be dependent on sex and female estrous cycle, the goal of the present study was to examine the combined effect of prenatal MA exposure (5mg/kg) and the MA challenge dose (1mg/kg) in adulthood on electroencephalography (EEG) recordings and consequences of brain stimulation in freely moving adult female rats with respect to the estrous cycle. Overall, 12 groups of adult female rats were tested: prenatally MA-exposed, prenatally saline-exposed and rats without prenatal injections, each of these groups was either postnatally challenged with MA or with saline injection (MA-MA, MA-S; S-MA, S-S; C-MA, C-S) and further divided according to the stage of the estrous cycle to metestrus/diestrus (M/D) or proestrus/estrus (P/E). Seizures were induced by repetitive electrical stimulation (15s/8Hz) of sensorimotor cortex. Stimulation threshold, duration of afterdischarges (ADs), and presence and duration of spontaneous ADs (SADs) were evaluated. Additionally, behavior associated with stimulation and ADs, and occurrence of wet-dog-shakes (WDS) were analyzed. The present study demonstrates that the prenatal MA exposure decreased the seizure threshold in females in M/D, but not in females in P/E. In addition, prenatally MA-exposed M/D females injected with saline in adulthood had increased the duration of ADs as well as SADs. The challenge dose of MA also decreased the seizure threshold. Moreover, prenatal as well as adult MA administration decreased the number and occurrence of WDS, respectively. Thus, the present study demonstrates that the effect of prenatal MA exposure and challenge dose of the same drug on focally induced epileptiform activity in adult female rats depends on the estrous cycle.
Neonatal handling, an experimental model of early life experiences, is known to affect hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function, thus increasing adaptability, coping with stress, cognitive abilities and in general brain plasticity-related processes. AMPA receptors (AMPARs) mediate fast synaptic transmission at excitatory glutamatergic synapses in the CNS and are crucial during neuronal development, synaptic plasticity and structural remodeling. AMPARs are composed of four types of subunits, designated as AMPA glutamate receptor subunits (GluA1, GluA2, GluA3 and GluA4), which combine to form tetramers. The present study addressed the question of whether neonatal handling (15min daily maternal separation from postnatal day 1 (PND1) to PND21) might have an effect on GluA1-4 mRNA levels in adult rat male and female brain using in situ hybridization. We have identified selective sexually dimorphic effects of neonatal handling on the mRNA expression levels of AMPAR subunits in adult rat hippocampus and nuclei of the amygdaloid complex. In the dorsal hippocampus GluA1 mRNA levels were increased in handled males, while they were decreased in handled female animals. In the ventral hippocampus and the amygdaloid complex GluA2 mRNA was lower in handled females, while no effect was observed in handled males. Furthermore, we observed that neonatal handling induced in both sexes decreases of GluA2 mRNA in the dorsal hippocampus, as well as in the somatosensory and occipital cortex, of GluA3 mRNA in most hippocampal areas, amygdaloid complex and cortical regions studied, and of GluA4 mRNA in the ventral hippocampus. These results show that glutamatergic transmission is markedly affected by an early experience. The neonatal handling-induced alterations in AMPAR subunit composition are in line with the increased brain plasticity, the more effective HPA axis function, and in general the more adaptive behavioral phenotype known to characterize the handled animals.

Many types of injury such as seizure, ischemia, and oxidative stress cause upregulation of the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)) in brain neurons, where it promotes apoptosis, however the mechanism by which p75(NTR) is regulated under these conditions is not well understood. Proinflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-1 (IL-1) are highly produced under these injury conditions and, in particular, are expressed rapidly in the rat hippocampus after seizure. IL-1 is known to increase neuronal vulnerability under many conditions, although it does not directly induce neuronal death. Recently, we have shown that these cytokines regulate p75(NTR) induction both in neurons and astrocytes in vitro. Here, we show that IL-1 infusion into the brain induces p75(NTR) in neurons of the CA1 area of the hippocampus. While IL-1 induction of p75(NTR) is not sufficient to induce cell death, we demonstrate that IL-1 primes the neurons by recruiting p75(NTR) and its coreceptor sortilin to the cell surface, making the neurons more vulnerable to subsequent challenge by proNGF. These results suggest a mechanism by which IL-1 exacerbates neuronal death following injury.
Ghrelin, an orexigenic brain-gut hormone promoting feeding and regulating energy metabolism in human and rodents, was reported to enhance both adult neurogenesis and hippocampus-dependent memory formation. However, it is still unclear whether ghrelin-induced hippocampus neurogenesis is responsible for its memory improvement. Using 5-bromo-2' deoxyuridien (BrdU) to birth-date newborn neurons and c-Fos expression to identify dentate gyrus (DG) neurons involved in memory processes, we checked here the effect of ghrelin treatment on adult neurogenesis and cognitive behaviors in mice. We further examined the possible effect of ghrelin on the recruitment of new neurons into the spatial memory traces in intact mice. We found that systemic ghrelin treatment (80g/kg, ip injection once daily for 8days) stimulated neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus, but had no effect on spatial memory formation. Consistently, it did not affect the incorporation of newborn neurons into the spatial memory circuits. On the contrary, local infusion of ghrelin (8ng/0.5l into CA1 region of the hippocampus) impaired spatial memory formation, but did not affect adult neurogenesis. Our results thus suggested that ghrelin plays distinct roles in modulating adult neurogenesis and the memory acquisition in the hippocampus, the two processes may not be correlated and may be mediated by different mechanisms.
The spiral ganglion conveys afferent auditory information predominantly through a single class of type I neurons that receive signals from inner hair cell sensory receptors. These auditory primary afferents, like in other systems (Puopolo and Belluzzi, 1998; Gascon and Moqrich, 2010; Leao et al., 2012) possess a marked diversity in their electrophysiological features (Taberner and Liberman, 2005). Consistent with these observations, when the auditory primary afferents were assessed in neuronal explants separated from their peripheral and central targets it was found that individual neurons were markedly heterogeneous in their endogenous electrophysiological features. One aspect of this heterogeneity, obvious throughout the ganglion, was their wide range of excitability as assessed by voltage threshold measurements (Liu and Davis, 2007). Thus, while neurons in the base differed significantly from apical and middle neurons in their voltage thresholds, each region showed distinctly wide ranges of values. To determine whether the resting membrane potentials (RMPs) of these neurons correlate with the threshold distribution and to identify the ion channel regulatory elements underlying heterogeneous neuronal excitability in the ganglion, patch-clamp recordings were made from postnatal day (P5-8) murine spiral ganglion neurons in vitro. We found that RMP mirrored the tonotopic threshold distribution, and contributed an additional level of heterogeneity in each cochlear location. Pharmacological experiments further indicated that threshold and RMP was coupled through the Kv1 current, which had a dual impact on both electrophysiological parameters. Whereas, hyperpolarization-activated cationic channels decoupled these two processes by primarily affecting RMP without altering threshold level. Thus, beyond mechanical and synaptic specializations, ion channel regulation of intrinsic membrane properties imbues spiral ganglion neurons with different excitability levels, a feature that contributes to primary auditory afferent diversity.
The interaction between neurons, astrocytes and endothelial cells plays a central role coupling energy supply with changes in neuronal activity. For a long time it was believed that glucose was the only source of energy for neurons. However, a growing body of experimental evidence indicates that lactic acid, generated by aerobic glycolysis in perivascular astrocytes, is also a source of energy for neuronal activity, particularly when the supply of glucose from the intravascular space is interrupted. Adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is an evolutionary conserved kinase that couples cellular activity with energy consumption via induction of the uptake of glucose and activation of the glycolytic pathway. The uptake of glucose by the blood-brain barrier is mediated by glucose transporter-1 (GLUT1), which is abundantly expressed in endothelial cells and astrocytic end-feet processes. Tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) is a serine proteinase that is found in endothelial cells, astrocytes and neurons. Genetic overexpression of neuronal tPA or treatment with recombinant tPA protects neurons from the deleterious effects of metabolic stress or excitotoxicity, via a mechanism independent of tPA's ability to cleave plasminogen into plasmin. The work presented here shows that exposure to metabolic stress induces the rapid release of tPA from murine neurons but not from astrocytes. This tPA induces AMPK activation, membrane recruitment of GLUT1, and GLUT1-mediated glucose uptake in astrocytes and endothelial cells. Our data indicate that this is followed by the synthesis and release of lactic acid from astrocytes, and that the uptake of this lactic acid via the monocarboxylate transporter-2 promotes survival in neurons exposed to metabolic stress.
Our previous study has shown that aging and hypertension may alter apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) and cerebral blood flow (CBF) and increase ischemic susceptibility in the non-ischemic rat brain. The present study wishes to further investigate whether aging and hypertension may influence cerebral diffusion/perfusion and increase ischemic susceptibility in the ischemic brain. Brain magnetic resonance (MR) imaging was examined 1day before and 1 and 7days after bilateral common carotid artery occlusion. Young and middle-aged normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats and young and middle-aged spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) were studied. Infarction occurred mainly in the parietal cortex and was larger in middle-aged SHRs than the other three groups (P&lt;0.05). In pre-operation, ADC was higher and CBF was lower in middle-aged/hypertensive rats than young/normotensive rats (P&lt;0.05). The ADC was higher in the parietal cortex of the rats with infarction at 7days when compared to the rats without infarction [receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC), P=0.001; binary logistic regression (BLR), P=0.006]. However, there was no difference in the hippocampus and thalamus. At day 1 post-operation, CBF reduced and ADC/CBF ratio elevated significantly in the parietal cortex of the rats with infarction when compared to the rats without infarction (CBF: ROC, P=0.002; BLR, P=0.017. ADC/CBF ratio: ROC, P=0.001; BLR, P=0.018). Our results demonstrated that pre-operation ADC and post-operation CBF and ADC/CBF ratio can be used as good MR markers in the prediction of ischemic susceptibility after cerebral hypoperfusion.
Clinical studies have shown that agonist-antagonist opioid analgesics that produce their analgesic effect via action on the kappa-opioid receptor, produce a delayed-onset anti-analgesia in men but not women, an effect blocked by co-administration of a low dose of naloxone. We now report the same time-dependent anti-analgesia and its underlying mechanism in an animal model. Using the Randall-Selitto paw-withdrawal assay in male rats, we found that nalbuphine, pentazocine, and butorphanol each produced analgesia during the first hour followed by anti-analgesia starting at 90min after administration in males but not females, closely mimicking its clinical effects. As observed in humans, co-administration of nalbuphine with naloxone in a dose ratio of 12.5:1 blocked anti-analgesia but not analgesia. Administration of the highly selective kappa-opioid receptor agonist U69593 produced analgesia without subsequent anti-analgesia, and confirmed by the failure of the selective kappa antagonist nor-binaltorphimine to block nalbuphine-induced anti-analgesia, indicating that anti-analgesia is not mediated by kappa-opioid receptors. We therefore tested the role of other receptors in nalbuphine anti-analgesia. Nociceptin/orphanin FQ (NOP) and sigma-1 and sigma-2 receptors were chosen on the basis of their known anti-analgesic effects and receptor binding studies. The selective NOP receptor antagonists, JTC801, and J-113397, but not the sigma receptor antagonist, BD 1047, antagonized nalbuphine anti-analgesia. Furthermore, the NOP receptor agonist NNC 63-0532 produced anti-analgesia with the same delay in onset observed with the three agonist-antagonists, but without producing preceding analgesia and this anti-analgesia was also blocked by naloxone. These results strongly support the suggestion that clinically used agonist-antagonists act at the NOP receptor to produce anti-analgesia.
-Amyloid (A) accumulation has been proved to be responsible for the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, it is not yet clear what makes A accumulate and become toxic in the AD brains. Our previous studies demonstrated that glycated A (A-AGE) could be formed, and it exacerbated the authentic A-mediated neurotoxicity in vitro, but we did not show the role of A-AGE in vivo and the underlying mechanism. In the current study, we synthesized A-AGE by incubating A with methylglyoxal in vitro, and then stereotactically injected A-AGE into lateral ventricle of Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. We found that A-AGE aggravated A-induced cognitive impairment, which was characterized by higher speed of deterioration of long-term potentiation (LTP), more decrease of dendritic spines density and more down-regulation of synaptic proteins. We also observed the overexpression of receptor for advanced glycation endproducts receptor for AGEs (RAGE) and the activation of downstream molecular (GSK3, NF-B, p38) in RAGE-mediated pathways. On the other hand, simultaneous application of RAGE antibody or GSK3 inhibitor LiCl reversed the cognitive decline amplified by A-AGE. Our data revealed that in vivo the A-AGE is more toxic than A, and A-AGE could lead to the aggravation of AD-like pathology though the RAGE pathway, suggesting that A-AGE and RAGE may be new therapeutic targets for AD.
Pro-inflammatory cytokines induced by inflammation and iron accumulation in the substantia nigra (SN) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). In the present study, we aimed to investigate the relationship between inflammation and iron accumulation in a lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced Parkinsonian rat model. The activation of glial cells and elevated levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines were observed in the SN of LPS models, accompanied by iron deposits in the same region. Moreover, ferroportin (Fpn), the only channel for iron export, was down-regulated. SH-SY5Y dopaminergic cells were pre-incubated with conditioned media enriched in pro-inflammatory cytokines, and abnormal iron deposits and a drop of Fpn were observed. The expression of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) was also upregulated in vivo and in vitro. These results suggested that pro-inflammatory cytokines might induce Fpn downregulation, which leads to iron accumulation and dopaminergic neurons' degeneration in PD. HO-1 may also contribute to the iron accumulation in neurons, but its mechanism needs to be further investigated.
Artificial gravity (AG) exposure is suggested to counteract health deconditioning, theoretically complementing exercise during space habitations. Exercise-benefits on mental health are well documented (i.e. well-being, enhanced executive functions). Although AG is coherent for the integrity of fundamental physiological systems, the effects of its exposure on neurophysiological processes related to cognitive performance are poorly understood and therefore characterize the primary aim of this study. 16 healthy males participated in two randomly assigned sessions, AG and exercise (30minute each). Participants were exposed to AG at continuous +2Gz in a short-arm human centrifuge and performed moderate exercise (cycling ergometer). Using 64 active electrodes, resting EEG was recorded before (pre), immediately after (post), and 15min after (post15) each session. Alpha (7.5-12.5Hz) and beta frequencies (12.5-35.0Hz) were exported for analysis. Cognitive performance and mood states were assessed before and after each session. Cognitive performance improved after exercise (p&lt;0.05), but not after AG. This was reflected by typical EEG patterns after exercise, however not after AG. Frontal alpha (post p&lt;0.01, post15 p&lt;0.001) and beta activity (post15 p&lt;0.001) increased after AG compared to a decrease in frontal alpha (post15 p&lt;0.05) and beta activity (post p&lt;0.01) after exercise. Relaxed cortical states were indicated after exercise, but were less apparent after AG. Changes in mood states failed significance after both sessions. Summarized, the benefits to mental health, recorded after exercise, were absent after AG, indicating that AG might cause neurocognitive deconditioning.
Sex hormones have been reported to dynamically modulate the expression of implicit motives, a concept that has previously been thought to be relatively stable over time. This study investigates to what extent the need for affiliation, power, and achievement, as well as the form of enactment of these needs as measured with the Operant Motive Test (OMT), is affected by cycle-phase dependent sex hormone fluctuations. In addition to measuring the strength of motive expression, the OMT also captures different forms of motive enactment. In an intra-subject design with repeated measures, no evidence for cycle-phase related variation in overall motive scores was found. However, when different forms of motive enactment were considered, an effect of menstrual cycle was observed. The incentive-based inhibition of the power motive was significantly reduced at the time of ovulation, compared to the menstrual and to the mid-luteal phase, in naturally cycling women. In women with relatively stable hormone concentrations (due to using hormonal contraceptives), no significant changes in the form of motive enactment were evident. The results indicate a specific hormonal influence on motive-related cognitive processes that are related to inhibitive processes in behavior control.
The goal of this study was to clarify similar and distinctly different parameters of fluid intake during early phases of ethanol and water choice drinking in alcohol preferring P-rat vs. non-selected Wistar and Sprague Dawley (SD) rats. Precision information on the drinking amounts and timing is needed to analyze micro-behavioral components of the acquisition of ethanol intake and to enable a search for its causal activity patterns within individual CNS circuits. The experiment followed the standard ethanol-drinking test used in P-rat selective breeding, with access to water, then 10% ethanol (10E) as sole fluids, and next to ethanol/water choice. The novelty of the present approach was to eliminate confounding prandial elevations of fluid intake, by time-separating daily food from fluid access. P-rat higher initial intakes of water and 10E as sole fluids suggest adaptations to ethanol-induced dehydration in P vs. Wistar and SD rats. P-rat starting and overall ethanol intake during the choice period were the highest. The absolute extent of ethanol intake elevation during choice period was greatest in Wistar and their final intake levels approached those of P-rat, contrary to the hypothesis that selection would produce the strongest elevation of ethanol intake. The total daily fluid during ethanol/water choice period was strikingly similar between P, Wistar and SD rats. This supports the hypothesis for a universal system that gauges the overall intake volume by titrating and integrating ethanol and water drinking fluctuations, and indicates a stable daily level of total fluid as a main regulated parameter of fluid intake across the three lines in choice conditions. The present findings indicate that a stable daily level of total fluid comprises an independent physiological limit for daily ethanol intake. Ethanol drinking, in turn, stays under the ceiling of this limit, driven by a parallel mechanism of ethanol/water choice.
Horizontal cuts between the septum and preoptic area (anterior roof deafferentation, or ARD) dramatically affect sexual behavior, and in ways that could explain a variety of differences across behavioral categories (precopulatory, copulatory), species, and the sexes. Yet little is known about how these effects develop. Such information would be useful generally and could be pivotal in clarifying the mechanism for ultrasonic vocalization in female hamsters. Ultrasounds serve these animals as precopulatory signals that can attract males and help initiate mating. Their rates can be increased by either ARD or lesions of the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMN). If these effects are independent, they would require a mechanism that includes multiple structures and pathways within the forebrain and hypothalamus. However, it currently is not clear if they are independent: VMN lesions could affect vocalization by causing incidental damage to the same fibers targeted by ARD. Fortunately, past studies of VMN lesions have described a response with a very distinctive time course. This raises the possibility of assessing the independence of the two lesion effects by describing just the development of the response to ARD. To accomplish this, female hamsters were observed for levels of ultrasound production and lordosis before and after control surgery or ARD. As expected, both behaviors were facilitated by these cuts. Further, these effects began to appear by two days after surgery and were fully developed by six days. These results extend previous descriptions of the ARD effect by describing its development and time course. In turn, the rapid responses to ARD suggest that these cuts trigger disinhibitory changes in pathways that differ from those affected by VMN lesions.
Alcohol-preferring (P) rats develop high ethanol intake over several weeks of water/10% ethanol (10E) choice drinking. However, it is not yet clear precisely what components of drinking behavior undergo modification to achieve higher intake. Our concurrent report compared precisely measured daily intake in P vs. non-selected Wistar and Sprague Dawley (SD) rats. Here we analyze their drinking patterns and bouts to clarify microbehavioral components that are common to rats of different genetic backgrounds, vs. features that are unique to each. Under sole-fluid conditions P, Wistar and SD rats all consumed water at a high initial rate followed by a slow maintenance phase, but 10E - in a distinctly different step-like pattern of evenly distributed bouts. During choice period, 10E vs. water patterns for P rat appeared as an overlap of sole-fluid patterns. The SD rat choice patterns resembled sole-fluid patterns but were less regular. Choice patterns in Wistar differed from both P and SD rats, by consisting of intermixed small frequent episodes of drinking both 10E and water. Wistar and SD rats increased choice ethanol intake by elevating the number of bouts. A key finding was that P rat increased choice ethanol intake through a gradual increase of the bout size and duration, but kept bout number constant. This supports the hypothesis that genetic selection modifies microbehavioral machinery controlling drinking bout initiation, duration, and other pattern features. Precision analysis of drinking patterns and bouts allows differentiation between genetic lines, and provides a venue for study of localized circuit and transmitter influences mediating mesolimbic control over ethanol consumption.
Past work has established that levels of maternal care provided to rat pups during the postpartum period plays an important role in shaping development of the stress response system, such that high levels of pup licking and grooming and active nursing behaviors are associated with more efficient hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal responses to stressors in adulthood. Furthermore, a prior study from our laboratory has demonstrated facilitation of maternal care for five days following a one-hour predator odor exposure on the day of giving birth. The present study was an investigation of the effects on maternal care during a one-hour predator odor exposure administered on the day of giving birth, with or without the addition of transport stress immediately prior to the odor exposure. Stress-induced activation of the medial preoptic area (MPOA) and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), two brain regions involved in regulating maternal behaviors, were also quantified using c-Fos immunohistochemistry. Our results show that predator odor exposure soon after birth does not significantly alter expression of maternal behaviors during the hour-long exposure period, unless the dams are also exposed to transport stress, in which case maternal behaviors are reduced during the first 10min of the exposure but not significantly different during the final 10min. Predator odor exposure (with or without additional transport stress) increased c-Fos immunoreactivity in the BNST, but not the MPOA, relative to control odor exposure, suggesting that the BNST may play an important role in integration of threat cues and transduction of their meaning into long-term effects on expression of maternal care. Future experiments should be designed to test the effects of temporary inactivation of the BNST during postpartum predator odor exposure.
The environment that a developing offspring experiences during the perinatal period is markedly influenced by maternal health and diet composition. Evidence from both epidemiological studies and animal models indicates that maternal diet and metabolic status play a critical role in programming the neural circuitry that regulates behavior, resulting in long-term consequences for offspring behavior. Maternal diet and metabolic state influence the behavior of offspring directly by impacting the intrauterine environment and indirectly by modulating maternal behavior. The mechanisms by which maternal diet and metabolic profile shape the perinatal environment remain largely unknown, but recent research has found that increases in inflammatory cytokines, nutrients (glucose and fatty acids), and hormones (insulin and leptin) affect the environment of the developing offspring. Offspring exposed to maternal obesity and high fat diet consumption during development are more susceptible to developing mental health and behavioral disorders such as anxiety, depression, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and autism spectrum disorders. Recent evidence suggests that this increased risk for behavioral disorders is driven by modifications in the development of neural pathways involved in behavioral regulation. In particular, research indicates that the development of the serotonergic system is impacted by exposure to maternal obesity and high fat diet consumption, and this disruption may underlie many of the behavioral disturbances observed in these offspring. Given the high rates of obesity and high fat diet consumption in pregnant women, it is vital to examine the influence that maternal nutrition and metabolic profile have on the developing offspring.


To determine the developmental trajectory of hippocampal function in rats, we examined 24-h changes in extracellular acetylcholine (ACh) levels and contextual learning performance. Extracellular ACh significantly correlated with spontaneous behavior, exhibiting a 24-h rhythm in juvenile (4-week-old), pubertal (6-week-old), and adult (9- to 12-week-old) rats. Although juveniles of both sexes exhibited low ACh levels, adult males had higher ACh levels than adult females. Moreover, juveniles exhibited much more spontaneous activity than adults when they showed equivalent ACh levels. Similarly, juveniles of both sexes exhibited relatively low contextual learning performance. Because contextual learning performance was significantly increased only in males, adult males exhibited better performance than adult females. We also observed a developmental relationship between contextual learning and ACh levels. Scopolamine pretreatment blocked contextual learning and interrupted the correlation. Since long-term scopolamine treatment after weaning impaired contextual learning in juveniles, the cholinergic input may participate in the development of hippocampus.
Btk29A is the Drosophila ortholog of the mammalian Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk), mutations of which in humans cause a heritable immunodeficiency disease. Btk29A mutations stabilized the proliferating cystoblast fate, leading to an ovarian tumor. This phenotype was rescued by overexpression of wild-type Btk29A and phenocopied by the interference of Wnt4--catenin signaling or its putative downstream nuclear protein Piwi in somatic escort cells. Btk29A and mammalian Btk directly phosphorylated tyrosine residues of -catenin, leading to the up-regulation of its transcriptional activity. Thus, we identify a transcriptional switch involving the kinase Btk29A/Btk and its phosphorylation target, -catenin, which functions downstream of Wnt4 in escort cells to terminate Drosophila germ cell proliferation through up-regulation of piwi expression. This signaling mechanism likely represents a versatile developmental switch.

The nucleus incertus (NI), a brainstem nucleus found in the pontine periventricular grey, is the primary source of the neuropeptide relaxin-3 in the mammalian brain. The NI neurons have also been previously reported to express several receptors and neurotransmitters, including corticotropin releasing hormone receptor 1 (CRF) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). The NI projects widely to putative neural correlates of stress, anxiety, depression, feeding behaviour, arousal and cognition leading to speculation that it might be involved in several neuropsychiatric conditions. On the premise that relaxin-3 expressing neurons in the NI predominantly co-express CRF receptors, a novel method for selective ablation of the rat brain NI neurons using corticotropin releasing factor (CRF)-saporin conjugate is described. In addition to a behavioural deficit in the fear conditioning paradigm, reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), western blotting (WB) and immunofluorescence labelling (IF) techniques were used to confirm the NI lesion. We observed a selective and significant loss of CRF expressing cells, together with a consistent decrease in relaxin-3 and GAD65 expression. The significant ablation of relaxin-3 positive neurons of the NI achieved by this lesioning approach is a promising model to explore the neuropsychopharmacological implications of NI/relaxin-3 in behavioural neuroscience.
Alpha rhythm is a prominent EEG rhythm observed during resting state and is thought to be related to multiple cognitive processes. Previous simultaneous electroencephalography (EEG)/functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have demonstrated that alpha rhythm is associated with blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signals in several different functional networks. How these networks influence alpha rhythm respectively is unclear. The low-frequency oscillations (LFO) in spontaneous BOLD activity are thought to contribute to the local correlations in resting state. Recent studies suggested that either LFO or other components of fMRI can be further divided into sub-components on different frequency bands. We hypothesized that those BOLD sub-components characterized the contributions of different brain networks to alpha rhythm. To test this hypothesis, EEG and fMRI data were simultaneously recorded from 17 human subjects performing an eyes-close resting state experiment. EEG alpha rhythm was correlated with the filtered fMRI time courses at different frequency bands (0.01-0.08 Hz, 0.08-0.25 Hz, 0.01-0.027 Hz, 0.027-0.073 Hz, 0.073-0.198 Hz, and 0.198-0.25 Hz). The results demonstrated significant relations between alpha rhythm and the BOLD signals in the visual network and in the attention network at LFO band, especially at the very low frequency band (0.01-0.027 Hz).
Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) comprise a family of zinc-containing enzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. CAs contribute to a myriad of physiological processes, including pH regulation, anion transport and water balance. To date, 16 known members of the mammalian alpha-CA family have been identified. Given that the catalytic family members share identical reaction chemistry, their physiologic roles are influenced greatly by their tissue and sub-cellular locations. CAVI is the lone secreted CA and exists in both saliva and the gastrointestinal mucosa. An alternative, stress-inducible isoform of CAVI (CAVI-b) has been shown to be expressed from a cryptic promoter that is activated by the CCAAT/Enhancer-Binding Protein Homologous Protein (CHOP). The CAVI-b isoform is not secreted and is currently of unknown physiological function. Here we use neuronal models, including a model derived using Car6 and CHOP gene ablations, to delineate a role for CAVI-b in ischemic protection. Our results demonstrate that CAVI-b expression, which is increased through CHOP-signaling in response to unfolded protein stress, is also increased by oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD). While enforced expression of CAVI-b is not sufficient to protect against ischemia, CHOP regulation of CAVI-b is necessary for adaptive changes mediated by BDNF that reduce subsequent ischemic damage. These results suggest that CAVI-b comprises a necessary component of a larger adaptive signaling pathway downstream of CHOP.
Mutations in MECP2 cause Rett syndrome (RTT), an X-linked neurodevelopmental disorder that primarily affects females. Individuals with RTT have increased glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression in the brain. GFAP is an intermediate filament protein that is expressed predominately within astrocytes in the CNS. MeCP2 binds to methylated regions of the GFAP promoter region and suppresses GFAP expression in vitro. Therefore, we wanted to determine if transiently reducing MeCP2 expression would increase GFAP expression in the developing rat brain. Male and female rats received infusions of either MeCP2 or control siRNA targeting the amygdala during the first 3 days of postnatal life. Brains were collected after 6h or 2 weeks following the last infusion. MeCP2 siRNA increased GFAP mRNA and protein within the female, but not the male, amygdala on postnatal day (PN) 2. Two weeks following the infusion, levels returned to normal. MeCP2 siRNA targeting the hypothalamus also increases GFAP mRNA within the female hypothalamus on PN2, suggesting that the regulation is not brain region-specific. It appears that MeCP2 does not regulate all astrocyte markers in the developing female brain, but specifically regulates GFAP expression, as levels of S100 and vimentin were not altered in the female amygdala at either time point. These data contribute to the idea that the role of MeCP2 differs in the developing male versus female brain. Further elucidating the regulation and function of GFAP can contribute to our understanding of MeCP2 function and perhaps RTT etiology.
Progesterone and progestin receptors (PRs) are known to play a role in the development of brain physiology and behavior in many different species. The distribution and regulation of PRs within the developing brain suggest that they likely contribute to the organization of the brain and behavior in a sex-specific manner. We examined the role of PR signaling during development on the organization of adult sexual behavior and androgen receptor (AR) expression in the brain. We administered the PR antagonist, RU-486, subcutaneously to male and female rats on postnatal days 1-7 (0=day of birth) and examined adult sexual behavior and AR-immunoreactivity (AR-ir) in the adult brain. A typical sex difference in lordosis quotient (LQ) was observed and neonatal RU-486 treatment did not alter this behavior. In contrast, neonatal RU-486 treatment increased adult male sexual behavior and AR-ir in several brain areas in males. These data indicate that a transient disruption in PR signaling during development can have lasting consequences on the male brain and may increase male sexual behavior in part by increasing AR expression, and therefore androgen sensitivity, in adulthood.
The aim of the present study was to identify, whether and how oral hormonal contraceptives (OCs) alter women's number processing. Behavioral performance and brain activation patterns (BOLD-response) of 14 OC-users were evaluated during two distinct numerical tasks (number comparison, number bisection) and compared to 16 men (high testosterone), and 16 naturally cycling women, once during their follicular (low hormone levels) and once during their luteal cycle phase (high progesterone). For both tasks, reliable sex differences and menstrual cycle dependent modulation have previously been described. If progestogenic effects of the synthetic progestins contained in OC play a predominant role, OC-users should be comparable to luteal women. If androgenic effects of the synthetic steroids exert the progestogenic actions, OC-users should be comparable to men. Likewise, if neither of the above are the case, the reduction of endogenous steroids by OCs should make OC-users comparable to follicular women. Our findings suggest that OC-users resemble follicular women in their behavioral performance, but show male-like brain activation patterns during both tasks. Analysis of brain-behavior relationships suggests that OC-users differ from naturally cycling women in the way they recruit their neural resources to deal with challenges of the tasks. We conclude that OCs, which are used by 100 million women worldwide, may have profound effects on cognition that have not been recognized so far.
The endogenous opioid enkephalin is known to inhibit spinal nociceptive transmission. Here we investigated activation of spinal enkephalinergic neurons by determining the proportions of c-Fos expressing (activated) spinal neurons that were enkephalinergic after different acute and chronic peripheral nociceptive stimuli. The number of c-Fos-activated neurons in the dorsal horn was increased after hind paw injection of capsaicin, formalin or complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA, 1.5 hrs - 4 days). The numbers of these neurons that were enkephalinergic increased after paraformaldehyde, and at 20 hrs, but not 1.5 hrs or 4 days post-CFA as compared to saline. In the spared nerve injury (SNI) model of neuropathic pain, c-Fos expression was increased acutely (2 hrs) and chronically (2 weeks), and a greater number of these were enkephalinergic in the nerve-injured animals acutely compared to controls (sham-SNI). Combining all acute (=2 hrs) versus chronic (20 hrs) treatment groups, there was a significant decrease in the percentage of activated neurons that were enkephalinergic in superficial layers, but a significant increase in the deeper layers of the dorsal horn in the chronic treatment group. It is concluded that the overall percentage of c-Fos activated neurons that contained enkephalin was not significantly different between acute and chronic pain phases. However, the shift in localization of these neurons within the spinal dorsal horn indicates a noxious stimulus directed activation pattern.
The use of psychotropic drugs in clinical and translational brain research continues to grow, and the need for novel experimental models and screens is becoming widely recognized. Mounting evidence supports the utility of zebrafish (Danio rerio) for studying various pharmacological manipulations, as an alternative model complementing the existing rodent paradigms in this field. Here, we explore the effects of acute 20-min exposure to two commonly abused psychotropic compounds, (9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and heroin, on adult zebrafish behavior in the novel tank test. Overall, THC administration (30 and 50 mg/L) produces an anxiogenic-like reduction of top swimming, paralleled with a slower, continuous bottom swimming. In contrast, heroin exposure (15 and 25 mg/L) evoked a hyperlocomotor response (with rapid bouts of bottom swimming and frequent 'bouncing' motions) without altering anxiety-sensitive top/bottom endpoints. The behavioral effects of these two compounds in zebrafish seem to parallel the respective rodent and human findings. Collectively, this emphasizes the growing significance of novel emerging aquatic models in translational drug abuse research and small molecule screening.
Sensory deprivation, such as whisker deprivation, is one of the most common paradigms used to examine experience-dependent plasticity. Many of these studies conducted during development have demonstrated anatomical and synaptic neocortical plasticity with varying lengths of deprivation (for review, see Holtmaat and Svoboda, 2009). However, to date, there have been few studies exploring brief periods of experience-dependent neocortical plasticity in adulthood, similar to that observed from learning and memory paradigms (Siucinska and Kossut, 1996, 2004; Galvez et al., 2006; Chau et al., 2013). Examining both synapsin I and Golgi-Cox stained neurons in primary somatosensory cortex of unilaterally whisker-deprived adult mice, the current study demonstrates that 5 days of whisker deprivation results in more synapses in spared barrels and reduced synapses in deprived barrels. To our knowledge, this is the first study to characterize anatomical changes in layer IV of primary somatosensory cortex after a brief period of sensory deprivation in adulthood. Furthermore, findings from the present study suggest that analyses from prolonged periods of either sensory deprivation or stimulation during adulthood are missing forms of plasticity that could provide better insight into various cognitive processes, such as learning and memory.
Central nervous system myelin is a multilayered membrane sheath generated by oligodendrocytes for rapid impulse propagation. However, the underlying mechanisms of myelin wrapping have remained unclear. Using an integrative approach of live imaging, electron microscopy, and genetics, we show that new myelin membranes are incorporated adjacent to the axon at the innermost tongue. Simultaneously, newly formed layers extend laterally, ultimately leading to the formation of a set of closely apposed paranodal loops. An elaborated system of cytoplasmic channels within the growing myelin sheath enables membrane trafficking to the leading edge. Most of these channels close with ongoing development but can be reopened in adults by experimentally raising phosphatidylinositol-(3,4,5)-triphosphate levels, which reinitiates myelin growth. Our model can explain assembly of myelin as a multilayered structure, abnormal myelin outfoldings in neurological disease, and plasticity of myelin biogenesis observed in adult life.
Abnormal reflexes associated with spasticity are considered a major determinant of motor impairments occurring after stroke; however, the mechanisms underlying post-stroke spasticity remain unclear. This may be because of the lack of suitable rodent models for studying spasticity after cortical injuries. Thus, the purpose of the present study was to establish an appropriate post-stroke spasticity mouse model. We induced photothrombotic injury in the rostral and caudal forelimb motor areas of mice and used the rate-dependent depression (RDD) of Hoffmann's reflex (H-reflex) as an indicator of spastic symptoms. To detect motoneuron excitability, we examined c-fos mRNA levels and c-Fos immunoreactivity in affected motoneurons using quantitative real-time reverse transcription PCR and immunohistochemical analysis, respectively. To confirm the validity of our model, we confirmed the effect of the anti-spasticity drug baclofen on H-reflex RDDs 1 week post stroke. We found that 3 days after stroke, the RDD was significantly weakened in the affected muscles of stroke mice compared with sham-operated mice, and this was observed for 8 weeks. The c-fos mRNA levels in affected motoneurons were significantly increased in stroke mice compared with sham-operated mice. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed a significant increase in the number of c-Fos-positive motoneurons in stroke mice compared with sham-operated mice at 1, 2, 4, and 8 weeks after stroke; however, the number of c-Fos-positive motoneurons on both sides of the brain gradually decreased over time. Baclofen treatment resulted in recovery of the weakened RDD at 1 week post stroke. Our findings suggest that this is a viable animal model of post-stroke spasticity.
Stem cells reside in niches that regulate the balance between self-renewal and differentiation. The identity of a stem cell is linked with the ability tointeract with its niche through adhesion mechanisms. To identify targets that disrupt cancer stemcell (CSC) adhesion, we performed a flow cytometryscreen on patient-derived glioblastoma (GBM) cells and identified junctional adhesion molecule A(JAM-A) as a CSC adhesion mechanism essentialfor self-renewal and tumor growth. JAM-A wasdispensable for normal neural stem/progenitorcell (NPC) function, and JAM-A expression was reduced in normal brain versus GBM. Targeting JAM-A compromised the self-renewal of CSCs. JAM-A expression negatively correlated to GBM patient prognosis. Our results demonstrate thatGBM-targeting strategies can be identified through screening adhesion receptors and JAM-A represents a mechanism for niche-driven CSC maintenance.
site amyloid precursor protein (APP)-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) is the major  secretase for generating -amyloid (A) peptides. The acidic environment of endosomes is optimal for  secretase activity. However, the mechanisms regulating BACE1 traffic from endosomes to lysosomes for degradation are largely unknown. Here, using snapin-deficient mice combined with gene rescue experiments, we reveal that Snapin, as a dynein motor adaptor for late endosomes, mediates BACE1 retrograde transport. hAPP mutant live neurons and mouse brains exhibited BACE1 accumulation within the altered late endocytic organelles and defective lysosomal targeting due to reduced Snapin-dynein coupling. Deleting snapin or disrupting Snapin-dynein coupling reduces BACE1 transport to lysosomes for degradation, thus enhancing APP processing. Overexpressing Snapin in hAPP neurons reduces  site cleavage of APP by enhancing BACE1 turnover. Altogether, our study provides mechanistic insights into the complex regulation of BACE1 level and activity and turnover through retrograde transport, thus controlling A generation in neurons.


Many hematopoietic cell types express CD1d and are capable of presenting glycolipid antigens to invariant natural killer T cells (iNKT cells). However, the question of which cells are the principal presenters of glycolipid antigens in vivo remains controversial, and it has been suggested that this might vary depending on the structure of a particular glycolipid antigen. Here we have shown that a single type of cell, the CD8(+) DEC-205(+) dendritic cell, was mainly responsible for capturing and presenting a variety of different glycolipid antigens, including multiple forms of -galactosylceramide that stimulate widely divergent cytokine responses. After glycolipid presentation, these dendritic cells rapidly altered their expression of various costimulatory and coinhibitory molecules in a manner that was dependent on the structure of the antigen. These findings show flexibility in the outcome of two-way communication between CD8(+) dendritic cells and iNKT cells, providing a mechanism for biasing toward either proinflammatory or anti-inflammatory responses.





Abstract available from the publisher.
We posit a new geometric perspective to define, detect, and classify inherent patterns of collective behaviour across a variety of animal species. We show that machine learning techniques, and specifically the isometric mapping algorithm, allow the identification and interpretation of different types of collective behaviour in five social animal species. These results offer a first glimpse at the transformative potential of machine learning for ethology, similar to its impact on robotics, where it enabled robots to recognize objects and navigate the environment.
L-dopa remains the mainstay treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD), although in later stages, treatment is complicated by L-dopa-induced dyskinesias (LID). Current evidence links LID to excessive striatal L-dopa-derived dopamine (DA) release, while the possibility of a direct involvement of L-dopa itself in LID has been largely ignored. Here we show that L-dopa can alter basal ganglia activity and produce LID without enhancing striatal DA release in parkinsonian non-human primates. These data may have therapeutic implications for the management of advanced PD since they suggest that LID could result from diverse mechanisms of action of L-dopa.

We have synthesized photolabile 7-diethylamino coumarin (DEAC) derivatives of -aminobutyric acid (GABA). These caged neurotransmitters efficiently release GABA using linear or nonlinear excitation. We used a new DEAC-based caging chromophore that has a vinyl acrylate substituent at the 3-position that shifts the absorption maximum of DEAC to about 450 nm and thus is named &quot;DEAC450&quot;. DEAC450-caged GABA is photolyzed with a quantum yield of 0.39 and is highly soluble and stable in physiological buffer. We found that DEAC450-caged GABA is relatively inactive toward two-photon excitation at 720 nm, so when paired with a nitroaromatic caged glutamate that is efficiently excited at such wavelengths, we could photorelease glutamate and GABA around single spine heads on neurons in brain slices with excellent wavelength selectivity using two- and one-photon photolysis, respectively. Furthermore, we found that DEAC450-caged GABA could be effectively released using two-photon excitation at 900 nm with spatial resolution of about 3 m. Taken together, our experiments show that the DEAC450 caging chromophore holds great promise for the development of new caged compounds that will enable wavelength-selective, two-color interrogation of neuronal signaling with excellent subcellular resolution.
Fluoxetine (Prozac) was the first major breakthrough for the treatment of depression since the introduction of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) nearly 30 years earlier. It was the first selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration, offering superior efficacy and reduced side effects relative to TCAs and MAOIs. Though a debate remains regarding the exact mechanism by which the clinical efficacy of fluoxetine is manifested, the importance of fluoxetine and related SSRIs to the field is unquestionable. The trade name Prozac has permeated popular culture, helping to raise awareness of depression and to diminish the prevalence of long-standing stigmas associated with this illness. In this Review, we will showcase the history and importance of fluoxetine to neuroscience in general, as well as for the treatment of depression, and review the synthesis, pharmacology, drug metabolism, and adverse effects of fluoxetine.
Chest pain is often seen alongside with panic attacks. Moreover, panic disorder has been suggested as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and even a trigger for acute coronary syndrome. Patients with coronary artery disease may have myocardial ischemia in response to mental stress, in which panic attack is a strong component, by an increase in coronary vasomotor tone or sympathetic hyperactivity setting off an increase in myocardial oxygen consumption. Indeed, coronary artery spasm was presumed to be present in cases of cardiac ischemia linked to panic disorder. These findings correlating panic disorder with coronary artery disease lead us to raise questions about the favorable prognosis of chest pain in panic attack. To investigate whether myocardial ischemia is the genesis of chest pain in panic attacks, we developed a myocardial perfusion study through research by myocardial scintigraphy in patients with panic attacks induced in the laboratory by inhalation of 35% carbon dioxide. In conclusion, from the data obtained, some hypotheses are discussed from the viewpoint of endothelial dysfunction and microvascular disease present in mental stress response.

The giant fiber system of the squid Loligo pealei mediates the escape response and is an important neurobiological model. Here, we identified an abundant transcript in the stellate ganglion (SG) that encodes a FMRFamide precursor, and characterized FMRFamide and FI/LRF-amide peptides. To determine whether FMRFamide plays a role in the adult and hatchling giant fiber system, we studied the expression of the Fmrf gene and FMRFamide peptides. In stage 29 embryos and stage 30 hatchlings, Ffmr transcripts and FMRFamide peptide were low to undetectable in the SG, in contrast to groups of neurons intensely expressing the Fmrf gene in several brain lobes, including those that innervate the SG. In the adult SG the Fmrf gene was highly expressed, but the FMRFamide peptide was in low abundance. Intense staining for FMRFamide in the adult SG was confined to microneurons and fibers in the neuropil and to small fibers surrounding giant axons in stellar nerves. This shows that the Fmrf gene in the SG is strongly regulated post-hatching, and suggests that the FMRFamide precursor is incompletely processed in the adult SG. The data suggest that the SG only employs the Fmrf gene post-hatching and restricts the biosynthesis of FMRFamide, demonstrating that this peptide is not a major transmitter of the giant fiber system. This contrasts with brain lobes that engage FMRFamide embryonically as a regulatory peptide in multiple neuronal systems, including the afferent fibers that innervate the SG. The biological significance of these mechanisms may be to generate diversity within Fmrf-expressing systems in cephalopods.








The tachykinin NK1 and NK3 receptors are a novel drug target for schizophrenia in order to treat not only the positive and cognitive symptoms, but also the associated co-morbid depression and sleep disturbances associated with the disease. A novel class of peptidomimetic derivatives based on a versatile phenylglycine central core was synthesized and tested in vitro as dual NK1/NK3 receptor antagonists. From this series emerged compounds with good NK1 receptor affinity, although only modest dual NK1/NK3 receptor affinity was observed with one of these analogs.
The design and synthesis of a series of substituted heteroaromatic 425 positive allosteric modulators is reported. The optimization and development of the heteroaromatic series was carried out from NS9283, and several potent analogues, such as 3-(5-(pyridin-3-yl)-2H-tetrazol-2-yl)benzonitrile (5k) and 3,3'-(2H-tetrazole-2,5-diyl)dipyridine (12 h) with good in vitro efficacy were discovered.
This paper depicts a novel method to directionally stabilize enzymes together with redox mediators by electrodeposition. Chitosan was used as a stabilizing matrix. By electrochemical removal of local H(+), chitosan close to working electrode became locally insoluble, and enzymes and redox mediators in chitosan were stabilized. The microelectrode on home-made microelectrode array (MEA) served as the working electrode. Three model enzymes--horseradish peroxidase (HRP), glucose oxidase (GOD), and glutamate oxidase (GlOD)--were used to fabricate different biosensors, and the redox mediator model was a poly(vinylpyridine) complex of Os(bpy)2Cl and a diepoxide (PVP-Os). Biosensors fabricated by the method exhibited very high performance. For HRP biosensor fabricated by this method, the sensitivity was 5.274 nA M(-1) mm(-2), with linear detection range (LDR) of 2-220 M and limit of detection (LOD) of 1 M (S/N=3); for GOD biosensor, the sensitivity was 2.65 nA M(-1) mm(-2), with LDR of 4-500 M and LOD of 2 M (S/N=3); for GlOD biosensor, the sensitivity was 0.33 nA M(-1)mm(-2), with LDR of 4-500 M and LOD of 2 M (S/N=3). Since this method is very simple and especially suitable for directionally introducing enzymes and redox mediators onto microelectrode without contaminating other sites in the same microenvironment, it could be used for fabricating in vivo or in vitro 2nd generation biosensors in m-scale, especially in neuroscience.



Delay discounting (also intertemporal choice or impulsive choice) is the process by which delayed outcomes, such as delayed food delivery, are valued less than the same outcomes delivered immediately or with a shorter delay. This process is of interest because many psychopathologies, including substance dependence, pathological gambling, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and conduct disorder, are characterized by heightened levels of delay discounting. Some of these disorders are heritable, and data indicate that delay discounting also has a genetic component. To identify the genes underlying the delay discounting decision-making process and genetic correlates of heightened discounting, researchers have used mouse models. This unit describes a protocol for generating delay discounting behavior in mice and discusses analysis techniques for such behavior.
This unit describes the method that we have developed to clarify endogenous mGluR5 (metabotropic glutamate receptors 5) dynamics in astrocytes by single-particle tracking using quantum dots (QD-SPT). QD-SPT has been a powerful tool to examine the contribution of neurotransmitter receptor dynamics to synaptic plasticity. Neurotransmitter receptors are also expressed in astrocytes, the most abundant form of glial cell in the brain. mGluR5s, which evoke intracellular Ca(2+) signals upon receiving glutamate, contribute to the modulation of synaptic transmission efficacy and local blood flow by astrocytes. QD-SPT has previously revealed that the regulation of the lateral diffusion of mGluR5 on the plasma membrane is important for local Ca(2+) signaling in astrocytes. Determining how mGluR5 dynamics are regulated in response to neuronal input would enable a better understanding of neuron-astrocyte communication in future studies.
Phenotypic robustness requires a process of developmental buffering that is largely not understood, but which can be disrupted by mutations. Here we show that in mef2ca(b1086) loss of function mutant embryos and early larvae, development of craniofacial hyoid bones, the opercle (Op) and branchiostegal ray (BR), becomes remarkably unstable; the large magnitude of the instability serves as a positive attribute to learn about features of this developmental buffering. The OpBR mutant phenotype variably includes bone expansion and fusion, Op duplication, and BR homeosis. Formation of a novel bone strut, or a bone bridge connecting the Op and BR together occurs frequently. We find no evidence that the phenotypic stability in the wild type is provided by redundancy between mef2ca and its co-ortholog mef2cb, or that it is related to the selector (homeotic) gene function of mef2ca. Changes in dorsal-ventral patterning of the hyoid arch also might not contribute to phenotypic instability in mutants. However, subsequent development of the bone lineage itself, including osteoblast differentiation and morphogenetic outgrowth, shows marked variation. Hence, steps along the developmental trajectory appear differentially sensitive to the loss of buffering, providing focus for the future study.
Hormone-induced changes in gene expression initiate periodic molts and metamorphosis during insect development. Successful execution of these developmental steps depends upon successive phases of rising and falling 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) levels, leading to a cascade of nuclear receptor-driven transcriptional activity that enables stage- and tissue-specific responses to the steroid. Among the cellular processes associated with declining steroids is acquisition of secretory competence in endocrine Inka cells, the source of ecdysis triggering hormones (ETHs). We show here that Inka cell secretory competence is conferred by the orphan nuclear receptor FTZ-F1. Selective RNA silencing of ftz-f1 in Inka cells prevents ETH release, causing developmental arrest at all stages. Affected larvae display buttoned-up, the ETH-null phenotype characterized by double mouthparts, absence of ecdysis behaviors, and failure to shed the old cuticle. During the mid-prepupal period, individuals fail to translocate the air bubble, execute head eversion and elongate incipient wings and legs. Those that escape to the adult stage are defective in wing expansion and cuticle sclerotization. Failure to release ETH in ftz-f1 silenced animals is indicated by persistent ETH immunoreactivity in Inka cells. Arrested larvae are rescued by precisely-timed ETH injection or Inka cell-targeted FTZ-F1 expression. Moreover, premature ftz-f1 expression in these cells also results in developmental arrest. The Inka cell therefore functions as a &quot;gateway cell&quot;, whose secretion of ETH serves as a key downstream physiological output enabling stage-specific responses to 20E that are required to advance through critical developmental steps. This secretory function depends on transient and precisely timed FTZ-F1 expression late in the molt as steroids decline.

4-Aminopyridine is widely used as a Kv channel blocker. However, its mechanism of action is still a matter of debate. Extracellular calcium as well as 4-aminopyridine have been reported to interact with the activation kinetics of particular Kv channels. The objective of the present study was to investigate whether extracellular calcium could modulate the inhibition of Kv current by 4-aminopyridine in vascular myocytes. Kv current was recorded by using whole-cell patch-clamp in freshly isolated smooth muscle cells from rat mesenteric artery. Macroscopic properties of Kv current were not affected by change in extracellular calcium from 0 to 2mM. During a 10s depolarizing pulse, 4-aminopyridine inhibited the peak current without affecting the end-pulse current. The concentration-effect curve of 4-aminopyridine was shifted to the left in the presence of 2mM calcium compared to 0 calcium. After 4-aminopyridine washout, current recovery from block was slower in the presence than in the absence of calcium. Inhibition of Kv current by 4-aminopyridine (0.5mM) and the Kv2 blocker stromatoxin (50nM) was additive and stromatoxin did not alter the potentiation of 4-aminopyridine effect by extracellular calcium. These results showed that extracellular calcium modulated the inhibitory potency of 4-aminopyridine on Kv current in vascular myocytes. The component of Kv current that was inhibited by 4-aminopyridine in a calcium-sensitive manner was distinct from Kv2 current.

The muscle-specific variant of neuronal nitric oxide (NO) synthase (NOS-I), is developmentally regulated in mouse suggesting a role of NO during myogenesis. In chick embryo, a good model of development, we found that the expression of NOS-I is up-regulated, but only in the early phase of development. Through a pharmacological intervention in ovo we found that NO signalling plays a relevant role during embryonic development. The inhibition of NOS-I decreased the growth of embryo, in particular of muscle tissue, while the restoring of physiological NO levels, via administration of a NO donor, reversed this effect. We found a selective action of NO, produced by NOS-I, on regulatory factors involved in myogenic differentiation in the early phase of chick embryo development: inhibition of NO generation leads to a decreased expression of the Myocyte enhancer factor 2a (Mef2a), Mef2c, Myogenin and Myosin, which was reversed by the administration of a NO donor. NO had no effects on Myf5 and MyoD, the myogenic regulatory factors necessary for myogenic determination. The action of NO on the myogenic regulatory factors was mediated via generation of cyclic GMP (cGMP) and activation of the cGMP-dependent protein kinase G (PKG). Finally we found in myoblasts in vitro that the activation of Mef2c was the key event mediating the NO-induced modulation of myogenesis. Our results identify NO produced by NOS-I as a key messenger in the early phase of embryonic development of chicken, acting as a critical determinant of myogenesis through its physiological cGMP/PKG pathway.
This paper presents a first-time report on the localization, structure and seasonal secretory activity of the Y-organ of a grapsid brachyuran crab (Metopograpsus messor). Having exhibited discrete seasonality with reference to the programming of molt and reproduction, this brachyuran crab has offered us an excellent model to obtain a clear picture of the fluctuating secretory nature of the Yorgan, all the way through the reproductive (August-December) as well as the molt-reproduction active (January-May) and inactive (June-July) seasons. Ultrastructural studies revealed that the secretion of the Y-organ was at its peak in premolt crabs during molt-reproduction season (January-May). Interestingly, the Y-organs of the intermolt females that engaged in breeding activity showed higher levels of secretion than those of the molt-reproduction inactive season (June-July), implicating the gland's involvement in reproduction. Immunohistochemical studies using the antiserum raised against 2-succinyl conjugate of ecdysone have demonstrated the ecdysteroid nature of the secretion from the Y-organ, and results of the quantitative assay of ecdysteroids (through radioimmunoassay) revealed that the hormone titer fluctuates in consonance with the Y-organ's secretory activity during seasons of molt and reproduction. Pertinently, not only that the paper gives us a comprehensive understanding on the secretory activity of the Y-organ in a season-dependent fashion, it also allows us to have a better insight into the gland's function related to molting and reproduction (for the first time) in a grapsid brachyuran crab.
Zebra finches are highly social songbirds that maintain life-long monogamous pair-bonds. They rely heavily upon these pair-bonds to survive their ever-changing and unpredictable habitat in the Australian desert. These pair-bonds are maintained via a large repertoire of affiliative behaviors that for most of an individual's life are predominately associated with pair maintenance. Water restriction reduces circulating testosterone levels in male zebra finches and the size of the ovary and oviduct in female zebra finches, but water restriction has little or no effects on pair-maintenance behaviors and local levels of testosterone and estradiol in behaviorally-relevant brain regions. These data suggest that in water-restricted zebra finches, local synthesis of testosterone and estradiol in the brain may support the expression of pair-maintenance behaviors. Here, we directly test whether pair-maintenance behaviors are regulated by estradiol, acting via non-genomic or genomic mechanisms, in water-restricted (i.e., non-breeding) zebra finches. In two experiments, subjects were treated with an aromatase inhibitor (fadrozole) either acutely or chronically, and a variety of pair-maintenance behaviors were quantified. Additionally, we quantified the effect of acute fadrozole treatment on brain and circulating estradiol and testosterone levels. Acute fadrozole administration rapidly decreased estradiol levels in the circulation and brain of males and also rapidly increased testosterone levels in the circulation and brain of both males and females. However, neither the acute nor chronic fadrozole treatment decreased pair-maintenance behaviors. In one case, acute fadrozole treatment promoted affiliation. These data suggest that pair-maintenance behavior in non-breeding zebra finches is not promoted by estradiol acting via either non-genomic or genomic mechanisms.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurological disease characterized by the degeneration of motor neurons. Currently, there is no effective therapy for ALS. Stem cell transplantation is a potential therapeutic strategy for ALS, and the reprogramming of adult somatic cells into induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) represents a novel cell source. In this study, we isolated a specific neural stem cell (NSC) population from human iPSCs based on high aldehyde dehydrogenase activity, low side scatter and integrin VLA4 positivity. We assessed the therapeutic effects of these NSCs on the phenotype of ALS mice after intrathecal or intravenous injections. Transplanted NSCs migrated and engrafted into the central nervous system via both routes of injection. Compared with control ALS, treated ALS mice exhibited improved neuromuscular function and motor unit pathology and significantly increased life span, in particular with the systemic administration of NSCs (15%). These positive effects are linked to multiple mechanisms, including production of neurotrophic factors and reduction of micro- and macrogliosis. NSCs induced a decrease in astrocyte number through the activation of the vanilloid receptor TRPV1. We conclude that minimally invasive injections of iPSC-derived NSCs can exert a therapeutic effect in ALS. This study contributes to advancements in iPSC-mediated approaches for treating ALS and other neurodegenerative diseases.
Temporal and spatial changes in neurotransmitter concentrations are central to information processing in neural networks. Therefore, biosensors for neurotransmitters are essential tools for neuroscience. In this work, we applied a new technique, corona phase molecular recognition (CoPhMoRe), to identify adsorbed polymer phases on fluorescent single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) that allow for the selective detection of specific neurotransmitters, including dopamine. We functionalized and suspended SWCNTs with a library of different polymers (n = 30) containing phospholipids, nucleic acids, and amphiphilic polymers to study how neurotransmitters modulate the resulting band gap, near-infrared (nIR) fluorescence of the SWCNT. We identified several corona phases that enable the selective detection of neurotransmitters. Catecholamines such as dopamine increased the fluorescence of specific single-stranded DNA- and RNA-wrapped SWCNTs by 58-80% upon addition of 100 M dopamine depending on the SWCNT chirality (n,m). In solution, the limit of detection was 11 nM [K(d) = 433 nM for (GT)15 DNA-wrapped SWCNTs]. Mechanistic studies revealed that this turn-on response is due to an increase in fluorescence quantum yield and not covalent modification of the SWCNT or scavenging of reactive oxygen species. When immobilized on a surface, the fluorescence intensity of a single DNA- or RNA-wrapped SWCNT is enhanced by a factor of up to 5.39  1.44, whereby fluorescence signals are reversible. Our findings indicate that certain DNA/RNA coronae act as conformational switches on SWCNTs, which reversibly modulate the SWCNT fluorescence. These findings suggest that our polymer-SWCNT constructs can act as fluorescent neurotransmitter sensors in the tissue-compatible nIR optical window, which may find applications in neuroscience.

Diagnosis of IgG4-Related Hypertrophic Pachymeningitis (IgG4-HP) relies on meningeal biopsies, because cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) diagnostic biomarkers are lacking. Here, we determined whether IgG4 intrathecal production could distinguish IgG4-HP from other disorders presenting with HP (OHP). In patients with IgG4-HP, the median CSF IgG4 concentration, IgG4 Index and IgG4Loc were significantly higher than in both controls and OHP. CSF IgG4 levels higher than 2.27mg/dL identified 100% of IgG4-HP and 5% of OHP. An IgG4Loc cut-off of 0.47 identified 100% of IgG4-HP and no cases of OHP. Our results support CSF IgG4 quantification and IgG4 Indices as alternatives to meningeal biopsy for the diagnosis of IgG4-HP when this procedure is contraindicated or uninformative.
Ubiquitin binds to short-lived proteins, and denatured proteins are produced by various forms of injuries. In the present study, we investigated the effect of ischemic preconditioning (IPC) on free ubiquitin and its mutant form (ubiquitin(+1)) in the gerbil hippocampus induced by transient cerebral ischemia. The animals were randomly assigned to 4 groups (sham-operated-group, ischemia-operated-group, IPC plus (+)-sham-operated-group, and IPC+ischemia-operated-group). IPC was induced by subjecting gerbils to a 2 min of ischemia followed by 1 day of recovery. A significant loss of neurons was observed in the stratum pyramidale (SP) of the hippocampal CA1 region (CA1) in the ischemia-operated-groups 5 days after ischemia-reperfusion (I-R). In all the IPC+ischemia-operated-groups, neurons in the SP were well protected. We found that strong ubiquitin immunoreactivity was detected in the SP in the sham-operated-group and the immunoreactivity was decreased with time after I-R. In all the IPC+ischemia-operated-groups, ubiquitin immunoreactivity in the SP was similar to that in the sham-operated group. Moderate ubiquitin(+1) immunoreactivity was detected in the SP of the sham-operated-group, and the immunoreactivity was markedly increased 2 days after I-R. Five days after I-R, ubiquitin(+1) immunoreactivity was very weak in the SP. In all the IPC+ischemia-operated-groups, ubiquitin(+1) immunoreactivity in the SP was slightly decreased with time after I-R. Western blot analysis showed that, in all the IPC+ischemia-ischemia-groups, the levels of ubiquitin and ubiquitin(+1) proteins were well maintained after I-R. In brief, our findings suggest that the inhibition of the depletion of free ubiquitin and the formation of ubiquitin(+1) may have an essential role in inducing cerebral ischemic tolerance by IPC.

Chemokines and their receptors are important players in organism homeostasis, development and immune response to inflammatory stimuli. In the present study, we examined effects of ischemia-reperfusion injury on the immunoreactivity and protein levels of chemokine C-C motif receptor 7 (CCR7) in the gerbil hippocampus (CA1-3 regions) after 5 min of transient global cerebral ischemia. CCR7 immunoreactivity was dramatically changed in the pyramidal neurons of the CA1, not CA2/3, region after ischemia-reperfusion. The immunoreactivity was increased after ischemia-reperfusion, and it was barely found from 5 days post-ischemia. In addition, CCR7 immunoreactivity was newly expressed in astrocytes, not microglia, in the ischemic CA1 region from 5 days post-ischemia. However, we did not observe this finding in the ischemic CA2/3 region. Furthermore, CCR7 protein levels in the ischemic CA1 region were changed like the change pattern of its immunoreactivity. These results indicate that both CCR7 immunoreactivity and protein levels are distinctively altered only in the CA1 region after transient cerebral ischemia and that the changes in CCR7 expression may be related to the ischemia-induced delayed neuronal death.
Rhabdomyolysis precipitated by multitherapy is most frequently described during statin treatment, due to impairment of statin clearance by drugs sharing cytochrome P450 biotransformation pathway. Modulation of membrane transporters for drug efflux, operated by substrates, can also affect drugs' tissue levels. We report rhabdomyolysis in an elderly patient, in multitreatment with different potentially myotoxic medications, taking place seven months after atorvastatin discontinuation. Affected by ischaemic heart disease, arterial hypertension and dementia-related behaviour disturbances, the patient was receiving angiotensin 2-receptor inhibitors, beta-blockers, vasodilators, diuretics, salycilates, allopurinol, proton pump inhibitors, antipsychotics and antidepressants. He had taken atorvastatin for 14 years, with constantly normal creatine-kinase plasma levels. Two months after addition of the antianginal drug ranolazine, creatine-kinase mildly increased and atorvastatin was withdrawn. Nonetheless, creatine-kinase progressively rose, with severe weakness and rhabdomyolysis developing seven months later. Muscle biopsy showed a necrotizing myopathy with no inflammation or autoimmune changes. After ranolazine withdrawal, creatine-kinase and myoglobin returned to normal levels and strength was restored. Several psychotropic and cardiovascular medications prescribed to the patient share either cytochrome P450 biotransformation and permeability-glycoprotein efflux transport. In the event of cardiovascular/neuropsychiatric polypharmacy in geriatric patients, the risk of muscle severe adverse effects from pharmacokinetic drug-drug interaction should be considered beyond the direct myotoxicity of statins.



We report a case that showed transitional, severe emergent periodic limb movements during sleep (PLMS) in the first continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) titration night and mild PLMS in the 3rd and 20th nights of CPAP titration in a 56-year-old woman after she was found to have severe obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Severe PLMS in the initial CPAP night unexpectedly resulted in acute leg muscle soreness in the second morning. The case suggests that CPAP therapy in patients who suffer from severe OSA may provide a unique opportunity to look into the pathological mechanism of PLMS.
Limited data exist on the spectrum of heredoataxias in Greece, including the prevalence and phenotype of Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA) and the prevalence and subtypes of dominant spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs). We analyzed clinically and investigated genetically for FRDA and triplet-repeat expansion SCAs a consecutive series of 186 patients with suspected heredoataxia referred to Athens over 18 years. For prevalence estimates we included patients with molecular diagnosis from Cyprus that were absent from the Athens cohort. The minimum prevalence of FRDA was ~0.9/100,000, with clusters of high prevalence in Aegean islands. FRDA was diagnosed in 73 probands. The genotypic and phenotypic spectrum of FRDA was similar to other populations, with one patient compound heterozygote for a known point mutation in FXN (Asn146Lys). Undiagnosed recessive ataxias included FRDA-like and spastic ataxias. The minimum prevalence of dominant SCAs was ~0.7/100,000. SCA1 (4), SCA7 (4), SCA2, SCA6, and SCA17 (1 each) probands were identified. A molecular diagnosis was reached in 31% of dominant cases. Undiagnosed dominant patients included a majority of type III autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias. FRDA is the commonest heredoataxia in the Greek population with prevalence towards the lower end of other European populations. Dominant SCAs are almost as prevalent. SCA1, SCA2, SCA6, SCA7 and SCA17 patients complete the spectrum of cases with a specific molecular diagnosis.
Intrinsic connectivity network (ICN) technique provides a feasible way for evaluating cognitive impairments in epilepsy. This EEG-fMRI study aims to comprehensively assess the alterations of ICNs affected by generalized spike-and-wave discharge (GSWD) during absence seizure (AS). Twelve fMRI sessions with GSWD, and individually paired non-GSWD sessions were acquired from 16 patients with AS. Ten ICNs corresponding to seizure origination and cognitive processes were extracted using independent component analysis. Intra- and inter-network connectivity alterations of the ICNs were observed through comparisons between GSWD and non-GSWD sessions. Sequential correlation analysis between GSWD and the ICN time courses addressed the immediate effects of GSWD on ICNs during AS. GSWD-related increase of intra-network connectivity was found only in the thalamus, and extensive decreases were found in the ICNs corresponding to higher-order cognitive processes including the default-mode network, dorsal attention network, central executive network and salience network. The perceptive networks and motor network were less affected by GSWD. Sequential correlation analysis further demonstrated different responses of the ICNs to GSWD. In addition to GSWD-related functional excitation in the thalamus and functional suspension in the default-mode network, this study revealed extensive inhibitions in the other ICNs corresponding to higher-order cognitive processes, and spared perceptive and motor processes in AS. GSWD elevated synchronization of brain network activity and sequentially affected the ICNs.



The ventral pallidum (VP) is a target of dense nucleus accumbens projections. Many of these projections coexpress GABA and the neuropeptide enkephalin, a  and  opioid receptor (MOR) ligand. Of these two, the MOR in the VP is known to be involved in reward-related behaviors, such as hedonic responses to palatable food, alcohol intake, and reinstatement of cocaine seeking. Stimulating MORs in the VP decreases extracellular GABA, indicating that the effects of MORs in the VP on cocaine seeking are via modulating GABA neurotransmission. Here, we use whole-cell patch-clamp on a rat model of withdrawal from cocaine self-administration to test the hypothesis that MORs presynaptically regulate GABA transmission in the VP and that cocaine withdrawal changes the interaction between MORs and GABA. We found that in cocaine-extinguished rats pharmacological activation of MORs no longer presynaptically inhibited GABA release, whereas blocking the MORs disinhibited GABA release. Moreover, MOR-dependent long-term depression of GABA neurotransmission in the VP was lost in cocaine-extinguished rats. Last, GABA neurotransmission was found to be tonically suppressed in cocaine-extinguished rats. These substantial synaptic changes indicated that cocaine was increasing tone on MOR receptors. Accordingly, increasing endogenous tone by blocking the enzymatic degradation of enkephalin inhibited GABA neurotransmission in yoked saline rats but not in cocaine-extinguished rats. In conclusion, our results indicate that following withdrawal from cocaine self-administration enkephalin levels in the VP are elevated and the opioid modulation of GABA neurotransmission is impaired. This may contribute to the difficulties withdrawn addicts experience when trying to resist relapse.
The neuregulin 3 gene (NRG3) plays pleiotropic roles in neurodevelopment and is a putative susceptibility locus for schizophrenia. Specifically, the T allele of NRG3 rs10748842 has been associated with illness risk, altered cognitive function, and the expression of a novel splice isoform in prefrontal cortex (PFC), but the neural system effects are unexplored. Here, we report an association between rs10748842 and PFC physiology as measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging of human working memory performance, where a convincing link between increased genetic risk for schizophrenia and increased activation in some PFC areas has been established. In 410 control individuals (195 males, 215 females), we detected a highly significant effect of NRG3 genotype manifesting as an unanticipated increase in ventrolateral PFC activation in nonrisk-associated C allele carriers. An additional analysis including 78 patients with schizophrenia spectrum disorders (64 males, 14 females) and 123 unaffected siblings (53 males, 70 females) revealed a whole-brain significant genotype by group interaction in right dorsolateral PFC (DLPFC), manifesting as a relative activation increase in healthy controls and siblings (C &gt; T/T) and as a hypoactivation in patients (T/T &gt; C). These observed genotype-dependent effects in PFC were not explained by task performance and did not conform to established locales of prefrontal inefficiency linked to genetic risk for schizophrenia. Our data indicate a complex modulation of brain physiology by rs10748842, which does not fit the simple inefficiency model of risk association in DLPFC and suggests that other neurobiological mechanisms are involved.
Complex manual tasks-everything from buttoning up a shirt to playing the piano-fundamentally involve two components: (1) generating specific patterns of muscle activity (here, termed &quot;synergies&quot;); and (2) stringing these into purposeful sequences. Although transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) of the primary motor cortex (M1) has been found to increase the learning of motor sequences, it is unknown whether it can similarly facilitate motor synergy learning. Here, we determined the effects of tDCS on the learning of motor synergies using a novel hand configuration task that required the production of difficult muscular activation patterns. Bihemispheric tDCS was applied to M1 of healthy, right-handed human participants during 4 d of repetitive left-hand configuration training in a double-blind design. tDCS augmented synergy learning, leading subsequently to faster and more synchronized execution. This effect persisted for at least 4 weeks after training. Qualitatively similar tDCS-associated improvements occurred during training of finger sequences in a separate subject cohort. We additionally determined whether tDCS only improved the acquisition of motor memories for specific synergies/sequences or whether it also facilitated more general parts of the motor representations, which could be transferred to novel movements. Critically, we observed that tDCS effects generalized to untrained hand configurations and untrained finger sequences (i.e., were nonspecific), as well as to the untrained hand (i.e., were effector-independent). Hence, bihemispheric tDCS may be a promising adjunct to neurorehabilitative training regimes, in which broad transfer to everyday tasks is highly desirable.
The mechanisms underlying the enduring neurobiological consequences of antidepressant exposure during adolescence are poorly understood. Here, we assessed the long-term effects of exposure to fluoxetine (FLX), a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, during adolescence on behavioral reactivity to emotion-eliciting stimuli. We administered FLX (10 mg/kg, bi-daily, for 15 d) to male adolescent [postnatal day 35 (P35) to P49] C57BL/6 mice. Three weeks after treatment (P70), reactivity to aversive stimuli (i.e., social defeat stress, forced swimming, and elevated plus maze) was assessed. We also examined the effects of FLX on the expression of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2-related signaling within the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of adolescent mice and Sprague Dawley rats. Adolescent FLX exposure suppressed depression-like behavior, as measured by the social interaction and forced swim tests, while enhancing anxiety-like responses in the elevated plus maze in adulthood. This complex behavioral profile was accompanied by decreases in ERK2 mRNA and protein phosphorylation within the VTA, while stress alone resulted in opposite neurobiological effects. Pharmacological (U0126) inhibition, as well as virus-mediated downregulation of ERK within the VTA mimicked the antidepressant-like profile observed after juvenile FLX treatment. Conversely, overexpression of ERK2 induced a depressive-like response, regardless of FLX pre-exposure. These findings demonstrate that exposure to FLX during adolescence modulates responsiveness to emotion-eliciting stimuli in adulthood, at least partially, via long-lasting adaptations in ERK-related signaling within the VTA. Our results further delineate the role ERK plays in regulating mood-related behaviors across the lifespan.
Cytokines, small proteins released by the immune system to combat infection, are typically studied under inflammatory conditions. However, these molecules are also expressed in the brain in basal, nonpathological states, where they can regulate neuronal processes, such as learning and memory. However, little is known about how cytokine signaling in the brain may influence higher-order cognitive functions. Cognitive flexibility is one such executive process, mediated by the prefrontal cortex, which requires an adaptive modification of learned behaviors in response to environmental change. We explored the role of basal IL-6 signaling in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in reversal learning, a form of cognitive flexibility that can be measured in the rat using the attentional set-shifting test. We found that inhibiting IL-6 or its downstream JAK/STAT signaling pathway in the OFC impaired reversal learning, suggesting that basal IL-6 and JAK/STAT signaling facilitate cognitive flexibility. Further, we demonstrated that elevating IL-6 in the OFC by adeno-associated virus-mediated gene delivery reversed a cognitive deficit induced by chronic stress, thus identifying IL-6 and the downstream JAK/STAT signaling pathway as potentially novel therapeutic targets for the treatment of stress-related psychiatric diseases associated with cognitive dysfunction.
The spatial and temporal characteristics of the visual and acoustic sensory input are indispensable attributes for animals to perform scene analysis. In contrast, research in olfaction has focused almost exclusively on how the nervous system analyzes the quality and quantity of the sensory signal and largely ignored the spatiotemporal dimension especially in longer time scales. Yet, detailed analyses of the turbulent, intermittent structure of water- and air-borne odor plumes strongly suggest that spatio-temporal information in longer time scales can provide major cues for olfactory scene analysis for animals. We show that a bursting subset of primary olfactory receptor neurons (bORNs) in lobster has the unexpected capacity to encode the temporal properties of intermittent odor signals. Each bORN is tuned to a specific range of stimulus intervals, and collectively bORNs can instantaneously encode a wide spectrum of intermittencies. Our theory argues for the existence of a novel peripheral mechanism for encoding the temporal pattern of odor that potentially serves as a neural substrate for olfactory scene analysis.
Efforts to understand the functional architecture of the brain have consistently identified multiple overlapping large-scale neural networks that are observable across multiple states. Despite the ubiquity of these networks, it remains unclear how regions within these large-scale neural networks interact to orchestrate behavior. Here, we collected functional magnetic resonance imaging data from 188 human subjects who engaged in three cognitive tasks and a resting-state scan. Using multiple tasks and a large sample allowed us to use split-sample validations to test for replication of results. We parceled the task-rest pairs into functional networks using a probabilistic spatial independent components analysis. We examined changes in connectivity between task and rest states using dual-regression analysis, which quantifies voxelwise connectivity estimates for each network of interest while controlling for the influence of signals arising from other networks and artifacts. Our analyses revealed systematic state-dependent functional connectivity in one brain region: the precuneus. Specifically, task performance led to increased connectivity (compared with rest) between the precuneus and the right frontoparietal network, whereas rest increased connectivity between the precuneus and the default-mode network (DMN). The absolute magnitude of this effect was greater for DMN, suggesting a heightened specialization for resting-state cognition. All results replicated within the two independent samples. Our results indicate that the precuneus plays a core role not only in DMN, but also more broadly through its engagement under a variety of processing states.
The visual recognition of action can be obtained from the change of body posture over time. Even for point-light stimuli in which the body posture is conveyed by only a few light points, biological motion can be perceived from posture sequence analysis. We present and analyze a formal model of how action recognition may be computed and represented in the brain. This model assumes that motion energy detectors similar to those well-established for the luminance-based motion of objects in space are applied to a cortical representation of body posture. Similar to the spatio-temporal receptive fields of regular motion detectors, these body motion detectors attain receptive fields in a posture-time space. We describe the properties of these receptive fields and compare them with properties of body-sensitive neurons found in the superior temporal sulcus of macaque monkeys. We consider tuning properties for 3D views of static and moving bodies. Our simulations show that key properties of action representation in the STS can directly be explained from the properties of natural action stimuli. Our model also suggests an explanation for the phenomenon of implied motion, the perceptual appearance, and neural activation of motion from static images.
Human superior colliculus (SC) responds in a retinotopically selective manner when attention is deployed on a high-contrast visual stimulus using a discrimination task. To further elucidate the role of SC in endogenous visual attention, high-resolution fMRI was used to demonstrate that SC also exhibits a retinotopically selective response for covert attention in the absence of significant visual stimulation using a threshold-contrast detection task. SC neurons have a laminar organization according to their function, with visually responsive neurons present in the superficial layers and visuomotor neurons in the intermediate layers. The results show that the response evoked by the threshold-contrast detection task is significantly deeper than the response evoked by the high-contrast speed discrimination task, reflecting a functional dissociation of the attentional enhancement of visuomotor and visual neurons, respectively. Such a functional dissociation of attention within SC laminae provides a subcortical basis for the oculomotor theory of attention.
The NMDA-type glutamate receptor (NMDAR) is essential for synaptogenesis, synaptic plasticity, and higher cognitive function. Emerging evidence indicates that NMDAR Ca(2+) permeability is under the control of cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA) signaling. Whereas the functional impact of PKA on NMDAR-dependent Ca(2+) signaling is well established, the molecular target remains unknown. Here we identify serine residue 1166 (Ser1166) in the carboxy-terminal tail of the NMDAR subunit GluN2B to be a direct molecular and functional target of PKA phosphorylation critical to NMDAR-dependent Ca(2+) permeation and Ca(2+) signaling in spines. Activation of -adrenergic and D1/D5-dopamine receptors induces Ser1166 phosphorylation. Loss of this single phosphorylation site abolishes PKA-dependent potentiation of NMDAR Ca(2+) permeation, synaptic currents, and Ca(2+) rises in dendritic spines. We further show that adverse experience in the form of forced swim, but not exposure to fox urine, elicits striking phosphorylation of Ser1166 in vivo, indicating differential impact of different forms of stress. Our data identify a novel molecular and functional target of PKA essential to NMDAR-mediated Ca(2+) signaling at synapses and regulated by the emotional response to stress.
Neural circuits are composed of mainly glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons, which communicate through synaptic connections. Many factors instruct the formation and function of these synapses; however, it is difficult to dissect the contribution of intrinsic cell programs from that of extrinsic environmental effects in an intact network. Here, we perform paired recordings from two-neuron microculture preparations of mouse hippocampal glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons to investigate how synaptic input and output of these two principal cells develop. In our reduced preparation, we found that glutamatergic neurons showed no change in synaptic output or input regardless of partner neuron cell type or neuronal activity level. In contrast, we found that glutamatergic input caused the GABAergic neuron to modify its output by way of an increase in synapse formation and a decrease in synaptic release efficiency. These findings are consistent with aspects of GABAergic synapse maturation observed in many brain regions. In addition, changes in GABAergic output are cell wide and not target-cell specific. We also found that glutamatergic neuronal activity determined the AMPA receptor properties of synapses on the partner GABAergic neuron. All modifications of GABAergic input and output required activity of the glutamatergic neuron. Because our system has reduced extrinsic factors, the changes we saw in the GABAergic neuron due to glutamatergic input may reflect initiation of maturation programs that underlie the formation and function of in vivo neural circuits.
Rhythmic oscillations shape cortical dynamics during active behavior, sleep, and general anesthesia. Cross-frequency phase-amplitude coupling is a prominent feature of cortical oscillations, but its role in organizing conscious and unconscious brain states is poorly understood. Using high-density EEG and intracranial electrocorticography during gradual induction of propofol general anesthesia in humans, we discovered a rapid drug-induced transition between distinct states with opposite phase-amplitude coupling and different cortical source distributions. One state occurs during unconsciousness and may be similar to sleep slow oscillations. A second state occurs at the loss or recovery of consciousness and resembles an enhanced slow cortical potential. These results provide objective electrophysiological landmarks of distinct unconscious brain states, and could be used to help improve EEG-based monitoring for general anesthesia.
Within the nucleus accumbens (NAc), synaptic GABAA receptors (GABAARs) mediate phasic inhibition of medium spiny neurons (MSNs) and influence behavioral responses to cocaine. We demonstrate that both dopamine D1- and D2-receptor-expressing MSNs (D-MSNs) additionally harbor extrasynaptic GABAARs incorporating 4, , and  subunits that mediate tonic inhibition, thereby influencing neuronal excitability. Both the selective -GABAAR agonist THIP and DS2, a selective positive allosteric modulator, greatly increased the tonic current of all MSNs from wild-type (WT), but not from (-/-) or 4(-/-) mice. Coupling dopamine and tonic inhibition, the acute activation of D1 receptors (by a selective agonist or indirectly by amphetamine) greatly enhanced tonic inhibition in D1-MSNs but not D2-MSNs. In contrast, prolonged D2 receptor activation modestly reduced the tonic conductance of D2-MSNs. Behaviorally, WT and constitutive 4(-/-) mice did not differ in their expression of cocaine-conditioned place preference (CPP). Importantly, however, mice with the 4 deletion specific to D1-expressing neurons (4(D1-/-)) showed increased CPP. Furthermore, THIP administered systemically or directly into the NAc of WT, but not 4(-/-) or 4(D1-/-) mice, blocked cocaine enhancement of CPP. In comparison, 4(D2-/-) mice exhibited normal CPP, but no cocaine enhancement. In conclusion, dopamine modulation of GABAergic tonic inhibition of D1- and D2-MSNs provides an intrinsic mechanism to differentially affect their excitability in response to psychostimulants and thereby influence their ability to potentiate conditioned reward. Therefore, 4 GABAARs may represent a viable target for the development of novel therapeutics to better understand and influence addictive behaviors.
Cognitive dysfunction is a common symptom in many neuropsychiatric disorders and directly correlates with poor patient outcomes. The majority of prolonged inhibitory signaling in the brain is mediated via GABAB receptors (GABABRs), but the molecular function of these receptors in cognition is ill defined. To explore the significance of GABABRs in neuronal activity and cognition, we created mice with enhanced postsynaptic GABABR signaling by mutating the serine 783 in receptor R2 subunit (S783A), which decreased GABABR degradation. Enhanced GABABR activity reduced the expression of immediate-early gene-encoded protein Arc/Arg3.1, effectors that are critical for long-lasting memory. Intriguingly, S783A mice exhibited increased numbers of excitatory synapses and surface AMPA receptors, effects that are consistent with decreased Arc/Arg3.1 expression. These deficits in Arc/Arg3.1 and neuronal morphology lead to a deficit in spatial memory consolidation. Collectively our results suggest a novel and unappreciated role for GABABR activity in determining excitatory neuronal architecture and spatial memory via their ability to regulate Arc/Arg3.1.
Resolution of perceptual ambiguity is one function of cross-modal interactions. Here we investigate whether auditory and tactile stimuli can influence binocular rivalry generated by interocular temporal conflict in human subjects. Using dichoptic visual stimuli modulating at different temporal frequencies, we added modulating sounds or vibrations congruent with one or the other visual temporal frequency. Auditory and tactile stimulation both interacted with binocular rivalry by promoting dominance of the congruent visual stimulus. This effect depended on the cross-modal modulation strength and was absent when modulation depth declined to 33%. However, when auditory and tactile stimuli that were too weak on their own to bias binocular rivalry were combined, their influence over vision was very strong, suggesting the auditory and tactile temporal signals combined to influence vision. Similarly, interleaving discrete pulses of auditory and tactile stimuli also promoted dominance of the visual stimulus congruent with the supramodal frequency. When auditory and tactile stimuli were presented at maximum strength, but in antiphase, they had no influence over vision for low temporal frequencies, a null effect again suggesting audio-tactile combination. We also found that the cross-modal interaction was frequency-sensitive at low temporal frequencies, when information about temporal phase alignment can be perceptually tracked. These results show that auditory and tactile temporal processing is functionally linked, suggesting a common neural substrate for the two sensory modalities and that at low temporal frequencies visual activity can be synchronized by a congruent cross-modal signal in a frequency-selective way, suggesting the existence of a supramodal temporal binding mechanism.
In dendritic spines, Ras plays a critical role in synaptic plasticity but its regulation mechanism is not fully understood. Here, using a fluorescence resonance energy transfer/fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy-based Ras imaging technique in combination with 2-photon glutamate uncaging, we show that neurofibromin, in which loss-of-function mutations cause Neurofibromatosis Type 1 (NF1), contributes to the majority (90%) of Ras inactivation in dendritic spines of pyramidal neurons in the CA1 region of the rat hippocampus. Loss of neurofibromin causes sustained Ras activation in spines, which leads to impairment of spine structural plasticity and loss of spines in an activity-dependent manner. Therefore, deregulation of postsynaptic Ras signaling may explain, at least in part, learning disabilities associated with NF1.
Dopamine (DA) functions as an essential neuromodulator in the brain and retina such that disruptions in the dopaminergic system are associated with common neurologic disorders such as Parkinson's disease. Although a reduction in DA content has been observed in diabetes, its effects in the development of diabetes-induced neuropathy remains unknown. Because the retina is rich in DA and has a well known diabetes-induced pathology (diabetic retinopathy or DR), this study was designed to examine the role of retinal DA deficiency in early visual defects in DR. Using rodent models of type 1 diabetes mellitus, we investigated whether diabetes caused a reduction in retinal DA content in both rats and mice and determined whether restoring DA levels or activating specific DA receptor pathways could improve visual function (evaluated with optokinetic tracking response) of diabetic mice, potentially via improvement of retinal function (assessed with electroretinography). We found that diabetes significantly reduced DA levels by 4 weeks in rats and by 5 weeks in mice, coincident with the initial detection of visual deficits. Treatment with l-DOPA, a DA precursor, improved overall retinal and visual functions in diabetic mice and acute treatment with DA D1 or D4 receptor agonists improved spatial frequency threshold or contrast sensitivity, respectively. Together, our results indicate that retinal DA deficiency is an underlying mechanism for early, diabetes-induced visual dysfunction and suggest that therapies targeting the retinal dopaminergic system may be beneficial in early-stage DR.
Non-dioxin-like (NDL) polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are widespread environmental contaminants linked to neuropsychological dysfunction in children. NDL PCBs increase spontaneous Ca(2+) oscillations in neurons by stabilizing ryanodine receptor (RyR) calcium release channels in the open configuration, which results in CREB-dependent dendritic outgrowth. In this study, we address the question of whether activation of CREB by NDL PCBs also triggers dendritic spine formation. Nanomolar concentrations of PCB 95, a NDL congener with potent RyR activity, significantly increased spine density and the frequency of miniature EPSCs in primary dissociated rat hippocampal cultures coincident with upregulation of miR132. Inhibition of RyR, CREB, or miR132 as well as expression of a mutant p250GAP cDNA construct that is not suppressed by miR132 blocked PCB 95 effects on spines and miniature EPSCs. PCB 95 also induced spine formation via RyR- and miR132-dependent mechanisms in hippocampal slice cultures. These data demonstrate a novel mechanism of PCB developmental neurotoxicity whereby RyR sensitization modulates spine formation and synaptogenesis via CREB-mediated miR132 upregulation, which in turn suppresses the translation of p250GAP, a negative regulator of synaptogenesis. In light of recent evidence implicating miR132 dysregulation in Rett syndrome and schizophrenia, these findings identify NDL PCBs as potential environmental risk factors for neurodevelopmental disorders.
Synaptic vesicle recycling sustains high rates of neurotransmission at the ribbon-type active zones (AZs) of mouse auditory inner hair cells (IHCs), but its modes and molecular regulation are poorly understood. Electron microscopy indicated the presence of clathrin-mediated endocytosis (CME) and bulk endocytosis. The endocytic proteins dynamin, clathrin, and amphiphysin are expressed and broadly distributed in IHCs. We used confocal vglut1-pHluorin imaging and membrane capacitance (Cm) measurements to study the spatial organization and dynamics of IHC exocytosis and endocytosis. Viral gene transfer expressed vglut1-pHluorin in IHCs and targeted it to synaptic vesicles. The intravesicular pH was 6.5, supporting only a modest increase of vglut1-pHluorin fluorescence during exocytosis and pH neutralization. Ca(2+) influx triggered an exocytic increase of vglut1-pHluorin fluorescence at the AZs, around which it remained for several seconds. The endocytic Cm decline proceeded with constant rate (linear component) after exocytosis of the readily releasable pool (RRP). When exocytosis exceeded three to four RRP equivalents, IHCs additionally recruited a faster Cm decline (exponential component) that increased with the amount of preceding exocytosis and likely reflects bulk endocytosis. The dynamin inhibitor Dyngo-4a and the clathrin blocker pitstop 2 selectively impaired the linear component of endocytic Cm decline. A missense mutation of dynamin 1 (fitful) inhibited endocytosis to a similar extent as Dyngo-4a. We propose that IHCs use dynamin-dependent endocytosis via CME to support vesicle cycling during mild stimulation but recruit bulk endocytosis to balance massive exocytosis.
The new DSM-5 diagnostic criteria for autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) include sensory disturbances in addition to the well-established language, communication, and social deficits. One sensory disturbance seen in ASD is an impaired ability to integrate multisensory information into a unified percept. This may arise from an underlying impairment in which individuals with ASD have difficulty perceiving the temporal relationship between cross-modal inputs, an important cue for multisensory integration. Such impairments in multisensory processing may cascade into higher-level deficits, impairing day-to-day functioning on tasks, such as speech perception. To investigate multisensory temporal processing deficits in ASD and their links to speech processing, the current study mapped performance on a number of multisensory temporal tasks (with both simple and complex stimuli) onto the ability of individuals with ASD to perceptually bind audiovisual speech signals. High-functioning children with ASD were compared with a group of typically developing children. Performance on the multisensory temporal tasks varied with stimulus complexity for both groups; less precise temporal processing was observed with increasing stimulus complexity. Notably, individuals with ASD showed a speech-specific deficit in multisensory temporal processing. Most importantly, the strength of perceptual binding of audiovisual speech observed in individuals with ASD was strongly related to their low-level multisensory temporal processing abilities. Collectively, the results represent the first to illustrate links between multisensory temporal function and speech processing in ASD, strongly suggesting that deficits in low-level sensory processing may cascade into higher-order domains, such as language and communication.
The prognosis of glioblastoma remains poor despite significant improvement in cytoreductive surgery, external irradiation and new approach of systemic treatment as antiangiogenic therapy. One of the issues is the low concentration in the infiltrated parenchyma of therapeutic agent administered intravenously mainly due to the blood-brain barrier. An intracerebral injection is advocated to overpass this barrier, this kind of administration need a low flow and continuous injection. The development of sophisticated implanted devices for convection-enhanced delivery is a mandatory step to have a controlled released of a therapeutic agent in glioblastoma treatment. Before testing such a device in a clinical trial a serious preclinical studies are required, in order to test it in realistic conditions we have develop the first induced high grade glioma model in a non-rodent animal: the pig. 21 pigs have been implanted in the parietal lobe with human glioblastoma cell lineage under a chemical immunosuppression by ciclosporine. A MRI follow up was then realized. 15 pigs have been implanted with U87MG, 14 have presented a macroscopic significant tumor, with radiological and anatomapathological characteristics of high grade glioma. 6 pigs were implanted with G6, stem-like cells tumors of glioblastoma, 1 pig develops a macroscopic tumor. This is the first reproducible glioma model in a large animal described, it open the way to preclinical studies to test implanted devices in anatomic realistic conditions, without the ethical issues of a primate use.
Meta-analyses of data from human studies are invaluable resources in the life sciences and the methods to conduct these are well documented. Similarly there are a number of benefits in conducting meta-analyses on data from animal studies; they can be used to inform clinical trial design, or to try and explain discrepancies between preclinical and clinical trial results. However there are inherit differences between animal and human studies and so applying the same techniques for the meta-analysis of preclinical data is not straightforward. For example preclinical studies are frequently small and there is often substantial heterogeneity between studies. This may have an impact on both the method of calculating an effect size and the method of pooling data. Here we describe a practical guide for the meta-analysis of data from animal studies including methods used to explore sources of heterogeneity.


Avoiding recurrent injury in sports-related concussion (SRC) requires understanding the neural mechanisms involved during the time of recovery after injury. The decision for return-to-play is one of the most difficult responsibilities facing the physician, and so far this decision has been based primarily on neurological examination, symptom checklists, and neuropsychological (NP) testing. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) may be an additional, more objective tool to assess the severity and recovery of function after concussion. The purpose of this study was to define neural correlates of SRC during the 2 months after injury in varsity contact sport athletes who suffered a SRC. All athletes were scanned as they performed an n-back task, for n=1, 2, 3. Subjects were scanned within 72 hours (session one), at 2 weeks (session two), and 2 months (session three) post-injury. Compared with age and sex matched normal controls, concussed subjects demonstrated persistent, significantly increased activation for the 2 minus 1 n-back contrast in bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) in all three sessions and in the inferior parietal lobe in session one and two (0.01 corrected). Measures of task performance revealed no significant differences between concussed versus control groups at any of the three time points with respect to any of the three n-back tasks. These findings suggest that functional brain activation differences persist at 2 months after injury in concussed athletes, despite the fact that their performance on a standard working memory task is comparable to normal controls and normalization of clinical and NP test results. These results might indicate a delay between neural and behaviorally assessed recovery after SRC.
While mitochondrial Ca(2+) homeostasis has been studied for several decades and many of the functional roles of Ca(2+) accumulation within the matrix have been at least partially clarified, the possibility of modulation of the organelle functions by cAMP remains largely unknown. In this contribution we briefly summarize the key aspects of Ca(2+) and cAMP signalling pathways in mitochondria. In particular, we focus on recent findings concerning the discovery of an autonomous cAMP toolkit within the mitochondrial matrix, its crossroad with mitochondrial Ca(2+) signalling and its role in controlling ATP synthesis. The discovery of a cAMP signalling, and the demonstration of a cross-talk between cAMP and Ca(2+) inside mitochondria, open the way to a re-evaluation of these organelles as integrators of multiple second messengers. A description of the main methods presently available to measure Ca(2+) and cAMP in mitochondria of living cells with genetically encoded probes is also presented.



Papers from four different groups were published in 1993 demonstrating the ability of functional near infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) to non-invasively measure hemoglobin concentration responses to brain function in humans. This special issue commemorates the first 20years of fNIRS research. The 9 reviews and 49 contributed papers provide a comprehensive survey of the exciting advances driving the field forward and of the myriad of applications that will benefit from fNIRS.
In contrast to our increasing knowledge of the role that oscillations in single brain regions play in cognition, very little is known about how coherence between oscillations in distant brain regions is related to information transmission. Here I present a cognitive modeling approach that can address that question. Specifically, I show how a model of the attentional blink implemented in the ACT-R cognitive architecture is related to the amplitude and coherence of EEG oscillations. The dynamics of the model's working memory resource is primarily associated with parietal 4-9 Hz theta oscillations, while the dynamics of the model's declarative memory, visual perception and procedural resources together are correlated with posterior theta oscillations. I further show that model predictions about inter-module communication during the processes of stimulus identification and target consolidation are associated with selective increases in coherence at the predicted points in time.
Efficient emotion regulation is essential for social interaction and functioning in human society and often happens without direct intention and conscious awareness. Cognitive labeling of stimuli based on certain characteristics has been assumed to represent an effective strategy of implicit emotional regulation whereas processing based on simple perceptual characteristics (e.g., matching) has not. Evidence exists that the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) might be of functional relevance during labeling by down-regulating limbic activity in the presence of threatening stimuli. However, it remained unclear whether this VLPFC activation was particularly specific to threat because previous studies focused exclusively on threatening stimuli. In the current study, 35 healthy participants labeled or matched both threatening and neutral pictures while undergoing 52-channel functional near-infrared spectroscopy. Results showed increased VLPFC activation during labeling of threatening but not neutral pictures. No increase in prefrontal activation was detected during matching. Moreover, skin conductance increased equally for both valence conditions during initial phases of labeling whereas during matching stronger increases were found for threatening stimuli. Although a general inverse relationship between VLPFC function and skin conductance was not confirmed, both were negatively correlated during matching of threatening pictures in subjects with high state anxiety. It was concluded that the VLPFC plays an essential role during implicit emotion regulation. Further, even simple perceptual processing seems to engage regulatory top-down activation in anxious individuals.
Humans have long used cognitive enhancement methods to expand the proficiency and range of the various mental activities that they engage in, including writing to store and retrieve information, and computers that allow them to perform myriad activities that are now commonplace in the internet age. Neuroenhancement describes the use of neuroscience-based techniques for enhancing cognitive function by acting directly on the human brain and nervous system, altering its properties to increase performance. Cognitive neuroscience has now reached the point where it may begin to put theory derived from years of experimentation into practice. This special issue includes 16 articles that employ or examine a variety of neuroenhancement methods currently being developed to increase cognition in healthy people and in patients with neurological or psychiatric illness. This includes transcranial electromagnetic stimulation methods, such as transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), along with deep brain stimulation, neurofeedback, behavioral training techniques, and these and other techniques in conjunction with neuroimaging. These methods can be used to improve attention, perception, memory and other forms of cognition in healthy individuals, leading to better performance in many aspects of everyday life. They may also reduce the cost, duration and overall impact of brain and mental illness in patients with neurological and psychiatric illness. Potential disadvantages of these techniques are also discussed. Given that the benefits of neuroenhancement outweigh the potential costs, these methods could potentially reduce suffering and improve quality of life for everyone, while further increasing our knowledge about the mechanisms of human cognition.
We introduce here phase transfer entropy (Phase TE) as a measure of directed connectivity among neuronal oscillations. Phase TE quantifies the transfer entropy between phase time-series extracted from neuronal signals by filtering for instance. To validate the measure, we used coupled Neuronal Mass Models to both evaluate the characteristics of Phase TE and compare its performance with that of a real-valued TE implementation. We showed that Phase TE detects the strength and direction of connectivity even in the presence of such amounts of noise and linear mixing that typically characterize MEG and EEG recordings. Phase TE performed well across a wide range of analysis lags and sample sizes. Comparisons between Phase TE and real-valued TE estimates showed that Phase TE is more robust to nuisance parameters and considerably more efficient computationally. In addition, Phase TE accurately untangled bidirectional frequency band specific interaction patterns that confounded real-valued TE. Finally, we found that surrogate data can be used to construct appropriate null-hypothesis distributions and to estimate statistical significance of Phase TE. These results hence suggest that Phase TE is well suited for the estimation of directed phase-based connectivity in large-scale investigations of the human functional connectome.
Neural oscillations in the theta band (4-8 Hz) are prominent in the human electroencephalogram (EEG), and many recent electrophysiological studies in animals and humans have implicated scalp-recorded frontal midline theta (FMT) in working memory and episodic memory encoding and retrieval processes. However, the functional significance of theta oscillations in human memory processes remains largely unknown. Here, we review studies in human and animals examining how scalp-recorded FMT relates to memory behaviors and also their possible neural generators. We also discuss models of the functional relevance of theta oscillations to memory processes and suggest promising directions for future research.
This article reviews studies demonstrating enhancement with transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) of attention, learning, and memory processes in healthy adults. Given that these are fundamental cognitive functions, they may also mediate stimulation effects on other higher-order processes such as decision-making and problem solving. Although tDCS research is still young, there have been a variety of methods used and cognitive processes tested. While these different methods have resulted in seemingly contradictory results among studies, many consistent and noteworthy effects of tDCS on attention, learning, and memory have been reported. The literature suggests that although tDCS as typically applied may not be as useful for localization of function in the brain as some other methods of brain stimulation, tDCS may be particularly well-suited for practical applications involving the enhancement of attention, learning, and memory, in both healthy subjects and in clinical populations.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has emerged as a powerful technique to treat a host of neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders from Parkinson's disease and dystonia, to depression, and obsessive compulsive disorder (Benabid et al., 1987; Lang and Lozano, 1998; Davis et al., 1997; Vidailhet et al., 2005; Mayberg et al., 2005; Nuttin et al., 1999). More recently, results suggest that DBS can enhance memory for facts and events that are dependent on the medial temporal lobe (MTL), thus raising the possibility for DBS to be used as a treatment for MTL- related neurological disorders (e.g. Alzheimer's disease, temporal lobe epilepsy, and MTL injuries). In the following review, we summarize key results that show the ability of DBS or cortical surface stimulation to enhance memory. We also discuss current knowledge regarding the temporal specificity, underlying neurophysiological mechanisms of action, and generalization of stimulation's effects on memory. Throughout our discussion, we also propose several future directions that will provide the necessary insight into if and how DBS could be used as a therapeutic treatment for memory disorders.
Functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) has now become widely accepted as a common functional imaging modality. In order for fNIRS to achieve genuine neuroimaging citizenship, it would ideally be equipped with functional and structural image analyses. However, fNIRS measures cortical activities from the head surface without anatomical information of the object being measured. In this review article, we will present a methodological overview of spatial registration of fNIRS data to overcome this technical drawback of fNIRS. We first introduce and explore the use of standard stereotaxic space and anatomical labeling. Second, we explain different ways of describing scalp landmarks using 10-20 based systems. Third, we describe the simplest case of fNIRS data co-registration to a subject's own MRI. Fourth, we extend the concept to fNIRS data registration of group data. Fifth, we describe probabilistic registration methods, which use a reference-MRI database instead of a subject's own MRIs, and thus enable MRI-free registration for standalone fNIRS data. Sixth, we further extend the concept of probabilistic registration to three-dimensional image reconstruction in diffuse optical tomography. Seventh, we describe a 3D-digitizer-free method for the virtual registration of fNIRS data. Eighth, we provide practical guidance on how these techniques are implemented in software. Finally, we provide information on current resources and limitations for spatial registration of child and infant data. Through these technical descriptions, we stress the importance of presenting fNIRS data on a common platform to facilitate both intra- and inter-modal data sharing among the neuroimaging community.
The role of low frequency oscillations in language areas is not yet understood. Using ECoG in six human subjects, we studied whether different language regions show prominent power changes in a specific rhythm, in similar manner as the alpha rhythm shows the most prominent power changes in visual areas. Broca's area and temporal language areas were localized in individual subjects using fMRI. In these areas, the theta rhythm showed the most pronounced power changes and theta power decreased significantly during verb generation. To better understand the role of this language-related theta decrease, we then studied the interaction between low frequencies and local neuronal activity reflected in high frequencies. Amplitude-amplitude correlations showed that theta power correlated negatively with high frequency activity, specifically across verb generation trials. Phase-amplitude coupling showed that during control trials, high frequency power was coupled to theta phase, but this coupling decreased significantly during verb generation trials. These results suggest a dynamic interaction between the neuronal mechanisms underlying the theta rhythm and local neuronal activity in language areas. As visual areas show a pronounced alpha rhythm that may reflect pulsed inhibition, language regions show a pronounced theta rhythm with highly similar features.
Frequency specific synchronisation of neuronal firing within the gamma-band (30-70 Hz) appears to be a fundamental correlate of both basic sensory and higher cognitive processing. In-vitro studies suggest that the neurochemical basis of gamma-band oscillatory activity is based on interactions between excitatory (i.e. glutamate) and inhibitory (i.e. GABA) neurotransmitter concentrations. However, the nature of the relationship between excitatory neurotransmitter concentration and changes in gamma band activity in humans remains undetermined. Here, we examine the links between dynamic glutamate concentration and the formation of functional gamma-band oscillatory networks. Using concurrently acquired event-related magnetic resonance spectroscopy and electroencephalography, during a repetition-priming paradigm, we demonstrate an interaction between stimulus type (object vs. abstract pictures) and repetition in evoked gamma-band oscillatory activity, and find that glutamate levels within the lateral occipital cortex, differ in response to these distinct stimulus categories. Importantly, we show that dynamic glutamate levels are related to the amplitude of stimulus evoked gamma-band (but not to beta, alpha or theta or ERP) activity. These results highlight the specific connection between excitatory neurotransmitter concentration and amplitude of oscillatory response, providing a novel insight into the relationship between the neurochemical and neurophysiological processes underlying cognition.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has shown promise as a treatment tool, with one FDA approved use. While TMS alone is able to up- (or down-) regulate a targeted neural system, we argue that TMS applied as an adjuvant is more effective for repetitive physical, behavioral and cognitive therapies, that is, therapies which are designed to alter the network properties of neural systems through Hebbian learning. We tested this hypothesis in the context of a slow motor learning paradigm. Healthy right-handed individuals were assigned to receive 5 Hz TMS (TMS group) or sham TMS (sham group) to the right primary motor cortex (M1) as they performed daily motor practice of a digit sequence task with their non-dominant hand for 4 weeks. Resting cerebral blood flow (CBF) was measured by H2(15)O PET at baseline and after 4 weeks of practice. Sequence performance was measured daily as the number of correct sequences performed, and modeled using a hyperbolic function. Sequence performance increased significantly at 4 weeks relative to baseline in both groups. The TMS group had a significant additional improvement in performance, specifically, in the rate of skill acquisition. In both groups, an improvement in sequence timing and transfer of skills to non-trained motor domains was also found. Compared to the sham group, the TMS group demonstrated increases in resting CBF specifically in regions known to mediate skill learning namely, the M1, cingulate cortex, putamen, hippocampus, and cerebellum. These results indicate that TMS applied concomitantly augments behavioral effects of motor practice, with corresponding neural plasticity in motor sequence learning network. These findings are the first demonstration of the behavioral and neural enhancing effects of TMS on slow motor practice and have direct application in neurorehabilitation where TMS could be applied in conjunction with physical therapy.
In this study, we applied the General Linear Convolution Model to detect fast optical signals (FOS) in the somatosensory cortex, and to study their dependence on the source-detector separation distance (2.0 to 3.5 cm) and irradiated light wavelength (690 and 830 nm). We modeled the impulse response function as a rectangular function that lasted 30 ms, with variable time delay with respect to the stimulus onset. The model was tested in a cohort of 20 healthy volunteers who underwent supra-motor threshold electrical stimulation of the median nerve. The impulse response function quantified the time delay for the maximal response at 70 ms to 110 ms after stimulus onset, in agreement with classical somatosensory-evoked potentials in the literature, previous optical imaging studies based on a grand-average approach, and grand-average based processing. Phase signals at longer wavelength were used to identify FOS for all the source-detector separation distances, but the shortest one. Intensity signals only detected FOS at the greatest distance; i.e., for the largest channel depth. There was no activation for the shorter wavelength light. Correlational analysis between the phase and intensity of FOS further confirmed diffusive rather than optical absorption changes associated with neuronal activity in the activated cortical volume. Our study demonstrates the reliability of our method based on the General Linear Convolution Model for the detection of fast cortical activation through FOS.
Electrical neurostimulation techniques, such as deep brain stimulation (DBS) and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), are increasingly used in the neurosciences, e.g., for studying brain function, and for neurotherapeutics, e.g., for treating depression, epilepsy, and Parkinson's disease. The characterization of electrical properties of brain tissue has guided our fundamental understanding and application of these methods, from electrophysiologic theory to clinical dosing-metrics. Nonetheless, prior computational models have primarily relied on ex-vivo impedance measurements. We recorded the in-vivo impedances of brain tissues during neurosurgical procedures and used these results to construct MRI guided computational models of TMS and DBS neurostimulatory fields and conductance-based models of neurons exposed to stimulation. We demonstrated that tissues carry neurostimulation currents through frequency dependent resistive and capacitive properties not typically accounted for by past neurostimulation modeling work. We show that these fundamental brain tissue properties can have significant effects on the neurostimulatory-fields (capacitive and resistive current composition and spatial/temporal dynamics) and neural responses (stimulation threshold, ionic currents, and membrane dynamics). These findings highlight the importance of tissue impedance properties on neurostimulation and impact our understanding of the biological mechanisms and technological potential of neurostimulatory methods.
Control processes are critical for both facilitating and suppressing memory retrieval, but these processes are not well understood. The current work, inspired by a similar fMRI design (Detre et al., in press), used a modified Think/No-Think(TNT) paradigm to investigate the neural signatures of volition over enhancing and suppressing memory retrieval. Previous studies have shown memory enhancement when well-learned stimulus pairs are restudied in cued recall (&quot;Recall or think of studied pair item&quot;), and degradation when restudied with cued suppression (&quot;Avoid thinking of studied pair item&quot;). We used category-based (faces vs. scenes) multivariate classification of electroencephalography signals to determine if individual target items were successfully retrieved or suppressed. A logistic regression based on classifier output determined that retrieval activation during the cued recall/suppression period was a predictor for subsequent memory. Labeling trials with this internal measure, as opposed to their nominal Think vs. No-Think condition, revealed the classic TNT pattern of enhanced memory for successful cued-retrieval and degraded memory for cued-suppression. This classification process enabled a more selective investigation into the time-frequency signatures of control over retrieval. Comparing controlled retrieval vs. controlled suppression, results showed more prominent Theta oscillations (3 to 8 Hz) in controlled retrieval. Beta oscillations (12 to 30 Hz) were involved in high levels of both controlled retrieval and suppression, suggesting it may have a more general control-related role. These results suggest unique roles for these frequency bands in retrieval processes.
Noninvasive neuroimaging studies have revealed a network of brain regions that activate during human memory encoding; however, the relative timing of such activations remains unknown. Here we used intracranially recorded high-frequency activity (HFA) to first identify regions that activate during successful encoding. Then, we leveraged the high-temporal precision of HFA to investigate the timing of such activations. We found that memory encoding invokes two spatiotemporally distinct activations: early increases in HFA that involve the ventral visual pathway as well as the medial temporal lobe and late increases in HFA that involve the left inferior frontal gyrus, left posterior parietal cortex, and left ventrolateral temporal cortex. We speculate that these activations reflect higher-order visual processing and top-down modulation of attention/semantic information, respectively.
A prominent and replicated finding is the correlation between running speed and increases in low-frequency oscillatory activity in the hippocampal local field potential. A more recent finding concerns low-frequency oscillations that increase in coherence between the hippocampus and neocortical brain areas such as prefrontal cortex during memory-related behaviors (i.e., remembering the correct location to visit). In this review, we tie together movement-related and memory-related low-frequency oscillations in the rodent with similar findings in humans. We argue that although movement-related low-frequency oscillations, in particular, may have slightly different characteristics in humans than rodents, placing important constraints on our thinking about this issue, both phenomena have similar functional foundations. We review four prominent theoretical models that provide partially conflicting accounts of movement-related low-frequency oscillations. We attempt to tie together these theoretical proposals, and existing data in rodents and humans, with memory-related low-frequency oscillations. We propose that movement-related low-frequency oscillations and memory-related low-frequency oscillatory activity, both of which show significant coherence with oscillations in other brain regions, represent different facets of &quot;spectral fingerprints,&quot; or different resonant frequencies within the same brain networks underlying different cognitive processes. Together, movement-related and memory-related low-frequency oscillatory coupling may be linked by their distinct contributions to bottom-up, sensorimotor driven processing and top-down, controlled processing characterizing aspects of memory encoding and retrieval.
Physiological data demonstrates theta frequency oscillations associated with memory function and spatial behavior. Modeling and data from animals provide a perspective on the functional role of theta rhythm, including correlations with behavioral performance and coding by timing of spikes relative to phase of oscillations. Data supports a theorized role of theta rhythm in setting the dynamics for encoding and retrieval within cortical circuits. Recent data also supports models showing how network and cellular theta rhythmicity allows neurons in the entorhinal cortex and hippocampus to code time and space as a possible substrate for encoding events in episodic memory. Here we discuss these models and relate them to current physiological and behavioral data.
The discovery of functional lateralization and localization of the brain marked the beginning of a new era in neuroscience. While the past 150 years of research have provided a great deal of knowledge of hemispheric differences and functional relationships, the precise organization of functional laterality remains a topic of intense debate. Here I will shed light on the functional organization of the two hemispheres by reviewing some of the most recent functional near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) studies that have reported hemispheric differences in activation patterns. Most NIRS studies using visual stimuli, which revealed functional differentiation between the hemispheres, have reported unilateral activation, i.e., significant levels of activation in only one hemisphere. Auditory stimuli, including speech sounds, elicited bilateral activation, while the limited number of studies on young infants revealed primarily unilateral activation. The stimulus modality and the age of the participants therefore determine whether the resulting cortical activation is unilateral or bilateral. By combining a review of the existing literature with NIRS results regarding homologous connectivity across hemispheres, I hypothesized that the origin of functional lateralization changes from the independence of each hemispheric region, to mutual inhibition between homologous regions during development. Future studies applying multi-modal measurements along with NIRS and spatiotemporal analyses will further deepen our understanding of the interhemispheric organization of brain function.
Here we review the usefulness of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) in modulating cortical networks in ways that might produce performance enhancements in healthy human subjects. To date over sixty studies have reported significant improvements in speed and accuracy in a variety of tasks involving perceptual, motor, and executive processing. Two basic categories of enhancement mechanisms are suggested by this literature: direct modulation of a cortical region or network that leads to more efficient processing, and addition-by-subtraction, which is disruption of processing which competes or distracts from task performance. Potential applications of TMS cognitive enhancement, including research into cortical function, rehabilitation therapy in neurological and psychiatric illness, and accelerated skill acquisition in healthy individuals are discussed, as are methods of optimizing the magnitude and duration of TMS-induced performance enhancement, such as improvement of targeting through further integration of brain imaging with TMS. One technique, combining multiple sessions of TMS with concurrent TMS/task performance to induce Hebbian-like learning, appears to be promising for prolonging enhancement effects. While further refinements in the application of TMS to cognitive enhancement can still be made, and questions remain regarding the mechanisms underlying the observed effects, this appears to be a fruitful area of investigation that may shed light on the basic mechanisms of cognitive function and their therapeutic modulation.
Ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) forms a core region of larger brain circuits that assign value to sensory inputs and interfaces motivational and cognitive dominated brain processes. This network function of the vmPFC could be realized by synchronizing local activity at time scales that are shared by connected brain areas, but it is unknown whether vmPFC circuitry engages in functionally specific synchronization. Here, we recorded in human subcallosal vmPFC while subjects engaged in an emotion tracking task that required the assignment of positive or negative affective value to ambiguous (happy-sad) facial expressions. We found that vmPFC engages in low beta-band (15-20 Hz) coherent activation just before subjects subjectively judged ambiguous facial expressions as conveying negative valence ('sad') information, but not before positive valence ('happy') judgments. The predictive beta coherence emerged particularly for conflicting rather than pure emotional facial cues and dissipated slowly after the choice was made. These results suggest that 15-20 Hz coherent activity within vmPFC marks a functional signature of a valuation process that informs categorical affective choices. We hypothesize that coherent beta band activation signifies functional interactions to anatomical vmPFC projection targets, raising the possibility that dysfunctional biases in affective valuation and an enhanced decision conflict in clinical depression could be indexed by alterations of beta coherent network activation.
Transcranial direct current stimulation (TDCS) of primary motor cortex (M1) can transiently improve paretic hand function in chronic stroke. However, responses are variable so there is incentive to try to improve efficacy and or to predict response in individual patients. Both excitatory (Anodal) stimulation of ipsilesional M1 and inhibitory (Cathodal) stimulation of contralesional M1 can speed simple reaction time. Here we tested whether combining these two effects simultaneously, by using a bilateral M1-M1 electrode montage, would improve efficacy. We tested the physiological efficacy of Bilateral, Anodal or Cathodal TDCS in changing motor evoked potentials (MEPs) in the healthy brain and their behavioural efficacy in changing reaction times with the paretic hand in chronic stroke. In addition, we aimed to identify clinical or neurochemical predictors of patients' behavioural response to TDCS. There were three main findings: 1) unlike Anodal and Cathodal TDCS, Bilateral M1-M1 TDCS (1 mA, 20 min) had no significant effect on MEPs in the healthy brain or on reaction time with the paretic hand in chronic stroke patients; 2) GABA levels in ipsilesional M1 predicted patients' behavioural gains from Anodal TDCS; and 3) although patients were in the chronic phase, time since stroke (and its combination with Fugl-Meyer score) was a positive predictor of behavioural gain from Cathodal TDCS. These findings indicate the superiority of Anodal or Cathodal over Bilateral TDCS in changing motor cortico-spinal excitability in the healthy brain and in speeding reaction time in chronic stroke. The identified clinical and neurochemical markers of behavioural response should help to inform the optimization of TDCS delivery and to predict patient outcome variability in future TDCS intervention studies in chronic motor stroke.
Oscillations form a ubiquitous feature of the central nervous system. Evidence is accruing from cortical and sub-cortical recordings that these rhythms may be functionally important, although the precise details of their roles remain unclear. The basal ganglia share this predilection for rhythmic activity which, as we see in Parkinson's disease, becomes further enhanced in the dopamine depleted state. While certain cortical rhythms appear to penetrate the basal ganglia, others are transformed or blocked. Here, we discuss the functional association of oscillations in the basal ganglia and their relationship with cortical activity. We further explore the neural underpinnings of such oscillatory activity, including the important balance to be struck between facilitating information transmission and limiting information coding capacity. Finally, we introduce the notion that synchronised oscillatory activity can be broadly categorised as immutability promoting rhythms that reinforce incumbent processes, and mutability promoting rhythms that favour novel processing.
This year marks the 20th anniversary of functional near-infrared spectroscopy and imaging (fNIRS/fNIRI). As the vast majority of commercial instruments developed until now are based on continuous wave technology, the aim of this publication is to review the current state of instrumentation and methodology of continuous wave fNIRI. For this purpose we provide an overview of the commercially available instruments and address instrumental aspects such as light sources, detectors and sensor arrangements. Methodological aspects, algorithms to calculate the concentrations of oxy- and deoxyhemoglobin and approaches for data analysis are also reviewed. From the single-location measurements of the early years, instrumentation has progressed to imaging initially in two dimensions (topography) and then three (tomography). The methods of analysis have also changed tremendously, from the simple modified Beer-Lambert law to sophisticated image reconstruction and data analysis methods used today. Due to these advances, fNIRI has become a modality that is widely used in neuroscience research and several manufacturers provide commercial instrumentation. It seems likely that fNIRI will become a clinical tool in the foreseeable future, which will enable diagnosis in single subjects.
Neurofeedback is a promising approach for non-invasive modulation of human brain activity with applications for treatment of mental disorders and enhancement of brain performance. Neurofeedback techniques are commonly based on either electroencephalography (EEG) or real-time functional magnetic resonance imaging (rtfMRI). Advances in simultaneous EEG-fMRI have made it possible to combine the two approaches. Here we report the first implementation of simultaneous multimodal rtfMRI and EEG neurofeedback (rtfMRI-EEG-nf). It is based on a novel system for real-time integration of simultaneous rtfMRI and EEG data streams. We applied the rtfMRI-EEG-nf to training of emotional self-regulation in healthy subjects performing a positive emotion induction task based on retrieval of happy autobiographical memories. The participants were able to simultaneously regulate their BOLD fMRI activation in the left amygdala and frontal EEG power asymmetry in the high-beta band using the rtfMRI-EEG-nf. Our proof-of-concept results demonstrate the feasibility of simultaneous self-regulation of both hemodynamic (rtfMRI) and electrophysiological (EEG) activities of the human brain. They suggest potential applications of rtfMRI-EEG-nf in the development of novel cognitive neuroscience research paradigms and enhanced cognitive therapeutic approaches for major neuropsychiatric disorders, particularly depression.
Bimanual movements can be performed by flexing and extending the target effectors (e.g., hand muscles) in unison, or by flexing units on one side in unison with extension of the same units on the opposite side. The former movement patterns are generally referred to as in-phase or parallel, whereas the latter patterns are often termed anti-phase movements. It is well known that anti-phase patterns are unstable and tend to spontaneously transition to in-phase movements at higher repetition rates, but the mechanisms and brain regions involved are not fully understood. In the current study, we utilized functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) to evaluate whether anterior/posterior subdivisions of the supplementary motor complex (SMA) have distinct functional roles in maintaining in-phase and anti-phase movement patterns. Twelve healthy adult participants completed a bimanual coordination task comprised of anti-phase and in-phase trials as 24-channel fNIRS data was recorded from dorsal-medial motor areas. We examined the relative concentrations of oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin in the channels that were located over the anterior SMA (e.g., pre-SMA) and the SMA proper. Our most interesting results indicated that oxygenated hemoglobin responses were greater in the anterior SMA during performance of anti-phase compared to in-phase movements. In the SMA proper, oxygenated hemoglobin responses did not differ between the two movement patterns. These data suggest that the anterior SMA is critical to programming and maintaining the less stable anti-phase movement patterns, and support the conceptual framework of an anterior-directed gradient of progressively more complex functionality in the SMA.
Abnormal emotional processing is involved in the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder (BD) and major depressive disorder (MDD). However, whether the neural mechanism underlying this deficit is a trait characteristic of BD and MDD is unclear. The aim of this study was to elucidate the similarities and differences in processing of emotional stimuli between patients with BD and MDD in remission, using functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS). Thirty-two patients (16 with BD and 16 with MDD) and 20 healthy control subjects matched for age, sex, handedness, and years of education were included. An emotional Stroop task, including happy, sad, and threat words, was used. The relative oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin concentration ([oxy-Hb] and [deoxy-Hb]) changes in the frontal region were measured using 52-channels of NIRS. During the threat task, compared to healthy control subjects, patients with BD showed significantly increased [oxy-Hb] in the left inferior frontal region whereas patients with MDD showed significantly increased [oxy-Hb] in the left middle frontal region. During the happy task, compared to healthy control subjects, patients with BD showed significantly decreased [oxy-Hb] in the middle frontal region in both hemispheres. Moreover, patients with BD exhibited decreased [oxy-Hb] and increased [deoxy-Hb] in the superior frontal and middle frontal regions compared to MDD in response to the happy stimulus. No significant differences in [oxy-Hb] or [deoxy-Hb] were seen between the groups during the sad task. These results suggest that abnormal neural responses to emotional stimuli in patients with mood disorders in remission may be a trait characteristic, that negative emotional stimuli are associated with similar prefrontal responses, and that positive emotional stimuli are associated with different prefrontal responses in patients with BD and MDD. These findings indicate that different neural circuits play a role in emotional processing in BD and MDD; this may aid the elucidation of the pathophysiology of these two disorders.
Two decades ago, the introduction of functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) into the field of neuroscience created new opportunities for investigating neural processes within the human cerebral cortex. Since then, fNIRS has been increasingly used to conduct functional activation studies in different neuropsychiatric disorders, most prominently schizophrenic illnesses, affective disorders and developmental syndromes, such as attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder as well as normal and pathological aging. This review article provides a comprehensive overview of state of the art fNIRS research in psychiatry covering a wide range of applications, including studies on the phenomenological characterization of psychiatric disorders, descriptions of life-time developmental aspects, treatment effects, and genetic influences on neuroimaging data. Finally, methodological shortcomings as well as current research perspectives and promising future applications of fNIRS in psychiatry are discussed. We conclude that fNIRS is a valid addition to the range of neuroscientific methods available to assess neural mechanisms underlying neuropsychiatric disorders. Future research should particularly focus on expanding the presently used activation paradigms and cortical regions of interest, while additionally fostering technical and methodological advances particularly concerning the identification and removal of extracranial influences on fNIRS data as well as systematic artifact correction. Eventually, fNIRS might be a useful tool in practical psychiatric settings involving both diagnostics and the complementary treatment of psychological disorders using, for example, neurofeedback applications.
Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) has become a relevant research tool in neuroscience. In special populations such as infants and for special tasks such as walking, NIRS has asserted itself as a low resolution functional imaging technique which profits from its ease of application, portability and the option to co-register other neurophysiological and behavioral data in a 'near natural' environment. For clinical use in neurology this translates into the option to provide a bed-side oximeter for the brain, broadly available at comparatively low costs. However, while some potential for routine brain monitoring during cardiac and vascular surgery and in neonatology has been established, NIRS is largely unknown to clinical neurologists. The article discusses some of the reasons for this lack of use in clinical neurology. Research using NIRS in three major neurologic diseases (cerebrovascular disease, epilepsy and headache) is reviewed. Additionally the potential to exploit the established position of NIRS as a functional imaging tool with regard to clinical questions such as preoperative functional assessment and neurorehabilitation is discussed.
Sustained attention, often referred to as vigilance in humans, is the ability to maintain goal-directed behavior for extended periods of time and respond to intermittent targets in the environment. With greater time-on-task the ability to detect targets decreases and reaction time increases-a phenomenon termed the vigilance decrement. The purpose of this study was to examine the role of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in the vigilance decrement. Subjects (n=19) received prefrontal transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) at one of two different time points during a vigilance task (early or late). The impact of tDCS was examined using measures of behavior, hemispheric blood flow velocity, and regional blood oxygenation relative to sham stimulation. In the sham condition greater time-on-task was accompanied by fewer target detections and slower reaction times, indicating a vigilance decrement, and decreased blood flow velocity. tDCS significantly altered baseline task-induced physiologic and behavioral changes, dependent on the time of stimulation administration and electrode configuration (determining polarity of stimulation). Compared to the sham condition, with more time-on-task blood flow velocity decreased less and cerebral oxygenation increased more in the tDCS condition. Behavioral measures showed a significant improvement in target detection performance with tDCS compared to the sham stimulation. Signal detection analysis revealed a significant change in operator discriminability and response bias with increased time-on-task, as well as interactions between time of stimulation administration and electrode configuration. Current density modeling of tDCS showed high densities in the medial prefrontal cortex and anterior cingulate cortex. These findings confirm that cerebral hemodynamic measures provide an index of resource utilization and point to the central role of the frontal cortex in vigilance. Further, they suggest that modulation of the frontal cortices-and connected structures-influences the availability of vigilance resources. These findings indicate that tDCS may be well-suited to mitigate performance degradation in work settings requiring sustained attention or as a possible treatment for neurological or psychiatric disorders involving sustained attention.
Two challenges in the management of Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome are the difficulty in diagnosing cyclical atelectasis, and in individualising mechanical ventilation therapy in real-time. Commercial optical oxygen sensors can detect [Formula: see text] oscillations associated with cyclical atelectasis, but are not accurate at saturation levels below 90%, and contain a toxic fluorophore. We present a computer-controlled test rig, together with an in-house constructed ultra-rapid sensor to test the limitations of these sensors when exposed to rapidly changing [Formula: see text] in blood in vitro. We tested the sensors' responses to simulated respiratory rates between 10 and 60 breaths per minute. Our sensor was able to detect the whole amplitude of the imposed [Formula: see text] oscillations, even at the highest respiratory rate. We also examined our sensor's resistance to clot formation by continuous in vivo deployment in non-heparinised flowing animal blood for 24h, after which no adsorption of organic material on the sensor's surface was detectable by scanning electron microscopy.
In 2013, perampanel is approved as an add-on treatment for generalised and focal seizures in pharmaco-resistant epilepsy. New anticoagulants are superior to antivitamin K in stroke secondary prevention in case of atrial fibrillation. DBS remains a valid therapeutic option for advanced Parkinson's disease. Intranasal ketamine seems to reduce the intensity of severe migraine aura. High concentrations of topic capsaicin improve post-herpetic neuralgia. In Alzheimer's disease, statins might deteriorate cognitive functions. Oral immuno-modifing treatments for relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis have shown to slow cerebral atrophy progression at two years.
Recent developments in the study of brain functional connectivity are widely based on graph theory. In the current analysis of brain networks, there is no unique way to derive the adjacency matrix, which is a useful representation for a graph. Its entries, containing information about the existence of links, are identified by thresholding the correlation between the time series that characterized the dynamic behavior of the nodes. In this work, we put forward a strategy to choose a suitable threshold on the correlation matrix considering the problem of multiple comparisons in order to control the error rates. In this context we propose to control the positive false discovery rate (pFDR) and a similar measure involving false negatives, called the positive false nondiscovery rate (pFNR). In particular, we provide point and interval estimators for pFNR and a method for balancing the two types of error, demonstrating it by using functional magnetic resonance imaging data and Monte Carlo simulations.



Ambiguous figures are visual stimuli that may be perceived in multistable interpretations. The role of attention in modulating perceptual reversals of ambiguous stimuli is not clear. We tested whether perceptual reversals depend on working memory by manipulating its load while the participants were viewing the Necker cube. Increasing working memory load delayed the latency and decreased the frequency of reversals. These effects followed a linear function of load. The findings imply shared resources of the mechanisms responsible for perceptual reversals and working memory maintenance. However, reversals were not completely abolished even with the hard seven-consonants load, suggesting that bottom-up processes continue to operate in the bistable perception dynamics when top-down mechanisms are attenuated.









Although antipsychotic drugs can reduce psychotic behavior within a few hours, full efficacy is not achieved for several weeks, implying that there may be rapid, short-term changes in neuronal function, which are consolidated into long-lasting changes. We showed that the antipsychotic drug haloperidol, a dopamine receptor type 2 (DR) antagonist, stimulated the kinase Akt to activate the mRNA translation pathway mediated by the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1). In primary striatal DR-positive neurons, haloperidol-mediated activation of mTORC1 resulted in increased phosphorylation of ribosomal protein S6 (S6) and eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E-binding protein (4E-BP). Proteomic mass spectrometry revealed marked changes in the pattern of protein synthesis after acute exposure of cultured striatal neurons to haloperidol, including increased abundance of cytoskeletal proteins and proteins associated with translation machinery. These proteomic changes coincided with increased morphological complexity of neurons that was diminished by inhibition of downstream effectors of mTORC1, suggesting that mTORC1-dependent translation enhances neuronal complexity in response to haloperidol. In vivo, we observed rapid morphological changes with a concomitant increase in the abundance of cytoskeletal proteins in cortical neurons of haloperidol-injected mice. These results suggest a mechanism for both the acute and long-term actions of antipsychotics.
The common variant rs1344706 within the zinc-finger protein gene ZNF804A has been strongly implicated in schizophrenia (SZ) susceptibility by a series of recent genetic association studies. Although associated with a pattern of altered neural connectivity, evidence that increased risk is mediated by an effect on cognitive deficits associated with the disorder has been equivocal. This study investigated whether the same ZNF804A risk allele was associated with variation in the P300 auditory-evoked response, a cognitively relevant putative endophenotype for SZ. We compared P300 responses in carriers and noncarriers of the ZNF804A risk allele genotype groups in Irish patients and controls (n=97). P300 response was observed to vary according to genotype in this sample, such that risk allele carriers showed relatively higher P300 response compared with noncarriers. This finding accords with behavioural data reported by our group and others. It is also consistent with the idea that ZNF804A may have an impact on cortical efficiency, reflected in the higher levels of activations required to achieve comparable behavioural accuracy on the task used.
Perceiving others in pain generally leads to empathic concern, consisting of both emotional and cognitive processes. Empathy deficits have been considered as an element contributing to social difficulties in individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging and short video clips of facial expressions of people experiencing pain to examine the neural substrates underlying the spontaneous empathic response to pain in autism. Thirty-eight adolescents and adults of normal intelligence diagnosed with ASD and 35 matched controls participated in the study. In contrast to general assumptions, we found no significant differences in brain activation between ASD individuals and controls during the perception of pain experienced by others. Both groups showed similar levels of activation in areas associated with pain sharing, evidencing the presence of emotional empathy and emotional contagion in participants with autism as well as in controls. Differences between groups could be observed at a more liberal statistical threshold, and revealed increased activations in areas involved in cognitive reappraisal in ASD participants compared with controls. Scores of emotional empathy were positively correlated with brain activation in areas involved in embodiment of pain in ASD group only. Our findings show that simulation mechanisms involved in emotional empathy are preserved in high-functioning individuals with autism, and suggest that increased reappraisal may have a role in their apparent lack of caring behavior.
The 4 allele of the gene that encodes apolipoprotein E (APOE4) is the greatest genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD), while APOE2 reduces AD risk, compared to APOE3. The mechanism(s) underlying the effects of APOE on AD pathology remains unclear. Invivo, dendritic spine density is lower in APOE4-targeted replacement (APOE-TR) mice compared with APOE2- and APOE3-TR mice. To investigate whether this apoE4-induced decrease in spine density results from alterations in the formation or the loss of dendritic spines, the effects of neuron age and apoE isoform on the total number and subclasses of spines were examined in long-term wild-type neurons co-cultured with glia from APOE2-, APOE3- and APOE4-TR mice. Dendritic spine density and maturation were evaluated by immunocytochemistry via the presence of drebrin (an actin-binding protein) with GluN1 (NMDA receptor subunit) and GluA2 (AMPA receptor subunit) clusters. ApoE isoform effects were analyzed via a method previously established that identifies phases of spine formation (day-in-vitro, DIV10-18), maintenance (DIV18-21) and loss (DIV21-26). In the formation phase, apoE4 delayed total spine formation. During the maintenance phase, the density of GluN1+GluA2 spines did not change with apoE2, while the density of these spines decreased with apoE4 compared to apoE3, primarily due to the loss of GluA2in spines. During the loss phase, total spine density was lower in neurons with apoE4 compared to apoE3. Thus, apoE4 delays total spine formation and may induce early synaptic dysfunction via impaired regulation of GluA2in spines.


The evidence that BDNF is involved in neuroprotection, neuronal repair and recovery after traumatic brain injury (TBI) is substantial. We have previously shown that the polymorphism of the human BDNF gene predicts cognitive recovery and outcome following penetrating TBI. The distribution of expression of BDNF and its receptors after penetrating TBI has not been investigated. In this study we examined the expression of these genes in a rat model of penetrating TBI. The injury is produced by a controlled penetration of a 2mm thick needle-shaped object, which is accelerated with a pellet from an air gun. We used in situ hybridization and investigated the mRNA expression of BDNF and its receptors: the full-length and the truncated TrkB and p75(NTR), from 1 day to 8 weeks following penetrating TBI. In addition, the protein level of BDNF in frontal cortex and hippocampus was measured by reverse phase protein microarray (RPPM). The mRNA expression of BDNF and its receptors decreased in the hippocampus in the border zone ipsilateral to the injury while there was an increase in mRNA expression at the contralateral side. The increase in BDNF mRNA expression in the hippocampus was sustained for 2 weeks following injury, with the highest expression noted in the CA3 cell layer. Furthermore, the protein analysis by RPPM showed increased levels of BDNF in the frontal cortex and the hippocampus up to 2 weeks after TBI. At 8 weeks following injury there was an intense labeling of the truncated TrkB receptor and the p75(NTR) in the area surrounding the cavity. Our study is the first report on the expression of BDNF and its receptors following penetrating TBI and suggests that their expression is altered long after the acute phase of injury. Further studies are needed to investigate if the late expressions of these receptors are beneficial or deleterious. In either case it indicates the possibility to influence the recovery after brain injury during the chronic phase and the development of treatments that may improve the outcome of TBI patients.
Accumulating evidence indicates that extensive microglia activation-mediated local inflammation contributes to neuronal injury in cerebral ischemia. We have previously shown that 4-(2-butyl-6, 7-dichloro-2-cyclopentyl-indan-1-on-5-yl) oxobutyric acid (DCPIB), a potent volume-regulated anion channel (VRAC) inhibitor, suppresses pathological glutamate release and excitatory neurotoxicity in reversible middle cerebral artery occlusion (rMCAO) model in vivo. In the present study, we sought to determine whether DCPIB also attenuates microglia activation that could contribute to neuronal injury in the cerebral ischemia/reperfusion pathology. We show that oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) induced microglia proliferation, migration, and secretion of cytokines and all these pathological changes were effectively inhibited by DCPIB in vitro. In the microglia/neuron co-cultures, OGD induced neuronal damage was reduced markedly in the presence of DCPIB. In rat rMCAO animal model, DCPIB significantly attenuated microglia activation and neuronal death. Activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway is known to be a critical signaling pathway for microglia activation. We further explored a potential involvement of DCPIB in this pathway by western blot analysis. Under the conditions that MAPK pathway was activated either by lipopolysaccharides (LPS) or OGD, the levels of phosphorylated ERK1/2, JNK and p38 were reduced significantly in the presence of DCPIB. Altogether, our study demonstrated that DCPIB inhibits microglia activation potently under ischemic conditions both in vitro and in vivo. The DCPIB effect is likely attributable to both direct inhibition VRAC and indirect inhibition of MAPK pathway in microglia that are beneficial for the survival of neurons in cerebral ischemic conditions.
Chronic abuse of drugs can result in vast negative repercussions on behavioral and biological systems by altering underlying neurocircuitry. Long-term cannabinoid administration in rats leads to detrimental cellular and dendritic morphology changes. Previous studies have found that chronic treatment with delta-9-THC selectively decreases dendritic morphology and spine density in the dentate gyrus of adolescent rats (Rubino et al., 2009); however, whether these changes are specific to a particular developmental age is not known. The present study evaluated the effects of chronic exposure (7 or 21 days) to WIN 55,212-2 (i.p., 3.7 mg/kg), a potent cannabinoid agonist, on dendritic morphology of dentate gyrus neurons in adult rats. Upon completion of treatment brains were processed for Golgi-Cox staining. No significant effects of WIN 55,212-2 exposure were observed for dendritic branching or length. Spine density was quantified in the inner (proximal), middle, and outer (distal) thirds of the dendritic fields selected to approximate the spatial loci of afferents comprising the associational-commissural pathway, medial perforant path, and lateral perforant path, respectively. Compared to vehicle controls there was a significant reduction in spine density (~1 spine/10 m) in the inner and middle dendritic segments. The spine density reduction was significant in inner segments following 7 days of treatment. These results suggest that chronic cannabinoid treatment specifically alters spine density in the dendritic targets of the associational-commissural afferents and medial perforant path projections, but not lateral perforant path. The resulting loss of dendritic spine density may be an important factor underlying cannabinoid induced memory impairments.
The roles of spinal N-methyl-d-aspartic acid receptor 2B (NR2B) subunit in central sensitization of chronic visceral pain were investigated. A rat model with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) was established by colorectal distention (CRD) on post-natal days 8-14. Responses of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen to CRD were measured to evaluate the sensitivity of visceral pain in rats. The sensitivity of visceral pain significantly increased in IBS-like rats. Expressions of spinal NR2B subunit and phosphorylated NR2B subunit significantly increased by 50-55% in IBS-like rats when compared with those in control rats. Ro 25-6981, a selective antagonist of NR2B subunit, has a dose-dependent anti-allodynic and anti-hyperalgesic effect without causing motor dysfunction in IBS-like rats. Furthermore, the activation mechanism of the spinal NR2B subunit in chronic visceral pain was also investigated. Spinal administration of genistein, a specific inhibitor of tyrosine kinases, also decreased the visceral pain hypersensitivity of IBS-like rats in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, the expression of phosphorylated NR2B subunit was decreased after spinal administration of Ro 25-6981 or genistein in IBS-like rats. In conclusion, tyrosine kinase activation-induced phosphorylation of NR2B subunit may play a crucial role in central sensitization of chronic visceral pain.

Plasma membrane PI4P helps determine the identity of this membrane and plays a key role in signal transduction as the precursor of PI(4,5)P2 and its metabolites. Here, we report the atomic structure of the protein scaffold that is required for the plasma membrane localization and function of Stt4/PI4KIII, the PI 4-kinase responsible for this PI4P pool. Both proteins of the scaffold, Efr3 and YPP1/TTC7, are composed of -helical repeats, which are arranged into a rod in Efr3 and a superhelix in Ypp1. A conserved basic patch in Efr3, which binds acidic phospholipids, anchors the complex to the plasma membrane. Stt4/PI4KIII is recruited by interacting with the Ypp1 C-terminal lobe, which also binds to unstructured regions in the Efr3 C terminus. Phosphorylation of this Efr3 region counteracts Ypp1 binding, thus providing a mechanism through which Stt4/PI4KIII recruitment, and thus a metabolic reaction of fundamental importance in cell physiology, can be regulated.


Background: Deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus, although highly effective for the treatment of motor impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD), can induce speech deterioration in a subgroup of patients. The aim of the current study was to survey (1) if there are distinctive stimulation effects on the different parameters of voice and speech and (2) if there is a special pattern of preexisting speech abnormalities indicating a risk for further worsening under stimulation. Methods: N=38 patients with PD had to perform a speech test without medication with stimulation ON (StimON) and stimulation OFF (StimOFF). Speech samples were analyzed: (1) according to a four-dimensional perceptual speech score and (2) by acoustic analysis to obtain quantifiable measures of distinctive speech parameters. Results: Quality of voice was ameliorated with StimON, and there were trends of increased loudness and better pitch variability. N=8 patients featured a deterioration of speech with StimON, caused by worsening of articulation or/and fluency. These patients already had more severe overall speech impairment with characteristic features of articulatory slurring and articulatory acceleration under StimOFF condition. Conclusion: The influence of subthalamic StimON Parkinsonian speech differs considerably between individual patients, however, there is a trend to amelioration of voice quality and prosody. Patients with stimulation-associated speech deterioration featured higher overall speech impairment and showed a distinctive pattern of articulatory abnormalities at baseline. Further investigations to confirm these preliminary findings are necessary to allow neurologists to pre-surgically estimate the individual risk of deterioration of speech under stimulation.
Previous whole-exome sequencing has demonstrated that melanoma tumors harbor mutations in the GRIN2A gene. GRIN2A encodes the regulatory GluN2A subunit of the glutamate-gated N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR), involvement of which in melanoma remains undefined. Here, we sequenced coding exons of GRIN2A in 19 low-passage melanoma cell lines derived from patients with metastatic melanoma. Potential mutation impact was evaluated in silico, including within the GluN2A crystal structure, and clinical correlations were sought. We found that of 19 metastatic melanoma tumors, four (21%) carried five missense mutations in the evolutionarily conserved domains of GRIN2A; two were previously reported. Melanoma cells that carried these mutations were treatment-nave. Sorting intolerant from tolerant analysis predicted that S349F, G762E, and P1132L would disrupt protein function. When modeled into the crystal structure of GluN2A, G762E was seen to potentially alter GluN1-GluN2A interactions and ligand binding, implying disruption to NMDAR functionality. Patients whose tumors carried non-synonymous GRIN2A mutations had faster disease progression and shorter overall survival (P&lt;0.05). This was in contrast to the BRAF V600E mutation, found in 58% of tumors but showing no correlation with clinical outcome (P=0.963). Although numbers of patients in this study are small, and firm conclusions about the association between GRIN2A mutations and poor clinical outcome cannot be drawn, our results highlight the high prevalence of GRIN2A mutations in metastatic melanoma and suggest for the first time that mutated NMDARs impact melanoma progression.

The effect of multisensory-induced changes on body-ownership and self-awareness using bodily illusions has been well established. More recently, experimental manipulation of bodily illusions have been combined with social cognition tasks to investigate whether changes in body-ownership can in turn change the way we perceive others. For example, experiencing ownership over a dark-skin rubber hand reduces implicit bias against dark-skin groups. Several studies have also shown that processing of skin color and facial features play an important role in judgements of racial typicality and racial categorization independently and in an additive manner. The present study aimed at examining whether using multisensory stimulation to induce feelings of body-ownership over a dark-skin rubber hand would lead to an increase in positive attitudes toward black faces. We here show, that the induced ownership of a body-part of a different skin color affected the participants' implicit attitudes when processing facial features, in addition to the processing of skin color shown previously. Furthermore, when the levels of pre-existing attitudes toward black people were taken into account, the effect of the rubber hand illusion on the post-stimulation implicit attitudes was only significant for those participants who had a negative initial attitude toward black people, with no significant effects found for those who had positive initial attitudes toward black people. Taken together, our findings corroborate the hypothesis that the representation of the self and its relation to others, as given to us by body-related multisensory processing, is critical in maintaining but also in changing social attitudes.
Axonal sorting is a crucial event in nerve formation and requires proper Schwann cell proliferation, differentiation, and contact with axons. Any defect in axonal sorting results in dysmyelinating peripheral neuropathies. Evidence from mouse models shows that axonal sorting is regulated by laminin211- and, possibly, neuregulin 1 (Nrg1)-derived signals. However, how these signals are integrated in Schwann cells is largely unknown. We now report that the nuclear Jun activation domain-binding protein 1 (Jab1) may transduce laminin211 signals to regulate Schwann cell number and differentiation during axonal sorting. Mice with inactivation of Jab1 in Schwann cells develop a dysmyelinating neuropathy with axonal sorting defects. Loss of Jab1 increases p27 levels in Schwann cells, which causes defective cell cycle progression and aberrant differentiation. Genetic down-regulation of p27 levels in Jab1-null mice restores Schwann cell number, differentiation, and axonal sorting and rescues the dysmyelinating neuropathy. Thus, Jab1 constitutes a regulatory molecule that integrates laminin211 signals in Schwann cells to govern cell cycle, cell number, and differentiation. Finally, Jab1 may constitute a key molecule in the pathogenesis of dysmyelinating neuropathies.



A major challenge in neurobiology is to understand the molecular underpinnings of neural circuitry that govern a specific behavior. Once the specific molecular mechanisms are identified, new therapeutic strategies can be developed to treat abnormalities in specific behaviors caused by degenerative diseases or aging of the nervous system. The marine snail Aplysia californica is well suited for the investigations of cellular and molecular basis of behavior because neural circuitry underlying a specific behavior could be easily determined and the individual components of the circuitry could be easily manipulated. These advantages of Aplysia have led to several fundamental discoveries of neurobiology of learning and memory. Here we describe a preparation of the Aplysia nervous system for the electrophysiological and molecular analyses of individual neurons. Briefly, ganglion dissected from the nervous system is exposed to protease to remove the ganglion sheath such that neurons are exposed but retain neuronal activity as in the intact animal. This preparation is used to carry out electrophysiological measurements of single or multiple neurons. Importantly, following the recording using a simple methodology, the neurons could be isolated directly from the ganglia for gene expression analysis. These protocols were used to carry out simultaneous electrophysiological recordings from L7 and R15 neurons, study their response to acetylcholine and quantitating expression of CREB1 gene in isolated single L7, L11, R15, and R2 neurons of Aplysia.

Studies have demonstrated that median preoptic nucleus (MnPO) neurons play a role in organizing the cardiovascular responses induced by changes in the circulating blood volume. The present study examined whether the MnPO controls cardiovascular function. Male Wistar normotensive (NT) rats and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs; 250-300 g) were anesthetized with urethane (1.2 g kg(-1), i.v.) and instrumented for recordings of mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) and renal blood flow (RBF). The renal vascular conductance (RVC) was calculated as the RBF:MAP ratio and was expressed as a percentage of the baseline value. In the NT rats (n=6), MnPO inhibition produced a MAP reduction (-8.11.1 mmHg, p&lt;0.05). In the SHRs (n=6), the MAP response to MnPO inhibition was significantly greater (-22.34 mmHg, p&lt;0.05) than in the NT rats. Furthermore, the increase in the RVC was higher in the SHRs (10.93.3%, p&lt;0.05). Histological analyses confirmed that the injection sites were confined to the MnPO. We conclude that the MnPO is involved in the tonic regulation of blood pressure in NT rats. Moreover, the greater cardiovascular response to MnPO inhibition observed in the SHRs strongly suggests that the MnPO may contribute to the pathophysiology of essential hypertension.
The zebrafish (Danio rerio) has become an emergent model organism for translational approaches focused on the neurobiology of stress due to its genetic, neuroanatomical, and histological similarities with mammalian systems. However, despite the increasing number of studies using zebrafish, reports examining the impact of stress on relevant neurochemical parameters are still elementary when compared to studies using rodents. Additionally, it is important to further validate this model organism by comparing its stress response with those described in other species. Here, we evaluated the effects of an acute restraint stress (ARS) protocol on oxidative stress-related parameters in the zebrafish brain. Our data revealed that ARS significantly decreased catalase activity without altering the activity of superoxide dismutase. Oxidative stress was also indicated by increased levels of lipid peroxides. ARS significantly increased the levels of non-protein thiols, although significant changes in total reduced sulfhydryl content were not detected. These results suggest that ARS is an interesting strategy for evaluating the mechanisms underlying the neurochemical basis of the oxidative profile triggered by acute stressors in the zebrafish brain. Furthermore, this protocol may be suitable for screening new compounds with protective properties against oxidative stress, which plays an increasingly important role in many psychiatric disorders.
Previous data have shown that oleuropein aglycone (OLE), the main secoiridoid phenol present in extra virgin olive oil, counteracts in vitro aggregation of the A42 peptide and protects cultured cells and model organisms against aggregates toxicity. In this study we investigated the relative tissue toxicity of A42 aggregated in vitro in the presence or in the absence of OLE by injecting the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) of adult male Wistar rats with a 1.5 l solution containing OLE (450 M) or A42 (50 M) aggregated in the absence (oligomers) or in the presence of 450 M OLE. Control rats were injected with vehicle (1.5 l). Thirty days after injection, the number of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-positive neurons, glia reaction and the A peptide levels were detected by immunohistochemistry. An apparent reduction in the amount of soluble A11-positive oligomers was detected in the NBM injected with A42 aggregated with OLE, as compared with the NBM injected with A42 alone. In the latter case, the number of ChAT-positive neurons was significantly reduced (-33%) respect to that recorded in the NBM injected with phosphate buffer, OLE or A42 aggregated with OLE. A markedly attenuated A-induced astrocytes and microglia reaction was also found in the NBM injected with A42 aggregated with OLE. Altogether, these data provide additional support to the anti-aggregation, neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory activities of this natural phenol, confirming its beneficial properties against neurodegeneration.
The cerebellum, which is important for movement control and planning, is often affected by many neurological conditions. Until now there has been limited information regarding how the function of the cerebellum impacts driving ability. This study used fMRI with an integrated virtual reality driving simulator to determine which aspects of driving performance are related to the cerebellum in healthy drivers (Experiment 1). It also investigated drivers with focal cerebellar lesions to identify how damage to this brain region impairs driving abilities. The results showed that cerebellar functioning is responsible for motor-speed coordination and complex temporal-motor integration necessary to execute driving behaviours. As predicted, drivers with cerebellar damage, showed significantly compromised speed control during basic driving conditions, whereas their ability to perform during interactive driving situations was preserved. New insights into neural mechanisms and brain plasticity regarding driving behaviour are discussed. Strategies in assessing and rehabilitating drivers with related neurological conditions are provided.
Neuronal damage after transient cerebral ischemia is exacerbated by signaling pathways involving activated platelet-activating factor (PAF) and ameliorated by PAF-acetylhydrolase (PAF-AH); but whether cerebral neurons can be rescued by human recombinant PAF-AH (rPAF-AH) remains unknown. Adult male mice underwent a 60 min middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and reperfusion for 24h. Then, the mice received intravenous tail injections with different drugs. Neurological behavioral function was evaluated by Bederson's test, and cerebral infarction volume was assessed with tetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining. mRNA and protein expression levels of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2, collagenase-1), MMP-9 (gelatinase-B), and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) were determined by quantitative real-time PCR (RT-PCR) and western blot analysis, respectively. Compared with the vehicle group, rPAF-AH significantly improved sensorimotor function (42%, P=0.0001). The volume of non-infarcted brain tissue was increased by the rPAF-AH treatment (16.34.6% vs. 46.010.3%, respectively). rPAF-AH significantly reduced mRNA and protein levels of MMP-2 and MMP-9, but increased the mRNA (P&lt;0.001) and protein levels (P&lt;0.01) of VEGF. These results demonstrate that rPAF-AH provides neuroprotection against ischemic injury. Neuroprotection might be induced not only by decrease in MMP-2 and MMP-9 expression, but also by increased VEGF expression.
The prediction of future events is fundamental in a large number of critical neurobehavioral contexts including implicit motor learning. This learning process relies on the probabilities with which events occur, and is a dynamic phenomenon. The aim of present study was to investigate the development of anticipatory processes during implicit learning. A decision making task was employed in which the frequency of trial types was manipulated such that one trial type was disproportionately prevalent as compared to the remaining three trial types. A 275 channel whole-head magnetoencephalography (MEG) system was used to investigate the spatiotemporal distribution of event-related desynchronization (ERD) and synchronization (ERS). The results revealed that oscillations within the alpha (10-12 Hz) and beta (14-30 Hz) frequencies were associated with anticipatory processes in distinct networks in the course of learning. During early phases of learning the contralateral motor cortex, the anterior cingulate, the caudate and the inferior frontal gyrus showed ERDs within beta and alpha frequencies, putatively reflecting preparation of next motor response. As the task progressed, alpha ERSs in occipitotemporal regions and putamen likely reflect perceptual anticipation of the forthcoming stimuli.








After identification of an important research question and selection of an appropriate study design, waste can arise from the regulation, governance, and management of biomedical research. Obtaining regulatory and governance approval has become increasingly burdensome and disproportionate to the conceivable risks to research participants. Regulation and governance involve interventions that are assumed to be justified in the interests of patients and the public, but they can actually compromise these interests. Inefficient management of the procedural conduct of research is wasteful, especially if it results in poor recruitment and retention of participants in well designed studies addressing important questions. These sources of waste can be minimised if the following four recommendations are addressed. First, regulators should use their influence to reduce other causes of waste and inefficiency in research. Second, regulators and policy makers should work with researchers, patients, and health professionals to streamline and harmonise the laws, regulations, guidelines, and processes that govern whether and how research can be done, and ensure that they are proportionate to the plausible risks associated with the research. Third, researchers and research managers should increase the efficiency of recruitment, retention, data monitoring, and data sharing in research through use of research designs known to reduce inefficiencies, and further research should be done to learn how efficiency can be increased. Finally, everyone, particularly those responsible for health-care systems, should promote integration of research into everyday clinical practice. Regulators and researchers should monitor adherence to each of these recommendations and publish metrics.
Correctable weaknesses in the design, conduct, and analysis of biomedical and public health research studies can produce misleading results and waste valuable resources. Small effects can be difficult to distinguish from bias introduced by study design and analyses. An absence of detailed written protocols and poor documentation of research is common. Information obtained might not be useful or important, and statistical precision or power is often too low or used in a misleading way. Insufficient consideration might be given to both previous and continuing studies. Arbitrary choice of analyses and an overemphasis on random extremes might affect the reported findings. Several problems relate to the research workforce, including failure to involve experienced statisticians and methodologists, failure to train clinical researchers and laboratory scientists in research methods and design, and the involvement of stakeholders with conflicts of interest. Inadequate emphasis is placed on recording of research decisions and on reproducibility of research. Finally, reward systems incentivise quantity more than quality, and novelty more than reliability. We propose potential solutions for these problems, including improvements in protocols and documentation, consideration of evidence from studies in progress, standardisation of research efforts, optimisation and training of an experienced and non-conflicted scientific workforce, and reconsideration of scientific reward systems.
The increase in annual global investment in biomedical research--reaching US$240 billion in 2010--has resulted in important health dividends for patients and the public. However, much research does not lead to worthwhile achievements, partly because some studies are done to improve understanding of basic mechanisms that might not have relevance for human health. Additionally, good research ideas often do not yield the anticipated results. As long as the way in which these ideas are prioritised for research is transparent and warranted, these disappointments should not be deemed wasteful; they are simply an inevitable feature of the way science works. However, some sources of waste cannot be justified. In this report, we discuss how avoidable waste can be considered when research priorities are set. We have four recommendations. First, ways to improve the yield from basic research should be investigated. Second, the transparency of processes by which funders prioritise important uncertainties should be increased, making clear how they take account of the needs of potential users of research. Third, investment in additional research should always be preceded by systematic assessment of existing evidence. Fourth, sources of information about research that is in progress should be strengthened and developed and used by researchers. Research funders have primary responsibility for reductions in waste resulting from decisions about what research to do.

The -amyloid (A) peptide has been postulated to be a key determinant in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A is produced through sequential cleavage of the -amyloid precursor protein (APP) by - and -secretases. APP and relevant secretases are transmembrane proteins and traffic through the secretory pathway in a highly regulated fashion. Perturbation of their intracellular trafficking may affect dynamic interactions among these proteins, thus altering A generation and accelerating disease pathogenesis. Herein, we review recent progress elucidating the regulation of intracellular trafficking of these essential protein components in AD.


We investigated the role of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), a major mediator of innate immune responses, on cognitive performance in a type 1 diabetes model (T1D). After administration of streptozotocin, both TLR4 knockout (TLR4 KO) and wild type (WT) diabetic mice displayed metabolic alterations similar to those observed in T1D patients, including increased levels of glucose, cholesterol, triglycerides and ketones. T1D mice exhibited cognitive impairment which was less severe in TLR4 KO mice compared to WT mice. WT mice with higher glucose and those with higher triglyceride levels exhibited significantly more anxiety and impaired memory compared to those with lower levels of glucose and triglycerides; these correlations were absent in TLR4 KO mice. Additional findings suggest roles for TLR4 signaling in modifying the expression of enzymes involved in energy metabolism in brain cells in the setting of T1D. Our data show that TLR4 contributes to the negative impact of T1D on anxiety and cognition.
Inactivation of glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) has been shown to mediate axon growth during development and regeneration. Phosphorylation of GSK3 by the kinase Akt is well known to be the major mechanism by which GSK3 is inactivated. However, whether such regulatory mechanism of GSK3 inactivation is used in neurons to control axon growth has not been directly studied. Here by using GSK3 mutant mice, in which GSK3 is insensitive to Akt-mediated inactivation, we show that sensory axons regenerate normally in vitro and in vivo after peripheral axotomy. We also find that GSK3 in sensory neurons of the mutant mice is still inactivated in response to peripheral axotomy and such inactivation is required for sensory axon regeneration. Lastly, we provide evidence that GSK3 activity is negatively regulated by PI3K signaling in the mutant mice upon peripheral axotomy, and the PI3K-GSK3 pathway is functionally required for sensory axon regeneration. Together, these results indicate that in response to peripheral nerve injury GSK3 inactivation, regulated by an alternative mechanism independent of Akt-mediated phosphorylation, controls sensory axon regeneration.
Mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) express high levels of cytoplasmic p53. Exposure of mouse ESCs to DNA damage leads to activation of p53, inducing Nanog suppression. In contrast to earlier studies, we recently reported that chemical inhibition of p53 suppresses ESC proliferation. Here, we confirm that p53 signaling is involved in the maintenance of mouse ESC self-renewal. RNA interference-mediated knockdown of p53 induced downregulation of p21 and defects in ESC proliferation. Furthermore, p53 knockdown resulted in a significant downregulation in Nanog expression at 24 and 48 h post-transfection. p53 knockdown also caused a reduction in Oct4 expression at 48 h post-transfection. Conversely, exposure of ESCs to DNA damage caused a higher reduction of Nanog expression in control siRNA-treated cells than in p53 siRNA-treated cells. These data show that in the absence of DNA damage, p53 is required for the maintenance of mouse ESC self-renewal by regulating Nanog expression.

Dynasore, a specific dynamin GTPase inhibitor, suppresses lamellipodia formation and cancer cell invasion by destabilizing actin filaments. In search for novel dynamin inhibitors that suppress actin dynamics more efficiently, dynasore analogues were screened. N'-[4-(dipropylamino)benzylidene]-2-hydroxybenzohydrazide (DBHA) markedly reduced in vitro actin polymerization, and dose-dependently inhibited phosphatidylserine-stimulated dynamin GTPase activity. DBHA significantly suppressed both the recruitment of dynamin 2 to the leading edge in U2OS cells and ruffle formation in H1299 cells. Furthermore, DBHA suppressed both the migration and invasion of H1299 cells by approximately 70%. Furthermore, intratumoral DBHA delivery significantly repressed tumor growth. DBHA was much less cytotoxic than dynasore. These results strongly suggest that DBHA inhibits dynamin-dependent actin polymerization by altering the interactions between dynamin and lipid membranes. DBHA and its derivative may be potential candidates for potent anti-cancer drugs.
Patients with age related macular degeneration (AMD) will develop vision loss in the center of the visual field. Reactive oxygen species (ROS)-mediated retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cell apoptosis is an important contributor of AMD. In this study, we explored the pro-survival effect of -melanocyte stimulating hormone (-MSH) on oxidative stressed RPE cells. We found that -MSH receptor melanocortin 1 receptor (MC1R) was functionally expressed in primary and transformed RPE cells. RPE cells were response to -MSH stimulation. -MSH activated Akt/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and Erk1/2 signalings in RPE cells, which were inhibited by MC1R siRNA knockdown. -MSH protected RPE cells from hydrogen peroxide (HO)-induced apoptosis, an effect that was almost abolished when MC1R was depleted by siRNA. -MSH-mediated S6K1 activation and pro-survival effect against HO was inhibited by Akt inhibitors (perifosine, MK-2206 and LY294002). Further, mTOR inhibition by rapamycin, or by mTOR siRNA knockdown, diminished -MSH's pro-survival effect in RPE cells. Thus, Akt and its downstream mTOR signaling mediates -MSH-induced survival in RPE cells. In summary, we have identified a new -MSH-MC1R physiologic pathway that reduces HO-induced RPE cell damage, and might minimize the risk of developing AMD.



The premise that the central nervous system is immune-privileged arose from the fact that direct contact between immune and nervous cells is hindered by the blood-brain barrier. However, the blood-brain barrier also comprises the interface between the immune and nervous systems by secreting chemo-attractant molecules and by modulating immune cell entry into the brain. The majority of published studies on the blood-brain barrier focus on endothelial cells (ECs), which are a critical component, but not the only one; other cellular components include astroglia, microglia, and pericytes. Pericytes are poorly studied in comparison with astrocytes or ECs; they are mesenchymal cells that can modify their ultrastructure and gene expression in response to changes in the central nervous system microenvironment. Pericytes have a unique synergistic relationship with brain ECs in the regulation of capillary permeability through secretion of cytokines, chemokines, nitric oxide, matrix metalloproteinases, and by means of capillary contraction. Those pericyte manifestations are related to changes in blood-brain barrier permeability by an increase in endocytosis-mediated transport and by tight junction disruption. In addition, recent reports demonstrate that pericytes control the migration of leukocytes in response to inflammatory mediators by up-regulating the expression of adhesion molecules and releasing chemo-attractants; however, under physiological conditions they appear to be immune-suppressors. Better understanding of the immune properties of pericytes and their participation in the effects of brain infections, neurodegenerative diseases, and sleep loss will be achieved by analyzing pericyte ultrastructure, capillary coverage, and protein expression. That knowledge may provide a mechanism by which pericytes participate in the maintenance of the proper function of the brain-immune interface.
Neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) play a critical role in the regulation of autonomic functions. Previous studies indicated that central activation of sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) has beneficial effects on homeostasis, most likely via modulation of the autonomic output. Sirtuins are NAD(+)-dependent deacetylases and have been associated with longevity. SIRT1 is one of the best-characterized sirtuins expressed in mammals, and may be involved in the regulation of metabolism. Resveratrol, a SIRT1 activator reduced hyperglycemia likely through activation of vagal output; however, the cellular mechanisms of action have not been determined. In this study, whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiology on acute brainstem slices was used to test the hypothesis that activation of SIRT1 with resveratrol enhances neurotransmission in DMV neurons. Application of resveratrol increased the frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSC). This effect was KATP channel-dependent and was prevented with pre-application of SIRT1 inhibitor, EX527. Resveratrol also increased miniature EPSC (mEPSC) frequency without change in amplitude. Furthermore, our data demonstrated that resveratrol regulates excitatory neurotransmission in a PI3 kinase-dependent manner, since wortmannin, a PI3K inhibitor prevented the increase of mEPSC frequency caused by resveratrol. In conclusion, our data demonstrate that resveratrol via SIRT1 increases excitatory neurotransmission to DMV neurons. These observations suggest that activation of SIRT1 may regulate the function of subdiaphragmatic organs through controlling the activity of parasympathetic DMV neurons.



Interconversion between phosphocreatine and creatine, catalyzed by creatine kinase is crucial in the supply of ATP to tissues with high energy demand. Creatine's importance has been established by its use as an ergogenic aid in sport, as well as the development of intellectual disability in patients with congenital creatine deficiency. Creatine biosynthesis is complemented by dietary creatine uptake. Intracellular transport of creatine is carried out by a creatine transporter protein (CT1/CRT/CRTR) encoded by the SLC6A8 gene. Most tissues express this gene, with highest levels detected in skeletal muscle and kidney. There are lower levels of the gene detected in colon, brain, heart, testis and prostate. The mechanism(s) by which this regulation occurs is still poorly understood. A duplicated unprocessed pseudogene of SLC6A8-SLC6A10P has been mapped to chromosome 16p11.2 (contains the entire SLC6A8 gene, plus 2293 bp of 5'flanking sequence and its entire 3'UTR). Expression of SLC6A10P has so far only been shown in human testis and brain. It is still unclear as to what is the function of SLC6A10P. In a patient with autism, a chromosomal breakpoint that intersects the 5'flanking region of SLC6A10P was identified; suggesting that SLC6A10P is a non-coding RNA involved in autism. Our aim was to investigate the presence of cis-acting factor(s) that regulate expression of the creatine transporter, as well as to determine if these factors are functionally conserved upstream of the creatine transporter pseudogene. Via gene-specific PCR, cloning and functional luciferase assays we identified a 1104 bp sequence proximal to the mRNA start site of the SLC6A8 gene with promoter activity in five cell types. The corresponding 5'flanking sequence (1050 bp) on the pseudogene also had promoter activity in all 5 cell lines. Surprisingly the pseudogene promoter was stronger than that of its parent gene in 4 of the cell lines tested. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first experimental evidence of a pseudogene with stronger promoter activity than its parental gene.





Present experiments focused on measuring the effect of neuropeptide SF (NPSF) on the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and behavior. The peptide was administered in different doses (0.25, 0.5, 1, 2 g) intracerebroventricularly to rats, and the behavior of which was then observed by telemetry and open-field test. Effect of NPSF on core temperature was also measured via telemetry. Plasma ACTH and corticosterone concentrations were measured to assess the influence of NPSF on the HPA activation. In addition, the changes in corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) level in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus were continuously monitored by means of intracerebral microdialysis. Our results showed that NPSF augmented paraventricular CRH release and increased ACTH and corticosterone levels in the plasma. The release of corticosterone was successfully blocked by the pre-treatment of the CRH antagonist -helical CRH9-41. Spontaneous and exploratory locomotor activity was also stimulated according to the telemetric and open-field studies. However, NPSF only tended to alter stereotyped behavior in the open-field experiments. These results demonstrate that NPSF may play a physiologic role in the regulation of such circadian functions as the activity of motor centers and the HPA axis, through the release of CRH.


Blood glutamate scavenging is a novel and attractive protecting strategy to reduce the excitotoxic effect of extracellular glutamate released during ischemic brain injury. Glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase 1 (GOT1) activation by means of oxaloacetate administration has been used to reduce the glutamate concentration in the blood. However, the protective effect of the administration of the recombinant GOT1 (rGOT1) enzyme has not been yet addressed in cerebral ischemia. The aim of this study was to analyze the protective effect of an effective dose of oxaloacetate and the human rGOT1 alone and in combination with a non-effective dose of oxaloacetate in an animal model of ischemic stroke. Sixty rats were subjected to a transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Infarct volumes were assessed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) before treatment administration, and 24 h and 7 days after MCAO. Brain glutamate levels were determined by in vivo MR spectroscopy (MRS) during artery occlusion (80 min) and reperfusion (180 min). GOT activity and serum glutamate concentration were analyzed during the occlusion and reperfusion period. Somatosensory test was performed at baseline and 7 days after MCAO. The three treatments tested induced a reduction in serum and brain glutamate levels, resulting in a reduction in infarct volume and sensorimotor deficit. Protective effect of rGOT1 supplemented with oxaloacetate at 7 days persists even when treatment was delayed until at least 2 h after onset of ischemia. In conclusion, our findings indicate that the combination of human rGOT1 with low doses of oxaloacetate seems to be a successful approach for stroke treatment.
Regulation of cellular proliferation and differentiation during brain development results from processes requiring several regulatory networks to function in synchrony. MicroRNAs are part of this regulatory system. Although many microRNAs are evolutionarily conserved, recent evolution of such regulatory molecules can enable the acquisition of new means of attaining specialized functions. Here we identify and report the novel expression and functions of a human and higher primate-specific microRNA, miR-1290, in neurons. Using human fetal-derived neural progenitors, SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell line and H9-ESC-derived neural progenitors (H9-NPC), we found miR-1290 to be upregulated during neuronal differentiation, using microarray, northern blotting and qRT-PCR. We then conducted knockdown and overexpression experiments to look at the functional consequences of perturbed miR-1290 levels. Knockdown of miR-1290 inhibited differentiation and induced proliferation in differentiated neurons; correspondingly, miR-1290 overexpression in progenitors led to a slowing down of the cell cycle and differentiation to neuronal phenotypes. Consequently, we identified that crucial cell cycle proteins were aberrantly changed in expression level. Therefore, we conclude that miR-1290 is required for maintaining neurons in a differentiated state.




Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a state of altered steroid hormone production and activity. Chronic estrogen exposure or lack of progesterone due to ovarian dysfunction can result in endometrial hyperplasia and carcinoma. A key contributor to our understanding of progesterone as a critical regulator for normal uterine function has been the elucidation of progesterone receptor (PR) expression, regulation, and signaling pathways. Several human studies indicate that PR-mediated signaling pathways in the nucleus are associated with progesterone resistance in women with PCOS. The aim of this review is to provide an overview of endometrial progesterone resistance in women with PCOS; to present the PR structure, its different isoforms, and their expression in the endometrium; to illustrate the possible regulation of PR and PR-mediated signaling in progesterone resistance in women with PCOS; and to discuss current clinical treatments for atypical endometrial hyperplasia and endometrial carcinoma in women with PCOS and accompanying progesterone resistance.





