A patient with traumatic brain injury showed incomplete oculomotor nerve palsy in the subarachnoid space. A 12-year-old girl was hospitalized after a head injury. Neuro-ophthalmic examination showed that the left eye had a ptosis and pupillary involvement. An MRI indicated an intracranial hematoma at the basilar portion of the left temple. The ptosis and pupillary involvement improved after elimination of the hematoma. The presentation patterns are best explained by topographic organization of the third nerve fiber within the subarachnoid space. This case suggests that the topographic organization of the third nerve should be considered in diagnosis of oculomotor nerve palsy.
Periodic catatonia (PC) is a rare type of catatonia syndrome, in which the catatonic phases often repeat regularly. Between the catatonic periods, the symptoms totally disappear and make the diagnosis difficult. We report a case with PC who did not show any catatonic symptoms except anxiety and restlessness in his first referral to the hospital. Although it was reported that he showed the symptoms of the disorder such as mutism, and immobility, he was not hospitalized. In his next referral (24 hours later), he was referred with catatonic symptoms and was hospitalized. The periods of catatonia were repeated regularly before electroconvulsive therapy, so the primary diagnosis was PC. During treatment with ECT, based on the semi-structured interview, a diagnosis of bipolar mood disorder was made. Due to the disappearance of symptoms between catatonic periods, this disorder may be underestimated and treatment postponed.






Epilepsy is commonly encountered in neurology practice, affecting more than 50 million people worldwide, according to the World Health Organization reports. Management of women with epilepsy requires attention to some considerations including the hormonal changes and its impact on epilepsy, the interaction between oral contraceptives and antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), pregnancy, and the potential teratogenic risk associated with AEDs use during that period. Similarly, the effect of AEDs on bone health should always be considered, and measures should be taken to reduce the risk of osteoporosis given the fact that women in their menopause are at increased risk. Despite the considerable risk of teratogenicity with AEDs use in pregnancy, more than 90% of pregnancies will be uneventful.
We present a review of the published evidence on the optimal timing for long bone fracture fixation in severe traumatic brain injury (TBI); a matter that remains under debate. Fifteen retrospective articles (level II-3 evidence) were considered suitable for the review. We conclude that the published evidence does not provide a definitive answer to the optimal timing of long bone fracture surgery in severe TBI, and a randomized controlled trial is required. We recommend a safe strategy that combines damage control surgery with a period of monitoring of intracranial pressure, cerebral perfusion pressure, and if available brain tissue oxygen until the patient is considered fit for the fracture fixation.
Sensory and motor representations embedded in topographic cortical maps are use-dependent, dynamically maintained, and self-organizing functional mosaics that constitute idiosyncratic entities involved in perceptual and motor learning abilities. Studies of cortical map plasticity have substantiated the view that local reorganization of sensory and motor areas has great significance in recovery of function following brain damage or spinal cord injury. In addition, the transfer of function to distributed cortical areas and subcortical structures represents an adaptive strategy for functional compensation. There is a growing consensus that subject-environment interactions, by continuously refining the canvas of synaptic connectivity and reshaping the anatomical and functional architecture of neural circuits, promote adaptive behavior throughout life. Taking advantage of use-dependent neural plasticity, early initiated rehabilitative procedures improve the potential for recovery.
Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage is a serious public health problem and is fatal in 30%-50% of all occurrences. The role of open surgical management of supratentorial intracerebral hemorrhage is still unresolved. A recent consensus conference sponsored by the National Institutes of Health suggests that minimally invasive techniques to evacuate clots appear to be a promising area and warrant further investigation. In this paper the authors review past, current, and potential future methods of treating intraparenchymal hemorrhages with minimally invasive techniques and review new data regarding the role of stereotactically placed catheters and thrombolytics.
Different pathologies such as tumors or focal dysplasias can be removed from eloquent areas without subsequent functional deficits. What has not yet been established is the removal of structural abnormalities in sensorimotor area associated with substantial neurological deficits performed in order to accomplish functional improvement. Neurosurgical resections in highly eloquent areas thus hold promise to open a new field--achievement of functional restitution even in cases with long-standing deficits. We present four exemplary cases where the removal of different structural abnormalities led to an impressive improvement of motor deficits. One patient had bilateral ischemic lesion resulting from perinatal hypoxia, one cavernoma, and two focal cortical dysplasias. All presented with motor or sensorimotor deficits and three had long-standing therapy refractory focal seizures. The extent of safe lesionectomy was determined using fMRI, fiber tracking, and PET studies and performed with intraoperative functional neuronavigation guidance and cortical stimulation. The achievement of the planned amount of resection was verified with an intraoperative MR examination. New persisting neurological deficits after surgery were not registered. One patient had temporary worsening of the right hand weakness that rapidly resolved. One patient was completely seizure free, and in two patients, the seizures' frequency, duration, and severity were significantly reduced. The preoperatively disturbed motor function improved in all four cases in the course of days or weeks. In summary, pathological processes affecting the sensorimotor area may cause focal seizures and/or compromise sensorimotor functions. Lesionectomy may accomplish not only the amelioration of focal seizures but also substantial functional improvement.



Dystonia is a movement disorder characterized by involuntary muscle contractions resulting in abnormal postures. Although common in the clinic, the etiology of dystonia remains unclear. Most dystonias are idiopathic and are not associated with clear pathological brain abnormalities. Attempts to genetically model these dystonias in rodents have failed to replicate dystonic symptoms. This is at odds with the fact that rodents can exhibit dystonia. Because of this discrepancy, it is necessary to consider alternative approaches to generate phenotypically and genotypically faithful models of dystonia. Conditional knockout of dystonia-related genes is 1 technique that may prove useful for modeling genetic dystonias. Lentiviral-mediated small or short hairpin RNA (shRNA) knockdown of particular genes is another approach. Finally, in cases in which the function of a dystonia-related gene is well-known, pharmacological blockade of the protein product can be used. Such an approach was successfully implemented in the case of rapid-onset dystonia parkinsonism, DYT12. This (DYT12) is a hereditary dystonia caused by mutations in the  isoform of the sodium potassium adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) pump (sodium pump), which partially hampers its physiological function. It was found that partial selective pharmacological block of the sodium pumps in the cerebellum and basal ganglia of mice recapitulates all of the salient features of DYT12, including dystonia and parkinsonism induced by stress. This DYT12 model is unique in that it faithfully replicates human symptoms of DYT12, while targeting the genetic cause of this disorder. Acute disruption of proteins implicated in dystonia may prove a generally fruitful method to model dystonia in rodents.
Peripheral neuropathies are common neurological diseases, and various animal models have been developed to study disease pathogenesis and test potential therapeutic drugs. Three commonly studied disease models with huge public health impact are diabetic peripheral neuropathy, chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy, and human immunodeficiency virus-associated sensory neuropathies. A common theme in these animal models is the comprehensive use of pathological, electrophysiological, and behavioral outcome measures that mimic the human disease. In recent years, the focus has shifted to the use of outcome measures that are also available in clinical use and can be done in a blinded and quantitative manner. One such evaluation tool is the evaluation of epidermal innervation with a simple skin biopsy. Future clinical trials will be needed to validate the translational usefulness of this outcome measure and validation against accepted outcome measures that rely on clinical symptoms or examination findings in patients.
The neurotrophin growth/differentiation factor 5 (GDF5) is studied as a potential therapeutic agent for Parkinson's disease as it is believed to play a role in the development and maintenance of the nigrostriatal system. Progress in understanding the effects of GDF5 on dopaminergic neurones has been hindered by the use of mixed cell populations derived from primary cultures or in vivo experiments, making it difficult to differentiate between direct and indirect effects of GDF5 treatment on neurones. In an attempt to establish an useful model to study the direct neuronal influence of GDF5, we have characterised the effects of GDF5 on a human neuronal cell line, SH-SY5Y. Our results show that GDF5 has the capability to promote neuronal but not dopaminergic differentiation. We also show that it promotes neuronal survival in vitro following a 6-hydroxydopamine insult. Our results show that application of GDF5 to SH-SY5Y cultures induces the SMAD pathway which could potentially be implicated in the intracellular transmission of GDF5's neurotrophic effects. Overall, our study shows that the SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell line provides an excellent neuronal model to study the neurotrophic effects of GDF5.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and spectroscopy (MRS) offer powerful approaches for detecting physiological and metabolic alterations in malignancies and help investigate underlying molecular mechanisms. Research on epithelial ovarian carcinoma (EOC), the gynaecological malignancy with the highest death rate characterised by frequent relapse and onset of drug resistance, could benefit from application of these molecular imaging approaches. In this study, MRI/MRS were used to characterise solid tumour models obtained by subcutaneous (s.c.) or intraperitoneal (i.p.) implantation of human SKOV3.ip cells in severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mice. In vivo MRI/MRS, ex vivo magic-angle-spinning (MAS), and in vitro (1)H-NMR measurements were carried out at 4.7 T, 9.4 T, and 9.4/16.5 T, respectively. MRI evaluation was performed by T1-, T2-, and diffusion-weighted (DW) multislice spin-echo imaging. The in vivo (1)H spectra of all tumour models showed a prominent resonance of total choline-containing metabolites (tCho). Quantitative in vivo MRS of both i.p. and s.c. SKOV3.ip xenografts showed that the mean tCho content was in the 2.9-4.5 mM range, with a mean PCho/tCho ratio of 0.99  0.01 [23 examinations, 14-34 days post injection (dpi)], in good agreement with ex vivo and in vitro analyses. Myo-inositol ranged between 11.7 and 17.0 mM, with a trend towards higher values in i.p. xenografts at 14-16 dpi. The average apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) values of SKOV3.ip xenografts [1.64  0.11 (n = 9, i.p.) and 1.58  0.03 x10(-3) mm(2)/s (n = 7, s.c.)] were in agreement with values reported for tumours from patients with EOC, while the mean vascular signal fraction (VSF) was lower ( 4%), probably due to the more rapid growth of preclinical models. Both s.c. and i.p. xenografts are valuable preclinical models for monitoring biochemical and physiopathological changes associated with in vivo EOC tumour growth and response to therapy, which may serve as the basis for further clinical development of noninvasive MR approaches.

The abuse of flunitrazepam (FZ) compounds is worldwide, and several studies have reflected on the consequences with regard to violence, aggression and criminal lifestyle of FZ users. Criminals take high doses of FZ or some other benzodiazepines to &quot;calm down&quot; before the planned crime. There is support from earlier studies that most likely, all benzodiazepines may increase aggression in vulnerable males. Chronic intake of high doses of FZ increases aggression in male rats. Because psychopathy involves aggression, we have examined whether psychopathy as well as any of the four facets of the Psychopathy Checklist-Revised (PCL-R) (Interpersonal, Affective, Lifestyle and Antisocial) are related to different substance use disorders, with the focus on FZ. We have also examined the relationship between each PCL-R item and FZ use. Participants were 114 male offenders aged 14-35 years, all of whom were convicted for severe, predominantly violent, offences. Substance use, including FZ, was not more common in those who scored high in psychopathy. Use of FZ was more common in offenders who scored high in Facet 4 (Antisocial) of the PCL-R (odds ratio = 4.30, 95% CI 1.86-9.94). Only one of the PCL-R items, &quot;Criminal versatility&quot;, was significantly associated with FZ use (odds ratio = 3.7). It may be concluded that intake of FZ has a specific relationship to only one of the facets and not to psychopathy per se. The findings have also important theoretical implications because Facet 4 is not a key factor of the construct of psychopathy. Clinical implications of the article: We have used the new two-factor and four-facet theoretical model of psychopathy in the young offender population, many of them with one or more substance use disorders. The present results suggest that antisocial behavior defined by Facet 4 (poor behavioral control, early behavior problems, juvenile delinquency, revocation of conditional release and criminal versatility) in the studied subjects is more typical for FZ users than it is for non-FZ users. This may have implications for assessment and treatment. Clinicians should be aware that criminals with high scores on Facet 4 have a more than fourfold odds of being a FZ user. This conclusion has an important clinical implication because FZ abuse is very common and is not always the focus of a forensic psychiatric assessment.


Initiation of DNA replication in eukaryotes is exquisitely regulated to ensure that DNA replication occurs exactly once in each cell division. A conserved and essential step for the initiation of eukaryotic DNA replication is the loading of the mini-chromosome maintenance 2-7 (MCM2-7) helicase onto chromatin at replication origins by Cdt1. To elucidate the molecular mechanism of this event, we determined the structure of the human Cdt1-Mcm6 binding domains, the Cdt1(410-440)/MCM6(708-821) complex by NMR. Our structural and site-directed mutagenesis studies showed that charge complementarity is a key determinant for the specific interaction between Cdt1 and Mcm2-7. When this interaction was interrupted by alanine substitutions of the conserved interacting residues, the corresponding yeast Cdt1 and Mcm6 mutants were defective in DNA replication and the chromatin loading of Mcm2, resulting in cell death. Having shown that Cdt1 and Mcm6 interact through their C-termini, and knowing that Cdt1 is tethered to Orc6 during the loading of MCM2-7, our results suggest that the MCM2-7 hexamer is loaded with its C terminal end facing the ORC complex. These results provide a structural basis for the Cdt1-mediated MCM2-7 chromatin loading.
Over the past three decades, obesity has become a major public health crisis in the United States. The prevalence of obesity in the United States and in other parts of the world has led to a new word, &quot;globesity,&quot; being used to describe the problem. As a result of this increased emphasis on understanding the causes and consequences of obesity, novel theories have stimulated new research aimed to prevent, intervene in and ameliorate the effects and decrease the incidence and medical consequences of globesity. One theory that has gained popularity in recent years, is based on the idea that an excessive intake of highly palatable foods shares similarities with the effects on brain and behavior that are seen with some drugs of abuse. Although this theory is not new, empirically-based translational research has only recently provided strong support for this hypothesis. In the present article, we review the present state of the science in this area and describe some newer clinical and preclinical works that shed light on innovative and interesting overlaps between excessivly palatable food intake and drug use.




This article focuses on the facial nerve with additional comments on the recurrent laryngeal nerve as a proxy for the lower cranial nerves. Methods, advantages and disadvantages, and techniques are listed. The article addresses the anatomy of the facial nerve, discusses neurophysiologic testing, the role of electroneurography in preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative testing, and presents 7 steps to set up for and perform facial nerve monitoring. Details are provided on interpretation of testing, and the pitfalls of interpretation are discussed. Studies are reviewed presenting outcomes of testing.
We have previously shown that the balance of electrically evoked descending brainstem control of spinal nociceptive reflexes undergoes a switch from excitation to inhibition in preadolescent rats. Here we show that the same developmental switch occurs when -opioid receptor agonists are microinjected into the rostroventral medulla (RVM). Microinjections of the -opioid receptor agonist [D-Ala(2), N-MePhe(4), Gly-ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO) into the RVM of lightly anaesthetised adult rats produced a dose-dependent decrease in mechanical nociceptive hindlimb reflex electromyographic activity. However, in preadolescent (postnatal day 21 [P21]) rats, the same doses of DAMGO produced reflex facilitation. RVM microinjection of -opioid receptor or GABA(A) receptor agonists, on the other hand, caused reflex depression at both ages. The -opioid receptor-mediated descending facilitation is tonically active in naive preadolescent rats, as microinjection of the -opioid receptor antagonist D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2) (CTOP) into the RVM at this age decreases spinal nociceptive reflexes while having no effect in adults. To test whether tonic opioid central activity is required for the preadolescent switch in RVM descending control, naloxone hydrochloride was delivered continuously from subcutaneous osmotic mini-pumps for 7-day periods, at various postnatal stages. Blockade of tonic opioidergic activity from P21 to P28, but not at earlier or later ages, prevented the normal development of descending RVM inhibitory control of spinal nociceptive reflexes. Enhancing opioidergic activity with chronic morphine over P7 to P14 accelerated this development. These results show that descending facilitation of spinal nociception in young animals is mediated by -opioid receptor pathways in the RVM. Furthermore, the developmental transition from RVM descending facilitation to inhibition of pain is determined by activity in central opioid networks at a critical period of periadolescence.

Herein, we present an adult case of medulloblastoma who received chemotherapy, radiation therapy and stem cell transplantation, and underwent multiple surgical resections for what were thought to be recurrences; however pathology confirmed a diagnosis of relapsing tumefactive lesions. This phenomenon seems to be a consequence of stem cell transplantation rather than a simple radiation treatment effect.



Neuropeptide S (NPS) regulates various biological functions by selectively activating the NPS receptor (NPSR). Recently, the NPSR ligand [(t)Bu-D-Gly(5)]NPS was generated and in vitro characterized as a pure antagonist at the mouse NPSR. In the present study the pharmacological profile of [(t)Bu-D-Gly(5)]NPS has been investigated. [(t)Bu-D-Gly(5)]NPS activity was evaluated in vitro in the calcium mobilization assay at the rat NPSR and in vivo in the locomotor activity and righting reflex tests in mice and in the elevated plus maze and defensive burying assays in rats. In vitro, [(t)Bu-D-Gly(5)]NPS was inactive per se while it inhibited the calcium mobilization induced by 30 nM NPS (pK(B) 7.42). In Schild analysis experiments [(t)Bu-D-Gly(5)]NPS (0.1-10 M) produced a concentration-dependent rightward shift of the concentration-response curve to NPS, showing a pA(2) value of 7.17. In mouse locomotor activity experiments, supraspinal injection of [(t)Bu-D-Gly(5)]NPS (1-10 nmol) dose dependently counteracted NPS (0.1 nmol) stimulant effects. In the mouse righting reflex assay [(t)Bu-D-Gly(5)]NPS (0.1-10 nmol) fully prevented the arousal-promoting action of the natural peptide (0.1 nmol). Finally, [(t)Bu-D-Gly(5)]NPS (3-30 nmol) was able to completely block NPS (1 nmol) anxiolytic-like actions in rat elevated plus maze and defensive burying assays. Collectively, the present results demonstrated that [(t)Bu-D-Gly(5)]NPS behaves both in vitro and in vivo as a pure and potent NPSR antagonist. This compound represents a novel and useful tool for investigating the pharmacology and neurobiology of the NPS/NPSR system.
The effects of the centrally administered neuropeptides orexin-A on water intake and vasopressin (VP) secretion were studied in male Wistar rats (180-250g). Different doses (10, 30, and 90g/10l) of the orexins and the specific orexin receptor-1 (OX(1)) antagonist SB 408124 (30g/10l) were administered intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) under anaesthesia, and the water consumption was measured during 6h. A plasma VP level elevation was induced by histamine (10mg/kg) or 2.5% NaCl (10ml/kg) administered intraperitoneally (i.p.). The plasma VP levels were measured by radioimmunoassay. Increased water consumption was observed after the administration of 30g/10l orexin-A. There were no changes in basal VP secretion after the administration of different doses of the orexins. A significant increase in plasma VP concentration was detected following histamine administration. After 2.5% NaCl administration, there was a moderate VP level enhancement. Intracerebroventricularly administered orexin-A (30g/10l) blocked the VP level increase induced by either histamine or 2.5% NaCl administration. The inhibitory effects were prevented by the specific OX(1) receptor antagonist. In conclusion, the orexins increased water consumption. After 30g/10l orexin-A administration, the polydipsia was more pronounced. The OX(1) receptor antagonist significantly decreased the polydipsia. Histamine or hyperosmotic VP release enhancement was blocked by previously administered orexin. This inhibition was not observed following OX(1) receptor antagonist administration. Our results suggest that the effects of the orexins on water consumption or blockade of the histamine and osmosis-induced VP level increase are mediated by the OX(1) receptor.
The Golden Helix Pharmacogenomics Days are high-profile international educational scientific meetings discussing pharmacogenomics and personalized medicine. Here, we provide an overview of the scientific lectures and the topics discussed during the 4th Golden Helix Pharmacogenomics Day, held in Cagliari, Italy, on 7 October 2011, and the 5th Golden Helix Pharmacogenomics Day, that was held in Msida, Malta, on 3 December 2011. The scientific programs of both events included scientific and company lectures on pharmacogenomics, bioinformatics and personalized medicine by local and international speakers from Europe and the USA.
Antipsychotic-induced weight gain has emerged as a serious complication in the treatment of patients with most antipsychotics. We have conducted the first in-depth examination of dopamine receptor genes in antipsychotic-induced weight gain. A total of 206 patients (139 of European descent and 56 African Americans) who underwent treatment for chronic schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder were evaluated after on average over 6 weeks of treatment. Thirty-six tag single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and one variable-number tandem repeat, spanning the five dopamine receptor genes (DRD1-DRD5) were analyzed. In the total sample, we found a nominally significant association between the DRD2 rs1079598 marker and weight change using a cutoff of 7% gain (P=0.03). When stratifying the sample according to ethnicity and antipsychotics with highest risk for weight gain, we found significant associations in three DRD2 SNPs: rs6277 (C957T), rs1079598 and rs1800497 (TaqIA). The other genes were primarily negative. We provide evidence that dopamine receptor DRD2 gene variants might be associated with antipsychotic-induced weight gain in chronic schizophrenia patients.
Animal models of schizophrenia symptoms include administration of noncompetitive N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor antagonists, such as MK-801, and post-weaning social isolation (SI). We tested the hypothesis that a &quot;double-hit&quot; model, in which MK-801 administration during adulthood [post-natal day (P) 56-62] and SI are combined, produces greater behavioral and neurochemical effects than either insult alone. Rats obtained at weaning (P21) were either SI (n=21) or group housed (n=16) for the duration of the experiment. Subgroups received subchronic treatment with MK-801 (0.5 mg/kg i.p., 2 times daily for 7 days) or saline injections from P56-62. At P70, all groups were tested for locomotor activity and subsequently sacrificed to assess GAT-1 activity and GABA(A) receptor expression in the frontal cortex and hippocampus. SI resulted in increased locomotor activity, GAT-1 activity in frontal cortex and hippocampus and GABA(A) receptor expression in the frontal cortex; MK-801 increased GABA(A) receptor expression in the hippocampus. Activity changes were correlated with changes in hippocampal GAT-1 and frontocortical GABA(A) receptor number. There was no evidence that the double-hit produced a greater effect. Increased GAT-1 activity may be associated with suppression of GABA-mediated inhibitory synaptic transmission and increased GABA(A) receptor expression may be a compensatory response to decreased availability of GABA. Results suggest that SI and subchronic MK-801 may act through independent mechanisms.
The reconsolidation hypothesis posits that established emotional memories, when reactivated, become labile and susceptible to disruption. Post-retrieval injection of propranolol (PRO), a nonspecific -adrenergic receptor antagonist, impairs subsequent retention performance of a cocaine- and a morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP), implicating the noradrenergic system in the reconsolidation processes of drug-seeking behavior. An important question is whether post-retrieval PRO disrupts memory for the drug-cue associations, or instead interferes with extinction. In the present study, we evaluated the role of the -adrenergic system on the reconsolidation and extinction of ethanol-induced CPP. Male DBA/2J mice were trained using a weak or a strong conditioning procedure, achieved by varying the ethanol conditioning dose (1 or 2 g/kg) and the number of ethanol trials (2 or 4). After acquisition of ethanol CPP, animals were given a single post-retrieval injection of PRO (0, 10 or 30 mg/kg) and tested for memory reconsolidation 24 h later. Also, after the first reconsolidation test, mice received 18 additional 15-min choice extinction tests in which PRO was injected immediately after every test. Contrary to the prediction of the reconsolidation hypothesis, a single PRO injection after the retrieval test did not modify subsequent memory retention. In addition, repeated post-retrieval administration of PRO did not interfere with extinction of CPP in mice. Overall, our data suggest that the -adrenergic receptor does not modulate the associative processes underlying ethanol CPP.
Repeated use of methamphetamine (METH) causes dependence in humans, and to date, there are no effective medication treatments for METH addiction. We previously reported that the antibiotic minocycline attenuated behavioral abnormalities (hyperactivity and behavioral sensitization) and dopaminergic neurotoxicity in mice and monkeys, after the administration of METH. In this study, we examined the effect of minocycline on METH-induced rewarding effects in mice using the conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm. Minocycline (40 mg/kg, IP) significantly attenuated METH (1.0 mg/kg, SC)-induced place preference in mice. In vivo microdialysis experiments using free-moving mice, showed that minocycline (40 mg/kg, IP) significantly attenuated the increased extracellular dopamine (DA) levels within the nucleus accumbens, typically seen after the administration of METH (1.0 mg/kg, SC). These findings suggest that minocycline may block METH-induced rewarding effects by down regulating extracellular DA levels in the nucleus accumbens of mice. This would make minocycline a potential therapeutic drug for the treatment of METH induced disorders.
The trace amine-associated receptor 1 (TAAR1) is a G protein-coupled receptor that is functionally activated by amphetamine-based psychostimulants, including amphetamine, methamphetamine and MDMA. Previous studies have shown that in transgenic mice lacking the TAAR1 gene (TAAR1 knockout; KO) a single injection of amphetamine can produce enhanced behavioral responses compared to responses evoked in wild-type (WT) mice. Further, the psychostimulant effects of cocaine can be diminished by selective activation of TAAR1. These findings suggest that TAAR1 might be implicated in the rewarding properties of psychostimulants. To investigate the role of TAAR1 in the rewarding effects of drugs of abuse, the psychomotor stimulating effects of amphetamine and methamphetamine and the conditioned rewarding effects of methamphetamine and morphine were compared between WT and TAAR1 KO mice. In locomotor activity studies, both single and repeated exposure to d-amphetamine or methamphetamine generated significantly higher levels of total distance traveled in TAAR1 KO mice compared to WT mice. In conditioned place preference (CPP) studies, TAAR1 KO mice acquired methamphetamine-induced CPP earlier than WT mice and retained CPP longer during extinction training. In morphine-induced CPP, both WT and KO genotypes displayed similar levels of CPP. Results from locomotor activity studies suggest that TAAR1 may have a modulatory role in the behavioral sensitization to amphetamine-based psychostimulants. That methamphetamine-but not morphine-induced CPP was augmented in TAAR1 KO mice suggests a selective role of TAAR1 in the conditioned reinforcing effects of methamphetamine. Collectively, these findings provide support for a regulatory role of TAAR1 in methamphetamine signaling.
This review focuses on the neurobiology of integrins, pathophysiological roles of integrins in neuroplasticity and nervous system disorders, and therapeutic implications of integrins as potential drug targets and possible delivery pathways. Neuroplasticity is a central phenomenon in many neurological conditions such as seizures, trauma, and traumatic brain injury. During the course of many brain diseases, in addition to intracellular compartment changes, alterations in non-cell compartments such as extracellular matrix (ECM) are recognized as an essential process in forming and reorganizing neural connections. Integrins are heterodimeric transmembrane receptors that mediate cell-ECM and cell-cell adhesion events. Although the mechanisms of neuroplasticity remain unclear, it has been suggested that integrins undergo plasticity including clustering through interactions with ECM proteins, modulating ion channels, intracellular Ca(2+) and protein kinase signaling, and reorganization of cytoskeletal filaments. As cell surface receptors, integrins are central to the pathophysiology of many brain diseases, such as epilepsy, and are potential targets for the development of new drugs for neurological disorders.
Symmetrically coupled oscillators represent a limiting case for studying the dynamics of natural systems. Therefore, we here investigate the effect of coupling asymmetry on delay-induced oscillation death (OD) in coupled nonlinear oscillators. It is found that the asymmetrical coupling substantially enlarges the domain of the OD island in the parameter space. Specifically, when the intensity of asymmetry is enhanced by turning down the value of the coupling asymmetry parameter , the OD island gradually expands along two directions of both the coupling delay and the coupling strength. The expansion behavior of the OD region is well characterized by a power law scaling, R=() with -1.19. The minimum value of the intrinsic frequency, for which OD is possible, monotonically decreases with decreasing  and saturates around a constant value in the limit of 0. The generality of the conducive effect of coupling asymmetry is confirmed in a numerical study of two delay-coupled chaotic Rssler oscillators. Our findings shed an improved light on the understanding of dynamics in asymmetrically delay-coupled systems.
Molecular imaging is revolutionizing the way we study the inner workings of the human body, diagnose diseases, approach drug design, and assess therapies. The field as a whole is making possible the visualization of complex biochemical processes involved in normal physiology and disease states, in real time, in living cells, tissues, and intact subjects. In this review, we focus specifically on molecular imaging of intact living subjects. We provide a basic primer for those who are new to molecular imaging, and a resource for those involved in the field. We begin by describing classical molecular imaging techniques together with their key strengths and limitations, after which we introduce some of the latest emerging imaging modalities. We provide an overview of the main classes of molecular imaging agents (i.e., small molecules, peptides, aptamers, engineered proteins, and nanoparticles) and cite examples of how molecular imaging is being applied in oncology, neuroscience, cardiology, gene therapy, cell tracking, and theranostics (therapy combined with diagnostics). A step-by-step guide to answering biological and/or clinical questions using the tools of molecular imaging is also provided. We conclude by discussing the grand challenges of the field, its future directions, and enormous potential for further impacting how we approach research and medicine.
Excitotoxicity has been implicated in neurological disorders. This study investigated the neuroprotective effect of the extract from Rhizoma Atractylodis macrocephalae on excitotoxicity-induced neuronal apoptosis in primary cultured cerebral cortical neurons. Excitotoxicity was induced by exposure of cortical neurons to glutamate. Neuronal apoptosis and the protective effect of Rhizoma Atractylodis macrocephalae extract were examined by multi-indices including cell viability assay, morphological features, DNA fragmentation and flow cytometric analysis. After exposure of cultured neurons to glutamate for 24 h, the neurons exhibited marked apoptotic-like death. Co-treatment of the neurons with glutamate and Rhizoma Atractylodis macrocephalae extract significantly elevated the cell viability, and reduced the number of apoptotic cells. These results demonstrate that Rhizoma Atractylodis macrocephalae is an effective neuroprotective agent against glutamate-induced excitotoxicity and may have therapeutic potential in excitotoxicity-mediated diseases.


Four articles in the journal Alzheimer's and Dementia in 2011 describe new criteria for Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to the AD pathophysiological process (MCI due to AD), as well as the underlying rationale for them. The new criteria also include preclinical AD criteria but these are intended purely for research purposes. The new criteria emphasise that the AD pathophysiological process starts years and perhaps decades before clinical symptoms, and that biomarkers can detect amyloid  deposition and the effects of neurodegeneration in the brain. The criteria are recommendations based upon consensus meetings and will require future validation. Nonetheless, the authors believe that they are immediately helpful to the practising clinician, providing more accurate and specific guidelines for the diagnosis of AD dementia and MCI due to AD. As new diagnostic tools and treatments for AD become available, diagnoses using these criteria will enable patients with AD dementia, MCI due to AD and eventually preclinical AD to receive the best possible care.
In neurodegenerative disorders of the aging population, misfolded proteins, such as PrP(Sc), -synuclein, amyloid  protein and tau, can interact resulting in enhanced aggregation, cross seeding and accelerated disease progression. Previous reports have shown that in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and scrapie, -synuclein accumulates near PrP(Sc) deposits. However, it is unclear if pre-existing human -synuclein aggregates modified prion disease pathogenesis, or if PrP(Sc) exacerbates the -synuclein pathology. Here, we inoculated infectious prions into aged -synuclein transgenic (tg) and non-transgenic littermate control mice by the intracerebral route. Remarkably, inoculation of RML and mNS prions into -synuclein tg mice resulted in more extensive and abundant intraneuronal and synaptic -synuclein accumulation. In addition, infectious prions led to the formation of perineuronal -synuclein deposits with a neuritic plaque-like appearance. Prion pathology was unmodified by the presence of -synuclein. However, with the mNS prion strain there was a modest but significant acceleration in the time to terminal prion disease in mice having -synuclein aggregates as compared with non-tg mice. Taken together, these studies support the notion that PrP(Sc) directly or indirectly promotes -synuclein pathology.
Aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH) is a medical emergency that accounts for 5% of all stroke cases. Individuals affected are typically in the prime of their lives (mean age 50 years). Approximately 12% of patients die before receiving medical attention, 33% within 48 h and 50% within 30 days of aSAH. Of the survivors 50% suffer from permanent disability with an estimated lifetime cost more than double that of an ischemic stroke. Traditionally, spasm that develops in large cerebral arteries 3-7 days after aneurysm rupture is considered the most important determinant of brain injury and outcome after aSAH. However, recent studies show that prevention of delayed vasospasm does not improve outcome in aSAH patients. This finding has finally brought in focus the influence of early brain injury on outcome of aSAH. A substantial amount of evidence indicates that brain injury begins at the aneurysm rupture, evolves with time and plays an important role in patients' outcome. In this manuscript we review early brain injury after aSAH. Due to the early nature, most of the information on this injury comes from animals and few only from autopsy of patients who died within days after aSAH. Consequently, we began with a review of animal models of early brain injury, next we review the mechanisms of brain injury according to the sequence of their temporal appearance and finally we discuss the failure of clinical translation of therapies successful in animal models of aSAH.
Phospholipases A(2) (PLA(2)) are key enzymes in membrane metabolism. The release of fatty acids and lysophospholipids by PLA(2) activates several intra-cellular second messenger cascades that regulate a wide variety of physiological responses. The aim of the present study is to describe a radioenzymatic assay to determine the activity of three main PLA(2) subtypes in platelets, namely extracellular calcium-dependent PLA(2) (sPLA(2)) and intracellular calcium-dependent (cPLA(2)) and calcium-independent PLA(2) (iPLA(2)). The differentiation of these distinct PLA(2) subtypes was based on the enzyme substrate preference (arachdonic acid or palmitoyl acid) and calcium concentration. Our results indicate that this new assay is feasible, precise and specific to measure the activity of the aforementioned subtypes of PLA(2). Therefore, this protocol can be used to investigate modifications of PLA(2) homeostasis in distinct biological models addressing the pathophysiology of many medical and neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease.
Recent studies show that different aspects of smoking behavior are associated with the -5 subunit of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (CHRNA5) gene and the gene coding for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). This raises the question whether the amount of cigarettes smoked per day has a different genetic background than smoking initiation and what other smoking phenotypes may be relevant. The aim of this study was to replicate these associations in a large population-based sample. We investigated the association with smoking initiation and the number of cigarettes used per day and additional smoking phenotypes in a population-based sample of 2166 participants of Dutch origin. Rs6265 in BDNF was not associated with smoking initiation. This single nucleotide polymorphism was associated with smoking cessation. Rs16969968 in CHRNA5 was associated with the amount of nicotine used and in particular smoking 25 cigarettes or more per day. Overall, the results confirm the involvement of the CHRNA5 gene in the amount of nicotine use and further suggest involvement of the BDNF gene in smoking behavior.

Lack of insight into illness is a prevalent and distinguishing feature of schizophrenia, which has a complex history and has been given a variety of definitions. Currently, insight is measured and treated as a multidimensional phenomenon, because it is believed to result from psychological, neuropsychological and organic factors. Thus, schizophrenia patients may display dramatic disorders including demoralization, depression and a higher risk of suicide, all of which are directly or indirectly related to a lack of insight into their illness, and make the treatment difficult. To improve the treatment of people with schizophrenia, it is thus crucial to advance research on insight into their illness. Insight is studied in a variety of ways. Studies may focus on the relationship between insight and psychopathology, may view behavioral outcomes or look discretely at the cognitive dysfunction versus anatomy level of insight. All have merit but they are dispersed across a wide body of literature and rarely are the findings integrated and synthesized in a meaningful way. The aim of this study was to synthesize findings across the large body of literature dealing with insight, to highlight its multidimensional nature, measurement, neuropsychology and social impact in schizophrenia. The extensive literature on the cognitive consequences of lack of insight and the contribution of neuroimaging techniques to elucidating neurological etiology of insight deficits, is also reviewed.
Entropy, a concept derived from thermodynamics and information theory, describes the amount of uncertainty and disorder within a system. Self-organizing systems engage in a continual dialogue with the environment and must adapt themselves to changing circumstances to keep internal entropy at a manageable level. We propose the entropy model of uncertainty (EMU), an integrative theoretical framework that applies the idea of entropy to the human information system to understand uncertainty-related anxiety. Four major tenets of EMU are proposed: (a) Uncertainty poses a critical adaptive challenge for any organism, so individuals are motivated to keep it at a manageable level; (b) uncertainty emerges as a function of the conflict between competing perceptual and behavioral affordances; (c) adopting clear goals and belief structures helps to constrain the experience of uncertainty by reducing the spread of competing affordances; and (d) uncertainty is experienced subjectively as anxiety and is associated with activity in the anterior cingulate cortex and with heightened noradrenaline release. By placing the discussion of uncertainty management, a fundamental biological necessity, within the framework of information theory and self-organizing systems, our model helps to situate key psychological processes within a broader physical, conceptual, and evolutionary context.
Tasks that tax working memory (WM) have consistently been found to decrease mind wandering. These findings may indicate that maintenance of mind wandering requires WM resources, such that mind wandering cannot persist when WM resources are being consumed by a task. An alternative explanation for these findings, however, is that mind wandering persists without the support of WM but is nonetheless decreased during any demanding task because good task performance requires that attention be restricted from task-unrelated thought (TUT). The present study tested these two competing theories by investigating whether individuals with greater WM resources mind-wander more during an undemanding task, as would be predicted only by the theory that WM supports TUT. We found that individuals with higher WM capacity reported more TUT in undemanding tasks, which suggests that WM enables the maintenance of mind wandering.
To what extent does semantic information play a functional role in visual word recognition? Theories of word recognition vary in the importance assigned to semantic information in visual lexical decision, with past research suggesting that the nature of the foils is a crucial determinant of semantic reliance. Here, we explored the conditions under which semantic variables influence lexical decision. Normal readers performed visual lexical decision tasks in which imageability and semantic priming were manipulated, with nonword foils varying systematically in their orthographic and phonological similarity to the real words. The effects of imageability and semantic priming increased in magnitude as nonword foils became progressively more wordlike. These findings provide a clear illustration of the flexible use of semantic information to support normal visual word recognition.
Our mental representation of the world is far from objective. For example, western Canadians estimate the locations of North American cities to be too far to the west. This bias could be due to a reference point effect, in which people estimate more space between places close to them than far from them, or to representational pseudoneglect, in which neurologically intact individuals favor the left side of space when asked to image a scene. We tested whether either or both of these biases influence the geographic world representations of neurologically intact young adults from Edmonton and Ottawa, which are in western and eastern Canada, respectively. Individuals were asked to locate North American cities on a two-dimensional grid. Both groups revealed effects of representational pseudoneglect in this novel paradigm, but they also each exhibited reference point effects. These results inform theories in both cognitive psychology and neuroscience.
Maljkovic and Nakayama (1994) demonstrated memory influences in singleton search from one trial to the next, an effect they termed priming of pop-out (PoP). This effect was described as resulting from the persistence of an implicit memory trace, the influence of which could be observed for around five to eight subsequent trials. The seemingly short-lived nature of this priming effect has been attributed to decay of the underlying memory representation that occurs when attention is directed to intervening search items, even when such items are perceptually dissimilar from the search trials upon which PoP is measured (Maljkovic &amp; Nakayama, 2000). The present study reexamines the role of perceptual similarity as a mechanism of interference by examining the influence on PoP of rare search trials that were perceptually distinct with respect to the other, common trials. Long-lasting (n - 16) PoP was observed for rare trials that were composed of distinct target/distractor colors, suggesting that PoP can be observed across at least twice as many trials as has previously been reported. Thus, the time span across which PoP can be measured depends heavily on the nature of the intervening search displays, a result that must be accommodated by current theoretical accounts of PoP.
Laughter is an auditory stimulus that powerfully conveys positive emotion. We investigated how laughter influenced the visual perception of facial expressions. We presented a sound clip of laughter simultaneously with a happy, a neutral, or a sad schematic face. The emotional face was briefly presented either alone or among a crowd of neutral faces. We used a matching method to determine how laughter influenced the perceived intensity of the happy, neutral, and sad expressions. For a single face, laughter increased the perceived intensity of a happy expression. Surprisingly, for a crowd of faces, laughter produced an opposite effect, increasing the perceived intensity of a sad expression in a crowd. A follow-up experiment revealed that this contrast effect may have occurred because laughter made the neutral distractor faces appear slightly happy, thereby making the deviant sad expression stand out in contrast. A control experiment ruled out semantic mediation of the laughter effects. Our demonstration of the strong context dependence of laughter effects on facial expression perception encourages a reexamination of the previously demonstrated effects of prosody, speech content, and mood on face perception, as they may be similarly context dependent.
Data from animal studies suggest that oxytocin is an important modulating neuropeptide in regulation of social interaction. One human study has reported a negative correlation between CSF oxytocin levels, life history of aggression and suicidal behaviour. We hypothesized that CSF oxytocin levels would be related to suicidal behaviour, suicide intent, lifetime interpersonal violence and suicide risk. 28 medication free suicide attempters and 19 healthy volunteers participated in this cross sectional and longitudinal study. CSF and plasma morning basal levels of oxytocin were assessed with specific radio-immunoassays. The Beck Suicide Intent Scale (SIS), the Freeman scale and the Karolinska Interpersonal Violence Scale (KIVS) were used to assess suicide intent and lifetime violent behaviour. All patients were followed up for cause of death. The mean follow-up was 21 years. Suicide attempters had lower CSF oxytocin levels compared to healthy volunteers p=0.077. In suicide attempters CSF oxytocin showed a significant negative correlation with the planning subscale of SIS. CSF oxytocin showed a significant negative correlation with suicide intent, the planning subscale of SIS and Freeman interruption probability in male suicide attempters. Correlations between plasma oxytocin levels and the planning subscale of SIS and Freeman interruption probability were significant in male suicide attempters. Lifetime violent behaviour showed a trend to negative correlation with CSF oxytocin. In the regression analysis suicide intent remained a significant predictor of CSF oxytocin corrected for age and gender whereas lifetime violent behaviour showed a trend to be a predictor of CSF oxytocin. Oxytocin levels did not differ significantly in suicide victims compared to survivors. CSF oxytocin may be an important modulator of suicide intent and interpersonal violence in suicide attempters.




Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and serotonin are important transmitters of the pathophysiology of mood disorder. To clarify the mechanisms of action of lamotrigine (LTG) and carbamazepine (CBZ), we determined their effects on serotonin release associated with CRF in rat dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) and median prefrontal cortex (mPFC) using dual-probe microdialysis. Neither perfusion with CRF1 nor CRF2 antagonists into DRN-affected serotonin release in DRN and mPFC. Perfusion of 10M CRF into DRN increased serotonin release in both regions, whereas 0.1M CRF decreased and had no effect on serotonin release in DRN and mPFC, respectively. Pre-perfusion with CRF1 antagonist into DRN inhibited 0.1 M CRF-induced serotonin reduction, whereas pre-perfusion with CRF2 antagonist in DRN inhibited 10M CRF-induced serotonin elevation, without affecting 0.1M CRF-induced serotonin reduction. LTG perfusion concentration dependently decreased serotonin releases in DRN and mPFC. Therapeutic and supratherapeutic concentrations of CBZ increased and decreased serotonin releases in both regions, respectively. Pre-perfusion with sub-therapeutic concentration LTG inhibited CRF1-induced serotonin reduction without affecting CRF2-induced serotonin release, whereas pre-perfusion with therapeutic concentration of LTG inhibited both CRF1- and CRF2-actions. In contrast, both therapeutic and supratherapeutic concentrations of CBZ inhibited CRF2-induced serotonin release without affecting CRF1-induced serotonin reduction. Neither LTG nor CBZ affected the CRF-induced cAMP production in cells over-expressing CRF1 and CRF2 receptors. This study demonstrated that inhibition of CRF2-receptor-mediated serotonergic transmission is a mechanism shared by LTG and CBZ, two clinically related compounds, whereas LTG but not CBZ inhibits CRF1-receptor-mediated serotonergic transmission. Therefore, these mechanisms may contribute to the clinical actions of these agents.
Deviations from repetitive auditory stimuli evoke a mismatch negativity (MMN). Counterintuitively, omissions of repetitive stimuli do not. Violations of patterns reflecting complex rules also evoke MMN. To detect a MMN to missing stimuli, we developed an auditory gestalt task using one stimulus. Groups of six pips (50 ms duration, 330 ms stimulus onset asynchrony [SOA], 400 trials), were presented with an intertrial interval (ITI) of 750 ms while subjects (n=16) watched a silent video. Occasional deviant groups had missing 4th or 6th tones (50 trials each). Missing stimuli evoked a MMN (p&lt;.05). The missing 4th (-0.8 V, p&lt;.01) and the missing 6th stimuli (-1.1 V, p&lt;.05) were more negative than standard 6th stimuli (0.3 V). MMN can be elicited by a missing stimulus at long SOAs by violation of a gestalt grouping rule. Patterned stimuli appear more sensitive to omissions and ITI than homogenous streams.

Brain tumors have a relatively high incidence (&gt;14/100000 people/year) and represent a major cause of death in the population. The direct and indirect costs of brain tumors are high in the developed countries (5.2 bn EUR/year in the EU; 4.46 bn USD/year in the US). A combination of recent advancements in molecular neuroimaging, with positron emission tomography (PET) in the first place, providing clinicians with an improved diagnostic and therapy follow-up efficacy, novel approaches in the field of neurosurgery (including neuronavigation, intraoperative control of the nervous function, tumor histology and volume), and developments in treatment strategies (including new chemotherapeutics and new targeted agents, immunotherapies, sophisticated irradiation protocols) has in the past years improved the survival of brain tumor patients. A major component of further improvements is related to advancements in the development of novel molecular imaging biomarkers for brain tumor detection, including new PET radiopharmacons with high specificity, sensitivity and diagnostic accuracy. Despite the fact that FDG is the &quot;working horse&quot; of brain tumor imaging with PET and well over 90 % of diagnostic imaging studies in neuro-oncology are made with FDG world-wide, due to its sub-optimal specificity and sensitivity the search for non-FDG brain tumor PET radiotracers has been intensifying during the past decade in order to improve the diagnostic sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of molecular imaging of brain tumors. The most promising non-FDG brain tumor radiotracers include radioactively labeled nucleoside and amino acid analogues, tracers of oxidative metabolism, fatty acid metabolism and hypoxia, as well as receptor ligands of various kinds. The most widely tested non-FDG radiotracers include [11C]methionine (MET), [18F]fluorothymidine (FLT), [18F]fluoroethyl-l-tyrosine (FET), [18F]fluoro--methyltyrosine (FMT), [18F]fluoromisonidazole (F-MISO), 6-[18F]fluoro-dihydroxy-l-phenylalanine (F-DOPA), [11C]choline (CHO) and [18F]choline. The selective advantages of these radiotracers, compared to FDG, are varying, MET and FET appearing to be the most useful dedicated glioma radiotracers. Nevertheless, several other non-metabolic radiopharmaceuticals are also being tested or are in the validation phase. Although novel dedicated radiotracer candidates should offer an increased selectivity, specificity and diagnostic accuracy when compared to the recently existing brain tumor tracers, a dual or a multitracer approach may still offer the optimal solution in brain tumor imaging with PET in the near future.
Circulating levels of dehydroepiandrosterone, a major adrenal steroid, show a marked age-related decrease in both humans and nonhuman primates. Because this decrease has been implicated in age-related cognitive decline, we administered supplementary dehydroepiandrosterone to perimenopausal rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) to test for cognitive benefits. Although recognition memory improved, there was no benefit to spatial working memory. To address the limitations of this study we developed a hormone supplementation regimen in aged male macaques that more accurately replicates the 24-hr androgen profiles of young animals. We hypothesize that this more comprehensive physiological hormone replacement paradigm will enhance cognitive function in the elderly.
Male mice actively direct their urine at nearby females, and this urine reliably contains unconjugated oestradiol (E(2)) and other steroids. Giving inseminated females minute doses of exogenous E(2), either systemically or intranasally, can cause failure of blastocyst implantation. Giving juvenile females minute doses of exogenous E(2) promotes measures of reproductive maturity such as uterine mass. Here we show that tritium-labelled E(2) ((3)H-E(2)) can be traced from injection into novel male mice to tissues of cohabiting inseminated and juvenile females. We show the presence of (3)H-E(2) in male excretions, transmission to the circulation of females and arrival in the female reproductive tract. In males, (3)H-E(2) given systemically was readily found in reproductive tissues and was especially abundant in bladder urine. In females, (3)H-E(2) was found to enter the system via both nasal and percutaneous routes, and was measurable in the uterus and other tissues. As supraoptimal E(2) levels can both interfere with blastocyst implantation in inseminated females and promote uterine growth in juvenile females, we suggest that absorption of male-excreted E(2) can account for major aspects of the Bruce and Vandenbergh effects.
We present a short historical review of the major figures, their administrative functions and their works that contributed to make Paris a renowned centre of physiology and neurology during the xixth and the first half of the xxth century. We purposely chose to focus on the period 1800-1950, as 1800 corresponds to the actual beginning of neurosciences, and 1950 marks their exponential rise. Our presentation is divided into four chapters, matching the main disciplines which have progressed and contributed the most to the knowledge we have of the brain sciences: anatomy, physiology, neurology, and psychiatry-psychology. The present article is the third of four parts of this review, and deals with neurology. A special credit should be given to Jean-Martin Charcot who founded the Salptrire School of neurology and became one of the world's most important neurologists of the xixth century. We provide below the biographical sketches of Armand Trousseau, Guillaume Benjamin Amand Duchenne, Jean-Martin Charcot, Alfred Vulpian, Dsir-Magloire Bourneville, Paul Richer, Henri Parinaud, Albert Pitres, Jules Joseph Dejerine, Mrs. Augusta Dejerine-Klumpke, douard Brissaud, Pierre Marie, Georges douard Brutus Gilles de la Tourette, Joseph Babinski, Andr Thomas, Georges Marinesco, Achille Alexandre Souques, Georges Guillain and Charles Foix.
The molecular mechanisms that govern the timing and fate of neural stem-cell differentiation toward the distinct neural lineages of the nervous system are not well defined. The contribution of post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression to neural stem-cell maintenance and differentiation, in particular, remains inadequately characterized. The RNA-binding protein Hnrpab is highly expressed in developing nervous tissue and in neurogenic regions of the adult brain, but its role in neural development and function is unknown. We raised a mouse that lacks Hnrpab expression to define what role, if any, Hnrpab plays during mouse neural development. We performed a genome-wide quantitative analysis of protein expression within the hippocampus of newborn mice to demonstrate significantly altered gene expression in mice lacking Hnrpab relative to Hnrpab-expressing littermates. The proteins affected suggested an altered pattern of neural development and also unexpectedly indicated altered glutamate signaling. We demonstrate that Hnrpab(-/-) neural stem and progenitor cells undergo altered differentiation patterns in culture, and mature Hnrpab(-/-) neurons demonstrate increased sensitivity to glutamate-induced excitotoxicity. We also demonstrate that Hnrpab nucleocytoplasmic distribution in primary neurons is regulated by developmental stage.

Haptic picture recognition was tested in 36 undergraduate students to determine whether haptic representations are visual or multi-modal. Participants explored target haptic pictures and were asked to recognize the target from three alternatives. Each participant completed eight control and eight interference trials in visual, lexical and tactile recognition modalities. For interference, participants were assigned to either an articulatory suppression (repeat &quot;the&quot; at a constant rate) or a visual interference (watch a visual display) condition, to prevent recoding into a verbal or visual code. The results showed that accuracy was higher at control compared to interference trials and for tactile compared to lexical recognition. Additionally, lexical and tactile recognition decreased with articulatory suppression whereas only tactile recognition decreased with visual interference. These findings suggest that haptic pictures may be represented by coordinating visual and verbal codes.


Cyclic adenosine 3,'5'-monophosphate (cAMP) is the archetypal second messenger produced at the membrane by adenylyl cyclase following activation of many different G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) types. Although discovered over fifty years ago, the notion that cAMP responses were compartmentalised was born in the 1980s. Since then, modern molecular techniques have facilitated visualisation of cellular cAMP dynamics in real time and helped us to understand how a single, ubiquitous second messenger can direct receptor-specific functions in cells. The aim of this review is to highlight emerging ideas in the cAMP field that are currently developing the concept of compartmentalised cAMP signalling systems.

Gamma amino butyric acid (GABA) is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the human brain. Alterations in GABAergic function are associated with a variety of neurological and psychiatric disorders. However, noninvasive in vivo measurement of GABA is difficult because of its low concentration and the presence of overlapping resonances. To study GABA concentration in the occipital cortex in major depressive disorder (MDD), a group of medication-naive, first episode depressed patients (n = 18, HAMD &gt; 17), and a group of healthy controls (n = 23) were investigated using a Point Resolved Spectroscopy (MEGA-PRESS) on a 3.0 T MR scanner. The results showed that occipital GABA levels were significantly lower (P &lt; 0.001) in the patient group than those in the healthy controls, yet the correlations between the severity of MDD (HAMD, BDI) and the GABA concentration is insignificant. Therefore, our data suggest that patients with first episode, unmedicated MDD have changes in cortical concentrations of GABA. This biochemical abnormality may be a marker of a trait vulnerability to mood disorder, and may explain the visual problem of severe MDD patients.
The term &quot;burst-suppression&quot; is used to describe the electroencephalogram (EEG) pattern characterized by theta or delta waves, at times intermixed with faster waves, and intervening periods of relative quiescence. Burst-suppression pattern can reflect the seriously suppressed brain activity under deep anesthesia. To investigate the relationship between burst-suppression features and anesthetic concentration, we adopted four straightforward indexes, i. e., burst-suppression ratio (BSR), burst frequency, burst amplitude and suppression amplitude, and used them to analyze the EEG recordings in ten isoflurane-anesthetized rats. It was found that all the four burst-suppression indexes changed along with anesthetic concentration, that BSR and burst amplitude increased with higher concentration of isoflurane while burst frequency and suppression amplitude decreased, and that BSR was the most sensitive and consistent measurement to indicate isoflurane concentration so it constituted a valuable tool for timely evaluation of burst-suppression feature under deep anesthesia. The result also showed that the composition of carrier gas (i. e. pure oxygen vs. mixed oxygen) did not influence the effect of anesthesia significantly; and the four indexes of burst-suppression features could keep relatively stable within 60 min under the isoflurane concentration of 2%. The present study provides quantitative information of burst-suppression features under different anesthetic depth and may help to develop a clinically satisfied system that could quantify the characteristics of EEG and rigorously evaluate the cerebral state of patients.


Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) repetition suppression, we explored the selectivity of the human action perception system (APS), which consists of temporal, parietal and frontal areas, for the appearance and/or motion of the perceived agent. Participants watched body movements of a human (biological appearance and movement), a robot (mechanical appearance and movement) or an android (biological appearance, mechanical movement). With the exception of extrastriate body area, which showed more suppression for human like appearance, the APS was not selective for appearance or motion per se. Instead, distinctive responses were found to the mismatch between appearance and motion: whereas suppression effects for the human and robot were similar to each other, they were stronger for the android, notably in bilateral anterior intraparietal sulcus, a key node in the APS. These results could reflect increased prediction error as the brain negotiates an agent that appears human, but does not move biologically, and help explain the 'uncanny valley' phenomenon.


Neural stem/progenitor cells present in the subventricular zone (SVZ) are a potential source of repairing cells after injury. Therefore, the identification of novel players that modulate neural stem cells differentiation can have a huge impact in stem cell-based therapies. Herein, we describe a unique role of histamine in inducing functional neuronal differentiation from cultured mouse SVZ stem/progenitor cells. This proneurogenic effect depends on histamine 1 receptor activation and involves epigenetic modifications and increased expression of Mash1, Dlx2, and Ngn1 genes. Biocompatible poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) microparticles, engineered to release histamine in a controlled and prolonged manner, also triggered robust neuronal differentiation in vitro. Preconditioning with histamine-loaded microparticles facilitated neuronal differentiation of SVZ-GFP cells grafted in hippocampal slices and in in vivo rodent brain. We propose that neuronal commitment triggered by histamine per se or released from biomaterial-derived vehicles may represent a new tool for brain repair strategies.
Stroke remains one of the most promising targets for cell therapy. Thorough preclinical efficacy testing of human neural stem cell (hNSC) lines in a rat model of stroke (transient middle cerebral artery occlusion) is, however, required for translation into a clinical setting. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) here confirmed stroke damage and allowed the targeted injection of 450,000 hNSCs (CTX0E03) into peri-infarct tissue, rather than the lesion cyst. Intraparenchymal cell implants improved sensorimotor dysfunctions (bilateral asymmetry test) and motor deficits (footfault test and rotameter). Importantly, analyses based on lesion topology (striatal vs. striatal + cortical damage) revealed a more significant improvement in animals with a stroke confined to the striatum. However, no improvement in learning and memory (water maze) was evident. An intracerebroventricular injection of cells did not result in any improvement. MRI-based lesion, striatal and cortical volumes were unchanged in treated animals compared to those with stroke that received an intraparenchymal injection of suspension vehicle. Grafted cells only survived after intraparenchymal injection with a striatal + cortical topology resulting in better graft survival (16,026 cells) than in animals with smaller striatal lesions (2,374 cells). Almost 20% of cells differentiated into glial fibrillary acidic protein+ astrocytes, but &lt;2% turned into FOX3+ neurons. These results indicate that CTX0E03 implants robustly recover behavioral dysfunction over a 3-month time frame and that this effect is specific to their site of implantation. Lesion topology is potentially an important factor in the recovery, with a stroke confined to the striatum showing a better outcome compared to a larger area of damage.



The aberrant origin of the cerebellar arteries from anterior cerebral circulation is a quite rare vascular variation. Herein, we report a 52-year-old white female with angiographically occult subarachnoid hemorrhage. Left superior and anterior inferior cerebellar arteries were not detected. An aberrant cerebellar artery was noted to arise from the left cavernous internal carotid artery and terminated in the distribution of the ipsilateral superior and anterior inferior cerebellar arteries. This variant artery might likely have resulted from an abnormal regression of fetal anterior-to-posterior circulation connections, and may represent a fetal-type cerebellar artery. A review of the anatomy and clinical significance of the variant is presented.
In this study, we evaluated the in vivo characteristics of a new monoamine oxidase type B (MAO-B) radioligand, [F]fluorodeprenyl, by positron emission tomography (PET) in two cynomolgus monkeys. The brain uptake of [F]fluorodeprenyl was more than 7% (600% SUV) of the total injected radioactivity and similar to that of [C]deprenyl, an established MAO-B radioligand. The highest uptake was observed in the striatum, one of the MAO-B-rich regions, with a peak at approximately 2-3 min after injection, followed by lower uptake in the thalamus and the cortex and lowest uptake in the cerebellum. Brain uptake of [F]fluorodeprenyl was largely inhibited by preadministration of the MAO-B inhibitor, L-deprenyl, whereas clorgyline, a MAO Type A blocker, had no significant inhibitory effect, thus demonstrating selectivity for MAO-B. [F]Fluorodeprenyl showed relatively slow metabolism with the presence of two radiometabolite peaks with similar retention time as the labeled metabolites of [C]deprenyl. These results suggest that [F]fluorodeprenyl is a potential PET radioligand for visualization of MAO-B activity.
The current study used stereological techniques in combination with Golg-Cox methods to examine the neuroanatomical alterations in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus of developing offspring exposed to gestational stress. Morphological changes in dendritic branching, length, and spine density, were examined at weaning along with changes in actual numbers of neurons. Using this information we generated a gross estimation of synaptic connectivity. The results showed region-specific and sex-dependent alterations to neuroanatomy in response to prenatal stress. The two regions of the prefrontal cortex, medial prefrontal, and orbital prefrontal cortices, exhibited sexually dimorphic, opposite changes, in synaptic connectivity in response to the same experience. Both male and female offspring demonstrated a loss of neuron number and estimated synapse number in the hippocampus despite exhibiting increased spine density. The results from this study suggest that prenatal stress alters normal development and the organization of neuronal circuits in both neocortex and hippocampus early in development and thus likely influences the course of later experience-dependent synaptic changes.
The pattern of distribution and colocalization of the calcium-binding protein calretinin (Cal) and of enzymes producing nitric oxide (NO) was examined in the rat periaqueductal gray matter (PAG) using two different experimental approaches, by combining Cal immunocytochemistry with NADPH-diaphorase (NADPH-d) histochemistry and with NOS immunocytochemistry, respectively. Cal-immunopositive neurons were found throughout the rostrocaudal extension of both dorsolateral (PAG-dl) and ventrolateral PAG (PAG-vl). Double-labeled neurons were found only in PAG-dl. The first experimental approach indicated that 33-41% of the NADPH-d-positive (Nadph+) cells were immunoreactive for Cal, whereas NADPH-d activity appeared in 19-26% of the Cal-immunopositive (Cal(IP) ) neurons. Two-color immunofluorescence revealed that 39-43% of NOS-immunoreactive (NOS(IR) ) neurons were double-labeled with Cal and 23% of Cal(IP) neurons expressed NOS immunoreactivity. Measurement in semithin sections of the size of the three neuronal populations found in PAG-dl, showed that Cal(IP) neurons had a cross-sectional area of 94.7 m, whereas Nadph+ neurons and double-labeled neurons were slightly smaller, having a cross-sectional area of 90.5 and 91.4 m, respectively. On electron microscopy, Cal(IP) axon terminals formed either symmetric or asymmetric synapses; although the latter synapses were more numerous, both types contacted preferentially Cal(IP) dendrites. These experiments suggest that PAG-dl is characterized by a high degree of heterogeneity.
Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) agonists active at the alpha-7 (-7) receptor subtype are potential therapeutics for cognitive deficits in schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease, and other mental disorders. SSR180711, an -7 selective partial agonist, has been shown to improve preclinical cognition. A novel positron emission tomography (PET) radioligand, C-Chiba1001, is a close analog of SSR180711. We labeled Chiba-1001 with tritium in order to evaluate its utility as a preclinical radioligand tool. In vitro, the binding affinity of [H]Chiba-1001 at the -7 receptor was low (K(d) = 120-180 nM) in both HEK239 cell membranes expressing human -7 receptor and in native rat hippocampus membranes. The -7 selective ligands AZD0328, ARR17779, and MLA did not inhibit [H]Chiba-1001 binding (K(i) &gt; 10,000 nM). In rat hippocampal membranes, Chiba-1001 and SSR180711 inhibited [H]Chiba-1001 binding (K(i) = 220 and 230 nM, respectively), consistent with the literature reports. The in vivo binding profile of the radioligand was examined in normal rat, wild type mouse, and -7 knockout mouse brain. We found that [H]Chiba-1001 lacks adequate and specific brain regional uptake in rat and mouse brain. No significant inhibition of the radioligand binding was obtained following pretreatment of the animal with AZ11637326, AZD0328, or MLA. Our results indicate that [H]Chiba-1001 has low affinity for -7 nAChRs in vitro and poor -7 regional and pharmacological selectivity in the rodent brain.
Intranasal exposure to the heavy metal cadmium has been linked to olfactory dysfunction and neurotoxicity. Here, we combine optical imaging of in vivo neurophysiology, genetically defined anatomical tract tracing, mass spectrometry, and behavioral psychophysical methods to evaluate the persistent harmful effects of acute intranasal exposure to cadmium in a mouse model and to investigate the functional consequences of sensory rehabilitation training. We find that an acute intranasal instillation of cadmium chloride leads to an accumulation of cadmium in the brain's olfactory bulb that persists for at least 4 weeks. This is accompanied by persistent severe pathophysiology of the olfactory nerve, a gradual reduction in axonal projections from the olfactory epithelium, and complete impairment on an olfactory detection task. Remarkably, 2 weeks of odorant-guided operant conditioning training proved sufficient to restore olfactory detection performance to control levels in cadmium-exposed mice. Optical imaging from rehabilitated mice showed that this training did not cause any detectable restoration of olfactory nerve function, suggesting that the recovery of function was mediated by central neuroplasticity in which the brain learned to interpret the degraded sensory input. These data demonstrate that sensory learning can mask even severe damage from neurotoxicants and suggest that explicit sensory training may be useful in rehabilitation of olfactory dysfunction.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are environmental toxicants that cause vascular inflammation and facilitate the development of brain metastases. The crucial event in metastasis formation is adhesion of blood-borne tumor cells to the vascular endothelium, followed by their transcapillary migration. The aim of the present study was to examine the mechanisms of PCB118-induced brain metastasis formation at the blood-brain barrier level with the focus on tumor cell adhesion to the brain endothelium. PCB118 was administered orally to wild-type or intercellular cell adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1)-deficient mice, followed by an injection of Lewis lung carcinoma cells into the carotid artery. Treatment with PCB118 resulted in enhanced development of brain metastases. Injection of tumor cells induced overexpression of ICAM-1 and vascular endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) in brain endothelium that was further potentiated in mice exposed to PCB118. PCB118 did not affect the number of adhered and extravasated tumor cells in ICAM-1-deficient mice. Additional in vitro studies indicated that VCAM-1-neutralizing antibody protected against PCB118-induced adhesion of tumor cells to cultured brain endothelial cells. These results indicate that exposure to selected PCB congeners, such as PCB118, induces adhesion and transcapillary migration of tumor cells. This process is facilitated by proinflammatory adhesion molecules and results in potentiation of brain metastasis formation.
Polarized kinesin-driven transport is crucial for development and maintenance of neuronal polarity. Kinesins are thought to recognize biochemical differences between axonal and dendritic microtubules in order to deliver their cargoes to the appropriate domain. To identify kinesins that mediate polarized transport, we prepared constitutively active versions of all the kinesins implicated in vesicle transport and expressed them in cultured hippocampal neurons. Seven kinesins translocated preferentially to axons and five translocated into both axons and dendrites. None translocated selectively to dendrites. Highly homologous members of the same subfamily displayed distinctly different translocation preferences and were differentially regulated during development. By expressing chimeric kinesins, we identified two microtubule-binding elements within the motor domain that are important for selective translocation. We also discovered elements in the dimerization domain of kinesin-2 motors that contribute to their selective translocation. These observations indicate that selective interactions between kinesin motor domains and microtubules can account for polarized transport to the axon, but not for selective dendritic transport.
The precise regulation of phosphoinositide lipids in cellular membranes is crucial for cellular survival and function. Inositol 5-phosphatases have been implicated in a variety of disorders, including various cancers, obesity, type 2 diabetes, neurodegenerative diseases and rare genetic conditions. Despite the obvious impact on human health, relatively little structural and biochemical information is available for this family. Here, we review recent structural and mechanistic work on the 5-phosphatases with a focus on OCRL, whose loss of function results in oculocerebrorenal syndrome of Lowe and Dent 2 disease. Studies of OCRL emphasize how the actions of 5-phosphatases rely on both intrinsic and extrinsic membrane recognition properties for full catalytic function. Additionally, structural analysis of missense mutations in the catalytic domain of OCRL provides insight into the phenotypic heterogeneity observed in Lowe syndrome and Dent disease.
The systems-level neuronal mechanisms that coordinate temporally, anatomically and functionally distributed neuronal activity into coherent cognitive operations in the human brain have remained poorly understood. Synchronization of neuronal oscillations may regulate network communication and could thus serve as such a mechanism. Evidence for this hypothesis, however, was until recently sparse, as methodological challenges limit the investigation of interareal interactions with non-invasive magneto- and electroencephalography (M/EEG) recordings. Nevertheless, recent advances in M/EEG source reconstruction and clustering methods support complete phase-interaction mappings that are essential for uncovering the large-scale neuronal assemblies and their functional roles. These data show that synchronization is a robust and behaviorally significant phenomenon in task-relevant cortical networks and could hence bind distributed neuronal processing to coherent cognitive states.
Increased rhythmic brain activity in the high frequency range and decreased rhythmic activity in the low frequency range is a hallmark of cognitive function and ability. A novel study links these findings to the cholinergic theory of attention, demonstrating that attention-induced rebalancing of brain rhythms is augmented by acetylcholine.
Germ cells possess the extraordinary and unique capacity to give rise to a new organism and create an enduring link between all generations. To acquire this property, primordial germ cells (PGCs) transit through an unprecedented programme of sequential epigenetic events that culminates in an epigenomic basal state that is the foundation of totipotency. This process is underpinned by genome-wide DNA demethylation, which may occur through several overlapping pathways, including conversion to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine. We propose that the epigenetic programme in PGCs operates through multiple parallel mechanisms to ensure robustness at the level of individual cells while also being flexible through functional redundancy to guarantee high fidelity of the process. Gaining a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms that direct epigenetic reprogramming in PGCs will enhance our ability to manipulate epigenetic memory, cell-fate decisions and applications in regenerative medicine.
Information that is congruent with existing knowledge (a schema) is usually better remembered than less congruent information. Only recently, however, has the role of schemas in memory been studied from a systems neuroscience perspective. Moreover, incongruent (novel) information is also sometimes better remembered. Here, we review lesion and neuroimaging findings in animals and humans that relate to this apparent paradoxical relationship between schema and novelty. In addition, we sketch a framework relating key brain regions in medial temporal lobe (MTL) and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) during encoding, consolidation and retrieval of information as a function of its congruency with existing information represented in neocortex. An important aspect of this framework is the efficiency of learning enabled by congruency-dependent MTL-mPFC interactions.
Animals use acoustic signals to communicate and to obtain information about their environment. The processing of acoustic signals is initiated at auditory sense organs, where mechanosensory hair cells convert sound-induced vibrations into electrical signals. Although the biophysical principles underlying the mechanotransduction process in hair cells have been characterized in much detail over the past 30 years, the molecular building-blocks of the mechanotransduction machinery have proved to be difficult to determine. We review here recent studies that have both identified some of these molecules and established the mechanisms by which they regulate the activity of the still-elusive mechanotransduction channel.
The endocannabinoids anandamide (AEA) and 2-arachidonoylglycerol are removed from the extracellular space by a process of cellular uptake followed by metabolism. Although the enzymes responsible for endocannabinoid metabolism have been well characterised, the processes involved in uptake have been the subject of much controversy. Recent studies, however, have identified intracellular transport proteins (fatty acid binding proteins 5 and 7, heat shock protein 70, albumin, and fatty acid amide hydrolase-like AEA transporter protein) that shuttle AEA from the plasma membrane to its metabolic enzymes. Proteins such as the fatty acid amide hydrolase-like anandamide transporter protein may be useful targets for novel therapeutic strategies aimed at potentiating AEA signalling. In this article I review the current state of the art of endocannabinoid uptake.
Planar cell polarity (PCP) genes have recently emerged as important players in sculpting neuronal connections. The bipolar VC neurons display stereotypical differences in axon extension along the anterior-posterior (AP) body axis: VC1-3 and VC6 polarize along the AP axis while VC4 and VC5 polarize along the orthogonal left-right (LR) axis generated by the developing vulva. vang-1 and prkl-1, the worm orthologs of Van Gogh and Prickle, are required to restrict the polarity of neurite emergence to a specific tissue axis. vang-1 and prkl-1 loss results in ectopic VC4 and VC5 neurites extending inappropriately along the AP axis. Conversely, prkl-1 overexpression in VC neurons suppresses neurite formation. These findings suggest that a PCP-like pathway acts to silence or antagonize neuronal responses to polarity cues that would otherwise be permissive for neurite growth.
In the present paper, the authors review the development of researches on acupuncture therapy with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in recent 5 years in both China and foreign countries. The current researches mainly involve 1) specificity of efficacies of acupoints, 2) mechanisms of acupuncture intervention underlying improvement of various clinical conditions or illnesses, 3) individual difference of the subjects, and 4) sustained efficacies of acupuncture. In the early stage, researches on acupuncture therapy mostly focus on the immediate efficacy and the specificity of efficacies of acupoints. Along with the actuality of sustained effect of acupuncture, new test design paradigms agreeable with clinical practice are necessary in the future. In addition, more attentions about the stability of the tested results should be paid.
Male homosexuality is a complex phenomenon which is universal and with unknown causes. Researchers believe that both biological and environmental factors have played a role in its pathogenesis. Researches focusing on genetics, neurobiology, development and endocrinology have made certain progress. In this paper, we have reviewed the biological causes of male homosexuality, which may provide clues for further research in this field.
Recombinant lentiviral vectors (rLVs) have emerged as versatile tools for gene delivery applications due to a number of favorable features, such as the possibility to maintain long-term transgene expression, the flexibility in the design of the expression cassettes and recent improvements in their biosafety profile. Since rLVs are able to infect multiple cell types including post-mitotic cells such as neurons and skeletal muscle cells, several studies have been exploring their application for the study and cure of neurodegenerative diseases. In particular, the introduction of rLVs carrying cell-type specific promoters could restrict the transgene expression either to neuronal or glial cells, thus helping to better dissect in vivo the role played by these cell populations in several neurodegenerative processes. In this study we developed rLVs carrying motor neuron specific regulatory sequences derived from the promoter of homeobox gene Hb9, and demonstrated that these constructs can represent a suitable platform for selective gene-targeting of murine spinal cord motor neurons, in vivo. This tool could be instrumental in the dissection of the molecular mechanisms involved in the selective degeneration of motor neurons occurring in Motor Neuron Diseases.
Numerous brain structures are composed of distinct layers and such stratification has a profound effect on extracellular diffusion transport in these structures. We have derived a more general form of diffusion equation incorporating inhomogeneities in both the extracellular volume fraction () and diffusion permeability (). A numerical solution of this equation for a special case of layered environment was employed to analyze diffusion in the CA1 region of hippocampus where stratum pyramidale occupied by the bodies of principal neurons is flanked by stratum radiatum and stratum oriens. Extracellular diffusion in the CA1 region was measured in vitro by real-time iontophoretic and real-time pressure methods, and numerical analysis found that stratum pyramidale had a significantly smaller extracellular volume fraction (=0.127) and lower diffusion permeability (=0.327) than the other two layers (=0.218, =0.447). Stratum pyramidale thus functioned as a diffusion barrier for molecules attempting to cross it. We also demonstrate that unless the detailed properties of all layers are taken into account when diffusion experiments are interpreted, the extracted apparent parameters of the extracellular space lose their physical meaning and capacity to describe any individual layer. Such apparent parameters depend on diffusion distance and direction, giving a false impression of microscopic anisotropy and non-Gaussian behavior. This finding has implications for all diffusion mediated physiological processes as well as for other diffusion methods including integrative optical imaging and diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging.
Isolating action potentials of a single neuron (unit) is essential for intra-cortical neurophysiological recordings. Yet, during extracellular recordings in semi-chronic awake preparations, the relationship between neuronal soma and the recording electrode is typically not stationary. Neuronal waveforms often change in shape, and in the absence of counter-measures, merge with the background noise. To avoid this, experimenters can repeatedly re-adjust electrode positions to maintain the shapes of isolated spikes. In recordings with a larger number of electrodes, this process becomes extremely difficult. We report the performance of an automated algorithm that tracks neurons to obtain well isolated spiking, and autonomously adjusts electrode position to maintain good isolation. We tested the performance of this algorithm in isolating units with multiple individually adjustable micro-electrodes in a cortical surface area of macaque monkeys. We compared the performance in terms of signal quality and signal stability against passive placement of microelectrodes and against the performance of three human experts. The results show that our SpikeTrack2 algorithm achieves significantly better signal quality compared to passive placement. It is as least as good as humans in initially finding and isolating units, and better as the average and at least as good as the most proficient of three human experimenters in maintaining signal quality and signal stability. The autonomous tracking performance, the scalability of the system to large numbers of individual channels, and the possibility to objectify single unit recording criteria makes SpikeTrack2 a highly valuable tool for all multi-channel recording systems with individually adjustable electrodes.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) provides a window into central nervous system (CNS) physiology and pathophysiology in human neurodegenerative conditions such as Alzheimer's disease. Changes in CSF bioanalytes also provide a direct readout of target engagement in the CNS following pharmacological interventions in clinical trials. Given the importance of tracking CNS bioanalytes in drug discovery, we have developed a novel cisterna magna cannulated rat model for repeated CSF sampling and used it to assess an amyloid beta (A) lowering agent. The surgically implanted cisterna magna cannula was patent over a period of 1-2 weeks and enabled repeated sampling of CSF (volume of 30-50L/sample) from each rat. CSF A40 levels showed good intra-animal variability across time points and inter-animal variability within a time point. Peripheral treatment with a gamma-secretase inhibitor (GSI) led to a rapid and robust decline in CSF A40 levels that returned to baseline over 24-96h after dosing. Terminal brain, CSF and plasma A levels measured at 24h after dosing demonstrated robust A lowering and showed excellent correlation across these compartments. These results are the first pharmacological validation of the repeated CSF sampling rat model for A lowering agents. This model can have broad applicability in pharmacological evaluation for diverse CNS targets.
Measurement of the release time course (RTC) and of the quantal content is important for quantifying synaptic precision and understanding the molecular basis of the release process at central synapses. In theory, the RTC can be determined directly from the histogram of first latencies of quantal events only if a maximum of one vesicle is released per trial, but at most synapses multiple vesicles are released. Traditionally, first latency histograms have been corrected for multiple releases using a simple correction, derived by Barrett and Stevens (BS; 1972b) for quantifying release at the neuromuscular junction. This correction has also been used to quantify release at central synapses. We show, by combining an analytical approach and numerical simulations of stochastic quantal release, that the BS correction gives a biased estimate for RTC and quantal content. The bias increases with release probability, and is therefore particularly problematic for central synapses. We show that this is due to assuming infinite availability of releasable vesicles and we derive a formula for estimating the RTC from first latencies without this assumption. The resulting 'binomial correction' requires knowledge of the maximum number of quanta that can be released following an action potential (N), which can be estimated with variance-mean analysis. We show with simulations that estimating RTC and quantal content from first latencies using the binomial correction is robust in the presence of noise and when release probability is non-uniform. We also provide an alternative method for estimating RTC from the first latencies when N cannot be determined.
Corticomuscular coherence (CMC) estimation is a frequency domain method used to detect a linear coupling between rhythmic activity recorded from sensorimotor cortex (EEG or MEG) and the electromyogram (EMG) of active muscles. In motor neuroscience, rectification of the surface EMG is a common pre-processing step prior to calculating CMC, intended to maximize information about action potential timing, whilst suppressing information relating to motor unit action potential (MUAP) shape. Rectification is believed to produce a general shift in the EMG spectrum towards lower frequencies, including those around the mean motor unit discharge rate. However, there are no published data to support the claim that EMG rectification enhances the detection of CMC. Furthermore, performing coherence analysis after the non-linear procedure of rectification, which results in a significant distortion of the EMG spectrum, is considered fundamentally flawed in engineering and digital signal processing. We calculated CMC between sensorimotor cortex EEG and EMG of two hand muscles during a key grip task in 14 healthy subjects. CMC calculated using unrectified and rectified EMG was compared. The use of rectified EMG did not enhance the detection of CMC, nor was there any evidence that MUAP shape information had an adverse effect on the CMC estimation. EMG rectification had inconsistent effects on the power and coherence spectra and obscured the detection of CMC in some cases. We also provide a comprehensive theoretical analysis, which, along with our empirical data, demonstrates that rectification is neither necessary nor appropriate in the calculation of CMC.
The 9th annual Computational and Systems Neuroscience meeting (Cosyne) was held 23-26 February in Salt Lake City, Utah. Cosyne meeting is the forum for exchange of experimental and theoretical/computational approaches to studying systems neuroscience.

The objective of this study was to explore the inter-relationship of three platelet measures of serotonergic function (5-HT): 5-HT Transporter Binding, 5-HT-2 Receptor Binding and 5-HT Content and to explore their inter-relationship with measures of aggression and impulsivity. 58 male subjects with personality disorder were studied. Numbers of platelet 5-HT Transporter and 5-HT-2 Receptor sites were assessed by examining the Bmax of H-Paroxetine Binding and the Bmax of I-LSD Binding to the blood platelet; 5-HT Content was assessed by measuring the amount of 5-HT in the platelet material. Life history of aggression was assessed by Life History of Aggression. Impulsivity was assessed by the Impulsivity Scale of the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire-II. Platelet 5-HT Transporter Binding correlated with both 5-HT-2 Receptor Binding and 5-HT Content; the latter two variables did not correlate with each other. Only Platelet 5-HT Transporter binding correlated significantly with LHA Aggression. These data suggest that while Platelet 5-HT Transporter binding correlates with both 5-HT-2 Receptor Binding and with 5-HT Content, that only 5-HT Transporter Binding represents a correlate of aggression in male personality disordered subjects.

Electrically coupled inhibitory interneurons dynamically control network excitability, yet little is known about how chemical and electrical synapses regulate their activity. Using two-photon glutamate uncaging and dendritic patch-clamp recordings, we found that the dendrites of cerebellar Golgi interneurons acted as passive cables. They conferred distance-dependent sublinear synaptic integration and weakened distal excitatory inputs. Gap junctions were present at a higher density on distal dendrites and contributed substantially to membrane conductance. Depolarization of one Golgi cell increased firing in its neighbors, and inclusion of dendritic gap junctions in interneuron network models enabled distal excitatory synapses to drive network activity more effectively. Our results suggest that dendritic gap junctions counteract sublinear dendritic integration by enabling excitatory synaptic charge to spread into the dendrites of neighboring inhibitory interneurons.
Glycine receptors (GlyRs) are pentameric membrane proteins in the form of either -homomers or - heteromers. Four out of five subunits; 1-3 and , have been found in the mammalian brain. Early studies investigating subunit composition and expression patterns of this receptor have proposed a developmental switch from 2 homomers to 1 heteromers as the CNS matures, a conclusion primarily based on results from the spinal cord. However, our previous results indicate that this might not apply to e.g. the forebrain regions. Here we examined alterations in GlyR expression caused by developmental changes in selected brain areas, focusing on reward-related regions. Animals of several ages (P2, P21 and P60) were included to examine potential changes over time. In accordance with previous reports, a switch in expression was observed in the spinal cord. However, the present results indicate that a decrease in 2 subunit expression is not replaced by 1 subunit expression since the generally low levels, and modest increases, of 1 could hardly replace the reduction in 2-mRNA. Instead mRNA measurements indicate that 2 continues to be the dominating -subunit also in adult animals, usually in combination with high and stable levels of -subunit expression. This indicates that alterations in GlyR subunit expression are not simply a maturation effect common for the entire CNS, but rather a unique pattern of transition depending on the region at hand.
Ionotropic glutamate receptors assemble as homo- or heterotetramers. One well-studied heteromeric complex is formed by the kainate receptor subunits GluK2 and GluK5. Retention motifs prevent trafficking of GluK5 homomers to the plasma membrane, but coassembly with GluK2 yields functional heteromeric receptors. Additional control over GluK2/GluK5 assembly seems to be exerted by the aminoterminal domains, which preferentially assemble into heterodimers as isolated domains. However,the stoichiometry of the full-length GluK2/GluK5 receptor complex has yet to be determined, as is the case for all non-NMDA glutamate receptors. Here, we address this question, using a single-molecule imaging technique that enables direct counting of the number of each GluK subunit type in homomeric and heteromeric receptors in the plasma membranes of live cells. We show that GluK2 and GluK5 assemble with 2:2 stoichiometry. This is an important step toward understanding the assembly mechanism, architecture, and functional consequences of heteromer formation in ionotropic glutamate receptors.
We have documented that the locus coeruleus (LC), the main noradrenergic nucleus in the brain, is part of a thermoeffector neuronal pathway in fever induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Following this pioneering study, we have investigated the role of the LC carbon monoxide (CO) and nitric oxide (NO) pathways in fever. Interestingly, despite both CO and NO are capable of activating the same intracellular target, soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC), our data have shown that LC CO is an antipyretic molecule, whereas LC NO is propyretic. Thus, aiming at further exploring the mechanisms underlying their anti- and propyretic properties, we investigated the putative interplay between the LC CO and NO pathways. Male Wistar rats were implanted with a guide cannula in the fourth ventricle (4V) and a temperature datalogger capsule in the peritoneal cavity. The animals were microinjected into the 4V with an inhibitor of heme oxygenase (HO) (ZnDPBG [zinc(II)deuteroporphyrin IX 2,4 bis ethylene glycol]), or a CO donor (CORM-2 [tricarbonyldichlororuthenium-(II)-dimer]), or an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) (l-NMMA [N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine acetate]), or an NO donor (NOC12 [3-ethyl-3-(ethylaminoethyl)-1-hydroxy-2-oxo-1-triazene]), and injected with LPS (100 g/kg i.p.). Two hours later, the rats were decapitated, and the brains were frozen and cut in a cryostat. LC punches were processed to assess LC bilirubin and nitrite/nitrate (NOx) levels. Microinjection of ZnDPBG reduced LC bilirubin and increased LC NOx, whereas l-NMMA diminished LC NOx and reduced LC bilirubin. Furthermore, NOC12 caused an increase in LC bilirubin, whereas CORM-2 caused a reduction in LC NOx. These findings are consistent with the notion that in the LC during LPS fever the CO pathway downmodulates NOS activity and the NO pathway upmodulates HO activity, and, together with previous data, allow us to conjecture that LC CO blunts fever by downmodulating NOS (antipyretic property), LC NO upmodulates HO and sGC activities favoring the development of LPS fever (propyretic effect).
Rett syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder caused by loss-of-function mutations in the gene encoding the transcription factor methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2). One of its targets is the gene encoding brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf). In vitro studies using cultured neurons have produced conflicting results with respect to the role of MeCP2 in BDNF expression. Acute intermittent hypoxia (AIH) induces plasticity in the respiratory system characterized by long-term facilitation of phrenic nerve amplitude. This paradigm induces an increase in BDNF protein. We hypothesized that AIH leads to augmentation of BDNF transcription in respiratory-related areas of the brainstem and that MeCP2 is necessary for this process. Wild-type and mecp2 null (mecp2(-/y)) mice were subjected to three 5-min episodes of exposure to 8% O(2)/4% CO(2)/88% N(2), delivered at 5-min intervals. Normoxia control wild-type and mecp2 null mice were exposed to room air for the total length of time, that is, 30 min. Following a recovery in room air, the pons and medulla were rapidly removed. Expression of BDNF protein and transcripts were determined by ELISA and quantitative PCR, respectively. AIH induced a significant increase in BDNF protein in the pons and medulla, and in mRNA transcript levels in the pons of wild-type animals. In contrast, there were no significant changes in either BDNF protein or transcripts in the pons or medulla of mice lacking MeCP2. The results indicate that MeCP2 is required for regulation of BDNF expression by acute intermittent hypoxia in vivo.
Rats exposed to a high binge-like dose of alcohol over postnatal days (PD) 4-9 show reductions in CA1 pyramidal cells and impairments on behavioral tasks that depend on the hippocampus. We first examined hippocampal c-Fos expression as a marker of neuronal activity in normally developing rats following different phases of the context preexposure facilitation effect (CPFE) paradigm (Experiment 1). During the CPFE, preexposure to the training context facilitates contextual conditioning to an immediate shock given on a subsequent occasion. We then examined the relationship between CPFE impairment, hippocampal cell loss, and c-Fos expression in rats exposed to alcohol over PD 4-9 (Experiment 2). Normally developing (Experiment 1), sham-intubated control (SI), and PD 4-9 alcohol-exposed (4.00 g and 5.25 g/kg/d; Experiment 2) juvenile male rats were trained on the CPFE. The CPFE occurs over three phases separated by 24 h. Starting on PD 31, rats were preexposed to Context A or Context B for 5 min. After 24 h, all rats received an immediate 1.5-mA foot shock in Context A. Finally, rats were tested for contextual conditioning in Context A on PD 33. Normally developing and SI rats preexposed to Context A showed enhanced contextual fear compared with those preexposed to Context B (Experiment 1) or alcohol-exposed rats preexposed to Context A (Experiment 2). Rats were sacrificed 2 h following different phases of the CPFE and processed for c-Fos immunohistochemistry (Experiments 1 and 2) and CA1 pyramidal cell quantification (Experiment 2). In Experiment 1, c-Fos positive (c-Fos+) cells in the dentate gyrus (DG) were consistently high among rats preexposed to Context A (Pre), Context B (No Pre), or sacrificed directly from their home cage (Home) and did not differ across CPFE phases. CA3 and CA1 c-Fos+ cells were highest during preexposure and decreased across training phases, with Group No Pre showing greater numbers of c-Fos+ cells during training than Group Pre and Controls. In Experiment 2, SI rats had greater numbers of CA1 c-Fos+ cells compared with alcohol-exposed rats, differing significantly from rats exposed to the high alcohol dose (5.25 g) over PD 4-9. Experiment 2 also revealed a linear decline in CA1 pyramidal cells across treatment groups, again with rats from the high-alcohol dose group showing significantly fewer CA1 pyramidal cells compared with SI. Our results reveal that context novelty may be a significant contributor to differential hippocampal c-Fos expression following different phases of the CPFE. In addition, lower levels of c-Fos+ cells in alcohol-exposed rats following preexposure may be related to general reductions in the number of CA1 pyramidal cells in these rats. The significant CPFE impairments in rats exposed to the lower alcohol dose (4.00 g), who show a 15% reduction in CA1 pyramidal cells compared with SI rats, highlight the sensitivity of the CPFE to hippocampal insult.
The gustatory cortex (GC), a part of the insular cortex (IC), receives gustatory inputs from the parvicellular part of the ventroposteromedial thalamic nucleus (VPMpc). Transcallosal projections from the contralateral GC modulate neural responses to gustatory stimulation. However, the spatiotemporal dynamics of the amplitude and area of excitation induced by contralateral GC stimulation remain unclear. First, we demonstrated the distribution patterns of neurons projecting to the GC by injecting the anterograde tracer, biotinylated dextranamine (BDA), and retrograde tracer, Fluorogold (FG), into the unilateral putative GC throughout the layers in five male Sprague-Dawley and two vesicular GABA transporter-Venus rats. FG-labeled pyramidal neurons were found in the contralateral GC and ipsilateral VPMpc. The contralateral GC and ipsilateral VPMpc received BDA-positive fibers, suggesting that the GCs of both hemispheres are reciprocally connected. Second, the spatiotemporal profiles of neural responses evoked by five train pulses of electrical stimulation (50 Hz) were quantified by in vivo optical imaging with a voltage-sensitive dye in male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=56). Stimulation of the ipsilateral VPMpc evoked potent GC activation that was followed by propagation to the surrounding IC; this propagation was similar to that following ipsilateral GC stimulation. Contralateral stimulation of the somatosensory area I, dorsal IC, and ventral IC evoked excitation in the ipsilateral each corresponding area, suggesting that transcallosal fibers are symmetrically connected. Contralateral GC stimulation induced a similar spatial profile of excitation as ipsilateral GC stimulation; however, the latency was longer (~20 ms), and the excitation was frequently followed by a GABA(B) receptor antagonist-sensitive inhibitory signal. Excitation by ipsilateral GC stimulation was potentiated by simultaneous contralateral GC stimulation, especially in cases where the amplitude of the response to ipsilateral stimulation was small. These results suggest that the transcallosal projection may support the detection of gustatory inputs by potentiating weak gustatory signals in the GC.
This investigation examined whether the directional index of neural information flow (NIF) could be employed to characterize the synaptic plasticity in the CA3-CA1 pathway of the hippocampus and assessed which oscillatory rhythm was associated with cognitive impairments induced by vascular dementia (VD). Rats were randomly divided into control and VD groups. The animal model of VD used the two-vessel occlusion (2VO) method. Behavior was measured using the Morris water maze (MWM). Local field potentials (LFPs) from CA3 and CA1 were recorded after behavioral tests, followed by recording long-term potentiation (LTP) of the same CA3-CA1 pathway. General partial directed coherence (gPDC) approach was utilized to determine the directionality of NIF between CA3 and CA1 over five frequency bands, which were delta, theta, alpha, beta, and gamma. The results showed that the escape latencies were significantly prolonged in the VD group, whereas the swimming speeds of these two groups remained constant throughout testing. Moreover, the phase synchronization values between CA3 and CA1 regions were reduced in theta, alpha, beta, and gamma bands in the VD state compared to that in the normal state. The coupling directional index was considerably decreased in the previously given four frequency bands in VD rats, whereas the strength of CA3 driving CA1 was significantly reduced in the same frequency bands. Interestingly, LTP was significantly decreased in the VD group, which was consistent with the LFPs findings. The data suggest that the directionality index of NIF in these physiological oscillatory rhythms could be used as a measure of synaptic plasticity in the hippocampal CA3-CA1 pathway in VD states. The potential mechanism of the relationship between NIF direction and synaptic plasticity in VD state was discussed.
The purpose of this study was to clarify stimulus pulse parameters effective to elicit behaviors of cats trained to detect electric pulse stimuli through chronically implanted electrodes in the primary auditory cortex. One or two pulse parameters were systematically shifted from the standard stimulus consisting of constant-current pulses of amplitude 80 A, duration 0.2 ms, number of pulses 33, and rate 200 Hz (compatible with interpulse interval 5 ms). Interaction between the pulse amplitude and pulse duration was investigated: although the proportion of stimulus detection responses increased with increasing phase charge (pulse amplitudepulse duration), a combination of relatively high amplitude during short pulse duration elicited a higher proportion of detection responses when phase charge was constant. Interaction between the number of pulses and interpulse intervals was investigated. We found that the proportion of detection responses is explained by the linear function of two factors, overall charge (phase chargethe number of pulses) and train duration: the proportion of detection responses increased with increasing overall charge and decreasing train duration. Interaction between pulse amplitude and the number of pulses was investigated. We again found that the proportion of detection responses is explained by the linear function of overall charge and train duration in the amplitude-number shift paradigm. Thus, the behavior performance (proportion of detection responses) is a linear time function of overall charge and train duration regardless of the stimulus paradigm. We believe that the findings will contribute to the development of auditory cortex implants for transfer of auditory information directly to the brain.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays a key role in the development of pathological pain. Although it is known that nerve growth factor (NGF) induces BDNF mRNA through extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK), whether ERK1/2 or ERK5, two closely related members of the ERK family, mediate this signal is still unclear because classical MEK inhibitors block both pathways. We studied the involvement of ERK-signaling in NGF induction of BDNF in PC12 cells, cultured dorsal root ganglia neurons, and in rats subjected to neuropathic pain models using ERK1/2- and ERK5-specific tools. Selective activation of ERK1/2 upregulated BDNF mRNA in PC12 cells, whereas selective ERK5 activation did not. AZD6244, a potent selective inhibitor of ERK1/2 activation, blocked NGF induction of BDNF mRNA in vitro suggesting that NGF induction of BDNF is mediated by ERK1/2. siRNA experiments indicated that both ERK1 or ERK2 can signal suggesting that both pathways must be blocked to prevent NGF-induced increase in BDNF mRNA. I.p. injection of AZD6244 prevented the development of pain in rats subjected to the chronic constriction injury and reversed already established pain in the spared nerve injury model. Immunohistochemical studies showed decreased phospho-ERK1/2-immunoreactivity in dorsal root ganglia and BDNF immunoreactivity in ipsilateral spinal dorsal horn in the drug-treated rats. Our results suggest the possible use of AZD6244, already in human clinical trials as an anticancer agent, for the treatment of pathological pain.
The basolateral amygdala (BLA) plays an important role in the formation of associations between context and drug. BLA activity and BLA-dependent drug-seeking behavior are driven by excitatory inputs. Drug-seeking behavior driven by context involves participation of the BLA, and plasticity of excitatory inputs to the BLA may contribute to this behavior. In this study, amphetamine conditioned place preference (AMPH CPP) was used to model the formation of context-drug associations. Learning-induced changes of excitatory synapses within the BLA were examined. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were assigned to one of three groups, the experimental group (AMPH CPP) or one of two control groups (saline or AMPH delayed pairing). Approximately 24 h after testing their preference, spontaneous and miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs and mEPSCs, respectively) in BLA pyramidal neurons were investigated using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. There were no between-groups differences in the amplitude or frequency of sEPSCs or mEPSCs. In a higher osmolarity solution to increase release, there was a significantly greater frequency of the mEPSCs in neurons from AMPH CPP animals compared with controls. This was observed with no change detected in the probability of glutamate release. Together, these data demonstrate no evidence for increased synaptic strength, but are consistent with an increase in the number of synapses in the BLA after AMPH CPP. These findings may underlie increased excitatory drive of the BLA after AMPH CPP, and contribute to the animals' preference for the AMPH-paired compartment.
The endogenous opioid system is involved in various physiological processes, including neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus. In the current study, we investigated the role of the mu opioid receptor (MOR-1) on DG neurogenesis and measured glucocorticoid levels following several injection paradigms to supplement the neurogenesis experiments. MOR-1 knockout (KO) mice on C57BL/6 and 129S6 backgrounds were injected with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) using either a single injection or two different repeated injection protocols and then sacrificed at different time points. The total number of BrdU and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) positive cells in the DG is significantly increased in MOR-1 KO mice compared with wild type (WT) on both strains after repeated injection, but not after a single injection. Plasma corticosterone (CORT) levels increased similarly in MOR-1 KO and WT mice following both single and repeated injection, indicating that the stress response is activated following any injection protocol, but that the mechanism responsible for the increase in BrdU labeling in MOR-1 KO mice is CORT-level independent. Finally, WT 129S6 mice, independent of genotype, showed higher levels of plasma CORT compared with WT C57BL/6 mice in both noninjected controls and following injection at two separate time points; these levels were inversely correlated with low numbers of BrdU cells in the DG in 129S6 mice compared with C57BL/6 mice. In summary, these data demonstrate that loss of MOR-1 increases BrdU labeling in the DG independent of CORT levels, but only following a repeated injection, illustrating the capability of injection paradigms to influence cell-proliferative responses in a genotype-dependent manner.
Fetal alcohol exposure can cause developmental defects in offspring known as fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD). FASD symptoms range from obvious facial deformities to changes in neuroanatomy and neurophysiology that disrupt normal brain function and behavior. Ethanol exposure at postnatal day 7 in C57BL/6 mice induces neuronal cell death and long-lasting neurobehavioral dysfunction. Previous work has demonstrated that early ethanol exposure impairs spatial memory task performance into adulthood and perturbs local and interregional brain circuit integrity in the olfacto-hippocampal pathway. Here we pursue these findings to examine whether lithium prevents anatomical, neurophysiological, and behavioral pathologies that result from early ethanol exposure. Lithium has neuroprotective properties that have been shown to prevent ethanol-induced apoptosis. Here we show that mice co-treated with lithium on the same day as ethanol exposure exhibit dramatically reduced acute neurodegeneration in the hippocampus and retain hippocampal-dependent spatial memory as adults. Lithium co-treatment also blocked ethanol-induced disruption in synaptic plasticity in slice recordings of hippocampal CA1 in the adult mouse brain. Moreover, long-lasting dysfunctions caused by ethanol in olfacto-hippocampal networks, including sensory-evoked oscillations and resting state coherence, were prevented in mice co-treated with lithium. Together, these results provide behavioral and physiological evidence that lithium is capable of preventing or reducing immediate and long-term deleterious consequences of early ethanol exposure on brain function.
An ultra-slow oscillation (&lt;0.01 Hz) in the network-wide activity of dissociated cortical networks is described in this article. This slow rhythm is characterized by the recurrence of clusters of large synchronized bursts of activity lasting approximately 1-3 min, separated by an almost equivalent interval of relatively smaller bursts. Such rhythmic activity was detected in cultures starting from the fourth week in vitro. Our analysis revealed that the propagation motifs of constituent bursts were strongly conserved across multiple oscillation cycles, and these motifs were more consistent at the electrode level compared with the neuronal level.
Dysfunctions of the geniculo-striatal magnocellular (M) visual pathway and its cortical recipients have been documented in fragile X syndrome and in FMR1 premutation carriers. However, the mechanism of this impairment is less clear. To elucidate this issue, we completed the measurement of visual functions at different stages of information processing: low-level mechanisms (contrast sensitivity biasing information processing toward the M and parvocellular [P] pathways), primary visual cortex (motion-defined and static Vernier threshold), and higher-level form and motion processing (coherence thresholds). Results revealed that FMR1 premutation carriers, relative to non-carrier controls, exhibited lower contrast sensitivity for M pathway-biased stimuli, higher Vernier threshold for motion-defined stimuli, and higher global motion coherence threshold. Although both elevated FMR1 mRNA and reduced fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) levels were associated with impaired visual functions, regression analysis indicated that FMRP was the primary factor. In premutation carriers, a toxic gain-of-function of elevated FMR1 mRNA has been suggested, whereas reduced FMRP is linked to neurodevelopmental aspects. Here, we showed that FMRP may the primary factor associated with visual dysfunctions.
The regional expression of the transcription factors c-Fos and FosB/FosB was examined in rats given acute exposure to intravenous methamphetamine (METH) or repeated intravenous METH self-administration. One group of rats self-administered METH via lever pressing in 2 h sessions every day for 3 weeks and on a final test day received self-administered METH as usual. A second group with the same METH self-administration history received saline infusions on the test day, to induce drug-seeking behavior. Other rats were trained with infusions of intravenous saline that were yoked to the passive delivery of METH in the other two groups. On test day, half of these yoked rats received passive METH infusions for the first time, whereas the others received saline as usual. The results showed that acute METH produced a characteristic signature of Fos expression with elevations in striatal, cortical, and extended amygdala regions. Importantly, rats with a 3-week history of METH self-administration displayed similar regional Fos expression to rats receiving METH for the first time. Rats seeking, but not receiving, METH on the test day had augmented Fos in the lateral hypothalamus, septum, and vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca, suggesting a primary role for these regions in METH-seeking behavior. Both acute and chronic METH activated orexin-positive cells in the perifornical area of the hypothalamus. FosB/FosB was elevated in the lateral hypothalamus, posterior ventral tegmental area, central amygdala, and dorsal raphe of all the rats with a history of METH self-administration. This occurred regardless of whether they received METH on test day, suggesting presence of the long-lived FosB isoform, FosB. Overall, these results show persistent upregulated regional brain Fos and FosB/FosB expression with chronic METH self-administration and indicate a role for the lateral hypothalamus and lateral septum in METH-seeking behavior.
Motor imagery (MI) is a promising practice tool in neurorehabilitation. However, in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), impairments in MI accuracy and temporal organization were found during clinical assessment, which may limit the benefits of MI practice. Therefore, we investigated whether the MI quality of MS patients could be optimized by means of external cueing. Fourteen patients with MS and 14 healthy control patients physically executed and visually imagined a goal-directed upper limb task in the presence and absence of added visual and auditory cues. MI quality was assessed by means of eye-movement registration. As main results, it was found that MS patients had significant higher eye-movement times than controls during both execution and imagery, and overestimated the to-be-imagined movement amplitude when no external information was provided during imagery. External cues, however, decreased patients' MI duration and increased the spatial accuracy of their imagined movements. In sum, our results indicate that MS patients imagine movements in a better way when they are provided with external cues during MI. These findings are important for developing rehabilitation strategies based on MI in patients with MS.
The function of the sigma-1 receptor (S1R) has been linked to modulating the activities of ion channels and G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCR). In the CNS, the S1R is expressed ubiquitously but is enriched in mouse motoneurons (MN), where it is localized to subsurface cisternae of cholinergic postsynaptic densities, also known as C-terminals. We found that S1R is enriched in mouse spinal MN at late stages of embryonic development when it is first visualized in the endoplasmic reticulum. S1Rs appear to concentrate at C-terminals of mouse MN only on the second week of postnatal development. We found that indole-N-methyl transferase (INMT), an enzyme that converts tryptamine into the sigma-1 ligand dimethyltryptamine (DMT), is also localized to postsynaptic sites of C-terminals in close proximity to the S1R. This close association of INMT and S1Rs suggest that DMT is synthesized locally to effectively activate S1R in MN.
We investigated response activation and suppression processes in Parkinson's disease patients with freezing of gait (FOG). Fourteen freezers, 14 nonfreezers, and 14 matched healthy controls performed the attention network task (ANT) and the Stroop task. The former task has more stimulus-response overlap and is expected to elicit stronger irrelevant response activation, requiring more inhibition. Congruency effects were used as a general measure of conflict resolution. Supplementary reaction time (RT) distribution analyses were utilized to calculate conditional accuracy functions (CAFs) and delta plots to measure response activation and suppression processes. In agreement with previous research, freezers showed a general conflict resolution deficit compared with nonfreezers and healthy controls. Moreover, CAFs pointed to a strong initial incorrect response activation in FOG. As expected, conflict resolution impairment was only apparent in the ANT, and not in the Stroop task. These results suggest an imbalance between automatic and controlled processes in FOG, leading to a breakdown in both motor and cognitive response control.
Abnormal spontaneous activity of sensory neurons is observed in many different preclinical pain models, but its basis is not well understood. In this study mechanical and cold hypersensitivity were induced in rats after inflammation of the L5 dorsal root ganglion (DRG), initiated by local application of the immune stimulator zymosan in incomplete Freund's adjuvant. Mechanical hypersensitivity was evident by day 1 and maintained for 2 months. The model also showed reduction of rearing behavior in a novel environment. Microelectrode recordings made in isolated whole DRG on day 3 after inflammation showed a marked increase of spontaneous activity, predominantly with a bursting pattern. The incidence was especially high (44%) in A cells. Spontaneous activity and subthreshold membrane potential oscillations were completely blocked by tetrodotoxin (500 nM) and by riluzole (10 M), a blocker of persistent sodium currents. In vivo, local perfusion of the inflamed DRG for the first 7 days with riluzole gave long-lasting, dose-dependent reduction in mechanical pain behaviors. Riluzole perfusion did not affect mechanical sensitivity in normal animals. Unmyelinated C cells had a very low incidence of spontaneous activity and were much less affected by riluzole in vitro. Taken together these results suggest that high-frequency and/or bursting spontaneous activity in A sensory neurons may play important roles in initiating pain behaviors resulting from inflammatory irritation of the DRG.
We reported previously that sensory neurons isolated from mice with a heterozygous mutation of the Nf1 gene (Nf1+/-) exhibited greater excitability and increased sodium current densities compared with wildtype mice. This raises the question as to whether the increased current density resulted from post-translational modifications or increased expression of sodium channels. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction was used to measure expression levels of the nine different voltage-gated sodium channel  subunits and the four associated auxiliary  subunits in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) obtained from wildtype and Nf1+/- mice. The Relative Expression Software Tool indicated that Nav1.1, Nav1.3, Nav1.7, and Nav1.8 were significantly elevated in DRG isolated from Nf1+/- mice. Expression of Nav1.2, Nav1.5, Nav1.6, and Nav1.9 were not significantly altered. The gene transcript for Nav1.4 was not detected. There were no significant changes in the relative expression levels of  subunits. The Nav1.9 subtype was the most abundant with Nav1.7 and Nav1.8 being the next most abundant subtypes, whereas Nav1.3 was relatively less abundant. For the  subunits, 1 was by far the most abundant subtype. These results demonstrate that the increased expression levels of Nav1.7, Nav1.8, and perhaps Nav1.1 in the Nf1+/- DRG make the largest contribution to the increased sodium current density and thus give rise to the enhanced excitability. Though the mechanisms by which many people with NF1 experience increased pain have not been elucidated, these abnormal painful states may involve elevated expression of specific sodium channel subtypes in small diameter nociceptive sensory neurons.
Arsenite treatment of human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells leads to an upregulation of caspase-3/7 activity and to the fragmentation of chromatin that is accompanied by elevated p53 and c-Jun levels. Expression of a truncated mutant of p53, p53DD, which interfered with the oligomerization of p53, suppressed the arsenite-induced upregulation of caspase-3/7 activity and the fragmentation of chromatin, indicating that p53 is required for arsenite-induced cell death. These data were corroborated by knockdown experiments of p53 following expression of a p53-specific short hairpin RNA. Likewise, expression of either p53DD or knockdown of p53 prevented caspase-3/7 activation and chromatin fragmentation induced by nutlin-3, a compound that prevents the interaction between p53 and the E3 ubiquitin ligase MDM2. Transcriptional upregulation of a chromatin-embedded p53-responsive reporter gene in either arsenite or nutlin-3 stimulated neuroblastoma cells revealed that the transcriptional activity of p53 was increased under these conditions. Expression of a c-Jun-specific short hairpin RNA failed to impair arsenite-induced caspase-3/7 activation and fragmentation of chromatin. Likewise, inhibition of c-Jun target gene expression by expression of a dominant-negative mutant of c-Jun did not interfere with arsenite-induced caspase-3/7 activation and chromatin fragmentation. However, this approach successfully reduced caspase-3/7 activity induced as a result of forced expression of a constitutively active mutant of mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase kinase (MEKK)-1. Together, these data show that the upregulation of p53 is causally linked with arsenite-induced cell death in neuroblastoma cells, whereas the upregulation of c-Jun is not part of this apoptotic signaling cascade.
The nucleus accumbens shell (NAcS) has been implicated in controlling stress responses through corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF). In addition to studies indicating that CRF in the NAcS increases appetitive motivation, there is indirect evidence suggesting that NAcS CRF may also cause aversive responses and that these behaviors may be mediated through local dopamine (DA) and acetylcholine (ACh) systems. To provide a direct test of this hypothesis, we used male Sprague-Dawley rats with implanted cannulas aimed at the NAcS. Experiment 1 showed local CRF injection (10 or 50 ng/side) to increase immobility in the forced swim test and a CRF antagonist D-Phe-CRF ((12-41)) to attenuate this depressive-like behavior. In Experiment 2, injection of CRF (250 ng/side) also decreased the rats' preference for sucrose, while in Experiment 3, CRF (50 or 250 ng/side) induced anxiety-like behaviors in an elevated plus maze and open field. These same doses of CRF in Experiment 4 failed to alter the rats' locomotor activity, indicating that these behavioral changes were not caused by deficits in activity. In Experiment 5, results from in vivo microdialysis revealed that CRF in the NAcS markedly increased local extracellular ACh, while also producing a small increase in DA. These results show that NAcS CRF can generate a variety of aversive behaviors, including swim depression, anhedonia, and anxiety, in addition to approach behavior. They suggest that these behaviors may occur, in part, through enhanced activation of ACh and DA in the NAcS, respectively, supporting a role for this brain area in mediating the dual effects of stress.
There is growing evidence that Toxoplasma gondii modifies the behavior of its intermediate hosts. We investigated the molecular basis of these infection-induced behavioral changes, followed by five related behavioral tests to assess the extent of biological relevance. Gene expression signatures were generated in the frontal cortex of male and female mice during the latent stage of infection. We found marked sex-dependent expression differences in mice. In female mice, Toxoplasma infection altered the expression of genes involved in the development of the forebrain, neurogenesis, and sensory and motor coordination (i.e. downregulation of fatty acid-binding protein 7 and eyes absent homolog 1, upregulation of semaphorin 7A). In male mice, infection led mainly to modulation of genes associated with olfactory function (i.e. downregulation of a number of olfactory receptors and dopamine receptor D4, upregulation of slit homolog 1). Although infection appears to affect the olfactory function in male mice, it is the female but not male mice that exhibited attraction to cat odor. In contrast, infected male mice showed a deficit in social transmission of food preference. In contrast to males, infected females displayed locomotor hyperactivity in open field. General olfaction and sensorimotor gating were normal in both male and female infection. Our results indicate that the sex of the host plays a major role in determining variable brain and behavior changes following Toxoplasma infection. These observations are consistent with heterogeneity of neuropsychiatric outcomes of the infection in humans.
Local anesthetics (LAs) are necessary for the regional anesthesia, spinal anesthesia, and pain management. However, the application of LAs may cause neurotoxicity and result in postoperative neurological complications. Lithium is a mood stabilizer for the treatment of bipolar disorder and may exert neuroprotective effects. In this study, we evaluated the effects of lithium on bupivacaine (a frequently used LAs)-induced injury in mouse neuroblastoma neuro 2a (N2a) cells. N2a cells were treated with bupivacaine in the presence or absence of lithium. After treatment, the cell injury was evaluated by examination of viability, morphology changes, and nuclear condensation. The levels of mitochondrial transmembrane potential (m) and activation of phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)/ threonine-serine protein kinase B (Akt) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) were also examined. In a separate experiment, we investigated the effect of Akt and ERK inhibition on cell injury after bupivacaine and lithium treatment. Pretreatment of N2a cells with lithium significantly attenuated bupivacaine-induced cell injury. Lithium pretreatment completely reversed the suppression of PI3K/Akt and ERK signalings and significantly prevented the decline of m in N2a cells after bupivacaine treatment. More importantly, pharmacological inhibition of Akt and ERK diminished the protective effect of lithium against bupivacaine-induced neuronal death. Our data suggest that lithium pretreatment provides a protective effect on bupivacaine-induced neuronal cell injury. This action of lithium is mediated through, at least in part, the activating of PI3K/Akt- and ERK-dependent mechanisms. Because lithium is a clinically proved safety drug for neurons, it is worthwhile to identify whether coadministration of LAs with lithium will decrease the risks of LAs-induced postoperative neurological complications in clinic practice.
Current therapies for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) have varying efficacy in individuals with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD), suggesting that alternative therapeutics are needed. Developmental exposure to ethanol produces changes in dopamine (DA) systems, and DA has also been implicated in ADHD pathology. In the current study, lobeline, which interacts with proteins in dopaminergic presynaptic terminals, was evaluated for its ability to attenuate neonatal ethanol-induced locomotor hyperactivity and alterations in dopamine transporter (DAT) function in striatum and prefrontal cortex (PFC). From postnatal days (PND) 1-7, male and female rat pups were intubated twice daily with either 3 g/kg ethanol or milk, or were not intubated (non-intubated control) as a model for &quot;third trimester&quot; ethanol exposure. On PND 21 and 22, pups received acute lobeline (0, 0.3, 1, or 3 mg/kg), and locomotor activity was assessed. On PND 23-25, pups again received an acute injection of lobeline (1 or 3 mg/kg), and DAT kinetic parameters (Km and V(max)) were determined. Results demonstrated that neonatal ethanol produced locomotor hyperactivity on PND 21 that was reversed by lobeline (1 and 3 mg/kg). Although striatal DAT function was not altered by neonatal ethanol or acute lobeline, neonatal ethanol exposure increased the V(max) for DAT in the PFC, suggesting an increase in DAT function in PFC. Lobeline ameliorated this effect on PFC V(max) at the same doses that decreased hyperactivity. Methylphenidate, the gold standard therapeutic for ADHD, was also evaluated for comparison with lobeline. Methylphenidate decreased DAT V(max) and Km in PFC from ethanol-treated pups. Thus, lobeline and methylphenidate differentially altered DAT function following neonatal ethanol exposure. Collectively, these findings provide support that lobeline may be a useful pharmacotherapy for some of the deficits associated with neonatal ethanol exposure.
Whether consciousness is an all-or-none or graded phenomenon is an area of inquiry that has received considerable interest in neuroscience and is as of yet, still debated. In this magnetoencephalography (MEG) study we used a single stimulus paradigm with sub-threshold, threshold and supra-threshold duration inputs to assess whether stimulus perception is continuous with or abruptly differentiated from unconscious stimulus processing in the brain. By grouping epochs according to stimulus identification accuracy and exposure duration, we were able to investigate whether a high-amplitude perception-related cortical event was (1) only evoked for conditions where perception was most probable, (2) had invariant amplitude once evoked and (3) was largely absent for conditions where perception was least probable (criteria satisfying an all-on-none hypothesis). We found that averaged evoked responses showed a gradual increase in amplitude with increasing perceptual strength. However, single-trial analyses demonstrated that stimulus perception was correlated with an all-or-none response, the temporal precision of which increased systematically as perception transitioned from ambiguous to robust states. Due to poor signal-to-noise resolution of single-trial data, whether perception-related responses, whenever present, were invariant in amplitude could not be unambiguously demonstrated. However, our findings strongly suggest that visual perception of simple stimuli is associated with an all-or-none cortical-evoked response the temporal precision of which varies as a function of perceptual strength.
When an acoustic signal is temporarily interrupted by another sound, it is sometimes heard as continuing through, even when the signal is actually turned off during the interruption-an effect known as the &quot;auditory continuity illusion.&quot; A widespread view is that the illusion can only occur when peripheral neural responses contain no evidence that the signal was interrupted. Here we challenge this view using a combination of psychophysical measures from human listeners and computational simulations with a model of the auditory periphery. The results reveal that the illusion seems to depend more on the overall specific loudness than on the peripheral masking properties of the interrupting sound. This finding indicates that the continuity illusion is determined by the global features, rather than the fine-grained temporal structure, of the interrupting sound, and argues against the view that the illusion arises in the auditory periphery.
Continued instrumental drug seeking despite contingent punishment is a core phenotype of drug addiction. Although the neuroanatomical basis of punished drug seeking is unclear, we hypothesize that the sensorimotor striatum, a structure that mediates habitual drug seeking, also mediates punished cocaine seeking. Forelimb sensorimotor projections into the striatum of the rat extend from the dorsolateral to midlateral striatum. Here, we selectively inactivated the dorsolateral and midlateral striatum in rats responding for cocaine in a seeking-taking task. We inactivated both regions after the acquisition of cocaine seeking, after extended cocaine self-administration and finally after the introduction of intermittent, seeking-contingent foot shock. The results show that inactivation of the dorsolateral striatum selectively disrupted punished drug seeking but did not affect unpunished drug seeking, even after extended training. Inactivation of the midlateral striatum, on the other hand, disrupted drug seeking at all stages of training. The effect of inactivating the dorsolateral striatum under punishment conditions was present before delivery of the first shock in the session, and responding reverted to baseline the next day. Thus, inactivation of the dorsolateral striatum seems to enhance the influence of recalled threat of negative consequences of cocaine seeking. The proportional reduction in responding after inactivation of the dorsolateral striatum did not vary with the individual level of compulsivity. Together, these results suggest a novel differentiation of function in the sensorimotor striatum, where the dorsolateral striatum selectively mediates the rigidity of responding after overtraining, while the midlateral striatum mediates responding itself at all stages of training.
Orexins (also called hypocretins) have been shown to be importantly involved in reward and addiction, but little is known about the circuitry that regulates orexin neuronal activity during drug-seeking behaviors. Here, we examined inputs to the lateral hypothalamus (LH) orexin cell field from the lateral septum (LS) using tract-tracing and Fos immunohistochemistry after cocaine (10 mg/kg) conditioned place preference (CPP) in Sprague Dawley rats. We found that neurons in rostral LS (LSr) that project to LH are Fos-activated in proportion to cocaine CPP, and that inhibition of LSr neurons with local baclofen and muscimol microinjection (0.3/0.03 nmol) blocks expression of Fos in LH orexin cells and cocaine preference. In addition, using local inactivation in LS and orexin antisense morpholinos in LH, we found that LSr influences on LH orexin neurons are critical for the expression of cocaine preference. These results indicate that LSr activates LH orexin neurons during cocaine place preference, and that this circuit is essential for expression of cocaine place preference.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays an important role in neuronal survival through activation of TrkB receptors. The trkB gene encodes a full-length receptor tyrosine kinase (TrkB.FL) and its truncated (T1/T2) isoforms. We investigated the changes in TrkB protein levels and signaling activity under excitotoxic conditions, which are characteristic of brain ischemia, traumatic brain injury, and neurodegenerative disorders. Excitotoxic stimulation of cultured rat hippocampal or striatal neurons downregulated TrkB.FL and upregulated a truncated form of the receptor (TrkB.T). Downregulation of TrkB.FL was mediated by calpains, whereas the increase in TrkB.T protein levels required transcription and translation activities. Downregulation of TrkB.FL receptors in hippocampal neurons correlated with a decrease in BDNF-induced activation of the Ras/ERK and PLC pathways. However, calpain inhibition, which prevents TrkB.FL degradation, did not preclude the decrease in signaling activity of these receptors. On the other hand, incubation with anisomycin, to prevent the upregulation of TrkB.T, protected to a large extent the TrkB.FL signaling activity, suggesting that truncated receptors may act as dominant-negatives. The upregulation of TrkB.T under excitotoxic conditions was correlated with an increase in BDNF-induced inhibition of RhoA, a mediator of excitotoxic neuronal death. BDNF fully protected hippocampal neurons transduced with TrkB.T when present during excitotoxic stimulation with glutamate, in contrast with the partial protection observed in cells overexpressing TrkB.FL or expressing GFP. These results indicate that BDNF protects hippocampal neurons by two distinct mechanisms: through the neurotrophic effects of TrkB.FL receptors and by activation of TrkB.T receptors coupled to inhibition of the excitotoxic signaling.
The Aplysia feeding system with its high degree of plasticity and well characterized neuronal circuitry is well suited for investigations of memory formation. We used an operant paradigm, learning that food is inedible (LFI), to investigate the signaling pathways underlying intermediate-term memory (ITM) in Aplysia. During a single massed training session, the animal associates a specific seaweed with the failure to swallow, generating short-term (30 min) and long-term (24 h) memory. We investigated whether the same training protocol induced the formation of ITM. We found that massed LFI training resulted in temporally distinct protein synthesis-dependent memory evident 4-6 h after training. Through in vivo experiments, we determined that the formation of ITM required protein kinase A, protein kinase C, and MAPK. Moreover, the maintenance of ITM required PKA, PKM Apl III, and MAPK because inhibition of any of these kinases after training or before testing blocked the expression of memory. In contrast, additional experiments determined that the maintenance of long-term memory appeared independent of PKM Apl III. Using Western blotting, we found that sustained MAPK phosphorylation was dependent upon protein synthesis, but not PKA or PKC activity. Thus, massed training-induced intermediate-term operant memory requires protein synthesis as well as persistent or sustained kinase signaling for PKA, PKC, and MAPK. While short-, intermediate-, and long-term memory are induced by the same training protocol, considerable differences exist in both the combination and timing of signaling cascades that induce the formation and maintenance of these temporally distinct memories.
It is debated whether functional divisions between structures in the medial temporal lobe (MTL), in particular the perirhinal cortex (PrC) and hippocampus (HC), are best conceptualized according to memory process (Diana et al., 2007; Ranganath, 2010; Wixted et al., 2010) or stimulus category (Graham et al., 2010). In the former account, PrC is critical for item familiarity but not recollection of associations between items and their contexts (which is instead dependent upon the HC; Ranganath et al., 2004). In the latter theory, complex object representations in PrC are capable of supporting memory for objects as well as for object-context associations, particularly when there is a demand to discriminate between highly visually similar objects (Cowell et al., 2010). To adjudicate between these accounts, human participants were scanned while making two different judgments about visually presented objects (is the object common or uncommon, or does the object have more edges or curves). In a subsequent, unscanned, retrieval phase, participants made item (old/new) followed by context (encoding task) judgments about previously seen and novel objects. Neural activity at encoding was separated according to the accuracy of the retrieval judgments. PrC activity predicted successful item-context judgments, a result that remained when item-memory strength was equated across objects for which the context was remembered or forgotten. These data imply that the function of PrC goes beyond processing item-based memory information, contributing additionally to memory for item-context associations when the stimuli are objects (Graham et al., 2010).
Olfactory sensory neurons expressing particular olfactory receptors project to specific reproducible locations within the bulb. The axonal guidance cues that organize this precise projection pattern are only beginning to be identified. To aid in their identification and characterization, we generated a transgenic zebrafish line, OR111-7:IRES:Gal4, in which a small subset of olfactory sensory neurons is labeled. Most sensory neurons expressing the OR111-7 transgene project to a specific location within the bulb, the central zone protoglomerulus, while a smaller number project to the lateral glomerulus 1 protoglomerulus. Inhibiting Netrin/DCC (deleted in colorectal cancer) signaling perturbs the ability of OR111-7-expressing axons to enter the olfactory bulb and alters their patterns of termination within the bulb. The Netrin receptor DCC is expressed in olfactory sensory neurons around the time that they elaborate their axons, netrin1a is expressed near the medial-most margin of the olfactory bulb, and netrin1b is expressed within the ventral region of the bulb. Loss of Netrin/DCC signaling components causes some OR111-7-expressing sensory axons to wander posteriorly after exiting the olfactory pit, away from netrin-expressing areas in the bulb. OR111-7-expressing axons that enter the bulb target the central zone less precisely than normal, spreading away from netrin-expressing regions. These pathfinding errors can be corrected by the reexpression of DCC within OR111-7 transgene-expressing neurons in DCC morphant embryos. These findings implicate Netrins as the only known attractants for olfactory sensory neurons, first drawing OR111-7-expressing axons into the bulb and then into the ventromedially positioned central zone protoglomerulus.
Loss of sleep causes an increase in sleep drive and deficits in hippocampal-dependent memory. Both of these responses are thought to require activation of adenosine A1 receptors (adorA1Rs) and release of transmitter molecules including ATP, which is rapidly converted to adenosine in the extracellular space, from astrocytes in a process termed gliotransmission. Although it is increasingly clear that astrocyte-derived adenosine plays an important role in driving the homeostatic sleep response and the effects of sleep loss on memory (Halassa et al., 2009; Florian et al., 2011), previous studies have not determined whether the concentration of this signaling molecule increases in response to wakefulness. Here, we show that the level of adorA1R activation increases in response to wakefulness in mice (Mus musculus). We found that this increase affected synaptic transmission in the hippocampus and modulated network activity in the cortex. Direct biosensor-based measurement of adenosine showed that the net extracellular concentration of this transmitter increased in response to normal wakefulness and sleep deprivation. Genetic inhibition of gliotransmission prevented this increase and attenuated the wakefulness-dependent changes in synaptic and network regulation by adorA1R. Consequently, we conclude that wakefulness increases the level of extracellular adenosine in the hippocampus and that this increase requires the release of transmitters from astroctyes.


The rewarding properties of psychomotor stimulants are traditionally thought to be independent of norepinephrine. Recent findings, however, suggest that local noradrenergic signaling through 1 receptors in the medial prefrontal cortex and the ventral tegmental area - brain regions critically important in natural and drug rewards - is in a position to influence stimulant reward. Despite this controversy, the contribution of this targeted signaling to stimulant self-administration has not been directly assessed. We have thus examined whether pharmacological blockade of 1 receptors in the medial prefrontal cortex and ventral tegmental area alters cocaine self-administration. Rats were trained to lever-press for cocaine (1.0 mg/kg/infusion) under a fixed ratio 1 schedule of reinforcement for 10 days. After training, the rats received a bilateral microinjection of an 1 noradrenergic antagonist (terazosin: 1.0, 5.0, or 10 mM/side), a D1 dopaminergic antagonist (SCH23390: 12.3 mM/side), or saline into either the medial prefrontal cortex or ventral tegmental area immediately before a cocaine self-administration session. Although SCH23390 significantly increased cocaine self-administration when injected into either brain region, terazosin, at all doses and sites tested, failed to alter this behavior. Thus, the maintenance of cocaine self-administration appears to be under the influence of D1 dopaminergic, rather than 1 noradrenergic, signaling at these mesocortical sites.
Functional areas located near or within brain gliomas prevent the complete resection of these tumors. It has recently been described that slow tumor invasion promotes neural reorganization, and even topographic plasticity, allowing a staged resection of those tumors. Thus, our aim was to promote plasticity by mimicking the tumor's capability to displace brain function. This proceeded through the production of a 'virtual lesion' in eloquent areas within a tumor using continuous high-frequency cortical electrical stimulation (cHFCS). An anaplastic astrocytoma located in Broca's area progressed in a patient whose lateralization of language to the side of the lesion was demonstrated with functional MRI. After partial tumor resection using awake cortical monitoring, we implanted a subdural grid over the eloquent cortex located within residual tumor. We then applied cHFCS for 25 days, using a frequency of 130 Hz and a pulse width of 1 ms. Stimulus intensity was set to the threshold wherein mild speech disturbance was evident without any other neurological effects. This treatment successfully achieved the displacement of speech functions, and a more radical resection of the tumor was possible in a second surgery. Critically, a reorganization of motor language areas was demonstrated both with functional MRI and cortical stimulation. Furthermore, motor language areas were also identified in the right hemisphere, where previously they were absent. The patient's speech fluency improved both after stimulation and resection. We therefore demonstrate the first evidence of induced topographic plasticity using cHFCS in eloquent areas within a tumor, which allowed for increased tumor removal. Our results open the possibility to induce plasticity before the resection of brain tumors near eloquent areas, in order to increase the extent of resection.
By probing its functional anatomy, the default mode network (DMN) can be considered consisting of two interacting hub and non-hub subsystems. The hub subsystem includes posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) and bilateral inferior parietal cortex (IPC). The non-hub subsystem contains inferior temporal cortex (ITC) and (para) hippocampus (HC). In this study, Gaussian Bayesian Network (BN) and Gaussian Dynamic Bayesian Network (DBN) were applied separately to detect the instantaneous and temporal connection relationship within each and between the two DMN subsystems. It was found that the directional instantaneous interactions between the two subsystems were primarily &quot;from non-hub to hub&quot;. The temporal interactions between hub and non-hub regions, on the other hand, are less presented between the two subsystems. The hub subsystem demonstrated both strong instantaneous and temporal interactions among the hub regions, while the non-hub regions were only strongly inter-connected instantaneously but temporally isolated with each other. In addition, one of the hub regions, PCC, appears to be a confluent node and important in the functional integration within the network.
We investigated whether the human brain encodes and memorizes object orientations with respect to external references, such as gravity and visual landmarks, or whether it uses egocentric representations of the task. To this end, we applied a new analysis to a previously reported experiment on a reach-to-grasp-like movement, in which we used sensory conflict to identify how the CNS encodes target and hand orientation. Whereas in the preceding study deviations of responses provoked by the conflict provided evidence for the simultaneous use of visual and kinesthetic representations of target and hand (Tagliabue and McIntyre, 2011 [20]), here we used an analysis of response variability in the presence of conflict to test for ego- versus exo-centric encoding within each sensory modality. Our results show an increase of response variability with the amplitude of the head rotation, indicative of errors that accumulate when updating egocentric representations during head movements. In addition, the effect of conflict on error accumulation showed that the brain selects different information about the head movement for the updating, depending on the modality of the egocentric representation (visual or kinesthetic) that is retained. In particular, the CNS appears to privilege the sensory information about head movement that can most easily be combined with each internal representation. Moreover, a combined analysis of response variability and response deviations induced by the conflict suggests the coexistence of independent ego- and exo-centered internal representations within each sensory modality.
Damage to peripheral nerve branches triggers activation of microglia in CNS areas containing motor neuron soma and primary afferent terminals of the damaged fibers. Furthermore, microglial activation occurs in areas containing the soma and terminals of spared nerve branches of a damaged nerve. Because the abdominal viscera are innervated by spinal afferents as well as vagal afferents and efferents, we speculated that spinal nerves might respond like spared nerve branches following damage to vagal fibers. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that damage to the abdominal vagus would result in microglial activation in vagal structures-the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve (DMV), and nodose ganglia (NG)-as well as spinal cord (SC) segments that innervate the abdominal viscera. To test this hypothesis, rats underwent subdiaphragmatic vagotomy or sham surgery and were treated with saline or the microglial inhibitor, minocycline. Microglial activation was determined by quantifying changes in the intensity of fluorescent staining with a primary antibody against ionizing calcium adapter binding molecule 1 (Iba1). We found that subdiaphragmatic vagotomy significantly activated microglia in the NTS, DMV, and NG two weeks post-vagotomy. Microglial activation remained significantly increased in the NG and DMV for at least 42 days. Surprisingly, vagotomy significantly decreased microglial activation in the SC. Minocycline treatment attenuated microglial activation in all studied areas. Our results indicate that microglial activation in vagal structures following abdominal vagal damage is accompanied by suppression of microglial activation in associated areas of the spinal cord.

New developments in nanotechnology are increasingly designed to modulate relevant interactions between nanomaterials and neurons, with the aim of exploiting the physical properties of synthetic materials to tune desired and specific biological processes. Carbon nanotubes have been applied in several areas of nerve tissue engineering to study cell behavior or to instruct the growth and organization of neural networks. Recent reports show that nanotubes can sustain and promote electrical activity in networks of cultured neurons. However, such results are usually limited to carbon nanotube/neuron hybrids formed on a monolayer of dissociated brain cells. In the present work, we used organotypic spinal slices to model multilayer tissue complexity, and we interfaced such spinal segments to carbon nanotube scaffolds for weeks. By immunofluorescence, scanning and transmission electronic microscopy, and atomic force microscopy, we investigated nerve fiber growth when neuronal processes exit the spinal explant and develop in direct contact to the substrate. By single-cell electrophysiology, we investigated the synaptic activity of visually identified ventral interneurons, within the ventral area of the explant, thus synaptically connected, but located remotely, to the substrate/network interface. Here we show that spinal cord explants interfaced for weeks to purified carbon nanotube scaffolds expand more neuronal fibers, characterized by different mechanical properties and displaying higher growth cones activity. On the other hand, exploring spontaneous and evoked synaptic activity unmasks an increase in synaptic efficacy in neurons located at as far as 5 cell layers from the cell-substrate interactions.
Bupropion, a clinically used antidepressant and smoking-cessation drug, acts as a noncompetitive antagonist of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). To identify its binding site(s) in nAChRs, we developed a photoreactive bupropion analogue, ()-2-(N-tert-butylamino)-3'-[(125)I]-iodo-4'-azidopropiophenone (SADU-3-72). Based on inhibition of [(125)I]SADU-3-72 binding, SADU-3-72 binds with high affinity (IC(50) = 0.8 M) to the Torpedo nAChR in the resting (closed channel) state and in the agonist-induced desensitized state, and bupropion binds to that site with 3-fold higher affinity in the desensitized (IC(50) = 1.2 M) than in the resting state. Photolabeling of Torpedo nAChRs with [(125)I]SADU-3-72 followed by limited in-gel digestion of nAChR subunits with endoproteinase Glu-C established the presence of [(125)I]SADU-3-72 photoincorporation within nAChR subunit fragments containing M1-M2-M3 helices (V8-20K, V8-22/23K, and V8-24K) or M1-M2 helices (V8-14). Photolabeling within V8-22/23K, V8-24K, and V8-14 was reduced in the desensitized state and inhibited by ion channel blockers selective for the resting (tetracaine) or desensitized (thienycyclohexylpiperidine (TCP)) state, and this pharmacologically specific photolabeling was localized to the M2-9 leucine ring (Leu(265), Leu(257)) within the ion channel. In contrast, photolabeling within the V8-20K was enhanced in the desensitized state and not inhibited by TCP but was inhibited by bupropion. This agonist-enhanced photolabeling was localized to Tyr(213) in M1. These results establish the presence of two distinct bupropion binding sites within the Torpedo nAChR transmembrane domain: a high affinity site at the middle (M2-9) of the ion channel and a second site near the extracellular end of M1 within a previously described halothane (general anesthetic) binding pocket.

Neuroscience seeks to understand how neural circuits lead to behavior. However, the gap between circuits and behavior is too wide. An intermediate level is one of neural computations, which occur in individual neurons and populations of neurons. Some computations seem to be canonical: repeated and combined in different ways across the brain. To understand neural computations, we must record from a myriad of neurons in multiple brain regions. Understanding computation guides research in the underlying circuits and provides a language for theories of behavior.
The pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS) involves complex interactions between genetic susceptibility and environmental triggers. Clinical observations suggest that the study of sex differences might provide important insight into mechanisms of pathogenesis and progression of the disease in patients. MS occurs more frequently in women than in men, indicating that sex-related factors have an effect on an individual's susceptibility to developing the condition. These factors include hormonal, genetic and environmental influences, as well as gene-environment interactions and epigenetic mechanisms. Interestingly, women do not have a poorer prognosis than men with MS despite a higher incidence of the disease and more-robust immune responses, which suggests a mechanism of resilience. Furthermore, the state of pregnancy has a substantial effect on disease activity, characterized by a reduction in relapse rates during the third trimester but an increased relapse rate in the postpartum period. However, pregnancy has little effect on long-term disability in women with MS. The unravelling of the mechanisms underlying these clinical observations in the laboratory and application of the results to the clinical setting is a unique and potentially fruitful strategy to develop novel therapeutic approaches for MS.

Recent studies suggest that Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) could be pathogenic in both familial and sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) through either inheritable or nonheritable modifications. The presence of a misfolded WT SOD1 in patients with sporadic ALS, along with the recently reported evidence that reducing SOD1 levels in astrocytes derived from sporadic patients inhibits astrocyte-mediated toxicity on motor neurons, suggest that WT SOD1 may acquire toxic properties similar to familial ALS-linked mutant SOD1, perhaps through posttranslational modifications. Using patients' lymphoblasts, we show here that indeed WT SOD1 is modified posttranslationally in sporadic ALS and is iper-oxidized (i.e., above baseline oxidation levels) in a subset of patients with bulbar onset. Derivatization analysis of oxidized carbonyl compounds performed on immunoprecipitated SOD1 identified an iper-oxidized SOD1 that recapitulates mutant SOD1-like properties and damages mitochondria by forming a toxic complex with mitochondrial Bcl-2. This study conclusively demonstrates the existence of an iper-oxidized SOD1 with toxic properties in patient-derived cells and identifies a common SOD1-dependent toxicity between mutant SOD1-linked familial ALS and a subset of sporadic ALS, providing an opportunity to develop biomarkers to subclassify ALS and devise SOD1-based therapies that go beyond the small group of patients with mutant SOD1.
Ankyrin-R/B/G (encoded by ANK1/2/3, respectively) are a family of very large scaffold proteins capable of anchoring numerous receptors and ion channels to specific, spectrin-containing membrane micro-domains. Hereditary mutations of ankyrins are known to be associated with diseases including spherocytosis, cardiac arrhythmia, and bipolar disorder in humans, although the underlying molecular bases are poorly understood. The middle spectrin-binding domain of ankyrins contains highly conserved ZU5-ZU5-UPA-DD domains arranged into the ZZUD tandem. Curiously, most of the disease-causing mutations in the tandem have no apparent impact on the spectrin binding of ankyrins. The high resolution structure of the ankyrin-B ZZUD tandem determined here reveals that the ZU5-ZU5-UPA domains form a tightly packed structural supramodule, whereas DD is freely accessible. Although the formation of the ZZU supramodule does not influence the spectrin binding of ankyrins, mutations altering the interdomain interfaces of ZZU impair the functions of ankyrin-B&amp;G. Our structural analysis further indicates that the ZZU supramodule of ankyrins has two additional surfaces that may bind to targets other than spectrin. Finally, the structure of the ankyrin ZZUD provides mechanistic explanations to many disease-causing mutations identified in ankyrin-B&amp;R.
In the brains of patients with fetal Minamata disease (FMD), which is caused by exposure to methylmercury (MeHg) during development, many neurons are hypoplastic, ectopic, and disoriented, indicating disrupted migration, maturation, and growth. MeHg affects a myriad of signaling molecules, but little is known about which signals are primary targets for MeHg-induced deficits in neuronal development. In this study, using a mouse model of FMD, we examined how MeHg affects the migration of cerebellar granule cells during early postnatal development. The cerebellum is one of the most susceptible brain regions to MeHg exposure, and profound loss of cerebellar granule cells is detected in the brains of patients with FMD. We show that MeHg inhibits granule cell migration by reducing the frequency of somal Ca(2+) spikes through alterations in Ca(2+), cAMP, and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) signaling. First, MeHg slows the speed of granule cell migration in a dose-dependent manner, independent of the mode of migration. Second, MeHg reduces the frequency of spontaneous Ca(2+) spikes in granule cell somata in a dose-dependent manner. Third, a unique in vivo live-imaging system for cell migration reveals that reducing the inhibitory effects of MeHg on somal Ca(2+) spike frequency by stimulating internal Ca(2+) release and Ca(2+) influxes, inhibiting cAMP activity, or activating IGF1 receptors ameliorates the inhibitory effects of MeHg on granule cell migration. These results suggest that alteration of Ca(2+) spike frequency and Ca(2+), cAMP, and IGF1 signaling could be potential therapeutic targets for infants with MeHg intoxication.
Recovery of neurological function after traumatic injury of the adult mammalian central nervous system is limited by lack of axonal growth. Myelin-derived inhibitors contribute to axonal growth restriction, with ephrinB3 being a developmentally important axonal guidance cue whose expression in mature oligodendrocytes suggests a role in regeneration. Here we explored the in vivo regeneration role of ephrinB3 using mice lacking a functional ephrinB3 gene. We confirm that ephrinB3 accounts for a substantial portion of detergent-resistant myelin-derived inhibition in vitro. To assess in vivo regeneration, we crushed the optic nerve and examined retinal ganglion fibers extending past the crush site. Significantly increased axonal regeneration is detected in ephrinB3(-/-) mice. Studies of spinal cord injury in ephrinB3(-/-) mice must take into account altered spinal cord development and an abnormal hopping gait before injury. In a near-total thoracic transection model, ephrinB3(-/-) mice show greater spasticity than wild-type mice for 2 mo, with slightly greater hindlimb function at later time points, but no evidence for axonal regeneration. After a dorsal hemisection injury, increased corticospinal and raphespinal growth in the caudal spinal cord are detected by 6 wk. This increased axonal growth is accompanied by improved locomotor performance measured in the open field and by kinematic analysis. Thus, ephrinB3 contributes to myelin-derived axonal growth inhibition and limits recovery from adult CNS trauma.



Adult hypothalamic neurogenesis has recently been reported, but the cell of origin and the function of these newborn neurons are unknown. Using genetic fate mapping, we found that median eminence tanycytes generate newborn neurons. Blocking this neurogenesis altered the weight and metabolic activity of adult mice. These findings reveal a previously unreported neurogenic niche in the mammalian hypothalamus with important implications for metabolism.
Introduction: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common, progressive neurological disorder whose incidence is reaching epidemic proportions. The prevailing &quot;amyloid cascade hypothesis,&quot; which maintains that the aberrant proteolysis of beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) into neurotoxic amyloid beta (A) peptides is central to the etiopathology of AD, continues to dominate pharmacological approaches to the clinical management of this insidious disorder. This review is a compilation and update on current pharmacological strategies designed to down-regulate A42 peptide generation in an effort to ameliorate the tragedy of AD. Areas covered: This review utilized online data searches at various open online-access websites including the Alzheimer Association, Alzheimer Research Forum; individual drug company databases; the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Medline; Pharmaprojects database; Scopus; inter-University research communications; and unpublished research data. Expert opinion: Anti-acetylcholinesterase-, chelation-, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist-, statin-, A immunization-, -secretase-, -secretase-based, and other strategies to modulate APP processing, have dominated pharmacological approaches directed against AD-type neurodegenerative pathology. Cumulative clinical results of these efforts remain extremely disappointing, and have had little overall impact on the clinical management of AD. While a number of novel approaches are in consideration and development, to date there is still no effective treatment or cure for this expanding healthcare concern.
M-channels are voltage-gated potassium channels that regulate cell excitability. They are heterotetrameric assemblies of Kv7.2 and Kv7.3 subunits. Their opening requires the presence of the membrane phospholipid phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PI(4,5)P(2)). However, the specificity of PI(4,5)P(2) as a binding and activating ligand is unknown. Here, we tested the ability of different phosphoinositides and lipid phosphates to activate or bind to M-channel proteins. Activation of functional channels was measured in membrane patches isolated from cells coexpressing Kv7.2 and Kv7.3 subunits. Channels were activated to similar extents (maximum open probability of 0.8 at 0 mV) by 0.1-300 M dioctanoyl homologs of the three endogenous phosphoinositides, PI(4)P, PI(4,5)P(2), and PI(3,4,5)P(3), with sensitivity increasing with increasing numbers of phosphates. Non-acylated inositol phosphates had no effect up to 100 M. Channels were also activated with increasing efficacy by 1-300 M concentrations of the monoacyl monophosphates fingolimod phosphate, sphingosine 1-phosphate, and lysophosphatidic acid but not by phosphate-free fingolimod or sphingosine or by phosphate-masked phosphatidylcholine or phosphatidylglycerol. An overlay assay confirmed that a fusion protein containing the full-length C terminus of Kv7.2 could bind to a broad range of phosphoinositides and phospholipids. A mutated Kv7.2 C-terminal construct with reduced sensitivity to PI(4,5)P showed significantly less binding to most polyphosphoinositides. We concluded that M-channels bind to, and are activated by, a wide range of lipid phosphates, with a minimum requirement for an acyl chain and a phosphate headgroup. In this, they more closely resemble inwardly rectifying Kir6.2 potassium channels than the more PI(4,5)P(2)-specific Kir2 channels. Notwithstanding, the data also support the view that the main endogenous activator of M-channels is PI(4,5)P(2).
Midbrain dopamine (mdDA) neurons project via the medial forebrain bundle towards several areas in the telencephalon, including the striatum(1). Reciprocally, medium spiny neurons in the striatum that give rise to the striatonigral (direct) pathway innervate the substantia nigra(2). The development of these axon tracts is dependent upon the combinatorial actions of a plethora of axon growth and guidance cues including molecules that are released by neurites or by (intermediate) target regions(3,4). These soluble factors can be studied in vitro by culturing mdDA and/or striatal explants in a collagen matrix which provides a three-dimensional substrate for the axons mimicking the extracellular environment. In addition, the collagen matrix allows for the formation of relatively stable gradients of proteins released by other explants or cells placed in the vicinity (e.g. see references 5 and 6). Here we describe methods for the purification of rat tail collagen, microdissection of dopaminergic and striatal explants, their culture in collagen gels and subsequent immunohistochemical and quantitative analysis. First, the brains of E14.5 mouse embryos are isolated and dopaminergic and striatal explants are microdissected. These explants are then (co)cultured in collagen gels on coverslips for 48 to 72 hours in vitro. Subsequently, axonal projections are visualized using neuronal markers (e.g. tyrosine hydroxylase, DARPP32, or III tubulin) and axon growth and attractive or repulsive axon responses are quantified. This neuronal preparation is a useful tool for in vitro studies of the cellular and molecular mechanisms of mesostriatal and striatonigral axon growth and guidance during development. Using this assay, it is also possible to assess other (intermediate) targets for dopaminergic and striatal axons or to test specific molecular cues.
Aims: Mice and non-human primates administered with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) represent elective experimental models of Parkinsonism, in which degeneration of the nigro-striatal dopaminergic pathway is associated with prominent neuroinflammation, characterized by activated microglia and astrocytes in both substantia nigra (SN) and striatum. To date, it is unknown whether oligodendrocytes play a role in these events. Methods: We performed a detailed qualitative and quantitative analysis of oligodendrocyte-associated changes induced by acute and chronic MPTP treatment, in the SN and striatum of mice and macaques, respectively. Oligodendrocytes were immunolabeled by cell-specific markers and analyzed by confocal microscopy. Results: In both experimental models, MPTP treatment induces an increase in oligodendrocyte cell number and average size, as well as in the total area occupied by this cell type per tissue section, accompanied by evident morphological changes. This multifaceted array of changes, herein referred to as oligodendrogliosis, significantly correlate with the reduction in the level of dopaminergic innervation to the striatum. Conclusions: This event, associated with early damage of the dopaminergic neuron axons and of the complex striatal circuits of which they are part, may result in an important, although neglected, aspect in the onset and progression of Parkinsonism.  2012 The Authors. Neuropathology and Applied Neurobiology  2012 British Neuropathological Society.

Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is characterized by a hypermnesia of the trauma and by a memory impairment that decreases the ability to restrict fear to the appropriate context. Infusion of glucocorticoids in the hippocampus after fear conditioning induces PTSD-like memory impairments and an altered pattern of neural activation in the hippocampal-amygdalar circuit. Mice become unable to identify the context as the correct predictor of the threat and show fear responses to a discrete cue not predicting the threat in normal conditions. These data demonstrate PTSD-like memory impairments in rodents and identify a potential pathophysiological mechanism of this condition.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with impaired clearance of -amyloid (A) from the brain, a process normally facilitated by apolipoprotein E (apoE). ApoE expression is transcriptionally induced through the action of the nuclear receptors peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma and liver X receptors in coordination with retinoid X receptors (RXRs). Oral administration of the RXR agonist bexarotene to a mouse model of AD resulted in enhanced clearance of soluble A within hours in an apoE-dependent manner. A plaque area was reduced more than 50% within just 72 hours. Furthermore, bexarotene stimulated the rapid reversal of cognitive, social, and olfactory deficits and improved neural circuit function. Thus, RXR activation stimulates physiological A clearance mechanisms, resulting in the rapid reversal of a broad range of A-induced deficits.

This study evaluates the effects of two learning paradigms, intensive vs. baseline, on the posttraumatic acquisition of a water maze based place learning task. Rats were subjected either to a control operation (Sham) or to a fimbria-fornix (FF) transection, which renders the hippocampus dysfunctional and disrupts the acquisition of allocentric place learning. All animals were administered 30 post-lesion acquisition sessions, which spanned either 10 or 30days. The acquisition period was followed by a 7day pause after which a retention probe was administered. The lesioned animals were divided into 3 groups: i) Baseline Acquisition Paradigm (BAP) once daily for 30days starting 1week post-surgery; ii) Early Intensive Acquisition Paradigm (EIAP) 3 times daily for 10days starting 1week post-surgery; and iii) Late Intensive Acquisition Paradigm (LIAP) 3 times daily for 10days starting 3weeks post-surgery. Within the control animals, one group followed the schedule of BAP, and one group followed the schedule of Intensive Acquisition Paradigm (IAP). All lesioned animals showed an impaired task acquisition. LIAP was beneficial in FF animals, in that it led to a better acquisition of the place learning task than the two other acquisition paradigms. The FF/EIAP group did not show improved acquisition compared to the FF/BAP group. The control animals were not differentially affected by the two learning schedules. The findings have implications for cognitive rehabilitation after brain injury and support the assumption that intensive treatment can lead to an improved learning, even when the neural structures underlying such a process are compromised. However, the timing of intensive treatment needs to be considered further.
Advanced leads of an imidazopyridine series of positive allosteric modulators of the metabotropic glutamate 2 (mGlu2) receptor are reported. The optimization of in vitro ADMET and in vivo pharmacokinetic properties led to the identification of 27o. With good potency and selectivity for the mGlu2 receptor, 27o affected sleep-wake architecture in rats after oral treatment, which we have previously shown to be indicative of mGlu2 receptor-mediated central activity.
Little is known about mechanisms mediating a stable perception of the world during pursuit eye movements. Here, we used fMRI to determine to what extent human motion-responsive areas integrate planar retinal motion with nonretinal eye movement signals in order to discard self-induced planar retinal motion and to respond to objective (&quot;real&quot;) motion. Incontrast to other areas, V3A lacked responses toself-induced planar retinal motion but responded strongly to head-centered motion, even when retinally canceled by pursuit. This indicates a near-complete multimodal integration of visual with nonvisual planar motion signals in V3A. V3A could be mapped selectively and robustly in every single subject on this basis. V6 also reported head-centered planar motion, even when 3D flow was added to it, but was suppressed by retinal planar motion. These findings suggest a dominant contribution of human areas V3A and V6 to head-centered motion perception and to perceptual stability during eye movements.
The activity of ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine (DA) neurons promotes behavioral responses to rewards and environmental stimuli that predict them. VTA GABA inputs synapse directly onto DA neurons and may regulate DA neuronal activity to alter reward-related behaviors; however, the functional consequences of selective activation of VTA GABA neurons remains unknown. Here, we show that invivo optogenetic activation of VTA GABA neurons disrupts reward consummatory behavior but not conditioned anticipatory behavior in response to reward-predictive cues. In addition, direct activation of VTA GABA projections to the nucleus accumbens (NAc) resulted in detectable GABA release but did not alter reward consumption. Furthermore, optogenetic stimulation of VTA GABA neurons directly suppressed the activity and excitability of neighboring DA neurons as well as the release of DA in the NAc, suggesting that the dynamic interplay between VTA DA and GABA neurons can control the initiation and termination of reward-related behaviors.
Salient but aversive stimuli inhibit the majority of dopamine (DA) neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and cause conditioned place aversion (CPA). The cellular mechanism underlying DA neuron inhibition has not been investigated and the causal link to behavior remains elusive. Here, we show that GABA neurons of the VTA inhibit DA neurons through neurotransmission at GABA(A) receptors. We also observe that GABA neurons increase their firing in response to a footshock and provide evidence that driving GABA neurons with optogenetic effectors is sufficient to affect behavior. Taken together, our data demonstrate that synaptic inhibition of DA neurons drives place aversion.
Mutations in TSPAN7--a member of the tetraspanin protein superfamily--are implicated in some forms of X-linked intellectual disability. Here we show that TSPAN7 overexpression promotes the formation of filopodia and dendritic spines in cultured hippocampal neurons from embryonic rats, whereas TSPAN7 silencing reduces head size and stability of spines and AMPA receptor currents. Via its C terminus, TSPAN7 interacts with the PDZ domain of protein interacting with C kinase 1 (PICK1), to regulate PICK1 and GluR2/3 association and AMPA receptor trafficking. These findings indicate that, in hippocampal neurons, TSPAN7 regulates AMPA receptor trafficking by limiting PICK1 accessibility to AMPA receptors and suggest an additional mechanism for the functional maturation of glutamatergic synapses, whose impairment is implicated in intellectual disability.
We describe a project aimed at studying a large number of individuals (&gt;200) with specific recurrent genetic variations (deletion or duplication of segment 16p11.2) that increase the risk of developing autism spectrum (ASD) and other developmental disorders. The genetics-first approach augmented by web-based recruitment, multisite collaboration and calibration, and robust data-sharing policies could be adopted by other groups studying neuropsychiatric disorders to accelerate the pace of research.
How rapidly does learning shape our brains? A new study in this issue of Neuron by Sagi etal. (2012) that uses diffusion magnetic resonance imaging in both humans and rats suggests that just 2hr of spatial learning is sufficient to change brain structure.
In this issue of Neuron, Harwell etal. (2012) identify a new role for the secreted molecule Shh and its receptor Boc in synapse formation. These results add an unexpected new player to the expanding list of extracellular cues regulating the spatial specificity of synapse formation.
BMS-708163 is a novel, sulfonamide containing -secretase inhibitor from Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. currently in Phase II clinical trials for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD).
Although fast-scan cyclic voltammetry (FSCV) has contributed to important advances in neuroscience research, the technique is encumbered by significant analytical challenges. Confounding factors such as pH change and transient effects at the microelectrode surface make it difficult to discern the analytes represented by complex voltammograms. Here we introduce paired-pulse voltammetry (PPV), that mitigates the confounding factors and simplifies the analytical task. PPV consists of a selected binary waveform with a specific time gap between each of its two comprising pulses, such that each binary wave is repeated, while holding the electrode at a negative potential between the waves. This allows two simultaneous yet very different voltammograms (primary and secondary) to be obtained, each corresponding to the two pulses in the binary waveform. PPV was evaluated in the flow cell to characterize three different analytes, (dopamine, adenosine, and pH changes). The peak oxidation current decreased by approximately 50%, 80%, and 4% for dopamine, adenosine, and pH, in the secondary voltammogram compared with the primary voltammogram, respectively. Thus, the influence of pH changes could be virtually eliminated using the difference between the primary and secondary voltammograms in the PPV technique, which discriminates analytes on the basis of their adsorption characteristics to the carbon fiber electrode. These results demonstrate that PPV can be effectively used for differentiating complex analytes.
Changes in voltage-dependent gating represent a common pathogenetic mechanism for genetically inherited channelopathies, such as benign familial neonatal seizures or peripheral nerve hyperexcitability caused by mutations in neuronal K(v)7.2 channels. Mutation-induced changes in channel voltage dependence are most often inferred from macroscopic current measurements, a technique unable to provide a detailed assessment of the structural rearrangements underlying channel gating behavior; by contrast, gating currents directly measure voltage-sensor displacement during voltage-dependent gating. In this work, we describe macroscopic and gating current measurements, together with molecular modeling and molecular-dynamics simulations, from channels carrying mutations responsible for benign familial neonatal seizures and/or peripheral nerve hyperexcitability; K(v)7.4 channels, highly related to K(v)7.2 channels both functionally and structurally, were used for these experiments. The data obtained showed that mutations affecting charged residues located in the more distal portion of S(4) decrease the stability of the open state and the active voltage-sensing domain configuration but do not directly participate in voltage sensing, whereas mutations affecting a residue (R4) located more proximally in S(4) caused activation of gating-pore currents at depolarized potentials. These results reveal that distinct molecular mechanisms underlie the altered gating behavior of channels carrying disease-causing mutations at different voltage-sensing domain locations, thereby expanding our current view of the pathogenesis of neuronal hyperexcitability diseases.
Loop-gating is one of two voltage-dependent mechanisms that regulate the open probability of connexin channels. The loop-gate permeability barrier is formed by a segment of the first extracellular loop (E1) (the parahelix) and appears to be accompanied by straightening of the bend angle between E1 and the first transmembrane domain (TM1). Here, all-atom molecular dynamics simulations are used to identify and characterize interacting van der Waals and electrostatic networks that stabilize the parahelices and TM1/E1 bend angles of the open Cx26 hemichannel. Dynamic fluctuations in an electrostatic network in each subunit are directly linked to the stability of parahelix structure and TM1/E1 bend angle in adjacent subunits. The electrostatic network includes charged residues that are pore-lining and thus positioned to be voltage sensors. We propose that the transition to the closed state is initiated by voltage-driven disruption of the networks that stabilize the open-state parahelix configuration, allowing the parahelix to protrude into the channel pore to form the loop-gate barrier. Straightening of the TM1/E1 bend appears to be a consequence of the reorganization of the interacting networks that accompany the conformational change of the parahelix. The electrostatic network extends across subunit boundaries, suggesting a concerted gating mechanism.
Identifying molecular mechanisms that underlie learning and memory is one of the major challenges in neuroscience. Taken the advantages of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, we investigated -adducin (add-1) in aversive olfactory associative learning and memory. Loss of add-1 function selectively impaired short- and long-term memory without causing acquisition, sensory, or motor deficits. We showed that -adducin is required for consolidation of synaptic plasticity, for sustained synaptic increase of AMPA-type glutamate receptor (GLR-1) content and altered GLR-1 turnover dynamics. ADD-1, in a splice-form- and tissue-specific manner, controlled the storage of memories presumably through actin-capping activity. In support of the C. elegans results, genetic variability of the human ADD1 gene was significantly associated with episodic memory performance in healthy young subjects. Finally, human ADD1 expression in nematodes restored loss of C. elegans add-1 gene function. Taken together, our findings support a role for -adducin in memory from nematodes to humans. Studying the molecular and genetic underpinnings of memory across distinct species may be helpful in the development of novel strategies to treat memory-related diseases.
We have developed a multifaceted, highly specific reporter for multimodal in vivo imaging and applied it for detection of brain tumors. A metabolically biotinylated, membrane-bound form of Gaussia luciferase was synthesized, termed mbGluc-biotin. We engineered glioma cells to express this reporter and showed that brain tumor formation can be temporally imaged by bioluminescence following systemic administration of coelenterazine. Brain tumors expressing this reporter had high sensitivity for detection by magnetic resonance and fluorescence tomographic imaging upon injection of streptavidin conjugated to magnetic nanoparticles or fluorophore, respectively. Moreover, single photon emission computed tomography showed enhanced imaging of these tumors upon injection with streptavidin complexed to (111)In-DTPA-biotin. This work shows for the first time a single small reporter (40 kDa) which can be monitored with most available molecular imaging modalities and can be extended for single cell imaging using intravital microscopy, allowing real-time tracking of any cell expressing it in vivo.
The LIM domain only 4 (LMO4) transcription cofactor activates gene expression in neurons and regulates key aspects of network formation, but the mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we show that LMO4 positively regulates ryanodine receptor type 2 (RyR2) expression, thereby suggesting that LMO4 regulates calcium-induced calcium release (CICR) in central neurons. We found that CICR modulation of the afterhyperpolarization in CA3 neurons from mice carrying a forebrain-specific deletion of LMO4 (LMO4 KO) was severely compromised but could be restored by single-cell overexpression of LMO4. In line with these findings, two-photon calcium imaging experiments showed that the potentiation of RyR-mediated calcium release from internal stores by caffeine was absent in LMO4 KO neurons. The overall facilitatory effect of CICR on glutamate release induced during trains of action potentials was likewise defective in LMO4 KO, confirming that CICR machinery is severely compromised in these neurons. Moreover, the magnitude of CA3-CA1 long-term potentiation was reduced in LMO4 KO mice, a defect that appears to be secondary to an overall reduced glutamate release probability. These cellular phenotypes in LMO4 KO mice were accompanied with deficits in hippocampus-dependent spatial learning as determined by the Morris water maze test. Thus, our results establish LMO4 as a key regulator of CICR in central neurons, providing a mechanism for LMO4 to modulate a wide range of neuronal functions and behavior.
Acid-sensing ion channel-1a (ASIC1a) is a potential therapeutic target for multiple neurological diseases. We studied here ASIC1a glycosylation and trafficking, two poorly understood processes pivotal in determining the functional outcome of an ion channel. We found that most ASIC1a in the mouse brain was fully glycosylated. Inhibiting glycosylation with tunicamycin reduced ASIC1a surface trafficking, dendritic targeting, and acid-activated current density. N-glycosylation of the two glycosylation sites, Asn393 and Asn366, has differential effects on ASIC1a biogenesis. Maturation of Asn393 increased ASIC1a surface and dendritic trafficking, pH sensitivity, and current density. In contrast, glycosylation of Asn366 was dispensable for ASIC1a function and may be a rate-limiting step in ASIC1a biogenesis. In addition, we revealed that acidosis reduced the density and length of dendritic spines in a time- and ASIC1a-dependent manner. ASIC1a N366Q, which showed increased glycosylation and dendritic targeting, potentiated acidosis-induced spine loss. Conversely, ASIC1a N393Q, which had diminished dendritic targeting and inhibited ASIC1a current dominant-negatively, had the opposite effect. These data tie N-glycosylation of ASIC1a with its trafficking. More importantly, by revealing a site-specific effect of acidosis on dendritic spines, our findings suggest that these processes have an important role in regulating synaptic plasticity and determining long-term consequences in diseases that generate acidosis.
Neurons in primary visual cortex (V1) display substantial orientation selectivity even in species where V1 lacks an orientation map, such as in mice and rats. The mechanism underlying orientation selectivity in V1 with such a salt-and-pepper organization is unknown; it is unclear whether a connectivity that depends on feature similarity is required, or a random connectivity suffices. Here we argue for the latter. We study the response to a drifting grating of a network model of layer 2/3 with random recurrent connectivity and feedforward input from layer 4 neurons with random preferred orientations. We show that even though the total feedforward and total recurrent excitatory and inhibitory inputs all have a very weak orientation selectivity, strong selectivity emerges in the neuronal spike responses if the network operates in the balanced excitation/inhibition regime. This is because in this regime the (large) untuned components in the excitatory and inhibitory contributions approximately cancel. As a result the untuned part of the input into a neuron as well as its modulation with orientation and time all have a size comparable to the neuronal threshold. However, the tuning of the F0 and F1 components of the input are uncorrelated and the high-frequency fluctuations are not tuned. This is reflected in the subthreshold voltage response. Remarkably, due to the nonlinear voltage-firing rate transfer function, the preferred orientation of the F0 and F1 components of the spike response are highly correlated.


Psychosomatic and developmental behavioral medicine in pediatrics has been the subject of significant recent attention, with infants, school-age children, and adolescents frequently presenting with psychosomatic, behavioral, and psychiatric symptoms. These may be a consequence of insecurity of attachment, reduced self-confidence, and peer -relationship conflicts during their developmental stages. Developmental cognitive neuroscience has revealed significant associations between specific brain lesions and particular cognitive dysfunctions. Thus, identifying the biological deficits underlying such cognitive dysfunction may provide new insights into therapeutic prospects for the management of those symptoms in children. Recent advances in noninvasive neuroimaging techniques, and especially functional near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), have contributed significant findings to the field of developmental cognitive neuroscience in pediatrics. We present here a comprehensive review of functional NIRS studies of children who have developed normally and of children with psychosomatic and behavioral disorders.

A recent study has identified a novel form of short-term memory in the spinal cord that employs a ubiquitous mechanism for cellular homeostasis to encode neuronal network activity and adjust locomotor behaviour on the basis of past performance.
The ability to detect and avoid predators is essential to survival. Various animals, from sea urchins to damselfly larvae, use injury of conspecifics to infer the presence of predators. In many fish, skin damage causes the release of chemicals that elicit escape and fear in members of the shoal. The chemical nature of the alarm substance (&quot;Schreckstoff&quot; in German), the neural circuits mediating the complex response, and the evolutionary origins of a signal with little obvious benefit to the sender, are unresolved. To address these questions, we use biochemical fractionation to molecularly characterize Schreckstoff. Although hypoxanthine-3 N-oxide has been proposed to be the alarm substance, it has not been reliably detected in the skin and there may be other active components. We show that the alarm substance is a mixture that includes the glycosaminoglycan (GAG) chondroitin. Purified chondroitins trigger fear responses. Like skin extract, chondroitins activate the mediodorsal posterior olfactory bulb, a region innervated by crypt neurons that has a unique projection to the habenula. These findings establish GAGs as a new class of odorants in fish, which trigger alarm behavior possibly via a specialized circuit.
Neurite formation is a seminal event in the early development of neurons. However, little is known about the mechanisms by which neurons form neurites. F-BAR proteins function in sensing and inducing membrane curvature. Cdc42-interacting protein 4 (CIP4), a member of the F-BAR family, regulates endocytosis in a variety of cell types. However, there is little data on how CIP4 functions in neurons. Here we show that CIP4 plays a novel role in neuronal development by inhibiting neurite formation. Remarkably, CIP4 exerts this effect not through endocytosis, but by producing lamellipodial protrusions. In primary cortical neurons CIP4 is concentrated specifically at the tips of extending lamellipodia and filopodia, instead of endosomes as in other cell types. Overexpression of CIP4 results in lamellipodial protrusions around the cell body, subsequently delaying neurite formation and enlarging growth cones. These effects depend on the F-BAR and SH3 domains of CIP4 and on its ability to multimerize. Conversely, cortical neurons from CIP4-null mice initiate neurites twice as fast as controls. This is the first study to demonstrate that an F-BAR protein functions differently in neuronal versus nonneuronal cells and induces lamellipodial protrusions instead of invaginations or filopodia-like structures.
Mitochondria are essential for neuronal survival and function. Proper degradation of aged and damaged mitochondria through mitophagy is a key cellular pathway for mitochondrial quality control. Recent studies have indicated that PINK1/Parkin-mediated pathways ensure mitochondrial integrity and function. Translocation of Parkin to damaged mitochondria induces mitophagy in many nonneuronal cell types. However, evidence showing Parkin translocation in primary neurons is controversial, leaving unanswered questions as to how and where Parkin-mediated mitophagy occurs in neurons. Here, we report the unique process of dissipating mitochondrial (m)-induced and Parkin-mediated mitophagy in mature cortical neurons. Compared with nonneuronal cells, neuronal mitophagy is a much slower and compartmentally restricted process, coupled with reduced anterograde mitochondrial transport. Parkin-targeted mitochondria are accumulated in the somatodendritic regions where mature lysosomes are predominantly located. Time-lapse imaging shows dynamic formation and elimination of Parkin- and LC3-ring-like structures surrounding depolarized mitochondria through the autophagy-lysosomal pathway in the soma. Knocking down Parkin in neurons impairs the elimination of dysfunctional mitochondria. Thus, our study provides neuronal evidence for dynamic and spatial Parkin-mediated mitophagy, which will help us understand whether altered mitophagy contributes to pathogenesis of several major neurodegenerative diseases characterized by mitochondrial dysfunction and impaired transport.
The breadth of information resources available to researchers on the Internet continues to expand, particularly in light of recently implemented data-sharing policies required by funding agencies. However, the nature of dense, multifaceted neuroscience data and the design of contemporary search engine systems makes efficient, reliable and relevant discovery of such information a significant challenge. This challenge is specifically pertinent for online databases, whose dynamic content is 'hidden' from search engines. The Neuroscience Information Framework (NIF; http://www.neuinfo.org) was funded by the NIH Blueprint for Neuroscience Research to address the problem of finding and utilizing neuroscience-relevant resources such as software tools, data sets, experimental animals and antibodies across the Internet. From the outset, NIF sought to provide an accounting of available resources, whereas developing technical solutions to finding, accessing and utilizing them. The curators therefore, are tasked with identifying and registering resources, examining data, writing configuration files to index and display data and keeping the contents current. In the initial phases of the project, all aspects of the registration and curation processes were manual. However, as the number of resources grew, manual curation became impractical. This report describes our experiences and successes with developing automated resource discovery and semiautomated type characterization with text-mining scripts that facilitate curation team efforts to discover, integrate and display new content. We also describe the DISCO framework, a suite of automated web services that significantly reduce manual curation efforts to periodically check for resource updates. Lastly, we discuss DOMEO, a semi-automated annotation tool that improves the discovery and curation of resources that are not necessarily website-based (i.e. reagents, software tools). Although the ultimate goal of automation was to reduce the workload of the curators, it has resulted in valuable analytic by-products that address accessibility, use and citation of resources that can now be shared with resource owners and the larger scientific community. DATABASE URL: http://neuinfo.org.
Interest in promoting regeneration of the injured nervous system has recently turned toward the use of endogenous stem cells. Elucidating cues involved in driving these precursor cells out of quiescence following injury, and the signals that drive them toward neuronal and glial lineages, will help to harness these cells for repair. Using a biomechanically validated in vitro organotypic stretch injury model, cortico-hippocampal slices from postnatal mice were cultured and a stretch injury equivalent to a severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) applied. In uninjured cortex, proliferative potential under in vitro conditions is virtually absent in older slices (equivalent postnatal day 15 compared to 8). However, following a severe stretch injury, this potential is restored in injured outer cortex. Using slices from mice expressing a fluorescent reporter on the human glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) promoter, we show that GFAP+ cells account for the majority of proliferating neurospheres formed, and that these cells are likely to arise from the cortical parenchyma and not from the subventricular zone. Moreover, we provide evidence for a correlation between upregulation of sonic hedgehog signaling, a pathway known to regulate stem cell proliferation, and this restoration of regenerative potential following TBI. Our results indicate that a source of quiescent endogenous stem cells residing in the cortex and subcortical tissue proliferate in vitro following TBI. Moreover, these proliferating cells are multipotent and are derived mostly from GFAP-expressing cells. This raises the possibility of using this endogenous source of stem cells for repair following TBI.
In this work we assess the usefulness of the Randall-Selitto test as a method to detect and quantify neuropathic pain responses in rats subjected to different spinal cord injuries. The mechanical nociceptive thresholds were significantly reduced during follow-up after spinal cord contusion or transection. Our results demonstrate that the Randall-Selitto test allows the detection of neuropathic pain both in forepaws and hindpaws, as well as in dorsal and plantar surfaces. Moreover, it does not require weight support capacity, so it can be used at early time points after the injury. This is the first time that this method has been used to describe the changes in nociceptive thresholds that take place after spinal cord injuries of different severities over time.
Oxidative stress is a major contributor to the secondary injury process after experimental traumatic brain injury (TBI). The importance of oxidative stress in the pathobiology of human TBI is largely unknown. The F(2)-isoprostane 8-iso-prostaglandin F(2) (8-iso-PGF(2)), synthesized in vivo through non-enzymatic free radical catalyzed peroxidation of arachidonic acid, is a widely used biomarker of oxidative stress in multiple disease states, including TBI and cerebral ischemia/reperfusion. Our hypothesis is that harvesting of biomarkers directly in the injured brain by cerebral microdialysis (MD) is advantageous because of its high spatial and temporal resolution compared to blood or cerebrospinal fluid sampling. The aim of this study was to test the feasibility of measuring 8-iso-PGF(2) in MD, ventricular cerebrospinal fluid (vCSF), and plasma samples collected from patients with severe TBI, and to compare the MD signals with MD-glycerol, implicated as a biomarker of oxidative stress, as well as MD-glutamate, a biomarker of excitotoxicity. Six patients (4 men, 2 women) were included in the study, three of whom had a focal/mixed TBI, and three a diffuse axonal injury (DAI). Following the bedside analysis of routine MD biomarkers (glucose, lactate:pyruvate ratio, glycerol, and glutamate), two 12-h MD samples per day were used to analyze 8-iso-PGF(2) from 24h up to 8 days post-injury. The interstitial levels of 8-iso-PGF(2) were markedly higher than the levels obtained from plasma and vCSF (p&lt;0.05), supporting our hypothesis. The MD-8-iso-PGF(2) levels correlated strongly (p&lt;0.05) with MD-glycerol and MD-glutamate, which are widely used biomarkers of membrane phospholipid degradation/oxidative stress and excitotoxicity, respectively. This study demonstrates the feasibility of analyzing 8-iso-PGF(2) in MD samples from the human brain. Our results support a close relationship between oxidative stress and excitotoxicity following human TBI. MD-8-iso-PGF(2) in combination with MD-glycerol may be useful biomarkers of oxidative stress in the neurointensive care setting.
Cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) is the most common cause of spinal cord impairment worldwide and is a risk factor for traumatic central cord syndrome. Despite advances in surgery, there are no effective neuroprotective treatments for CSM, which reflects a limited understanding of its pathophysiology. In order to develop therapeutic strategies, we have developed a novel rat model of chronic progressive cervical spinal cord compression that mimics CSM. A titanium-screw-based chronic compression device (CCD) was designed to achieve progressive cord compression at the C6 level. The CCD was fixed to the C2 and T2 spinous processes and a threaded screw was turned to induce compression. Sprague-Dawley rats (n=75) were divided into three groups: (1) sham (no compression, n=6), (2) mild compression (1.4mm stenosis, n=27), and (3) severe compression (2.6mm stenosis, n=42). Compression was evaluated using micro-computed tomography (micro-CT). The area of spared white matter, extent of cord flattening ratio, and loss of neurons were assessed. Functional deficits were characterized using sensory-evoked potential (SEP) recordings, and with neurobehavioral tests: the Basso, Beattie, and Bresnahan (BBB) locomotor rating scale, inclined plane, paw grip strength, and assessment of mechanical and thermal allodynia. Micro-CT confirmed progressive canal stenosis. The loss of intact white matter and cord flattening were significantly greater in rats with severe cord compression, and the number of neurons was reduced at the epicenter of cord compression. With chronic cord compression there was a significant decline in locomotor function, forelimb function, trunk stability/coordination, an increase in mechanical allodynia, and impaired axonal conduction. The CCD model results in chronic and precise cervical cord compression. The compression is associated with mechanical allodynia and measurable neurobehavioral, neurophysiological, and neuropathological deficits. We anticipate that the CCD model will enable the investigation of translationally-relevant therapeutic strategies for CSM.
Mller glia are the primary glial subtype in the retina and perform a wide range of physiological tasks in support of retinal function, but little is known about the transcriptional network that maintains these cells in their differentiated state. We report that selective deletion of the LIM homeodomain transcription factor Lhx2 from mature Mller glia leads to the induction of reactive retinal gliosis in the absence of injury. Furthermore, Lhx2 expression is also down-regulated in Prph2(Rd2/Rd2) animals immediately before the onset of reactive gliosis. Analysis of conditional Lhx2 knockouts showed that gliosis was hypertrophic but not proliferative. Aging of experimental animals demonstrated that constitutive reactive gliosis induced by deletion of Lhx2 reduced rates of ongoing apoptosis and compromised both rod and cone photoreceptor function. Additionally, these animals showed a dramatically reduced ability to induce expression of secreted neuroprotective factors and displayed enhanced rates of apoptosis in light-damage assays. We provide in vivo evidence that Lhx2 actively maintains mature Mller glia in a nonreactive state, with loss of function initiating a specific program of nonproliferative hypertrophic gliosis.
Efficient behavior involves the coordinated activity of large-scale brain networks, but the way in which these networks interact is uncertain. One theory is that the salience network (SN)--which includes the anterior cingulate cortex, presupplementary motor area, and anterior insulae--regulates dynamic changes in other networks. If this is the case, then damage to the structural connectivity of the SN should disrupt the regulation of associated networks. To investigate this hypothesis, we studied a group of 57 patients with cognitive impairments following traumatic brain injury (TBI) and 25 control subjects using the stop-signal task. The pattern of brain activity associated with stop-signal task performance was studied by using functional MRI, and the structural integrity of network connections was quantified by using diffusion tensor imaging. Efficient inhibitory control was associated with rapid deactivation within parts of the default mode network (DMN), including the precuneus and posterior cingulate cortex. TBI patients showed a failure of DMN deactivation, which was associated with an impairment of inhibitory control. TBI frequently results in traumatic axonal injury, which can disconnect brain networks by damaging white matter tracts. The abnormality of DMN function was specifically predicted by the amount of white matter damage in the SN tract connecting the right anterior insulae to the presupplementary motor area and dorsal anterior cingulate cortex. The results provide evidence that structural integrity of the SN is necessary for the efficient regulation of activity in the DMN, and that a failure of this regulation leads to inefficient cognitive control.
Humans consistently make suboptimal decisions involving random events, yet the underlying neural mechanisms remain elusive. Using functional MRI and a matching pennies game that captured subjects' increasing tendency to predict the break of a streak as it continued [i.e., the &quot;gambler's fallacy&quot; (GF)], we found that a strong blood oxygen level-dependent response in the left lateral prefrontal cortex (LPFC) to the current outcome preceded the use of the GF strategy 10 s later. Furthermore, anodal transcranial direct current stimulation over the left LPFC, which enhances neuronal firing rates and cerebral excitability, increased the use of the GF strategy, and made the decisions more &quot;sticky.&quot; These results reveal a causal role of the LPFC in implementing suboptimal decision strategy guided by false world models, especially when such strategy requires great resources for cognitive control.


Hectd1 mutant mouse embryos exhibit the neural tube defect exencephaly associated with abnormal cranial mesenchyme. Cellular rearrangements in cranial mesenchyme are essential during neurulation for elevation of the neural folds. Here we investigate the molecular basis of the abnormal behavior of Hectd1 mutant cranial mesenchyme. We demonstrate that Hectd1 is a functional ubiquitin ligase and that one of its substrates is Hsp90, a chaperone protein with both intra- and extracellular clients. Extracellular Hsp90 enhances migration of multiple cell types. In mutant cranial mesenchyme cells, both secretion of Hsp90 and emigration of cells from cranial mesenchyme explants were enhanced. Importantly, we show that this enhanced emigration was highly dependent on the excess Hsp90 secreted from mutant cells. Together, our data set forth a model whereby increased secretion of Hsp90 in the cranial mesenchyme of Hectd1 mutants is responsible, at least in part, for the altered organization and behavior of these cells and provides a potential molecular mechanism underlying the neural tube defect.

Rett syndrome is an X-linked autism spectrum disorder. The disease is characterized in most cases by mutation of the MECP2 gene, which encodes a methyl-CpG-binding protein. Although MECP2 is expressed in many tissues, the disease is generally attributed to a primary neuronal dysfunction. However, as shown recently, glia, specifically astrocytes, also contribute to Rett pathophysiology. Here we examine the role of another form of glia, microglia, in a murine model of Rett syndrome. Transplantation of wild-type bone marrow into irradiation-conditioned Mecp2-null hosts resulted in engraftment of brain parenchyma by bone-marrow-derived myeloid cells of microglial phenotype, and arrest of disease development. However, when cranial irradiation was blocked by lead shield, and microglial engraftment was prevented, disease was not arrested. Similarly, targeted expression of MECP2 in myeloid cells, driven by Lysm(cre) on an Mecp2-null background, markedly attenuated disease symptoms. Thus, through multiple approaches, wild-type Mecp2-expressing microglia within the context of an Mecp2-null male mouse arrested numerous facets of disease pathology: lifespan was increased, breathing patterns were normalized, apnoeas were reduced, body weight was increased to near that of wild type, and locomotor activity was improved. Mecp2(+/-) females also showed significant improvements as a result of wild-type microglial engraftment. These benefits mediated by wild-type microglia, however, were diminished when phagocytic activity was inhibited pharmacologically by using annexin V to block phosphatydilserine residues on apoptotic targets, thus preventing recognition and engulfment by tissue-resident phagocytes. These results suggest the importance of microglial phagocytic activity in Rett syndrome. Our data implicate microglia as major players in the pathophysiology of this devastating disorder, and suggest that bone marrow transplantation might offer a feasible therapeutic approach for it.
Transgenic mice that express familial Alzheimer's disease mutant forms of the human amyloid precursor protein (hAPP) have proved to be invaluable in determining the impact that the neurotoxic amyloid- peptide has in vivo. In addition to the propensity to accumulate cerebral amyloid plaques, a crucial characteristic of hAPP mouse models is their cognitive impairments. To date the most widely used test for analyzing cognitive impairment in hAPP mice is the Morris water maze (MWM) which, due to the fact that mice are not &quot;natural&quot; swimmers, may not always be the ideal paradigm to investigate cognitive behaviours. Furthermore, not all cognitive impairments have been replicated across research laboratories. In the current study, we characterised the cognitive abilities of the J20 transgenic mouse line (expressing the Swedish 670/671(KM-&gt;NL) and Indiana (717(V-&gt;F)hAPP mutations) and non-transgenic mice. Mice were assessed in the cheeseboard task (i.e., a 'dry version' of the MWM) and a variety of other cognitive paradigms to test fear conditioning, object recognition and short-term memory to broaden the understanding of the cognitive deficits in J20 mice. hAPP transgenic mice perform normally in tasks for fear conditioning, short-term object recognition and short-term memory of context familiarity. However, they were profoundly impaired in their spatial reference memory capabilities in the cheeseboard task. The cheeseboard task has potential to replace the MWM task in situations where the MWM is not suitable for particular mouse models.
Social defeat is a common model for studies on depression. However, such models are most often used to study aggression in males and sex differences in depression may therefore be overseen. This study investigated the potential of the zebrafish (Danio rerio) as a model for male and female aggression. In addition, effects on the brain serotonergic and dopaminergic neurotransmitter systems after agonistic interaction are well studied in many species, but not in zebrafish. We wanted to explore whether the zebrafish follows the same patterns as many other species. Therefore, the effects of agonistic interaction on brain monoaminergic activity were studied in adult male and female wild-type zebrafish. The fish interacted in pairs with one of the same sex for five days during which agonistic behaviour was quantified daily. Clear dominant/subordinate relationships developed in all pairs, both in males and females. The frequency of aggressive acts increased over time but did not differ between male and female pairs. Further, we found that dyadic agonistic interaction resulted in elevated brain serotonergic activity in subordinate zebrafish, as indicated by elevated hindbrain 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid to serotonin ratios (5-hydroxyindolacetic acid (5-HIAA)/5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) ratios). We also observed a sex difference in forebrain dopamine levels and forebrain 5-HIAA/5-HT ratios, with females displaying higher concentrations of dopamine but lower 5-HIAA/5-HT ratios than males. These results suggest that zebrafish is a suitable model for studies on female aggression and sex differences in brain monoaminergic neurotransmission.
Paradoxical sleep deprivation (PSD) may alter subsequent learning and memory capacity. There are differences in both the intensity and direction of responses of the male and female species to the same environmental stimuli and experimental conditions. In the present study, we examined the extent of the effects of PSD for 72h on spatial learning and memory, anxiety-like behavior, corticosterone levels, and the body weight in male as well as in intact and ovariectomized (OVX) female Wistar rats. Multiple platform method was used for PSD induction. Spatial learning and memory and anxiety-like behavior were determined using Morris water maze (MWM) task and open field test, respectively. The data showed that PSD could not significantly affect subsequent spatial learning and short-term memory in male rats, while it significantly impaired the performance of the intact and OVX female rats. The PSD-intact and -OVX female rats showed more memory impairment than the PSD-male animals. Those impairments do not appear to be due to elevated stress level, since the plasma corticosterone did not significantly change following PSD induction. The open field data showed that PSD significantly reduced anxiety-like behavior in all experimental groups. In addition, PSD had a reducing effect on the mean body weight of female groups. Such results suggest that the female rats are more vulnerable to the deleterious effects of sleep loss on cognitive performance.
Environmental enrichment has been shown to have profound effects on the healthy adult brain and as a remedial tool for brains compromised by injury, disease, or negative experience. Based upon these findings and evidence from the prenatal stress literature, we ventured an exploratory study to examine the effects of parental enrichment on offspring development. Using Long Evans rats, paternal enrichment was achieved by housing sires in enriched environments for 28 days prior to mating with a control female. For the maternal enrichment paradigm, female rats were also housed in enriched environments for 28 days (7 days prior to conception and for the duration of pregnancy). Increased size, multiple levels for exploration, an abundance of stimulating toys, and numerous cagemates for social interaction were characteristic of the enriched environments. Offspring were assessed using two early behavioral tests and then sacrificed at postnatal day 21 (P21). Brain tissue from the frontal cortex and hippocampus was harvested for global DNA methylation analysis. Parental enrichment, preconceptionally and prenatally, altered offspring behavior on the negative geotaxis task and openfield exploratory behavior task. Paternal enrichment significantly decreased offspring brain weight at P21. Additionally, both environmental enrichment paradigms significantly decreased global methylation levels in the hippocampus and frontal cortex of male and female offspring. This study demonstrates that positive prenatal experiences; preconceptionally in fathers and prenatally in mothers, have the ability to significantly alter offspring developmental trajectories.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are prototypical anti-cancer agents. However, their long-term use is associated with adverse gastrointestinal effects. Recognition that endogenous gaseous mediators, nitric oxide (NO) and hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) can increase mucosal defense mechanisms has led to the development of NO- and H(2)S-releasing NSAIDs with increased safety profiles. Here we report on a new hybrid, NOSH-aspirin, which is an NO- and H(2)S-releasing agent. NOSH-aspirin inhibited HT-29 colon cancer growth with IC(50)s of 45.5  2.5, 19.7  3.3, and 7.7  2.2 nM at 24, 48, and 72 h, respectively. This is the first NSAID based agent with such high degree of potency. NOSH-aspirin inhibited cell proliferation, induced apoptosis, and caused G(0)/G(1) cell cycle block. Reconstitution and structure-activity studies representing a fairly close approximation to the intact molecule showed that NOSH-aspirin was 9000-fold more potent than the sum of its parts towards growth inhibition. NOSH-aspirin inhibited ovine COX-1 more than ovine COX-2. NOSH-ASA treatment of mice bearing a human colon cancer xenograft caused a reduction in volume of 85%. Taken together, these results demonstrate that NOSH-aspirin has strong anti-cancer potential and merits further evaluation.
Neurons are compartmentalized into two morphologically, molecularly, and functionally distinct domains: axons and dendrites, and precise targeting and localization of proteins within these domains are critical for proper neuronal functions. It has been reported that several members of the Rab family small GTPases that are key mediators of membrane trafficking, regulate axon-specific trafficking events, but little has been elucidated regarding the molecular mechanisms that underlie dendrite-specific membrane trafficking. Here we show that Rab17 regulates dendritic morphogenesis and postsynaptic development in mouse hippocampal neurons. Rab17 is localized at dendritic growth cones, shafts, filopodia, and mature spines, but it is mostly absent in axons. We also found that Rab17 mediates dendrite growth and branching and that it does not regulate axon growth or branching. Moreover, shRNA-mediated knockdown of Rab17 expression resulted in a dramatically reduced number of dendritic spines, probably because of impaired filopodia formation. These findings have revealed the first molecular link between membrane trafficking and dendritogenesis.
Monoamine transporters terminate synaptic neurotransmission and are molecular targets for antidepressants and psychostimulants. Fluorescent reporters can monitor real-time transport and are amenable for high-throughput screening. However, until now, their use has mostly been successful to study the catecholamine transporters but not the serotonin (5HT) transporter. Here, we use fluorescence microscopy, electrophysiology, pharmacology, and molecular modeling to compare fluorescent analogs of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)) as reporters for the human serotonin transporter (hSERT) in single cells. The fluorescent substrate 4-(4-(dimethylamino)phenyl)-1-methylpyridinium (APP(+)) exhibits superior fluorescence uptake in hSERT-expressing HEK293 cells than other MPP(+) analogs tested. APP(+) uptake is Na(+)- and Cl(-)-dependent, displaced by 5HT, and inhibited by fluoxetine, suggesting APP(+) specifically monitors hSERT activity. ASP(+), which was previously used to study catecholamine transporters, is 10 times less potent than APP(+) at inhibiting 5HT uptake and has minimal hSERT-mediated uptake. Furthermore, in hSERT-expressing oocytes voltage-clamped to -60 mV, APP(+) induced fluoxetine-sensitive hSERT-mediated inward currents, indicating APP(+) is a substrate, whereas ASP(+) induced hSERT-mediated outward currents and counteracted 5HT-induced hSERT currents, indicating ASP(+) possesses activity as an inhibitor. Extra-precise ligand receptor docking of APP(+) and ASP(+) in an hSERT homology model showed both ASP(+) and APP(+) docked favorably within the active region; accordingly, comparable concentrations are required to elicit their opposite electrophysiological responses. We conclude APP(+) is better suited than ASP(+) to study hSERT transport fluorometrically.
Actin cytoskeletal remodeling plays a critical role in transforming the morphology of subcellular structures across various cell types. In the brain, restructuring of dendritic spines through actin cytoskeleletal reorganization is implicated in the regulation of synaptic efficacy and the storage of information in neural circuits. However, the upstream pathways that provoke actin-based spine changes remain only partly understood. Here we show that EphA receptor signaling remodels spines by triggering a sequence of events involving actin filament rearrangement and synapse/spine reorganization. Rapid EphA signaling over minutes activates the actin filament depolymerizing/severing factor cofilin, alters F-actin distribution in spines, and causes transient spine elongation through the phosphatases slingshot 1 (SSH1) and calcineurin/protein phosphatase 2B (PP2B). This early phase of spine extension is followed by synaptic reorganization events that take place over minutes to hours and involve the relocation of pre/postsynaptic components and ultimately spine retraction. Thus, EphA receptors utilize discrete cellular and molecular pathways to promote actin-based structural plasticity of excitatory synapses.
Efficient Csp(3)-Csp(3) Suzuki couplings have been developed with both potassium cyclopropyl- and alkoxymethyltrifluoroborates. Moderate to good yields have been achieved in the cross-coupling of potassium cyclopropyltrifluoroborate with benzyl chlorides possessing electron-donating or electron-withdrawing substituents. Benzyl chloride was also successfully cross-coupled to potassium alkoxymethyltrifluoroborates derived from primary, secondary, and tertiary alcohols.
Shape and motion are two dominant cues for object recognition, but it can be difficult to investigate their relative quantitative contribution to the recognition process. In the present study, we combined shape and non-rigid motion morphing to investigate the relative contributions of both types of cues to the discrimination of dynamic objects. In Experiment 1, we validated a novel parameter-based motion morphing technique using a single-part three-dimensional object. We then combined shape morphing with the novel motion morphing technique to pairs of multipart objects to create a joint shape and motion similarity space. In Experiment 2, participants were shown pairs of morphed objects from this space and responded &quot;same&quot; on the basis of motion-only, shape-only, or both cues. Both cue types influenced judgments: When responding to only one cue, the other cue could be ignored, although shape cues were more difficult to ignore. When responding on the basis of both cues, there was an overall bias to weight shape cues more than motion cues. Overall, our results suggest that shape influences discrimination more than motion even when both cue types have been made quantitatively equivalent in terms of their individual discriminability.
The diagnostic criteria for the attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) were defined by the American Psychiatric Association in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth version. ADHD is a neuro-psychiatric disorder associated with impairments in everyday life and behavioral dysregulation (i.e. inattention, hyper-activity and impulsivity), and it has showed empirical evidence from clinical, pharmacological, and psychometric studies. Nevertheless, the role of neurobiological impairments in the presentation of the symptoms remains unclear. For this paper, the authors reviewed Spanish and English literature that support the neurobiological validity of the disorder, aimed to present evidence associated with its cognitive and behavioral phenotype (e.g. in: neuropsychology, electrophysiology, structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging, neurochemistry and genetics). Additionally, an integrative theoretical clinical and scientific proposal is presented. Finally, the introduction of neurobiological marker as part of the definitive diagnosis is suggested, as a started point for the identification of therapeutic targets.
Whole cell patch-clamp experiments were undertaken to define the basal K(+) conductance(s) in human erythroleukemia cells and its contribution to the setting of resting membrane potential. Experiments revealed a non-voltage-activated, noninactivating K(+) current. The magnitude of the current recorded under whole cell conditions was inhibited by an increase in free intracellular Mg(2+) concentration. Activation or inactivation of the Mg(2+)-inhibited K(+) current (MIP) was paralleled by activation or inactivation of a Mg(2+)-inhibited TRPM7-like current displaying characteristics indistinguishable from those reported for molecularly identified TRPM7 current. The MIP and TRPM7 currents were inhibited by 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors. However, inhibition of the MIP current was temporally distinct from inhibition of TRPM7 current, allowing for isolation of the MIP current. Isolation of the MIP conductance revealed a current reversing near the K(+) equilibrium potential, indicative of a highly K(+)-selective conductance. Consistent with this finding, coactivation of the nonselective cation current TRPM7 and the MIP current following dialysis with nominally Mg(2+)-free pipette solution resulted in hyperpolarized whole cell reversal potentials, consistent with an important role for the MIP current in the setting of a negative resting membrane potential. The MIP and TRPM7-like conductances were constitutively expressed under in vivo conditions of intracellular Mg(2+), as judged by their initial detection and subsequent inactivation following dialysis with a pipette solution containing 5 mM free Mg(2+). The MIP current was blocked in a voltage-dependent fashion by extracellular Cs(+) and, to a lesser degree, by Ba(2+) and was blocked by extracellular La(3+) and 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate. MIP currents were unaffected by blockers of ATP-sensitive K(+) channels, human ether--go-go-related gene current, and intermediate-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels. In addition, the MIP current displayed characteristics distinct from conventional inwardly rectifying K(+) channels. A similar current was detected in the leukemic cell line CHRF-288-11, consistent with this current being more generally expressed in cells of leukemic origin.
Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) surgery has been shown to decrease consummatory responsiveness of rats to high sucrose concentrations, and genetic deletion of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptors (GLP-1R) has been shown to decrease consummatory responsiveness of mice to low-sucrose concentrations. Here we assessed the effects of RYGB and pharmacological GLP-1R modulation on sucrose licking by chow-fed rats in a brief-access test that assessed consummatory and appetitive behaviors. Rats were tested while fasted presurgically and postsurgically and while nondeprived postsurgically and 5 h after intraperitoneal injections with the GLP-1R antagonist exendin-3(9-39) (30 g/kg), agonist exendin-4 (1 g/kg), and vehicle in 30-min sessions during which a sucrose concentration series (0.01-1.0 M) was presented in 10-s trials. Other rats were tested postsurgically or 15 min after peptide or vehicle injection while fasted and while nondeprived. Independent of food-deprivation state, sucrose experience, or GLP-1R modulation, RYGB rats took 1.5-3 as many trials as sham-operated rats, indicating increased appetitive behavior. Under nondeprived conditions, RYGB rats with presurgical sucrose experience licked more to sucrose relative to water compared with sham-operated rats. Exendin-4 and exendin-3(9-39) impacted 0.3 M sucrose intake in a one-bottle test, but never interacted with surgical group to affect brief-access responding. Unlike prior reports in both clearly obese and relatively leaner rats given RYGB and in GLP-1R knockout mice, we found that neither RYGB nor GLP-1R blockade decreased consummatory responsiveness to sucrose in our less obese chow-fed rats. Collectively, these results highlight the fact that changes in taste-driven motivated behavior to sucrose after RYGB and/or GLP-1R modulation are very model and measure dependent.

The liver enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase is responsible for conversion of excess phenylalanine in the diet to tyrosine. Phenylalanine hydroxylase is activated by phenylalanine; this activation is inhibited by the physiological reducing substrate tetrahydrobiopterin. Phosphorylation of Ser16 lowers the concentration of phenylalanine for activation. This review discusses the present understanding of the molecular details of the allosteric regulation of the enzyme.
ApoD (apolipoprotein D) is up-regulated in AD (Alzheimer's disease) and upon oxidative stress. ApoD inhibits brain lipid peroxidation in vivo, but the mechanism is unknown. Specific methionine residues may inhibit lipid peroxidation by reducing radical-propagating L-OOHs (lipid hydroperoxides) to non-reactive hydroxides via a reaction that generates MetSO (methionine sulfoxide). Since apoD has three conserved methionine residues (Met(49), Met(93) and Met(157)), we generated recombinant proteins with either one or all methionine residues replaced by alanine and assessed their capacity to reduce HpETEs (hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acids) to their HETE (hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid) derivatives. ApoD, apoD(M49-A) and apoD(M157-A) all catalysed the reduction of HpETEs to their corresponding HETEs. Amino acid analysis of HpETE-treated apoD revealed a loss of one third of the methionine residues accompanied by the formation of MetSO. Additional studies using apoD(M93-A) indicated that Met(93) was required for HpETE reduction. We also assessed the impact that apoD MetSO formation has on protein aggregation by Western blotting of HpETE-treated apoD and human brain samples. ApoD methionine oxidation was associated with formation of apoD aggregates that were also detected in the hippocampus of AD patients. In conclusion, conversion of HpETE into HETE is mediated by apoD Met(93), a process that may contribute to apoD antioxidant function.
CREB-mediated transcription can be initiated by membrane receptor stimulation and subsequent activation of intracellular pathways to the cell nucleus, and has been described as a molecular switch required for learning and memory. While CREB dimers are thought to be constitutively bound to response elements on DNA under basal conditions, it is CREB phosphorylation that is believed to be responsible for transcriptional activation leading to gene products such as BDNF that play a key role in synaptic plasticity and cognitive function. Conversely, preclinical and clinical findings now suggest that impaired CREB phosphorylation may be a pathological component in neurodegenerative disorders, in particular Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this regard, pharmacological-induced CREB phosphorylation in brain regions associated with cognition, i.e. cortex and hippocampus may represent a mechanistic basis for the development of novel AD therapeutics. The purpose of this commentary is to describe an experimental strategy to biochemically characterize the pharmacological induction of CREB phosphorylation as a mechanistic marker across different pharmacological classes of compounds for the potential treatment of AD that include: 7 nicotinic agonists, H3 antagonists and 11 HSD1 inhibitors.




Oncolytic viral therapy has been explored widely as an option for glioma treatment but its effectiveness has remained limited. Cysteine rich 61 (CCN1) is an extracellular matrix (ECM) protein elevated in cancer cells that modulates their adhesion and migration by binding cell surface receptors. In this study, we examined a hypothesized role for CCN1 in limiting the efficacy of oncolytic viral therapy for glioma, based on evidence of CCN1 induction that occurs in this setting. Strikingly, we found that exogenous CCN1 in glioma ECM orchestrated a cellular antiviral response that reduced viral replication and limited cytolytic efficacy. Gene expression profiling and real-time PCR analysis revealed a significant induction of type-I interferon responsive genes in response to CCN1 exposure. This induction was accompanied by activation of the Jak/Stat signaling pathway, consistent with induction of an innate antiviral cellular response. Both effects were mediated by the binding of CCN1 to the cell surface integrin 61, activating its signaling and leading to rapid secretion of interferon-, which was essential for the innate antiviral effect. Together, our findings reveal how an integrin signaling pathway mediates activation of a type-I antiviral interferon response that can limit the efficacy of oncolytic viral therapy. Furthermore, they suggest therapeutic interventions to inhibit CCN1-integrin 6 interactions to sensitize gliomas to viral oncolysis.
In the present study, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) release and intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) increase induced by arginine vasopressin (AVP) were characterized in collagenase-dispersed and 3-day cultured rat anterior pituitary cells. AVP and the selective vasopressin V(1b) receptor agonist, [1-deamino-4-cyclohexylalanine]AVP (d[Cha(4)]AVP) induced ACTH release with nanomolar potencies in both cell preparations, and produced a maximal stimulation that was about 1.5 fold greater in the 3-day cultured cells, indicating that the vasopressin V(1b) receptor-ACTH release pathway is enhanced over time in culture. In dispersed cells, AVP, oxytocin and d[Cha(4)]AVP induced [Ca(2+)](i) increases with nanomolar potencies. The selective vasopressin V(1a) receptors antagonist, SR49059 (100 nM), together with the selective oxytocin receptors antagonist (d(CH(2))(5)(1)Tyr(Me)(2),Thr(4),Orn(8),Tyr-NH(2)(9)-vasotocin (100 nM), inhibited the maximal AVP response by ~70%, without affecting the response to d[Cha(4)]AVP, suggesting that the V(1b) receptor was only partially responsible for the AVP-induced [Ca(2+)](i) increase. In contrast, in 3-day cultures, AVP induced an increase in [Ca(2+)](i), while oxytocin and d[Cha(4)]AVP did not. The response to AVP was completely antagonized by SR49059, whereas the vasopressin V(1b) receptor antagonists, SSR149415 and (d(CH(2))(5)(1)Tyr(Me)(2),Thr(4),Orn(8),Tyr-NH(2)(9))-vasotocin had no effect, indicating that the [Ca(2+)](i) increase was mediated exclusively by vasopressin V(1a) receptors. In conclusion, the enhancement of vasopressin V(1b) receptor-mediated ACTH release and the lack of a detectable vasopressin V(1b) receptor coupling to [Ca(2+)](i) increase in cultured cells suggests the activation of a different/additional signaling pathway in the molecular mechanism of ACTH release.
A proline to serine substitution at position 56 in the gene encoding vesicle-associated membrane protein-associated protein B (VAPB) causes some dominantly inherited familial forms of motor neuron disease including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) type-8. VAPB is an integral endoplasmic reticulum (ER) protein whose amino-terminus projects into the cytosol. Overexpression of ALS mutant VAPBP56S disrupts ER structure but the mechanisms by which it induces disease are not properly understood. Here we show that VAPB interacts with the outer mitochondrial membrane protein, protein tyrosine phosphatase-interacting protein 51 (PTPIP51). ER and mitochondria are both stores for intracellular calcium (Ca(2+)) and Ca(2+) exchange between these organelles occurs at regions of ER that are closely apposed to mitochondria. These are termed mitochondria-associated membranes (MAM). We demonstrate that VAPB is a MAM protein and that loss of either VAPB or PTPIP51 perturbs uptake of Ca(2+) by mitochondria following release from ER stores. Finally, we demonstrate that VAPBP56S has altered binding to PTPIP51 and increases Ca(2+) uptake by mitochondria following release from ER stores. Damage to ER, mitochondria and Ca(2+) homeostasis are all seen in ALS and we discuss the implications of our findings in this context.
MKS3, encoding the transmembrane receptor meckelin, is mutated in Meckel-Gruber syndrome (MKS), an autosomal-recessive ciliopathy. Meckelin localizes to the primary cilium, basal body and elsewhere within the cell. Here, we found that the cytoplasmic domain of meckelin directly interacts with the actin-binding protein filamin A, potentially at the apical cell surface associated with the basal body. Mutations in FLNA, the gene for filamin A, cause periventricular heterotopias. We identified a single consanguineous patient with an MKS-like ciliopathy that presented with both MKS and cerebellar heterotopia, caused by an unusual in-frame deletion mutation in the meckelin C-terminus at the region of interaction with filamin A. We modelled this mutation and found it to abrogate the meckelin-filamin A interaction. Furthermore, we found that loss of filamin A by siRNA knockdown, in patient cells, and in tissues from Flna(Dilp2) null mouse embryos results in cellular phenotypes identical to those caused by meckelin loss, namely basal body positioning and ciliogenesis defects. In addition, morpholino knockdown of flna in zebrafish embryos significantly increases the frequency of dysmorphology and severity of ciliopathy developmental defects caused by mks3 knockdown. Our results suggest that meckelin forms a functional complex with filamin A that is disrupted in MKS and causes defects in neuronal migration and Wnt signalling. Furthermore, filamin A has a crucial role in the normal processes of ciliogenesis and basal body positioning. Concurrent with these processes, the meckelin-filamin A signalling axis may be a key regulator in maintaining correct, normal levels of Wnt signalling.
Melanoregulin (Mreg), a product of the dilute suppressor gene, has been implicated in the regulation of melanosome transport in mammalian epidermal melanocytes, given that Mreg deficiency was found to restore peripheral melanosome distribution from perinuclear melanosome aggregation in Rab27A-deficient melanocytes. However, the function of Mreg in melanosome transport has remained unclear. Here, we show that Mreg regulates microtubule-dependent retrograde melanosome transport through the dynein-dynactin motor complex. Mreg interacted with the C-terminal domain of Rab-interacting lysosomal protein (RILP) and formed a complex with RILP and p150(Glued) (also known as dynactin subunit 1, DCTN1), a component of the dynein-dynactin motor complex, in cultured cells. Overexpression of Mreg, RILP or both, in normal melanocytes induced perinuclear melanosome aggregation, whereas knockdown of Mreg or functional disruption of the dynein-dynactin motor complex restored peripheral melanosome distribution in Rab27A-deficient melanocytes. These findings reveal a new mechanism by which the dynein-dynactin motor complex recognizes Mreg on mature melanosomes through interaction with RILP and is involved in the centripetal movement of melanosomes.
Sleep symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD) are frequent and have multifactorial and multilayered causes. Primary involvement of sleep/wake regulating centers in the brainstem, sleep problems caused by the nocturnal manifestation of motor and dysautonomic signs and medication-induced sleep problems are often impossible to disentangle in the individual patient. Two syndromes, hypersomnia and REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD), are increasingly recognized as harbingers of the core PD motor syndrome. RBD, associated with a panoply of other nonmotor symptoms, may predispose to a specific PD phenotype. Long-acting dopaminergic stimulation, when abating nocturnal akinesia, also improves subjective sleep quantity. While this strategy is backed up by several randomized controlled trials (RCT), other treatment recommendations are mostly based on case series or expert opinion. Thus we identified only two other RCT, one treating insomnia with eszopiclone, the other nocturnal behavioral abnormalities in demented PD patients with memantine. While the causal complexity of sleep problems in PD certainly hampers the design of therapeutic studies, multiple general treatment strategies against sleep disorders can however be applied efficiently in PD patients as well.
Mutations in the superoxide dismutase 1 (sod1) gene cause familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS), likely due to the toxic properties of misfolded mutant SOD1 protein. Here we report identification of various synaptic molecules forming molecular complexes with misfolded SOD1 in mutant SOD1-associated FALS patient tissues as well as in cellular FALS models. In the FALS cellular model system, we found that membrane depolarization that mimics synaptic hyperactivation/excitotoxicity could cause misfolding of mutant SOD, as well as acceleration of misfolded SOD1-synaptic protein complex formation. These results suggest that inhibition of synaptic release mechanism by association of misfolded SOD1 with synaptic molecules plays a role in the dysfunction of FALS.
In Parkinson's disease (PD) many motor and non-motor symptoms are difficult to explain in terms of a purely ascending degeneration process as described by Braak. This essay proposes phylogenetic considerations for consolidating the multidimensional elements of PD. Subtle clinical analysis paired with ethological comparisons as well as patho-anatomical data suggests that disrupted automatic gait control, olfactory deficits, selected visual deficits, impaired emotional face recognition, and REM sleep behavior disorder could be due to dysfunction of phylogenetically ancient networks. Neuroanatomical and behavioral findings lead to a reconsideration of the basal ganglia, to be viewed as the nuclear core of a widely distributed neural network that arborizes throughout the primordial core of the neuraxis, including the brainstem. Fragility of the resulting multiple, closed, ancillary loops that link brainstem and forebrain components of the basal ganglia may be a nodal point, pivotal to the pathogenesis of PD. Other primitive neural networks, such as those located at cardiac or gastro-intestinal levels, may share the same vulnerability. Such a network-based hypothesis overrides the need of a fixed temporal ordering of symptoms based on putative caudal-cephalic propagation patterns of pathological lesions. It also creates testable, secondary hypotheses such as differential gene expression in different neural networks, potential early epigenetic influences, concepts of &quot;overuse&quot; or maladaptation of primitive networks to the constraints of adult life, and system frailty due to irreparable mitochondrial &quot;exhaustion&quot; in highly energy consuming postmitotic cells.
We report a young adult man who presented with chronic raised intracranial tension features and unusually progressive bilateral visual and hearing impairment of 18 months duration. MR imaging showed extensive dural involvement and contiguous orbital and spinal disease. Cerebrospinal fluid demonstrated persistent high lymphocytic pleocytosis. Dural biopsy obtained from posterior cervical approach with C1 arch excision and meningeal biopsy revealed features of classical of Rosai-Dorfman disease. Histiocytes were strongly positive for CD-68 and S-100 proteins. The illness relentlessly progressed with patient developing total deafness and near total blindness at last follow-up.
Several techniques exist to study the rate of glucose uptake and metabolism in the brain but most of them are not sufficiently robust to permit extensive pharmacological analysis. Here we optimized an in vitro measurement of the simultaneous accumulation of the metabolizable and non-metabolizable (3)H and (14)C d-glucose analogues; permitting convenient large-scale studies on glucose uptake and metabolism in brain slices. Next, we performed an extensive pharmacological characterization on the putative glucoregulator role of the endocannabinoid system in the hippocampal slices of the rat, and the wild-type and the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor (CB(1)R) knockout mice. We observed that (3)H-3-O-methylglucose is a poor substrate to measure glucose uptake in the hippocampus. (3)H-2-deoxyglucose is a better substrate but its uptake is still lower than that of (14)C-U-d-glucose, from which the slices constantly metabolize and dissipate (14)C atoms. Thus, uptake and the metabolism values are not to be used as standalones but as differences between a control and a treatment. The CB(1)R knockout mice exhibited 10% less glucose uptake and glucose carbon atom dissipation in comparison with the wild-type mice. This may represent congenital defects as acute treatments of the rat and mouse slices with cannabinoid agonists, antagonists and inhibitors of endocannabinoid uptake/metabolism failed to induce robust changes in either the uptake or the metabolism of glucose. In summary, we report here an optimized technique ideal to complement other metabolic approaches of high spatiotemporal resolution. This technique allowed us concluding that CB(1)Rs are at least indirectly involved in hippocampal glucoregulation.
For decades, several animal models of locomotion have allowed a better understanding of the basic physiological mechanisms of gait. However, unlike most of the mammals, the Order Primates is characterized by fundamental changes in locomotor behaviour. In particular, some primates use a specific pattern of locomotion and are able to naturally walk bipedally due possibly to a specific supra-spinal control of locomotion. These features must be taken into account when one considers to study the intrinsic properties of human gait. Thus, an experimental model of bipedal locomotion allowing precise and reproducible analysis of gait in non-human primate is still lacking. This study describes a non-human primate model of bipedal locomotion under restrained condition. We undertook a kinematic and biomechanic study in three Macaca fascicularis trained to walk bipedally on a treadmill. One of the primate was evaluated in complete head fixation. Gait visual analysis and electromyographic recordings provided pertinent description of the gait pattern. Step frequencies, step lengths, cycle and stance phase durations were correlated with Froude number (dimensionless velocity), whereas swing phase durations remained non-correlated. Gait patterns observed in our model were similar to those obtained in freely bipedal Macaca fuscata and to a lesser extend to Humans. Gait pattern was not modified by head fixation thereby allowing us to perform precise and repetitive micro electrode recordings of deep cerebral structures. Thus, the present model could provide a pertinent pre-clinical tool to study gait parameters and their neuronal control but also could be helpful to validate new therapeutics interventions.
The availability of high quality, well-characterized antibodies for molecular and cellular neuroscience studies is important. However, not all available antibodies are rigorously evaluated, nor are limitations of particular antibodies often reported. We have examined a panel of currently available mGluR1 antibodies and have identified which ones are selective for use by western blots and immunocytochemistry. We have also specifically determined whether the antibodies cross-react to recognize mGluR5, by examining (1) tissue from both mGluR1 and mGluR5 knock-out mice and (2) primary cortical cultures, in which mGluR5 is widely expressed but mGluR1 is not. Together, these data provide a baseline characterization of antibodies that can and cannot be reliably used in these types of studies, and will hopefully facilitate and positively impact the research efforts of others studying mGluR1.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is increasingly used in cognitive neuroscience to probe non-motor cortical regions. A key question for such studies is the choice of stimulation intensity. Early studies used a simple metric such as 115% of motor threshold (MT) for non-motor regions; where MT is the stimulation intensity required to elicit a particular amplitude of motor evoked potential or visible muscle twitch when the coil is placed over primary motor cortex. Recently, however, it was demonstrated that this simple metric for stimulation of non-motor regions is inadequate - it could lead to over or under-stimulation depending on the distance between the coil and the cortex. Instead, a method was developed to scale the motor threshold based on coil-cortex distance, at least for standard figure-of-eight stimulating coils. Here we validate the same method for a 'batwing coil', which is designed to stimulate deeper cortical structures such as the medial frontal cortex. We modulated coil-cortex distance within-participant by inserting spacers of different thickness between coil and scalp. We then measured MT at each spacer. We show that for every millimeter between coil and scalp an additional 1.4% of TMS output is required to induce an equivalent level of brain stimulation at the motor cortex. Using this parameter we describe a linear function to adjust MT for future studies of non-motor regions-of-interest using the batwing coil. This is the first study to demonstrate the effects of coil-cortical distance on stimulation efficiency via a monophasic system using a batwing coil.
The ability to monitor tissue oxygen concentration in a specific region of the brain in a freely moving animal could provide a new paradigm in neuroscience research. We have developed a fully implantable telemetry system for the continuous and chronic recording of brain tissue oxygen (PO(2,BR)) in conscious animals. A telemetry system with a sampling rate of 2kHz was combined with a miniaturized potentiostat to amperiometrically detect oxygen concentration with carbon paste electrodes. Wireless power was employed to recharge the telemeter battery transcutaneously for potential lifetime monitoring. Rats were implanted with the telemeter in the peritoneal cavity and electrodes stereotaxically implanted into the brain (striatum or medulla oblongata). While the animals were living in their home cages the sensitivity to changes in oxygen was validated by repeatedly altering the inspired oxygen (10%, 100%, respectively) or a pharmacological stimulus (carbonic anhydrase inhibitor: acetazolamide 50mg/kg IP). Basal level of PO(2,BR) was monitored for 3weeks and showed good overall stability and good correlation to movement such as grooming. During hypoxia, PO(2,BR) decreased significantly by -51%2% from baseline, whereas it increased by 34%3% during hyperoxia. Following the systemic administration of acetazolamide, PO(2,BR) increased by 38%4%. We propose this new technology provides a robust method to measure changes in oxygen concentration in specific areas of the brain, in conscious freely moving rats. The ability to track long term changes with disease progression or drug treatment may be enabled.
While a good deal of information has been garnered in the last few decades regarding the neural and hormonal control of female sexual behavior, literature elucidating these mechanisms with respect to female sexual motivation has been scarce. We believe that one reason for this is the lack of a standardized paradigm that will quantify female sexual motivation while allowing for sexual interaction to occur. Here we describe a two-chambered apparatus that utilizes operant responding (nose poking) to quantify female sexual motivation. During the test, the female exhibits nose pokes to gain access to a sexually active male, with whom she is allowed to mate. Therefore, this apparatus allows for examination of sexual behavior as well as quantification of sexual motivation by assessing the number of nose pokes the female will exhibit within a fixed interval to gain access to the male. We report that hormone priming significantly increases sexual motivation in the female as indicated by the number of nose pokes she will exhibit to gain access to the male. Additionally, hormone primed females enter the male compartment after a shorter period and spend more time in direct contact with the male compared to when they are not hormone primed. In contrast, when females are not hormone primed they spend more time in view, but out of reach, of the male. This paradigm will help to advance the study of female sexual motivation, providing a method for quantifiable assessment of female sexual motivation while allowing for sexual activity to occur.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors mediate a wide range of important nervous system functions. Conversely, excessive NMDA receptor activity leads to cytotoxic calcium overload and neuronal damage in a wide variety of CNS disorders. It is well established that NMDA receptors are tightly regulated by a number of cell signalling pathways. Recently, it has been shown that NMDA receptor activity is modulated by cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) in a copper-dependent manner. Here we give an overview of the current state of knowledge concerning the novel concept of potent modulation of this receptor's kinetics by copper ions, and the interplay between NMDA receptors and PrP(C) in the context of neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, epilepsy, pain and depression.
This study isolated the effects of maternal hypoxia independent of changes in maternal nutrition on maternal circulatory and placental molecular indices of oxidative stress and determined whether maternal antioxidant treatment conferred protection. Pregnant rats were subjected to normoxic pregnancy or 13% O2 chronic hypoxia for most of gestation with and without maternal treatment with vitamin C in the drinking water. Maternal hypoxia with and without vitamin C did not affect maternal food or water intake and led to a significant increase in maternal and fetal haematocrit. At gestational day 20, maternal plasma urate and L-cysteine concentrations, and placental levels of 4-hydroxynonenal and heat shock protein 70 were increased while placental heat shock protein 90 levels were decreased in hypoxic pregnancy. The induction of maternal circulatory and placental molecular indices of oxidative stress in hypoxic pregnancies was prevented by maternal treatment with vitamin C. Maternal hypoxia during pregnancy with or without vitamin C increased placental weight, but not total or compartmental volumes. Maternal treatment with vitamin C increased birth weight in both hypoxic and normoxic pregnancies. The data show that maternal hypoxia independent of maternal undernutrition promotes maternal and placental indices of oxidative stress, effects that can be prevented by maternal treatment with vitamin C in hypoxic pregnancy. While vitamin C may not be the ideal candidate of choice for therapy in pregnant women, and taking into consideration differences in ascorbic acid metabolism between rats and humans, the data do underlie that antioxidant treatment may provide a useful intervention to improve placental function and protect fetal growth in pregnancy complicated by fetal hypoxia.
Aims: Mutations in the pantothenate kinase 2 gene (PANK2) are responsible for the most common type of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation (NBIA), known as pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration (PKAN). Historically, NBIA is considered a synucleinopathy with numerous reports of NBIA cases with Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites and some cases reporting additional abnormal tau accumulation. However, clinicopathological correlations in genetically proven PKAN cases are rare. We describe the clinical, genetic and neuropathological features of three unrelated PKAN cases. Methods: All three cases were genetically screened for the PANK2 gene mutations using standard Sanger PCR sequencing. A detailed neuropathological assessment of the three cases was performed using histochemical and immunohistochemical preparations. Results: All cases had classical axonal swellings and Perl's positive iron deposition in the basal ganglia. In contrast to neuroaxonal dystrophies due to mutation of the phospholipase A2, group VI (PLA2G6) gene, in which Lewy body (LB) pathology is widespread, no -synuclein accumulation was detected in any of our PKAN cases. In one case (20-year-old male) there was significant tau pathology comprising neurofibrillary tangles and neuropil threads, with very subtle tau pathology in another case. Conclusions: These findings indicate that PKAN is not a synucleinopathy and, hence the cellular pathways implicated in this disease are unlikely to be relevant for the pathomechanism of Lewy body disorders.  2012 The Authors. Neuropathology and Applied Neurobiology  2012 British Neuropathological Society.
Stroke is a major cause of death worldwide. Previous studies have suggested both exercise and mitochondrial biogenesis contribute to improved post-ischemic recovery of brain function. However, the exact mechanism underlying this effect is unclear. On the other hand, the benefit of exercise-induced mitochondrial biogenesis in brain has been confirmed. In this study, we attempted to determine whether treadmill exercise induces functional improvement through regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis after brain ischemia. We subjected adult male rats to ischemia, followed by either treadmill exercise or non-exercise and analyzed the effect of exercise on the amount of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), expression of mitochondrial biogenesis factors, and mitochondrial protein. In the ischemia-exercise group, only peroxisome proliferator activated receptor coactivator-1 (PGC-1) expression was increased significantly after 3 days of treadmill training. However, after 7 days of training, the levels of mtDNA, nuclear respiratory factor 1, NRF-1, mitochondrial transcription factor A, TFAM, and the mitochondrial protein cytochrome C oxidase subunit IV (COXIV) and heat shock protein-60 (HSP60) also increased above levels observed in non-exercised ischemic animals. These changes followed with significant changes in behavioral scores and cerebral infarct volume. The results indicate that exercise can promote mitochondrial biogenesis after ischemic injury, which may serve as a novel component of exercise-induced repair mechanisms of the brain. Understanding the molecular basis for exercise-induced neuroprotection may be beneficial in the development of therapeutic approaches for brain recovery from the ischemic injury. Based upon our findings, stimulation or enhancement of mitochondrial biogenesis may prove a novel neuroprotective strategy in the future.
Many psychological and physiological studies with simple stimuli have suggested that perceptual learning specifically enhances the response of primary sensory cortex to task-relevant stimuli. The aim of this study was to determine whether auditory discrimination training on complex tasks enhances primary auditory cortex responses to a target sequence relative to non-target and novel sequences. We collected responses from more than 2000 sites in 31 rats trained on one of six discrimination tasks that differed primarily in the similarity of the target and distractor sequences. Unlike training with simple stimuli, long-term training with complex stimuli did not generate target-specific enhancement in any of the groups. Instead, cortical receptive field size decreased, latency decreased, and paired pulse depression decreased in rats trained on the tasks of intermediate difficulty, whereas tasks that were too easy or too difficult either did not alter or degraded cortical responses. These results suggest an inverted-U function relating neural plasticity and task difficulty.
The projections of the infralimbic area (IL) of the medial prefrontal cortex to the intercalated nuclei (ICNs) of the amygdala are thought to form a critical component of the forebrain circuitry for fear extinction. Despite the importance of these projections, there have been no focussed anatomical studies that have investigated the extent of IL inputs to different portions of the ICN complex. The present investigation used anterograde tract tracing in the rat to study the projections of the ventromedial PFC, including the IL, to the ICNs and surrounding amygdalar regions. Immunohistochemistry for the -opioid receptor (MOR) was used to identify the ICNs. At rostral levels of the amygdala there was a very dense projection to a far lateral portion of the capsular subdivision of the central nucleus (CLC) located between the main and medial ICNs, but only very light projections to these ICNs and the lateral ICNs. This distinct portion of the CLC receiving strong IL inputs was termed the capsular infralimbic target zone (CITZ), and was MOR-negative. Likewise, at more caudal levels of the amygdala, IL projections to the medial, lateral, and dorsal ICNs were light to moderate compared with projections to adjacent portions of the basolateral amygdala and amygdalostriatal transitional area. These findings suggest that the putative role of the IL-to-ICN connection in fear inhibition may be mediated by light to moderate projections from the IL to the medial ICN, and that the CITZ may be an equally important amygdalar target for this function.
Methylisothiazolinone (MIT) is a commonly used biocide known to be neurotoxic in vitro. Brief exposure of cortical neurons in culture to MIT results in increased neurodegeneration, whereas chronic exposure of developing neurons in culture to low concentrations of MIT has been shown to interfere with normal neurite outgrowth. However, the effects of chronic MIT exposure on the developing nervous system have not been tested in vivo. Here we expose Xenopus laevis tadpoles to sub-lethal concentrations of MIT during a critical period in neural development. We find that MIT exposure results in deficits in visually mediated avoidance behavior and increased susceptibility to seizures, as well electrophysiological abnormalities in optic tectal function, without any effects on overall morphology, gross anatomy of the visual projections, overall visual function, and swimming ability. These effects indicate that chronic exposure to low levels of MIT results in neural circuit-level deficits that result in abnormal neurological function without causing increased mortality or even gross anatomical defects. Our findings, combined with the fact that the long-term neurological impacts of environmental exposure to MIT have not been determined, suggest a need for a closer evaluation of the safety of MIT in commercial and industrial products.
Integrating hippocampal anatomy from neuronal dendrites to whole system may help elucidate its relation to function. Toward this aim, we digitally traced the cytoarchitectonic boundaries of the dentate gyrus (DG) and areas CA3/CA1 throughout their entire longitudinal extent from high-resolution images of thin cryostatic sections of adult rat brain. The 3D computational reconstruction identified all isotropic 16 m voxels with appropriate subregions and layers (http://krasnow1.gmu.edu/cn3/hippocampus3d). Overall, DG, CA3, and CA1 occupied comparable volumes (15.3, 12.2, and 18.8 mm(3), respectively), but displayed substantial rostrocaudal volumetric gradients: CA1 made up more than half of the posterior hippocampus, whereas CA3 and DG were more prominent in the anterior regions. The CA3/CA1 ratio increased from 0.4 to 1 septo-temporally because of a specific change in stratum radiatum volume. Next we virtually embedded 1.8 million neuronal morphologies stochastically resampled from 244 digital reconstructions, emulating the dense packing of granular and pyramidal layers, and appropriately orienting the principal dendritic axes relative to local curvature. The resulting neuropil occupancy reproduced recent electron microscopy data measured in a restricted location. Extension of this analysis across each layer and subregion over the whole hippocampus revealed highly non-homogeneous dendritic density. In CA1, dendritic occupancy was &gt;60% higher temporally than septally (0.46 vs. 0.28, s.e.m. 0.05). CA3 values varied both across subfields (from 0.35 in CA3b/CA3c to 0.50 in CA3a) and layers (0.48, 0.34, and 0.27 in oriens, radiatum, and lacunosum-moleculare, respectively). Dendritic occupancy was substantially lower in DG, especially in the supra-pyramidal blade (0.18). The computed probability of dendrodendritic collision significantly correlated with expression of the membrane repulsion signal Down syndrome cell adhesion molecule (DSCAM). These heterogeneous stereological properties reflect and complement the non-uniform molecular composition, circuit connectivity, and computational function of the hippocampus across its transverse, longitudinal, and laminar organization.
Long-term pain is a disabling condition that affects thousands of people. Pain may be sustained for a long time even after the physiological trigger has resolved. Possible mechanisms for this phenomenon include low-grade inflammation in the CNS. Astrocytes respond to inflammatory stimuli and may play an important role as modulators of the inflammatory response in the nervous system. This study aimed first to assess how astrocytes in a primary culture behave when exposed to the endogenous -opioid receptor agonist endomorphin-1 (EM-1), in a concentration-dependent manner, concerning intracellular Ca responses. EM-1 stimulated the -opioid receptor from 10 M up to 10 M with increasing intensity, usually reflected as one peak at low concentrations and two peaks at higher concentrations. Naloxone, pertussis toxin (PTX), or the -opioid receptor antagonists CTOP did not totally block the EM-1-evoked Ca responses. However, a combination of ultralow concentration naloxone (10 M) and PTX (100 ng/ml) totally blocked the EM-1-evoked Ca responses. This suggests that ultralow (picomolar) concentrations of naloxone should block the -opioid receptor coupled G(s) protein, and that PTX should block the -opioid receptor coupled G(i/o) protein. The second aim was to investigate exposure of astrocytes with the inflammatory agent lipopolysaccharide (LPS). After 4 h of LPS incubation, the EM-1-evoked Ca transients were attenuated, and after 24 h of LPS incubation, the EM-1-evoked Ca transients were oscillated. To restore the EM-1-evoked Ca transients, naloxone was assessed as a proposed anti-inflammatory substance. In ultralow picomolar concentration, naloxone demonstrated the ability to restore the Ca transients.
The hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), a site for the integration of both the neuroendocrine and autonomic systems, has heterogeneous cell composition. These neurons are classified into type I and type II neurons based on their electrophysiological properties. In the present study, we investigated the molecular identification of voltage-gated K+ (Kv) channels, which determines a distinctive characteristic of type I PVN neurons, by means of single-cell reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) along with slice patch clamp recordings. In order to determine the mRNA expression profiles, firstly, the PVN neurons of male rats were classified into type I and type II neurons, and then, single-cell RT-PCR and single-cell real-time RT-PCR analysis were performed using the identical cell. The single-cell RT-PCR analysis revealed that Kv1.2, Kv1.3, Kv1.4, Kv4.1, Kv4.2, and Kv4.3 were expressed both in type I and in type II neurons, and several Kv channels were co-expressed in a single PVN neuron. However, we found that the expression densities of Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 were significantly higher in type I neurons than in type II neurons. Taken together, several Kv channels encoding A-type K+ currents are present both in type I and in type II neurons, and among those, Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 are the major Kv subunits responsible for determining the distinct electrophysiological properties. Thus these 2 Kv subunits may play important roles in determining PVN cell types and regulating PVN neuronal excitability. This study further provides key molecular mechanisms for differentiating type I and type II PVN neurons.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) were previously shown to modulate several essential functions in glial cells, including cell proliferation, glutamate uptake, neurotrophic support, and inflammatory responses. As these receptors are regularly proposed as promising targets for the treatment of a wide range of neurological disorders, we herein examined the reciprocal modulation of glial mGluRs by inflammation. Such regulation of mGluRs was also studied in cultures from an experimental model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Indeed, ALS is characterized by increased neuroinflammation, and glial cell cultures derived from the animal model (rat expressing hSOD1(G93A)) show enhanced glial reactivity. Within 72 h, the pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor  (TNF) and interleukin 1 (IL-1) induced an increase in mGluR3 and a decrease in mGluR5 gene expression. A similar regulation of these receptors was observed in microglia 48 h after an initial 4-h exposure to lipopolysaccharide. In hSOD1(G93A)-derived glial cultures, the gene up-regulation of mGluR3 (but not the gene down-regulation of mGluR5) was found to be enhanced in both astrocytes and microglia. Together, these results indicate that an inflammatory environment triggers an opposite regulation in the gene expression of the two predominant mGluR subtypes found in glial cells, and that these regulations were particularly robust in hSOD1(G93A) glial cultures. As neuroinflammation commonly occurs in several nervous diseases, its influence on mGluR expression should be taken into account when considering these receptors as future drug targets.
Food foraging behavior involves food removing, hoarding, and competitive preying upon other animals. It is also associated with high cognitive functions such as investing effort into decision making, but no established laboratory model is available to detect the behaviors. In the present study, we have developed a novel laboratory rodent model to detect competitive, non-competitive, and no-hurdle foraging conditions that can mimic the corresponding environment in nature. We found that normal rats consistently foraged the food from a food container to the field and spread food into piles in the open field. There was no difference between male and female rats in the amount of foraged food in the competitive, non-competitive, and no-hurdle food foraging tests. The amount of foraged food was consistent each day for five consecutive days with a slight increase in following days. There was no significant difference in the amount of food foraged in the presence or absence of bedding materials. A dramatic decrease of foraged food was found in the rats after administration of haloperidol (dopamine D2 receptor antagonist) in the competitive, non-competitive, and no-hurdle food foraging tests. Treatment with MK-801 (non-competitive N-methy-D-aspartate receptor antagonist) reduced the foraged food in the competitive food foraging test, but did not affect the foraged food in the non-competitive and no-hurdle food foraging tests. Our study provides a simple but consistent analogue of natural food foraging behavior. Our study also suggests that dopaminergic and glutaminergic systems are differentially involved in the food foraging behaviors.
Delayed activation of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) can lead to the disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), resulting in hemorrhagic complications. In the present study, we focused on tight junction proteins (TJPs), occludin, zona occludens (ZO)-1, and claudin-5, which are important structural components of the BBB, and investigated whether inhibition of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) provides a protective effect against hemorrhagic complications induced by tPA. We subjected mice to 6-h filamental middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) with vehicle, delayed tPA alone, or combined tPA (10 mg/kg, i.v.) plus GM6001 (100 mg/kg, i.p.), a broad-spectrum MMP inhibitor. We evaluated brain hemoglobin and the expression of MMP-9 and TJPs by immunoblotting. GM6001 significantly reduced tPA-elevated brain hemoglobin, MMP-9, and inhibited the degradation of occludin and ZO-1 induced by tPA, but not claudin-5. Treatment with GM6001 also significantly prevented the decrease in the survival rate and the reduction in locomotor activity caused by tPA at 7 days after ischemia/reperfusion. Furthermore, GM6001 treatment also significantly prevented cell damage, determined by release of lactase dehydrogenase (LDH) activity, and the decrease in transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER) induced by tPA. These findings indicate that GM6001 prevented the hemorrhagic complications and improved the behavioral abnormalities induced by tPA, partly via protection of TJPs. This suggests that GM6001 may be a useful candidate for combination therapy against the hemorrhagic complications induced by tPA.
The present study was designed to evaluate the possible neuroprotective effects of metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR7) allosteric agonist N,N'-dibenzhydrylethane-1,2-diamine dihydrochloride (AMN082) on developmental sevoflurane neurotoxicity. To achieve the objective, hippocampal cultures (7 DIV, 7 day in vitro) were treated with different doses of L-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4, an agonist of group III mGluRs), (RS)--Methylserine-O-phosphate (MSOP, an antagonist of group III mGluRs), AMN082 or cis-2-[[(3,5-dichlorophenyl)amino]carbonyl]cyclohexanecarboxylic acid (VU0155041, an agonist of mGluR4) before exposed to sevoflurane. Cell apoptosis were determined by flow cytometry and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end-labeling (TUNEL)-staining. For in vivo study, rat pups (7 PND, 7 postnatal day) were injected with AMN082, L-AP4 or saline before sevoflurane exposure. Extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 and 2 (ERK1/2), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), p38, caspase-3, Bcl-2, and Bax were detected by Western blot. The locomotor activity and cognitive functions were evaluated by open-field test and Morris water maze (MWM), respectively. We found that L-AP4 prevented sevoflurane-induced cell apoptosis, but MSOP promoted. Specially, application of AMN082 contributed to the relief of sevoflurane-induced apoptosis in vitro, whereas VU0155041 did not. In addition, sevoflurane treatment led to a decrease of Bcl-2 and an increase of caspase-3 and Bax, which were mitigated by AMNO82 in vivo. Moreover, we showed that sevoflurane treatment resulted in a remarkable suppression of phospho-ERK1/2, which was restored by AMN082. Application of U0126 (an inhibitor of MEK) abolished the neuroprotective effects of AMN082 on sevoflurane neurotoxicity both in vitro and in vivo. In addition, sevoflurane exposure also led to an increase of phospho-JNK, but SP600125 (an inhibitor of JNK) did not attenuate sevoflurane-induced apoptosis. The total and phosphorylated p38 remained unchanged in sevoflurane-treated rat pups. Finally, AMN082 improved the learning and memory defects caused by postnatal sevoflurane exposure without alternations in emotion or locomotor activity. These preliminary data indicate that AMN082 may protect immature brain against sevoflurane neurotoxicity, and the ERK1/2 MAP kinase signaling is likely to be involved. Further studies are needed to fully assess the neuroprotective role of mGluR7 agonist AMN082 in developmental anesthetic neurotoxicity.
There is strong evidence that vascular risk factors play a role in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) or vascular dementia (vaD). Ethanol (EtOH) and cholesterol are such vascular risk factors, and we recently showed that hypercholesterolemia causes pathologies similar to AD [Ullrich et al. (2010) Mol Cell Neurosci 45, 408-417]. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of long-term (12 months) EtOH treatment (20% v/v in drinking water) alone or long-term 5% cholesterol diet alone or a combination (mix) in adult Sprague-Dawley rats. Long-term EtOH treatment (plasma EtOH levels 5823 mg/dl) caused significant impairment of spatial memory, reduced the number of choline acetyltransferase- and p75 neurotrophin receptor-positive nucleus basalis of Meynert neurons, decreased cortical acetylcholine, elevated cortical monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and tissue-type plasminogen activator, enhanced microglia, and markedly induced anti-rat immunoglobulin G-positive blood-brain barrier leakage. The effect of long-term hypercholesterolemia was similar. Combined long-term treatment of rats with 20% EtOH and 5% cholesterol (mix) did not potentiate treatment with EtOH alone, but instead counteracted some of the EtOH-associated effects. In conclusion, our data show that vascular risk factors EtOH and cholesterol play a role in cognitive impairment and possibly vaD.
OPRM1 A118G is a common single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the coding region of the human mu opioid receptor (MOPR) gene OPRM1. This SNP is associated with higher morphine doses required for postoperative analgesia as well as a variety of drug addiction phenotypes. A mouse model possessing the equivalent substitution (A112G) in the Oprm1 gene was generated to facilitate mechanistic studies. Mice homozygous for the G112 allele (G/G) displayed lower antinociception to morphine compared with those homozygous for A112 allele (A/A), similar to humans, suggesting that the mice are a good model to further characterize underlying factors contributing to phenotypes associated with this SNP. Here, we compared [H]DAMGO binding to the MOPR in the brains of A/A and G/G mice using quantitative in vitro autoradiography. A/A mice exhibited higher [H]DAMGO binding than G/G in the cingulate, motor, and insular cortices, nucleus accumbens core and shell, hypothalamus, thalamus, amygdala, periaqueductal gray, superficial gray of superior colliculus, and ventral tegmental area. No genotype differences were observed in somatosensory cortex, caudate putamen, and hippocampus. When males and females were examined separately, A/A mice showed higher [H]DAMGO binding than G/G mice in more brain regions in males than in females. Radioligand binding using brain membranes also showed higher [H]DAMGO binding in the cortex and thalamus in A/A mice than G/G mice but no genotype differences in the caudate putamen or hippocampus. Thus, the A112G SNP is associated with reduced MOPR expression in some, but not all, brain regions, and appears to have some sex differences. The elevated MOPR expression in periaqueductal gray and thalamus in A/A mice are consistent with their higher antinociceptive responses to morphine. The higher MOPR levels in nucleus accumbens and/or ventral tegmental area of A/A mice is consistent with the higher morphine-induced hyperactivity and locomotor sensitization observed in these mice. Thus, these results provide some insights into the observed decreased clinical opioid potency in humans with the A118G SNP.
Hippocampal theta oscillations are key elements in numerous behavioral and cognitive processes. Based on the dualistic theory of theta oscillations, one can differentiate between atropine-sensitive and atropine-insensitive theta subtypes. Urethane-induced atropine-sensitive theta oscillations are driven by muscarinic signal transduction pathways through G protein q/11 alpha subunit (G(q/11)), phospholipase ( ) (PLC( ), inositol trisphosphate (InsP), diacylglycerole (DAG), and protein kinase C (PKC). Recent findings illustrate that Ca(v)2.3 Ca channels are important targets of muscarinic signaling in the hippocampus mediating plateau potential generation, epileptiform burst activity, and complex rhythm generation in the septohippocampal network. To investigate the physiological implications of Ca(v)2.3 Ca channels in hippocampal theta oscillations we performed radiotelemetric intrahippocampal (cornu ammonis (CA1)) recordings in urethane (800 mg/kg, i.p.) and atropine (50 mg/kg, i.p.) treated Ca(v)2.3/ and Ca(v)2.3/ mice followed by wavelet analysis of EEG data. Our results demonstrate that Ca(v)2.3 ablation, unlike PLC deletion, does not result in complete abolishment of urethane-induced theta oscillations and that both mean and total theta duration is not significantly inhibited by subsequent atropine treatment, indicating that Ca(v)2.3 Ca channels are important mediators of atropine-sensitive theta. Although theta frequency remained unchanged between both genotypes, the temporal characteristics of theta distribution, that is, theta architecture were significantly affected by the loss of Ca(v)2.3 Ca channels. Our data suggest, for the first time, that Ca(v)2.3 voltage-gated Ca channels (VGCC) are an important factor in septohippocampal synchronization associated with theta oscillation.
Astrocytes in the somatosensory ventrobasal (VB) thalamus of rats respond to glutamatergic synaptic input with metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) mediated intracellular calcium ([Ca](i)) elevations. Astrocytes in the VB thalamus also release the gliotransmitter (GT) glutamate in a Ca-dependent manner. The tripartite synapse hypothesis posits that astrocytic [Ca](i) elevations resulting from synaptic input releases gliotransmitters that then feedback to modify the synapse. Understanding the dynamics of this process and the conditions under which it occurs are therefore important steps in elucidating the potential roles and impact of GT release in particular brain activities. In this study, we investigated the relationship between VB thalamus afferent synaptic input and astrocytic glutamate release by recording N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated slow inward currents (SICs) elicited in neighboring neurons. We found that Lemniscal or cortical afferent stimulation, which can elicit astrocytic [Ca](i) elevations, do not typically result in the generation of SICs in thalamocortical (TC) neurons. Rather, we find that the spontaneous emergence of SICs is largely resistant to acute afferent input. The frequency of SICs, however, is correlated to long-lasting afferent activity. In contrast to short-term stimulus-evoked GT release effects reported in other brain areas, astrocytes in the VB thalamus do not express a straightforward input-output relationship for SIC generation but exhibit integrative characteristics.
The biological function of histone deacetylases (HDACs), namely, repression of gene expression by removing an acetyl group from a histone N-terminal tail, plays an important role in numerous biological processes such as cell cycle, differentiation, and apoptosis in the development of individual tissues, including the brain. We previously showed the possible role of HDAC activity in the regulation of gene expression of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), a specific marker for cholinergic neurons and their function, in NG108-15 neuronal cells as an in vitro model of cholinergic neurons. The objectives of the present study were to specify key HDACs and investigate the essential role of HDACs in ChAT gene regulation in NG108-15 cells. The experiments using different types of HDAC inhibitors indicated that class IIa HDACs substantially participate in the regulation of ChAT gene expression. In addition, HDAC9, a class IIa enzyme, was dramatically decreased at the protein levels, and dissociated from the promoter region of ChAT gene during neuronal differentiation. Furthermore, knockdown of HDAC9 by siRNA increased ChAT gene expression in undifferentiated cells. These findings demonstrate that HDAC9 is responsible for repressing ChAT gene expression in NG108-15 neuronal cells, and thus plays an important role in cholinergic differentiation.
Even though there is great regional variation in the distribution of inhibitory neurons in the mammalian isocortex, relatively little is known about their morphological differences across areal borders. To obtain a better understanding of particularities of inhibitory circuits in cortical areas that correspond to different sensory modalities, we investigated the morphometric differences of a subset of inhibitory neurons reactive to the enzyme nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPH-d) within the primary auditory (A1), somatosensory (S1), and visual (V1) areas of the rat. One hundred and twenty NADPH-d-reactive neurons from cortical layer IV (40 cells in each cortical area) were reconstructed using the Neurolucida system. We collected morphometric data on cell body area, dendritic field area, number of dendrites per branching order, total dendritic length, dendritic complexity (Sholl analysis), and fractal dimension. To characterize different cell groups based on morphology, we performed a cluster analysis based on the previously mentioned parameters and searched for correlations among these variables. Morphometric analysis of NADPH-d neurons allowed us to distinguish three groups of cells, corresponding to the three analyzed areas. S1 neurons have a higher morphological complexity than those found in both A1 and V1. The difference among these groups, based on cluster analysis, was mainly related to the size and complexity of dendritic branching. A principal component analysis (PCA) applied to the data showed that area of dendritic field and fractal dimension are the parameters mostly responsible for dataset variance among the three areas. Our results suggest that the nitrergic cortical circuitry of primary sensory areas of the rat is differentially specialized, probably reflecting peculiarities of both habit and behavior of the species.
There is currently very limited effective pharmacological treatment for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Recent evidence suggests that caffeic acid phenethyl ester has strong anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidative, and anti-neuronal death properties; thus, the present study tested the effects of caffeic acid phenethyl ester in mice expressing a mutant superoxide dismutase (SOD1(G93A)) linked to human amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Administration of caffeic acid phenethyl ester after symptom onset significantly increased the post-onset survival and lifespan of SOD1(G93A) mice. Moreover, immunohistochemical analysis detected less activation of microglia and astrocytes and higher motor neuron counts at an early symptomatic stage (7 days following onset) in the spinal cords of SOD1(G93A) mice given caffeic acid phenethyl ester treatment. Additionally, lower levels of phosphorylated p38, a mitogen-activated protein kinase that is involved in both inflammation and neuronal death, were observed in the spinal cords of SOD1(G93A) mice treated with caffeic acid phenethyl ester for 7 days. These results indicate that caffeic acid phenethyl ester may represent a novel and effective therapeutic for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and these significant neuroprotective effects observed in a commonly used amyotrophic lateral sclerosis mouse model validate the therapeutic potential of caffeic acid phenethyl ester for slowing disease progression by attenuating the neuroinflammation and motor neuron cell death associated with clinical amyotrophic lateral sclerosis pathology.
Increases in lung volume inhibit the inspiratory output from the medulla, but the effect of lung inflation on the voluntary control of breathing in humans is not known. We tested corticospinal excitability using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to evoke a response in the scalene muscles. TMS was delivered at rest at three different lung volumes between functional residual capacity (FRC) and total lung capacity (TLC) during incremental inspiratory and incremental expiratory manoeuvres. Motor evoked potentials (MEPs) in scalenes were 50% larger at a high lung volume (FRC+90% inspiratory capacity [IC]) compared to lower lung volumes (FRC and FRC+40% IC) in both inspiratory and expiratory manoeuvres (p&lt;0.001). The change in MEP size was not due to differences in pre-stimulus EMG amplitude (p=0.29). The results suggest a differential effect of lung inflation on the automatic and voluntary control of breathing in humans.
Our previous studies have shown that post-weaning social isolation of male rats leads to sensitization of serotonergic systems and increases in anxiety-like behavior in adulthood. Although studies in humans suggest that females have an increased sensitivity to stress and risk for the development of neuropsychiatric illnesses, most studies involving laboratory rats have focused on males while females have been insufficiently studied. The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of post-weaning social isolation on subsequent responses of an anxiety-related dorsal raphe nucleus (DR)-basolateral amygdala system to pharmacological challenge with the anxiogenic drug, N-methyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxamide (FG-7142; a partial inverse agonist at the benzodiazepine allosteric site on the -aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptor). Juvenile female rats were reared in isolation or in groups of three for a 3-week period from weaning to mid-adolescence, after which all rats were group-reared for an additional 2 weeks. We then used dual immunohistochemical staining for c-Fos and tryptophan hydroxylase in the DR or single immunohistochemical staining for c-Fos in the basolateral amygdala. Isolation-reared rats, but not group-reared rats, injected with FG-7142 had increased c-Fos expression within the basolateral amygdala and in serotonergic neurons in the dorsal, ventrolateral, caudal and interfascicular parts of the DR relative to appropriate vehicle-injected control groups. These data suggest that post-weaning social isolation of female rats sensitizes a DR-basolateral amygdala system to stress-related stimuli, which may lead to an increased sensitivity to stress- and anxiety-related responses in adulthood.
Previous research has suggested that sensory areas may play a role in adaptation to repeated stress. The auditory cortex was the target of the present studies because it is a major projection area of the auditory thalamus, where functional inactivation disrupts stress habituation to repeated loud noise. Large bilateral excitotoxic lesions of the auditory cortex were made in male rats 2 weeks prior to (Experiment 1) or a few days after (Experiment 2) a 5 day 30 min repeated 95 dBA noise or no noise regimen. Blood was collected immediately after exposure on days 1, 3, and 5. Two weeks after the 5th exposure, the rats were retested with 30 min noise or no noise to determine retention of the habituated responses. Animals were killed immediately after the retest and trunk blood and brains collected for lesion verification. Plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone levels were determined. In both experiments, significant between-subjects effects were found for noise (95 dBA or no noise) but not for surgery (lesion, sham, or no surgery control rats), with lesion groups exhibiting similar levels of ACTH and corticosterone across days as the sham and no surgery control groups. All noise exposed groups displayed similar habituation rates and retention levels. A third experiment indicated that similar auditory cortex lesions significantly disrupted background noise gap detection in an acoustic startle paradigm. Overall, these data suggest that the information mediating hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis response habituation to repeated loud noise exposures is not derived from the auditory cortex.



Disruption of the potassium/chloride cotransporter 3 (KCC3), encoded by the SLC12A6 gene, causes hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy associated with agenesis of the corpus callosum (HMSN/ACC), a neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative disorder affecting both the peripheral nervous system and CNS. However, the precise role of KCC3 in the maintenance of ion homeostasis in the nervous system and the pathogenic mechanisms leading to HMSN/ACC remain unclear. We established two Slc12a6 Cre/LoxP transgenic mouse lines expressing C-terminal truncated KCC3 in either a neuron-specific or ubiquitous fashion. Our results suggest that neuronal KCC3 expression is crucial for axon volume control. We also demonstrate that the neuropathic features of HMSN/ACC are predominantly due to a neuronal KCC3 deficit, while the auditory impairment is due to loss of non-neuronal KCC3 expression. Furthermore, we demonstrate that KCC3 plays an essential role in inflammatory pain pathways. Finally, we observed hypoplasia of the corpus callosum in both mouse mutants and a marked decrease in axonal tracts serving the auditory cortex in only the general deletion mutant. Together, these results establish KCC3 as an important player in both central and peripheral nervous system maintenance.
Primates are capable of discriminating depth with remarkable precision using binocular disparity. Neurons in area V4 are selective for relative disparity, which is the crucial visual cue for discrimination of fine disparity. Here, we investigated the contribution of V4 neurons to fine disparity discrimination. Monkeys discriminated whether the center disk of a dynamic random-dot stereogram was in front of or behind its surrounding annulus. We first behaviorally tested the reference frame of the disparity representation used for performing this task. After learning the task with a set of surround disparities, the monkey generalized its responses to untrained surround disparities, indicating that the perceptual decisions were generated from a disparity representation in a relative frame of reference. We then recorded single-unit responses from V4 while the monkeys performed the task. On average, neuronal thresholds were higher than the behavioral thresholds. The most sensitive neurons reached thresholds as low as the psychophysical thresholds. For subthreshold disparities, the monkeys made frequent errors. The variable decisions were predictable from the fluctuation in the neuronal responses. The predictions were based on a decision model in which each V4 neuron transmits the evidence for the disparity it prefers. We finally altered the disparity representation artificially by means of microstimulation to V4. The decisions were systematically biased when microstimulation boosted the V4 responses. The bias was toward the direction predicted from the decision model. We suggest that disparity signals carried by V4 neurons underlie precise discrimination of fine stereoscopic depth.
We have previously shown that an experience-driven improvement in olfactory discrimination (perceptual learning) requires the addition of newborn neurons in the olfactory bulb (OB). Despite this advance, the mechanisms which govern the selective survival of newborn OB neurons following learning remain largely unknown. We propose that activity of the noradrenergic system is a critical mediator providing a top-down signal to control the selective survival of newly born cells and support perceptual learning. In adult mice, we used pharmacological means to manipulate the noradrenergic system and neurogenesis and to assess their individual and additive effects on behavioral performance on a perceptual learning task. We then looked at the effects of these manipulations on regional survival of adult-born cells in the OB. Finally, using confocal imaging and electrophysiology, we investigated potential mechanisms by which noradrenaline could directly influence the survival of adult-born cells. Consistent with our hypotheses, direct manipulation of noradrenergic transmission significantly effect on adult-born cell survival and perceptual learning. Specifically, learning required both the presence of adult-born cell and noradrenaline. Finally, we provide a mechanistic link between these effects by showing that adult-born neurons receive noradrenergic projections and are responsive to noradrenaline. Based upon these data we argue that noradrenergic transmission is a key mechanism selecting adult-born neurons during learning and demonstrate that top-down neuromodulation acts on adult-born neuron survival to modulate learning performance.
Evolution has transformed a simple ear with few vestibular maculae into a complex three-dimensional structure consisting of nine distinct endorgans. It is debatable whether the sensory epithelia underwent progressive segregation or emerged from distinct sensory patches. To address these uncertainties we examined the morphological and functional phenotype of trans-differentiated rat hair cells to reveal their primitive or endorgan-specific origins. Additionally, it is uncertain how Atoh1-mediated trans-differentiated hair cells trigger the processes that establish their neural ranking from the vestibulocochlear ganglia. We have demonstrated that the morphology and functional expression of ionic currents in trans-differentiated hair cells resemble those of &quot;ancestral&quot; hair cells, even at the lesser epithelia ridge aspects of the cochlea. The structures of stereociliary bundles of trans-differentiated hair cells were in keeping with cells in the vestibule. Functionally, the transient expression of Na and I(h) currents initiates and promotes evoked spikes. Additionally, Ca current was expressed and underwent developmental changes. These events correlate well with the innervation of ectopic hair cells. New &quot;born&quot; hair cells at the abneural aspects of the cochlea are innervated by spiral ganglion neurons, presumably under the tropic influence of chemoattractants. The disappearance of inward currents coincides well with the attenuation of evoked electrical activity, remarkably recapitulating the development of hair cells. Ectopic hair cells underwent stepwise changes in the magnitude and kinetics of transducer currents. We propose that Atoh1 mediates trans-differentiation of morphological and functional &quot;ancestral&quot; hair cells that are likely to undergo diversification in an endorgan-specific manner.
A central goal of visual neuroscience is to relate the selectivity of individual neurons to perceptual judgments, such as detection of a visual pattern at low contrast or in noise. Since neurons in early areas of visual cortex carry information only about a local patch of the image, detection of global patterns must entail spatial pooling over many such neurons. Physiological methods provide access to local detection mechanisms at the single-neuron level but do not reveal how neural responses are combined to determine the perceptual decision. Behavioral methods provide access to perceptual judgments of a global stimulus but typically do not reveal the selectivity of the individual neurons underlying detection. Here we show how the existence of a nonlinearity in spatial pooling does allow properties of these early mechanisms to be estimated from behavioral responses to global stimuli. As an example, we consider detection of large-field sinusoidal gratings in noise. Based on human behavioral data, we estimate the length and width tuning of the local detection mechanisms and show that it is roughly consistent with the tuning of individual neurons in primary visual cortex of primate. We also show that a local energy model of pooling based on these estimated receptive fields is much more predictive of human judgments than competing models, such as probability summation. In addition to revealing underlying properties of early detection and spatial integration mechanisms in human cortex, our findings open a window on new methods for relating system-level perceptual judgments to neuron-level processing.
During a wide variety of behaviors, hippocampal field potentials show significant power in the theta (4-12 Hz) frequency range and individual neurons commonly phase-lock with the 4-12 Hz field potential. The underlying cellular and network mechanisms that generate the theta rhythm, however, are poorly understood. Oriens-lacunosum moleculare (O-LM) interneurons have been implicated as crucial contributors to generating theta in local hippocampal circuits because of their unique axonal projections, slow synaptic kinetics and the fact that spikes are phase-locked to theta field potentials in vivo. We performed experiments in brain slice preparations from Long-Evans rats to investigate the ability of O-LM cells to generate phase-locked spike output in response to artificial synaptic inputs. We find that O-LM cells do not respond with any preference in spike output at theta frequencies when injected with broadband artificial synaptic inputs. However, when presented with frequency-modulated inputs, O-LM spike output shows the ability to phase-lock well to theta-modulated inputs, despite their strong low-pass profiles of subthreshold membrane impedance. This result was dependent on spike refractory dynamics and could be controlled by real-time manipulation of the postspike afterhyperpolarization. Finally, we show that the ability of O-LM cells to phase-lock well to theta-rich inputs is independent of the h-current, a membrane mechanism often implicated in the generation of theta frequency activity.
The orienting reflex is initiated by a salient stimulus and facilitates quick, appropriate action. It involves a rapid shift of the eyes, head, and attention and other physiological responses such as changes in heart rate and transient pupil dilation. The SC is a critical structure in the midbrain that selects incoming stimuli based on saliency and relevance to coordinate orienting behaviors, particularly gaze shifts, but its causal role in pupil dilation remains poorly understood in mammals. Here, we examined the role of the primate SC in the control of pupil dynamics. While requiring monkeys to keep their gaze fixed, we delivered weak electrical microstimulation to the SC, so that saccadic eye movements were not evoked. Pupil size increased transiently after microstimulation of the intermediate SC layers (SCi) and the size of evoked pupil dilation was larger on a dim versus bright background. In contrast, microstimulation of the superficial SC layers did not cause pupil dilation. Thus, the SCi is directly involved not only in shifts of gaze and attention, but also in pupil dilation as part of the orienting reflex, and the function of pupil dilation may be related to increasing visual sensitivity. The shared neural mechanisms suggest that pupil dilation may be associated with covert attention.
Temporary storage of information in visual short-term memory (VSTM) is a key component of many complex cognitive abilities. However, it is highly limited in capacity. Understanding the neurophysiological nature of this capacity limit will require a valid animal model of VSTM. We used a multiple-item color change detection task to measure macaque monkeys' VSTM capacity. Subjects' performance deteriorated and reaction times increased as a function of the number of items in memory. Additionally, we measured the precision of the memory representations by varying the distance between sample and test colors. In trials with similar sample and test colors, subjects made more errors compared to trials with highly discriminable colors. We modeled the error distribution as a Gaussian function and used this to estimate the precision of VSTM representations. We found that as the number of items in memory increases the precision of the representations decreases dramatically. Additionally, we found that focusing attention on one of the objects increases the precision with which that object is stored and degrades the precision of the remaining. These results are in line with recent findings in human psychophysics and provide a solid foundation for understanding the neurophysiological nature of the capacity limit of VSTM.




The posterior parietal cortex (PPC) has an important role in many cognitive behaviours; however, the neural circuit dynamics underlying PPC function are not well understood. Here we optically imaged the spatial and temporal activity patterns of neuronal populations in mice performing a PPC-dependent task that combined a perceptual decision and memory-guided navigation in a virtual environment. Individual neurons had transient activation staggered relative to one another in time, forming a sequence of neuronal activation spanning the entire length of a task trial. Distinct sequences of neurons were triggered on trials with opposite behavioural choices and defined divergent, choice-specific trajectories through a state space of neuronal population activity. Cells participating in the different sequences and at distinct time points in the task were anatomically intermixed over microcircuit length scales (&lt;100 micrometres). During working memory decision tasks, the PPC may therefore perform computations through sequence-based circuit dynamics, rather than long-lived stable states, implemented using anatomically intermingled microcircuits.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder that causes neurological pathology in the basal ganglia and related circuitry. A key site of HD pathology is striatum, the principal basal ganglia input structure; striatal pathology likely changes basal ganglia output but no existing studies address this issue. In this report, we characterize single-neuron activity in the substantia nigra reticulata (SNr) of awake, freely behaving 140 CAG knock-in (KI) mice at 16-40 weeks. KI mice are a well characterized model of adult HD and are mildly symptomatic in this age range. As the primary basal ganglia output nucleus in rodents, the SNr receives direct innervation from striatum, as well as indirect influence via polysynaptic inputs. We analyzed 32 single neurons recorded from KI animals and 44 from wild-type (WT) controls. We found increased burst rates, without a concordant change in spike discharge rate, in KI animals relative to WTs. Furthermore, although metrics of burst structure, such as the inter-spike interval in bursts, do not differ between groups, burst rate increases with age in KI, but not WT, animals. Our findings suggest that altered basal ganglia output is a physiological feature of early HD pathology.
Brain injury begins early after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Although cell death via apoptosis and necrosis is known to be present in brain 24 h after SAH, it is not known how soon after SAH cell death begins. We have previously described structural changes in rat brain microvessels 10 min after induction of SAH by endovascular puncture. This study examined brain for evidence of cell death beginning 10 min after induction of SAH. Cleaved caspase-3 (cl-caspase-3) staining was evident in vascular and parenchymal cells at 10 min after SAH and was significantly greater than in time-matched, sham-operated controls. The number of cl-caspase-3 positive cells was increased further at 24 h after SAH. TUNEL assay revealed apoptotic cells present at 10 min, with substantially more at 24 h after SAH. Scattered Fluoro-Jade positive neurons appeared at 1h after SAH and their number increased with time. At 1 h Fluoro-Jade positive neurons were present in cortical and subcortical regions but not in hippocampus; at 24h they were also present in hippocampus and were significantly greater in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the vascular puncture. No Fluoro-Jade staining was present in shams. These data demonstrate an early activation of endothelial and parenchymal cells apoptosis and neuronal necrosis after SAH and identifies endpoints that can be targeted to reduce early brain injury after SAH.
GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs) exist as different subtype variants showing unique functional properties and defined spatio-temporal expression pattern. The molecular mechanisms underlying the developmental expression of different GABA(A)R are largely unknown. The intracellular concentration of chloride ([Cl(-)](i)), the main ion permeating through GABA(A)Rs, also undergoes considerable changes during maturation, being higher at early neuronal stages with respect to adult neurons. Here we investigate the possibility that [Cl(-)](i) could modulate the sequential expression of specific GABA(A)Rs subtypes in primary cerebellar neurons. We show that [Cl(-)](i) regulates the expression of 3-1 and -containing GABA(A) receptors, responsible for phasic and tonic inhibition, respectively. Our findings highlight the role of [Cl(-)](i) in tuning the strength of GABAergic responses by acting as an intracellular messenger.



Axonal transport deficits have been reported in many neurodegenerative conditions and are widely assumed to be an immediate causative step of axon and synapse loss. By imaging changes in axonal morphology and organelle transport over time in several animal models of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), we now find that deficits in axonal transport of organelles (mitochondria, endosomes) and axon degeneration can evolve independently. This conclusion rests on the following results: (i) Axons can survive despite long-lasting transport deficits: In the SOD(G93A) model of ALS, transport deficits are detected soon after birth, months before the onset of axon degeneration. (ii) Transport deficits are not necessary for axon degeneration: In the SOD(G85R) model of ALS, motor axons degenerate, but transport is unaffected. (iii) Axon transport deficits are not sufficient to cause immediate degeneration: In mice that overexpress wild-type superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD(WT)), axons show chronic transport deficits, but survive. These data suggest that disturbances of organelle transport are not a necessary step in the emergence of motor neuron degeneration.
Although the complexity and circuitry of nervous systems undergo evolutionary change, we lack understanding of the general principles and specific mechanisms through which it occurs. The Drosophila larval neuromuscular junction (NMJ), which has been widely used for studies of synaptic development and function, is also an excellent system for studies of synaptic evolution because the genus spans &gt;40 Myr of evolution and the same identified synapse can be examined across the entire phylogeny. We have now characterized morphology of the NMJ on muscle 4 (NMJ4) in &gt;20 species of Drosophila. Although there is little variation within a species, NMJ morphology and complexity vary extensively between species. We find no significant correlation between NMJ phenotypes and phylogeny for the species examined, suggesting that drift alone cannot explain the phenotypic variation and that selection likely plays an important role. However, the nature of the selective pressure is still unclear because basic parameters of synaptic function remain uniform. Whatever the mechanism, NMJ morphology is evolving rapidly in comparison with other morphological features because NMJ phenotypes differ even between several sibling species pairs. The discovery of this unexpectedly extensive divergence in NMJ morphology among Drosophila species provides unique opportunities to investigate mechanisms that regulate synaptic growth; the interrelationships between synaptic morphology, neural function, and behavior; and the evolution of nervous systems and behavior in natural populations.
Neuroplasticity may have a core role in the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder (MDD), a concept supported by experimental studies that found that excessive cortisol secretion and/or excessive production of inflammatory cytokines impairs neuronal plasticity and neurogenesis in the hippocampus. The objective of this study was to examine how changes in the glucocorticoid and inflammatory systems may affect hippocampal volumes in MDD. A multimodal approach with structural neuroimaging of hippocampus and amygdala, measurement of peripheral inflammatory proteins interleukin (IL)-6 and C-reactive protein (CRP), glucocorticoid receptor (GR) mRNA expression, and expression of glucocorticoid-inducible genes (glucocorticoid-inducible genes Leucin Zipper (GILZ) and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase-1 (SGK-1)) was used in 40 patients with MDD and 43 healthy controls (HC). Patients with MDD showed smaller hippocampal volumes and increased inflammatory proteins IL-6 and CRP compared with HC. Childhood maltreatment was associated with increased CRP. Patients with MDD, who had less expression of the glucocorticoid-inducible genes GILZ or SGK-1 had smaller hippocampal volumes. Regression analysis showed a strong positive effect of GILZ and SGK-1 mRNA expression, and further inverse effects of IL-6 concentration, on hippocampal volumes. These findings suggest that childhood maltreatment, peripheral inflammatory and glucocorticoid markers and hippocampal volume are interrelated factors in the pathophysiology of MDD. Glucocorticoid-inducible genes GILZ and SGK-1 might be promising candidate markers for hippocampal volume changes relevant for diseases like MDD. Further studies need to explore the possible clinical usefulness of such a blood biomarker, for example, for diagnosis or prediction of therapy response.
In mammals, odorant molecules are thought to activate only a few glomeruli, leading to the hypothesis that odor representation in the olfactory bulb is sparse. However, the studies supporting this model used anesthetized animals or monomolecular odorants at limited concentration ranges. Using optical imaging and two-photon microscopy, we found that natural odorants at their native concentrations could elicit dense representations in the olfactory bulb. Both anesthesia and odorant concentration were found to modulate the representation density of natural odorants.
Synaptic vesicles in the brain harbor several soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive-factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) proteins. With the exception of synaptobrevin2, or VAMP2 (syb2), which is directly involved in vesicle fusion, the role of these SNAREs in neurotransmission is unclear. Here we show that in mice syb2 drives rapid Ca(2+)-dependent synchronous neurotransmission, whereas the structurally homologous SNARE protein VAMP4 selectively maintains bulk Ca(2+)-dependent asynchronous release. At inhibitory nerve terminals, up- or downregulation of VAMP4 causes a correlated change in asynchronous release. Biochemically, VAMP4 forms a stable complex with SNAREs syntaxin-1 and SNAP-25 that does not interact with complexins or synaptotagmin-1, proteins essential for synchronous neurotransmission. Optical imaging of individual synapses indicates that trafficking of VAMP4 and syb2 show minimal overlap. Taken together, these findings suggest that VAMP4 and syb2 diverge functionally, traffic independently and support distinct forms of neurotransmission. These results provide molecular insight into how synapses diversify their release properties by taking advantage of distinct synaptic vesicle-associated SNAREs.
In the adult mammalian CNS, chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) and myelin-associated inhibitors (MAIs) stabilize neuronal structure and restrict compensatory sprouting following injury. The Nogo receptor family members NgR1 and NgR2 bind to MAIs and have been implicated in neuronal inhibition. We found that NgR1 and NgR3 bind with high affinity to the glycosaminoglycan moiety of proteoglycans and participate in CSPG inhibition in cultured neurons. Nogo receptor triple mutants (Ngr1(-/-); Ngr2(-/-); Ngr3(-/-); which are also known as Rtn4r, Rtn4rl2 and Rtn4rl1, respectively), but not single mutants, showed enhanced axonal regeneration following retro-orbital optic nerve crush injury. The combined loss of Ngr1 and Ngr3 (Ngr1(-/-); Ngr3(-/-)), but not Ngr1 and Ngr2 (Ngr1(-/-); Ngr2(-/-)), was sufficient to mimic the triple mutant regeneration phenotype. Regeneration in Ngr1(-/-); Ngr3(-/-) mice was further enhanced by simultaneous ablation of Rptp (also known as Ptprs), a known CSPG receptor. Collectively, our results identify NgR1 and NgR3 as CSPG receptors, suggest that there is functional redundancy among CSPG receptors, and provide evidence for shared mechanisms of MAI and CSPG inhibition.
Combined amylin+leptin (AMN+LEP) can reduce diet induced obesity and is very effective in combating LEP resistance. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of AMN+LEP on central histaminergic signaling in lean and obese rats. Male rats were administered LEP (300 g/kg/d), AMN (100 g/kg/d), AMN+LEP or vehicle (SAL, 0.9% normal saline), via a subcutaneous mini-osmotic pump or single injection (LEP, 300 g/kg and AMN, 100 g/kg) for acute studies. AMN+LEP administration increased expression of histamine H1 receptor (HIR) and histidine decarboxylase (HDC) mRNA in the hypothalamus. Increased levels of H1R were seen in arcuate (Arc) and ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) as well as the area postrema (APOS) and nucleus of solitary tract (NTS) following AMN+LEP administration. APOS and NTS also showed expression of immediate early gene c-FOS in the hindbrain in AMN+LEP-treated rats. We confirmed previous evidence indicating that AMN+LEP increased STAT-3 protein phosphorylation in Arc and VMH. Finally, by in vivo microdialysis, we observed an increase in methyl HIS levels in the VMH of AMN, LEP and AMN+LEP-treated rats. Taken together, these observations are consistent with an important role that neuronal HIS may play in mediating the potent effects of AMN+LEP on food intake and body weight.

Aberrant glutamate and calcium signalings are neurotoxic to specific neuronal populations. Calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII), a multifunctional serine/threonine protein kinase in neurons, is believed to regulate neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity in response to calcium signaling produced by neuronal activity. Importantly, several CaMKII substrates control neuronal structure, excitability, and plasticity. Here, we demonstrate that CaMKII inhibition for &gt;4 h using small molecule and peptide inhibitors induces apoptosis in cultured cortical neurons. The neuronal death produced by prolonged CaMKII inhibition is associated with an increase in TUNEL staining and caspase-3 cleavage and is blocked with the translation inhibitor cycloheximide. Thus, this neurotoxicity is consistent with apoptotic mechanisms, a conclusion that is further supported by dysregulated calcium signaling with CaMKII inhibition. CaMKII inhibitory peptides also enhance the number of action potentials generated by a ramp depolarization, suggesting increased neuronal excitability with a loss of CaMKII activity. Extracellular glutamate concentrations are augmented with prolonged inhibition of CaMKII. Enzymatic buffering of extracellular glutamate and antagonism of the NMDA subtype of glutamate receptors prevent the calcium dysregulation and neurotoxicity associated with prolonged CaMKII inhibition. However, in the absence of CaMKII inhibition, elevated glutamate levels do not induce neurotoxicity, suggesting that a combination of CaMKII inhibition and elevated extracellular glutamate levels results in neuronal death. In sum, the loss of CaMKII observed with multiple pathological states in the central nervous system, including epilepsy, brain trauma, and ischemia, likely exacerbates programmed cell death by sensitizing vulnerable neuronal populations to excitotoxic glutamate signaling and inducing an excitotoxic insult itself.
Viral genomes are continually subjected to mutations, and functionally deleterious ones can be rescued by reversion or additional mutations that restore fitness. The error prone nature of HIV-1 replication has resulted in highly diverse viral sequences, and it is not clear how viral proteins such as Tat, which plays a critical role in viral gene expression and replication, retain their complex functions. Although several important amino acid positions in Tat are conserved, we hypothesized that it may also harbor functionally important residues that may not be individually conserved yet appear as correlated pairs, whose analysis could yield new mechanistic insights into Tat function and evolution. To identify such sites, we combined mutual information analysis and experimentation to identify coevolving positions and found that residues 35 and 39 are strongly correlated. Mutation of either residue of this pair into amino acids that appear in numerous viral isolates yields a defective virus; however, simultaneous introduction of both mutations into the heterologous Tat sequence restores gene expression close to wild-type Tat. Furthermore, in contrast to most coevolving protein residues that contribute to the same function, structural modeling and biochemical studies showed that these two residues contribute to two mechanistically distinct steps in gene expression: binding P-TEFb and promoting P-TEFb phosphorylation of the C-terminal domain in RNAPII. Moreover, Tat variants that mimic HIV-1 subtypes B or C at sites 35 and 39 have evolved orthogonal strengths of P-TEFb binding versus RNAPII phosphorylation, suggesting that subtypes have evolved alternate transcriptional strategies to achieve similar gene expression levels.
The development of radioligands for the dopaminergic system has provided suitable imaging biomarkers for clinical research in Parkinson's disease (PD) and related movement disorders. Single photon emission tomography (SPECT) has played an important role as main molecular imaging modality because of the availability of imaging tools such as dopamine transporter (DAT) radioligands for wide clinical use. At present, SPECT imaging of the DAT is the main diagnostic imaging procedure for the assessment of patients with parkinsonism. However, in the recent years positron emission tomography (PET) has become an important clinical diagnostic modality, mainly in oncology, due to the wide availability of PET/CT systems with improved imaging performance and to the use of 2-deoxy-2-[18F]fluoro-D-glucose ([18F]FDG) as main diagnostic agent. In this context, further development of 18F-radioligands is of high interest for their potential utility in the clinical setting. This review will give a general overview on the development of SPECT and PET radioligands for the dopaminergic system and describe the potential advantages of developing 18F-labelled radioligands for imaging of the dopaminergic system in PD and related movement disorders.

Little is known about the molecular basis of differences in behavior among individuals. Here we report consistent novelty-seeking behavior, across different contexts, among honey bees in their tendency to scout for food sources and nest sites, and we reveal some of the molecular underpinnings of this behavior relative to foragers that do not scout. Food scouts showed extensive differences in brain gene expression relative to other foragers, including differences related to catecholamine, glutamate, and -aminobutyric acid signaling. Octopamine and glutamate treatments increased the likelihood of scouting, whereas dopamine antagonist treatment decreased it. These findings demonstrate intriguing similarities in human and insect novelty seeking and suggest that this trait, which presumably evolved independently in these two lineages, may be subserved by conserved molecular components.

The discovery and characterization of compound 48, a selective and in vivo active mGlu2 receptor positive allosteric modulator (PAM), are described. A key to the discovery was the rational exploration of the initial HTS hit 13 guided by an overlay model built with reported mGlu2 receptor PAM chemotypes. The initial weak in vitro activity of the hit 13 was quickly improved, although compounds still had suboptimal druglike properties. Subsequent modulation of the physicochemical properties resulted in compounds having a more balanced profile, combining good potency and in vivo pharmacokinetic properties. Final refinement by addressing cardiovascular safety liabilities led to the discovery of compound 48. Besides good potency, selectivity, and ADME properties, compound 48 displayed robust in vivo activity in a sleep-wake electroencephalogram (sw-EEG) assay consistent with mGlu2 receptor activation, in accordance with previous work from our laboratories.
This paper reports the design and the synthesis of a new family of compounds, the phostines, belonging to the [1,2]oxaphosphinane family. Twenty-six compounds have been screened for their antiproliferative activity against a large panel of NCI cancer cell lines. Because of its easy synthesis and low EC(50) value (500 nM against the C6 rat glioma cell line), compound 3.1a was selected for further biological study. Moreover, the specific biological effect of 3.1a on the glioblastoma phylogenetic cluster from the NCI is dependent on its stereochemistry. Within that cluster, 3.1a has a higher antiproliferative activity than Temozolomide and is more potent than paclitaxel for the SF295 and SNB75 cell lines. In constrast with paclitaxel and vincristine, 3.1a is devoid of astrocyte toxicity. The original activity spectrum of 3.1a on the NCI cancer cell line panel allows the development of this family for use in association with existing drugs, opening new therapeutic perspectives.

For an animal to survive in a constantly changing environment, its behavior must be shaped by the complex milieu of sensory stimuli it detects, its previous experience, and its internal state. Although taste behaviors in the fly are relatively simple, with sugars eliciting acceptance behavior and bitter compounds avoidance, these behaviors are also plastic and are modified by intrinsic and extrinsic cues, such as hunger and sensory stimuli. Here, we show that dopamine modulates a simple taste behavior, proboscis extension to sucrose. Conditional silencing of dopaminergic neurons reduces proboscis extension probability, and increased activation of dopaminergic neurons increases extension to sucrose, but not to bitter compounds or water. One dopaminergic neuron with extensive branching in the primary taste relay, the subesophageal ganglion, triggers proboscis extension, and its activity is altered by satiety state. These studies demonstrate the marked specificity of dopamine signaling and provide a foundation to examine neural mechanisms of feeding modulation in the fly.
Calcium ions generate versatile intracellular signals that control key functions in all types of neurons. Imaging calcium in neurons is particularly important because calcium signals exert their highly specific functions in well-defined cellular subcompartments. In this Primer, we briefly review the general mechanisms of neuronal calcium signaling. We then introduce the calcium imaging devices, including confocal and two-photon microscopy as well as miniaturized devices that are used in freely moving animals. We provide an overview of the classical chemical fluorescent calcium indicators and of the protein-based genetically encoded calcium indicators. Using application examples, we introduce new developments in the field, such as calcium imaging in awake, behaving animals and the use of calcium imaging for mapping single spine sensory inputs in cortical neurons in vivo. We conclude by providing an outlook on the prospects of calcium imaging for the analysis of neuronal signaling and plasticity in various animal models.
In this issue of Neuron, Xu et al. (2012) show that knock down of Syt1, a major Ca(2+) sensor, impairs synaptic transmission similarly in different brain regions but with unexpected, region-specific behavioral outcomes.

Using two-photon fluorescence anisotropy imaging of actin-GFP, we have developed a method for imaging the actin polymerization state that is applicable to a broad range of experimental systems extending from fixed cells to live animals. The incorporation of expressed actin-GFP monomers into endogenous actin polymers enables energy migration FRET (emFRET, or homoFRET) between neighboring actin-GFPs. This energy migration reduces the normally high polarization of the GFP fluorescence. We derive a simple relationship between the actin-GFP fluorescence polarization anisotropy and the actin polymer fraction, thereby enabling a robust means of imaging the actin polymerization state with high spatiotemporal resolution and providing what to the best of our knowledge are the first direct images of the actin polymerization state in live, adult brain tissue and live, intact Drosophila larvae.
Previous studies have suggested that the aspartic acid residue (D) at the third position is critical in determining the voltage polarity of fast V(j)-gating of Cx50 channels. To test whether another negatively charged residue (a glutamic acid residue, E) could fulfill the role of the D3 residue, we generated the mutant Cx50D3E. V(j)-dependent gating properties of this mutant channel were characterized by double-patch-clamp recordings in N2A cells. Macroscopically, the D3E substitution reduced the residual conductance (G(min)) to near zero and outwardly shifted the half-inactivation voltage (V(0)), which is a result of both a reduced aggregate gating charge (z) and a reduced free-energy difference between the open and closed states. Single Cx50D3E gap junction channels showed reduced unitary conductance ((j)) of the main open state, reduced open dwell time at 40 mV, and absence of a long-lived substate. In contrast, a G8E substitution tested to compare the effects of the E residue at the third and eighth positions did not modify the V(j)-dependent gating profile or (j). In summary, this study is the first that we know of to suggest that the D3 residue plays an essential role, in addition to serving as a negative-charge provider, as a critical determinant of the V(j)-dependent gating sensitivity, open-closed stability, and unitary conductance of Cx50 gap junction channels.
Traditionally, multiple sclerosis has been viewed as a disease predominantly affecting white matter. However, this view has lately been subject to numerous changes, as new evidence of anatomical and histological changes as well as of molecular targets within the grey matter has arisen. This advance was driven mainly by novel imaging techniques, however, these have not yet been implemented in routine clinical practice. The changes in the grey matter are related to physical and cognitive disability seen in individuals with multiple sclerosis. Furthermore, damage to several grey matter structures can be associated with impairment of specific functions. Therefore, we conclude that grey matter damage - global and regional - has the potential to become a marker of disease activity, complementary to the currently used magnetic resonance markers (global brain atrophy and T2 hyperintense lesions). Furthermore, it may improve the prediction of the future disease course and response to therapy in individual patients and may also become a reliable additional surrogate marker of treatment effect.
Microvesicles (MVs) released into the brain microenvironment are emerging as a novel way of cell-to-cell communication. We have recently shown that microglia, the immune cells of the brain, shed MVs upon activation but their possible role in microglia-to-neuron communication has never been explored. To investigate whether MVs affect neurotransmission, we analysed spontaneous release of glutamate in neurons exposed to MVs and found a dose-dependent increase in miniature excitatory postsynaptic current (mEPSC) frequency without changes in mEPSC amplitude. Paired-pulse recording analysis of evoked neurotransmission showed that MVs mainly act at the presynaptic site, by increasing release probability. In line with the enhancement of excitatory transmission in vitro, injection of MVs into the rat visual cortex caused an acute increase in the amplitude of field potentials evoked by visual stimuli. Stimulation of synaptic activity occurred via enhanced sphingolipid metabolism. Indeed, MVs promoted ceramide and sphingosine production in neurons, while the increase of excitatory transmission induced by MVs was prevented by pharmacological or genetic inhibition of sphingosine synthesis. These data identify microglia-derived MVs as a new mechanism by which microglia influence synaptic activity and highlight the involvement of neuronal sphingosine in this microglia-to-neuron signalling pathway.
During interphase, chromosomes are relatively de-condensed in the nuclear space. Interphase chromosomes are known to occupy nuclear space in a non-random manner (chromosome territory); however, their internal structures are poorly defined. In particular, little is understood about the molecular mechanisms that govern the internal organization of interphase chromosomes. The author recently proposed that pairing (or interaction) of repetitive DNA-containing chromatin regions is a critical driving force that specifies the higher-order organization of eukaryotic chromosomes. Guided by this theoretical framework and published experimental data on the structure of interphase chromosomes and the spatial distribution of repetitive DNA in interphase nuclei, I postulate here a molecular structure of chromatin organization in interphase chromosomes. According to this model, an interphase chromosome is a chromatin mesh (or lattice) that is formed by repeat pairing (RP). The mesh consists of two types of structural components: chromosome nodes and loose chromatin fibers. Chromosome nodes are DNA repeat assemblies (RAs) that are formed via RP, while loose fibers include chromatin loops that radiate from the nodes. Different loops crosslink by RPs and form a large integrated chromatin network. I suggest that the organization of the chromatin network of a given interphase chromosome is intrinsically specified by the distribution of repetitive DNA elements on the linear chromatin. The stability of the organization is governed by the collection of RA-formed nodes, and the dynamics of the organization is driven by the assembling and disassembling of the nodes.
Patients with medial temporal lobe (MTL) damage are sometimes impaired at remembering visual information across delays as short as a few seconds. Such impairments could reflect either impaired visual working memory capacity or impaired long-term memory (because attention has been diverted or because working memory capacity has been exceeded). Using a standard change-detection task, we asked whether visual working memory capacity is intact or impaired after MTL damage. Five patients with hippocampal lesions and one patient with large MTL lesions saw an array of 1, 2, 3, 4, or 6 colored squares, followed after 3, 4, or 8 s by a second array where one of the colored squares was cued. The task was to decide whether the cued square had the same color as the corresponding square in the first array or a different color. At the 1 s delay typically used to assess working memory capacity, patients performed as well as controls at all array sizes. At the longer delays, patients performed as well as controls at small array sizes, thought to be within the capacity limit, and worse than controls at large array sizes, thought to exceed the capacity limit. The findings suggest that visual working memory capacity in humans is intact after damage to the MTL structures and that damage to these structures impairs performance only when visual working memory is insufficient to support performance.
Axotomized optic axons of Xenopus laevis, in contrast to those of mammals, retain their ability to regenerate throughout life. To better understand the molecular basis for this successful regeneration, we focused on the role of an RNA-binding protein, heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) K, because it is required for axonogenesis during development and because several of its RNA targets are under strong post-transcriptional control during regeneration. At 11 d after optic nerve crush, hnRNP K underwent significant translocation into the nucleus of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), indicating that the protein became activated during regeneration. To suppress its expression, we intravitreously injected an antisense Vivo-Morpholino oligonucleotide targeting hnRNP K. In uninjured eyes, it efficiently knocked down hnRNP K expression in only the RGCs, without inducing either an axotomy response or axon degeneration. After optic nerve crush, staining for multiple markers of regenerating axons showed no regrowth of axons beyond the lesion site with hnRNP K knockdown. RGCs nonetheless responded to the injury by increasing expression of multiple growth-associated RNAs and experienced no additional neurodegeneration above that normally seen with optic nerve injury. At the molecular level, hnRNP K knockdown during regeneration inhibited protein, but not mRNA, expression of several known hnRNP K RNA targets (NF-M, GAP-43) by compromising their efficient nuclear transport and disrupting their loading onto polysomes for translation. Our study therefore provides evidence of a novel post-transcriptional regulatory pathway orchestrated by hnRNP K that is essential for successful CNS axon regeneration.
There are important and sustained interindividual differences in cognition during aging. Here, we investigated hippocampal spatial representations in a rat model of cognitive aging characterized by individual differences in a mnemonic task. Individual cognitive capabilities in old rats were assessed in a delayed non-matching-to-position task. We recorded hippocampal CA1 place cells as the rats explored a familiar environment. Unlike the usual place cells commonly described in the literature, we found that a significant fraction of pyramidal neurons recorded in our study showed a substantial delayed onset of their place field activity. We established that this firing onset delay naturally occurs under basal conditions in old rats and is positively correlated with the remapping status of the animals. The lack of firing during the first few hundred seconds after the animals were introduced into a familiar environment was also associated with an increased locomotion in the remapping rats. This delayed activity is central to understanding the individual basis of age-related cognitive impairment and to resolving numerous discrepancies in the literature on the place cell contribution to the etiology of aged-related decline. Finally, we also found a positive correlation between the degree of firing variability of place cells (&quot;overdispersion&quot;) and performance during the long delays in the delayed non-matching-to-position task. Place cell overdispersion might provide the functional basis for interindividual differences in behavior and cognition.
In mammalian rods and cones, light activation of the visual pigments leads to release of the chromophore, which is then recycled through a multistep enzymatic pathway, referred to as the visual or retinoid cycle. In invertebrates such as Drosophila, a visual cycle was thought not to exist since the rhodopsins are bistable photopigments, which consist of a chromophore that normally stays bound to the opsin following light activation. Nevertheless, we recently described a visual cycle in Drosophila that serves to recycle the free chromophore that is released following light-induced internalization of rhodopsin, and a retinol dehydrogenase (RDH) that catalyzes the first step of the pathway. Here, we describe the identification of a putative RDH, referred to as RDHB (retinol dehydrogenase B), which functions in the visual cycle and in de novo synthesis of the chromophore. RDHB was expressed in the retinal pigment cells (RPCs), where it promoted the final enzymatic reaction necessary for the production of the chromophore. Mutation of rdhB caused moderate light-dependent degeneration of the phototransducing compartment of the photoreceptor cells-the rhabdomeres, reminiscent of the effects of mutations in some human RDH genes. Since the first and last steps in the visual cycle take place in the RPCs, it appears that these cells are the sites of action for this entire enzymatic pathway in Drosophila.
Transplantation of neural stem cells (NSCs) offers a novel therapeutic strategy for stroke; however, massive grafted cell death following transplantation, possibly due to a hostile host brain environment, lessens the effectiveness of this approach. Here, we have investigated whether reprogramming NSCs with minocycline, a broadly used antibiotic also known to possess cytoprotective properties, enhances survival of grafted cells and promotes neuroprotection in ischemic stroke. NSCs harvested from the subventricular zone of fetal rats were preconditioned with minocycline in vitro and transplanted into rat brains 6 h after transient middle cerebral artery occlusion. Histological and behavioral tests were examined from days 0-28 after stroke. For in vitro experiments, NSCs were subjected to oxygen-glucose deprivation and reoxygenation. Cell viability and antioxidant gene expression were analyzed. Minocycline preconditioning protected the grafted NSCs from ischemic reperfusion injury via upregulation of Nrf2 and Nrf2-regulated antioxidant genes. Additionally, preconditioning with minocycline induced the NSCs to release paracrine factors, including brain-derived neurotrophic factor, nerve growth factor, glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor, and vascular endothelial growth factor. Moreover, transplantation of the minocycline-preconditioned NSCs significantly attenuated infarct size and improved neurological performance, compared with non-preconditioned NSCs. Minocycline-induced neuroprotection was abolished by transfecting the NSCs with Nrf2-small interfering RNA before transplantation. Thus, preconditioning with minocycline, which reprograms NSCs to tolerate oxidative stress after ischemic reperfusion injury and express higher levels of paracrine factors through Nrf2 up-regulation, is a simple and safe approach to enhance the effectiveness of transplantation therapy in ischemic stroke.
Human attention may be guided by representations held in working memory (WM) and also by priming from implicit memory. Neurophysiological data suggest that WM and priming may be associated with distinct neural mechanisms, but this prior evidence is only correlative. Furthermore, the role of the visual cortex in attention biases from memory remains unclear, because most previous studies conflated memory and selection processes. Here, we manipulated memory and attention in an orthogonal fashion and used an interventional approach to demonstrate the functional significance of WM and priming states in visual cortex for attentional biasing. Observers searched for a Landolt target that was preceded by a nonpredictive color cue that either had to be held in WM for a later recognition test or merely attended (priming counterpart). The application of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) over the occipital cortex modulated the impact of memory on search. Critically, the direction of this modulation depended on the memory state. In the WM condition, the application of TMS on validly cued trials (when the cue surrounded the sought target) enhanced search accuracy relative to the invalid trials (when the cue surrounded a distracter); the opposite pattern was observed in the priming condition. That the effects of occipital TMS on selection were contingent on memory context demonstrates that WM and priming represent distinct states in the early visual cortex that play a causal role in memory-based guidance of attention.
We describe a stochastic accumulator model demonstrating that visual search performance can be understood as a gated feedforward cascade from a salience map to multiple competing accumulators. The model quantitatively accounts for behavior and predicts neural dynamics of macaque monkeys performing visual search for a target stimulus among different numbers of distractors. The salience accumulated in the model is equated with the spike trains recorded from visually responsive neurons in the frontal eye field. Accumulated variability in the firing rates of these neurons explains choice probabilities and the distributions of correct and error response times with search arrays of different set sizes if the accumulators are mutually inhibitory. The dynamics of the stochastic accumulators quantitatively predict the activity of presaccadic movement neurons that initiate eye movements if gating inhibition prevents accumulation before the representation of stimulus salience emerges. Adjustments in the level of gating inhibition can control trade-offs in speed and accuracy that optimize visual search performance.
An object that differs markedly from its surrounding-for example, a red cherry among green leaves-seems to pop out effortlessly in our visual experience. The rapid detection of salient targets, independently of the number of other items in the scene, is thought to be mediated by efficient search brain mechanisms. It is not clear, however, whether efficient search is actually an &quot;effortless&quot; bottom-up process or whether it also involves regions of the prefrontal cortex generally associated with top-down sustained attention. We addressed this question with intracranial EEG (iEEG) recordings designed to identify brain regions underlying a classic visual search task and correlate neural activity with target detection latencies on a trial-by-trial basis with high temporal precision recordings of these regions in epileptic patients. The spatio-temporal dynamics of single-trial spectral analysis of iEEG recordings revealed sustained energy increases in a broad gamma band (50-150 Hz) throughout the duration of the search process in the entire dorsal attention network both in efficient and inefficient search conditions. By contrast to extensive theoretical and experimental indications that efficient search relies exclusively on transient bottom-up processes in visual areas, we found that efficient search is mediated by sustained gamma activity in the dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex and the anterior cingulate cortex, alongside the superior parietal cortex and the frontal eye field. Our findings support the hypothesis that active visual search systematically involves the frontal-parietal attention network and therefore, executive attention resources, regardless of target saliency.
The ongoing activity of the brain at rest, i.e., under no stimulation and in absence of any task, is astonishingly highly structured into spatiotemporal patterns. These spatiotemporal patterns, called resting state networks, display low-frequency characteristics (&lt;0.1 Hz) observed typically in the BOLD-fMRI signal of human subjects. We aim here to understand the origins of resting state activity through modeling via a global spiking attractor network of the brain. This approach offers a realistic mechanistic model at the level of each single brain area based on spiking neurons and realistic AMPA, NMDA, and GABA synapses. Integrating the biologically realistic diffusion tensor imaging/diffusion spectrum imaging-based neuroanatomical connectivity into the brain model, the resultant emerging resting state functional connectivity of the brain network fits quantitatively best the experimentally observed functional connectivity in humans when the brain network operates at the edge of instability. Under these conditions, the slow fluctuating (&lt;0.1 Hz) resting state networks emerge as structured noise fluctuations around a stable low firing activity equilibrium state in the presence of latent &quot;ghost&quot; multistable attractors. The multistable attractor landscape defines a functionally meaningful dynamic repertoire of the brain network that is inherently present in the neuroanatomical connectivity.
The ubiquitin-proteasome pathway is a major protein degradation pathway whose dysfunction is now widely accepted as a cause of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease. Here we demonstrate that the F-box and leucine rich repeat protein2 (FBL2), a component of the E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, regulates amyloid precursor protein (APP) metabolism through APP ubiquitination. FBL2 overexpression decreased the amount of secreted amyloid  (A) peptides and sAPP, whereas FBL2 mRNA knockdown by siRNA increased these levels. FBL2 overexpression also decreased the amount of intracellular A in Neuro2a cells stably expressing APP with Swedish mutation. FBL2 bound with APP specifically at its C-terminal fragment (CTF), which promoted APP/CTF ubiquitination. FBL2 overexpression also accelerated APP proteasome-dependent degradation and decreased APP protein localization in lipid rafts by inhibiting endocytosis. These effects were not observed in an F-box-deleted FBL2 mutant that does not participate in the E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. Furthermore, a reduced insoluble A and A plaque burden was observed in the hippocampus of 7-month-old FBL2 transgenic mice crossed with double-transgenic mice harboring APPswe and PS1(M146V) transgenes. These findings indicate that FBL2 is a novel and dual regulator of APP metabolism through FBL2-dependent ubiquitination of APP.
While exploring objects, rats make multiple contacts using their whiskers, thereby generating complex patterns of sensory information. The cerebral structures that process this information in the somatosensory system show discrete patterns of anatomically distinct units, each corresponding to one whisker. Moreover, the feedforward and feedback connections are remarkably topographic, with little cross-whisker divergence before reaching the cortical network. Despite this parallel design, information processing from several whiskers has been reported in subcortical nuclei. Here, we explored whether sensory neurons in the ventral posterior medial nucleus (VPM) of the thalamus encode emergent properties of complex multiwhisker stimulations. Using a 24-whisker stimulator, we tested the responses of VPM neurons to sequences of caudal deflections that generated an apparent motion in eight different directions across the whiskerpad. Overall, 45% of neurons exhibited an evoked increase in firing rate significantly selective to the direction of apparent motion of the global stimulus. Periods of suppression of firing rate were often observed, but were generally not selective. Global motion selectivity of VPM neurons could occur regardless of the extent and spatial organization of their receptive fields, and of their selectivity for the direction of motion of their principal whisker. To investigate whether the global selectivity could be due to corticothalamic feedback connections, we inactivated the barrel cortex while repeating the stimulation protocol. For most VPM neurons, the direction selectivity decreased but was still present. These results suggest that nonlinear processing of stimuli from different whiskers emerges in subcortical nuclei and is amplified by the corticofugal feedback.
The cutaneous somatosensory system contains multiple types of mechanoreceptors that detect different mechanical stimuli (Johnson, 2001). These stimuli, either alone or in combination, are ultimately interpreted by the brain as different aspects of the sense of touch. Psychophysical and electrophysiological experiments in humans and other mammals implicate one of these mechanoreceptors, the Merkel cell/neurite complex, in two-point discrimination and the detection of curvature, shape, and texture (Johnson and Lamb, 1981; Johnson et al., 2000; Johnson, 2001). However, whether Merkel cell/neurite complex function is required for the detection of these stimuli is unknown. We genetically engineered mice that lack Merkel cells (Maricich et al., 2009; Morrison et al., 2009) to directly test the hypothesis that Merkel cell/neurite complexes are necessary to perform these types of sensory discrimination tasks. We found that mice devoid of Merkel cells could not detect textured surfaces with their feet while other measures of motor and sensory function were unaffected. Interestingly, these mice retained the ability to discriminate both texture and shape using their whiskers, suggesting that other somatosensory afferents can functionally substitute for Merkel cell/neurite complexes in this sensory organ. These findings suggest that Merkel cell/neurite complexes are essential for texture discrimination tasks involving glabrous skin but not whiskers.
Previous studies of delayed-match-to-sample (DMTS) frequency discrimination in animals and humans have succeeded in delineating the neural signature of frequency processing in somatosensory working memory (WM). During retention of vibrotactile frequencies, stimulus-dependent single-cell and population activity in prefrontal cortex was found to reflect the task-relevant memory content, whereas increases in occipital alpha activity signaled the disengagement of areas not relevant for the tactile task. Here, we recorded EEG from human participants to determine the extent to which these mechanisms can be generalized to frequency retention in the visual and auditory domains. Subjects performed analogous variants of a DMTS frequency discrimination task, with the frequency information presented either visually, auditorily, or by vibrotactile stimulation. Examining oscillatory EEG activity during frequency retention, we found characteristic topographical distributions of alpha power over visual, auditory, and somatosensory cortices, indicating systematic patterns of inhibition and engagement of early sensory areas, depending on stimulus modality. The task-relevant frequency information, in contrast, was found to be represented in right prefrontal cortex, independent of presentation mode. In each of the three modality conditions, parametric modulations of prefrontal upper beta activity (20-30 Hz) emerged, in a very similar manner as recently found in vibrotactile tasks. Together, the findings corroborate a view of parametric WM as supramodal internal scaling of abstract quantity information and suggest strong relevance of previous evidence from vibrotactile work for a more general framework of quantity processing in human working memory.
Normal ageing is associated with impairments in cognitive function, including memory. These impairments are linked, not to a loss of neurons in the forebrain, but to specific and relatively subtle synaptic alterations in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. Here, we review studies that have shed light on the cellular and synaptic changes observed in these brain structures during ageing that can be directly related to cognitive decline in young and aged animals. We also discuss the influence of the hormonal status on these age-related alterations and recent progress in the development of therapeutic strategies to limit the impact of ageing on memory and cognition in humans.
Multiple system atrophy is a sporadic, progressive, neurodegenerative disease characterized by an oligodendroglial accumulation of alpha-synuclein (-syn). The mechanisms underlying the oligodendroglial accumulation of -syn in the brains of patients with multiple system atrophy have attracted a great deal of interest, given the primarily neuronal role reported for this protein. We examined the interactions between neuronal and oligodendroglial -syn in the progeny of crosses between parental transgenic (tg) mouse lines that express -syn either under the oligodendroglial-specific myelin-basic protein promoter (MBP1-h-syn tg) or under the neuronal platelet-derived growth factor promoter (PDGF-h-syn tg). Our results demonstrate that progeny from the cross [h-syn double (dbl) tg mice] displayed a robust redistribution of -syn accumulation, with a relocalization from a neuronal or a mixed neuronal/oligodendroglial -syn expression to a more oligodendroglial pattern in both the neocortex and the basal ganglia that closely resembled the parental MBP-h-syn tg line. The h-syn dbl tg mice also displayed motor deficits, concomitant with reduced levels of tyrosine hydroxylase and augmented neuropathological alterations in the basal ganglia. These results suggest that the central nervous system milieu in the h-syn dbl tg mice favors an oligodendroglial accumulation of -syn. This model represents an important tool to examine the interactions between neuronal and oligodendrocytic -syn in diseases such as multiple system atrophy.
Selective attention involves the exclusion of irrelevant information in order to optimize perception of a single source of sensory input; failure to do so often results in the familiar phenomenon of distraction. The term 'distraction' broadly refers to a perceptual phenomenon. In the present study we attempted to find the electrophysiological correlates of distraction using an auditory discrimination task. EEG and event-related potential responses to identical stimuli were compared under two levels of distraction (continuous broad-band noise or continuous speech). Relative to broad-band noise, the presence of a continuous speech signal in the unattended ear impaired task performance and also attenuated the N1 peak evoked by nontarget stimuli in the attended ear. As the magnitude of a peak in the event-related potential waveform can be modulated by differences in intertrial power but also by differences in the stability of EEG phase across trials, we sought to characterize the effect of distraction on intertrial power and intertrial phase locking around the latency of the N1. The presence of continuous speech resulted in a prominent reduction of theta EEG band intertrial phase locking around the latency of the N1. This suggests that distraction may act not only to disrupt a sensory gain mechanism but also to disrupt the temporal fidelity with which the brain responds to stimulus events.
Bipolar disorder is a psychiatric condition characterized by episodes of elevated mood interspersed with episodes of depression. While treatment developments and understanding the disruptive nature of this illness have focused on these episodes, it is also evident that some patients may have chronic week-to-week mood instability. This is also a major morbidity. The longitudinal pattern of this mood instability is poorly understood as it has, until recently, been difficult to quantify. We propose that understanding this mood variability is critical for the development of cognitive neuroscience-based treatments. In this study, we develop a time-series approach to capture mood variability in two groups of patients with bipolar disorder who appear on the basis of clinical judgement to show relatively stable or unstable illness courses. Using weekly mood scores based on a self-rated scale (quick inventory of depressive symptomatology-self-rated; QIDS-SR) from 23 patients over a 220-week period, we show that the observed mood variability is nonlinear and that the stable and unstable patient groups are described by different nonlinear time-series processes. We emphasize the necessity in combining both appropriate measures of the underlying deterministic processes (the QIDS-SR score) and noise (uncharacterized temporal variation) in understanding dynamical patterns of mood variability associated with bipolar disorder.



A new study shows that, in vision, object blur can be a more accurate depth cue than stereo disparity.
A new study uses a combination of physiological and optogenetic techniques to identify visual neurons in fruit flies that detect approaching objects, and whose activation is integral in escaping an oncoming threat.
Voluntary movement is accompanied by changes in the degree to which neurons in the brain synchronize their activity within discrete frequency ranges. Two patterns of movement-related oscillatory activity stand out in human cortical motor areas. Activity in the beta frequency (15-30 Hz) band is prominent during tonic contractions but is attenuated prior to and during voluntary movement. Without such attenuation, movement may be slowed, leading to the suggestion that beta activity promotes postural and tonic contraction, possibly at a cost to the generation of new movements. In contrast, activity in the gamma (60-90 Hz) band increases during movement. The direction of change suggests that gamma activity might facilitate motor processing. In correspondence with this, increased frontal gamma activity is related with reduced reaction times. Yet the possibility remains that these functional correlations reflect an epiphenomenal rather than causal relationship. Here we provide strong evidence that oscillatory activities at the cortical level are mechanistically involved in determining motor behavior and can even improve performance. By driving cortical oscillations using noninvasive electrical stimulation, we show opposing effects at beta and gamma frequencies and interactions with motor task that reveal the potential quantitative importance of oscillations in motor behavior.
Spinal cord injury leads to immense disability and loss of quality of life in human with no satisfactory clinical cure. Cell-based or cell-related therapies have emerged as promising therapeutic potentials both in regeneration of spinal cord and mitigation of neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury. This article reviews the various options and their latest developments with an update on their therapeutic potentials and clinical trialing.
Reactive oxygen species regulate redox-signaling processes, but in excess they can cause cell damage, hence underlying the aetiology of several neurological diseases. Through its ability to down modulate reactive oxygen species, glutathione is considered an essential thiol-antioxidant derivative, yet under certain circumstances it is dispensable for cell growth and redox control. Here we show, by directing the biosynthesis of -glutamylcysteine-the immediate glutathione precursor-to mitochondria, that it efficiently detoxifies hydrogen peroxide and superoxide anion, regardless of cellular glutathione concentrations. Knocking down glutathione peroxidase-1 drastically increases superoxide anion in cells synthesizing mitochondrial -glutamylcysteine. In vitro, -glutamylcysteine is as efficient as glutathione in disposing of hydrogen peroxide by glutathione peroxidase-1. In primary neurons, endogenously synthesized -glutamylcysteine fully prevents apoptotic death in several neurotoxic paradigms and, in an in vivo mouse model of neurodegeneration, -glutamylcysteine protects against neuronal loss and motor impairment. Thus, -glutamylcysteine takes over the antioxidant and neuroprotective functions of glutathione by acting as glutathione peroxidase-1 cofactor.
Neurogastroenterology is defined as neurology of the gastrointestinal tract, liver, gallbladder and pancreas and encompasses control of digestion through the enteric nervous system (ENS), the central nervous system (CNS) and integrative centers in sympathetic ganglia. This Review provides a broad overview of the field of neurogastroenterology, with a focus on the roles of the ENS in the control of the musculature of the gastrointestinal tract and transmucosal fluid movement. Digestion is controlled through the integration of multiple signals from the ENS and CNS; neural signals also pass between distinct gut regions to coordinate digestive activity. Moreover, neural and endocrine control of digestion is closely coordinated. Interestingly, the extent to which the ENS or CNS controls digestion differs considerably along the digestive tract. The importance of the ENS is emphasized by the life-threatening effects of certain ENS neuropathies, including Hirschsprung disease and Chagas disease. Other ENS disorders, such as esophageal achalasia and gastroparesis, cause varying degrees of dysfunction. The neurons in enteric reflex pathways use a wide range of chemical messengers that signal through an even wider range of receptors. These receptors provide many actual and potential targets for modifying digestive function.

Prenatal exposure to teratogenic substances, such as nicotine or alcohol, increases the risk of developing attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). To date, studies examining this relationship have used symptom scales as outcome measures to assess the effect of prenatal exposure, and have not investigated the neurobiological pathways involved. This study explores the effect of prenatal exposure to cigarettes or alcohol on brain volume in children with ADHD and typically developing controls. Children with ADHD who had been exposed prenatally to either substance were individually matched to children with and without ADHD who had not been. Controls who had been exposed prenatally were also individually matched to controls who had not been. For prenatal exposure to both smoking and alcohol, we found a pattern where subjects with ADHD who had been exposed had the smallest brain volumes and unexposed controls had the largest, with intermediate volumes for unexposed subjects with ADHD. This effect was most pronounced for cerebellum. A similar reduction fell short of significance for controls who had been exposed to cigarettes, but not alcohol. Our results are consistent with an additive effect of prenatal exposure and ADHD on brain volume, with the effects most pronounced for cerebellum.



Serotonin and insulin are key regulators of homeostatic mechanisms in the hypothalamus. However, in type 2 diabetes, the hypothalamic responsiveness to serotonin is not clearly established. We used a diabetic model, the Goto Kakizaki (GK) rats, to explore insulin receptor expression, insulin and serotonin efficiency in the hypothalamus and liver by means of Akt phosphorylation. Insulin or dexfenfluramine (stimulator of serotonin) treatment induced Akt phosphorylation in Wistar rats but not in GK rats that exhibit down-regulated insulin receptor. Studies in a neuroblastoma cell line showed that serotonin-induced Akt phosphorylation is PI3-kinase dependent. Finally, in response to food intake, hypothalamic serotonin release was reduced in GK rats, indicating impaired responsiveness of this neurotransmitter. In conclusion, hypothalamic serotonin as insulin efficiency is impaired in diabetic GK rats. The insulin-serotonin cross-talk and impairment observed is one potential key modification in the brain during the onset of diabetes.
Several lines of evidence point to a role for the hippocampal formation and contiguous temporal lobe structures in a variety of learning and memory paradigms. Presumably, these cognitive phenomena are mediated (and accompanied) by dynamic changes in neurochemical transmission that may differ between learning and recall phases. However, the neurotransmitter correlates of most memory-related tasks have not been thoroughly investigated. Here we used a one-trial object recognition paradigm paired with in vivo microdialysis to assess hippocampal acetylcholine (ACh), glutamate and GABA efflux when rats were exposed to familiar objects, and when given the option to explore familiar and novel objects. Rats preferentially explored the novel object over the familiar one when presented with the option. Regardless of object familiarity, object exploration was accompanied by an increase in hippocampal ACh efflux, while GABA efflux was unaffected. However, glutamate efflux was not increased above baseline levels by presentation of familiar objects, but was significantly enhanced in the presence of the novel object. These data suggest that the hippocampus, and in particular, hippocampal glutamate, may be involved in memory processes during novelty recognition paradigms.
Anecdotal evidence abounds that conflicts between two individuals can spread across networks to involve a multitude of others. We advance a cultural transmission model of intergroup conflict where conflict contagion is seen as a consequence of universal human traits (ingroup preference, outgroup hostility; i.e. parochial altruism) which give their strongest expression in particular cultural contexts. Qualitative interviews conducted in the Middle East, USA and Canada suggest that parochial altruism processes vary across cultural groups and are most likely to occur in collectivistic cultural contexts that have high ingroup loyalty. Implications for future neuroscience and computational research needed to understand the emergence of intergroup conflict are discussed.
Social contexts can have dramatic effects on decisions. When individuals recognize each other as coming from the same social group, they can coordinate their actions towards a common goal. Conversely, information about group differences can lead to conflicts both economic and physical. Understanding how social information shapes decision processes is now a core goal both of behavioural economics and neuroeconomics. Here, we describe the foundations for research that combines the theoretical framework from identity economics with the experimental methods of neuroscience. Research at this intersection would fill important gaps in the literature not addressed by current approaches in either of these disciplines, nor within social neuroscience, psychology or other fields. We set forth a simple taxonomy of social contexts based on the information content they provide. And, we highlight the key questions that would be addressed by a new 'identity neuroeconomics'. Such research could serve as an important and novel link between the social and natural sciences.
A major challenge in neuroscience is linking behavior to the collective activity of neural assemblies. Understanding of input-output relationships of neurons and circuits requires methods with the spatial selectivity and temporal resolution appropriate for mechanistic analysis of neural ensembles in the behaving animal, i.e. recording of representatively large samples of isolated single neurons. Ensemble monitoring of neuronal activity has progressed remarkably in the past decade in both small and large-brained animals, including human subjects. Multiple-site recording with silicon-based devices are particularly effective because of their scalability, small volume and geometric design. Here, we describe methods for recording multiple single neurons and local field potential in behaving rodents, using commercially available micro-machined silicon probes with custom-made accessory components. There are two basic options for interfacing silicon probes to preamplifiers: printed circuit boards and flexible cables. Probe supplying companies (http://www.neuronexustech.com/; http://www.sbmicrosystems.com/; http://www.acreo.se/) usually provide the bonding service and deliver probes bonded to printed circuit boards or flexible cables. Here, we describe the implantation of a 4-shank, 32-site probe attached to flexible polyimide cable, and mounted on a movable microdrive. Each step of the probe preparation, microdrive construction and surgery is illustrated so that the end user can easily replicate the process.
The ability to learn new skills and perfect them with practice applies not only to physical skills but also to abstract skills, like motor planning or neuroprosthetic actions. Although plasticity in corticostriatal circuits has been implicated in learning physical skills, it remains unclear if similar circuits or processes are required for abstract skill learning. Here we use a novel behavioural task in rodents to investigate the role of corticostriatal plasticity in abstract skill learning. Rodents learned to control the pitch of an auditory cursor to reach one of two targets by modulating activity in primary motor cortex irrespective of physical movement. Degradation of the relation between action and outcome, as well as sensory-specific devaluation and omission tests, demonstrate that these learned neuroprosthetic actions are intentional and goal-directed, rather than habitual. Striatal neurons change their activity with learning, with more neurons modulating their activity in relation to target-reaching as learning progresses. Concomitantly, strong relations between the activity of neurons in motor cortex and the striatum emerge. Specific deletion of striatal NMDA receptors impairs the development of this corticostriatal plasticity, and disrupts the ability to learn neuroprosthetic skills. These results suggest that corticostriatal plasticity is necessary for abstract skill learning, and that neuroprosthetic movements capitalize on the neural circuitry involved in natural motor learning.



There is a growing body of evidence showing that a statistically significant number of people experience long-term changes in cognition after anesthesia. We hypothesize that this cognitive impairment may result from an anesthetic-induced alteration of postnatal hippocampal cell proliferation. To test this hypothesis, we investigated the effects of isoflurane and propofol on new cell proliferation and cognition of young (4 month-old) and aged (21 month-old). All rats were injected intraperitoneally (IP) with 50 mg/kg of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) immediately after anesthesia. A novel appetitive olfactory learning test was used to assess learning and memory two days after anesthesia. One week after anesthesia, rats were euthanized and the brains analyzed for new cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus, and proliferation and migration of newly formed cells in the subventricular zone to the olfactory bulb. We found that exposure to either isoflurane (p=0.017) or propofol (p=0.006) decreased hippocampal cell proliferation in young, but not in aged rats. This anesthetic-induced decrease was specific to new cell proliferation in the hippocampus, as new cell proliferation and migration to the olfactory bulb was unaffected. Isoflurane anesthesia produced learning impairment in aged rats (p=0.044), but not in young rats. Conversely, propofol anesthesia resulted in learning impairment in young (p=0.01), but not in aged rats. These results indicate that isoflurane and propofol anesthesia affect postnatal hippocampal cell proliferation and learning in an age dependent manner.
Many epidemiological studies have shown that diabetes, particularly type 2 diabetes, significantly increases the risk to develop Alzheimer's disease. Both diseases share several common abnormalities including impaired glucose metabolism, increased oxidative stress, insulin resistance and deposition of amyloidogenic proteins. It has been suggested that these two diseases disrupt common cellular and molecular pathways and each disease potentiates the progression of the other. This review discusses clinical and biochemical features shared by Alzheimer's disease and diabetes, giving special attention to the involvement of insulin signaling, glucose metabolism and mitochondria. Understanding the key mechanisms underlying this deleterious interaction may provide opportunities for the design of effective therapeutic strategies.
We previously reported that the antipsychotic drug haloperidol, a multifunctional D2-like dopamine and sigma receptor subtype antagonist, has neuroprotective properties. In this study we further examined the association between neuroprotection and receptor antagonism by evaluating a panel of novel compounds with varying affinity at sigma and D2-like dopamine receptors. These compounds were evaluated using an in vitro cytotoxicity assay that utilizes a hippocampal-derived cell line, HT-22, in the presence or absence of varying concentrations (5 to 20 mM) of glutamate. While haloperidol was found to be a potent neuroprotective agent in this in vitro cell assay, the prototypic sigma 1 receptor agonist (+)-pentazocine was found not to be neuroprotective. Subsequently, the potency for the neuroprotection of HT-22 cells was evaluated for a) three SV series indoles which have nMolar affinity at D2-like receptors but varying affinity at sigma 1 receptor and b) two benzyl phenylacetamides sigma 1 receptor selective compounds which bind with low affinity at D2-like receptors but have nMolar affinity for the sigma 1 receptor. We observed that cytoprotection correlated with the affinity of the compounds for sigma 1 receptors. Based upon results from the HT-22 cell-based in vitro assay, two phenylacetamides, LS-127 and LS-137, were further evaluated in vivo using a transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (t-MCAO) model of stroke. At a dose of 100 g/kg, both LS-127 and LS-137 attenuated infarct volume by approximately 50%. These studies provide further evidence that sigma 1 receptor selective compounds can provide neuroprotection in cytotoxic situations. These results also demonstrate that sigma 1 receptor selective benzyl phenylacetamides are candidate pharmacotherapeutic agents that could be used to minimize neuronal death after a stroke or head trauma.
Control of translation is a fundamental source of regulation in gene expression. The induction of protein synthesis by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) critically contributes to enduring modifications of synaptic function, but how BDNF selectively affects only a minority of expressed mRNAs is poorly understood. We report that BDNF rapidly elevates Dicer, increasing mature miRNA levels and inducing RNA processing bodies in neurons. BDNF also rapidly induces Lin28, causing selective loss of Lin28-regulated miRNAs and a corresponding upregulation in translation of their target mRNAs. Binding sites for Lin28-regulated miRNAs are necessary and sufficient to confer BDNF responsiveness to a transcript. Lin28 deficiency, or expression of a Lin28-resistant Let-7 precursor miRNA, inhibits BDNF translation specificity and BDNF-dependent dendrite arborization. Our data establish that specificity in BDNF-regulated translation depends upon a two-part posttranscriptional control of miRNA biogenesis that generally enhances mRNA repression in association with GW182 while selectively derepressing and increasing translation of specific mRNAs.
Human P2X receptors are a family of seven ATP-gated ion channels that transport Na(+), K(+), and Ca(2+) across cell surface membranes. The P2X4 receptor is unique among family members in its sensitivity to the macrocyclic lactone, ivermectin, which allosterically modulates both ion conduction and channel gating. In this paper we show that removing the fixed negative charge of a single acidic amino acid (Glu(51)) in the lateral entrance to the transmembrane pore markedly attenuates the effect of ivermectin on Ca(2+) current and channel gating. Ca(2+) entry through P2X4 receptors is known to trigger downstream signaling pathways in microglia. Our experiments show that the lateral portals could present a novel target for drugs in the treatment of microglia-associated disease including neuropathic pain.
Cognitive decline is one of the earliest hallmarks of both normal and pathological brain aging. Here we used Ercc1 mutant mice, which are impaired in multiple DNA repair systems and consequently show accelerated aging and progressive memory deficits, to identify changes in the levels of hippocampal synaptic proteins that potentially underlie these age-dependent deficits. Aged Ercc1 mutant mice show normal gross hippocampal dendritic morphology and synapse numbers, and Ercc1 mutant hippocampal neurons displayed normal outgrowth and synapse formation in vitro. However, using isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) of hippocampal synaptic proteins at two different ages, postnatal days 28 and 112, we observed a progressive decrease in synaptic ionotropic glutamate receptor levels and increased levels of G-proteins and of cell adhesion proteins. These together may cause long-term changes in synapse function. In addition, we observed a downregulation of mitochondrial proteins and concomitant upregulation of Na,K-ATPase subunits, which might compensate for reduced mitochondrial activity. Thus, our findings show that under conditions of apparent intact neuronal connectivity, levels of specific synaptic proteins are already affected during the early stages of DNA damage-induced aging, which might contribute to age-dependent cognitive decline.
Psychiatry has not always been a major clinical discipline in medical schools. Although the Faculty of Health Sciences of the University of Cape Town (UCT) celebrates its Centenary in 2012, a closely aligned major psychiatric hospital is older than the Medical School, while the Department of Psychiatry is only 50 years old. These differing dates reflect the history of and challenge for psychiatry; mental disorders contribute a major portion of the burden of disease, while appropriate recognition and resourcing of services and training has been delayed. There are ongoing challenges in aligning the visions of an old state-run system that focused on those with severe psychotic illness, a newer governmental vision of the importance of treating mental disorders in the community, the realities of current under-resourcing, and the international aspiration that psychiatry is one of the clinical neurosciences. Nevertheless, considerable strides have been made towards moving psychiatry from the periphery of society and medicine to a central discipline within the Faculty of Health Sciences at UCT.
Psychiatry is facing a crisis fueled by a fragmented and inefficient system of care delivery and a disconnection between the state of research and the state of psychiatry education and practice. Many factors contribute to the current state of psychiatric care. Psychiatry is a shortage specialty, and this will become worse in the near future. In addition, financial pressures have led to decreases in psychiatric inpatient and outpatient services and to shorter lengths of hospitalization for even the sickest patients. This has resulted in fragmented care and an overreliance on polypharmacy. To reach the large number of patients needing psychiatric services, health care systems must change and take advantage of collaborative and integrative care models and new technologies. Psychiatrists must learn to partner more effectively with primary care providers to extend their expertise to the greatest number of patients. Currently, psychiatric diagnosis is based on a criteria-based system that was developed in the 1970s. Advances in systems and molecular neuroscience are beginning to elucidate specific brain systems that are dysfunctional in psychiatric illness. This has the potential to revolutionize psychiatric diagnosis and treatment in the future. However, psychiatry has not yet been successful in incorporating the language of this research into clinically meaningful terminology. If neuroscientific progress is to be translated into clinical advances, this must change. Residency programs must better prepare their graduates to keep up with a psychiatry literature that will increasingly use the language of neural circuits to describe psychiatric symptomatology and treatments.


Biomathematical models are used in industry to estimate how much sleep people are likely to get on different work patterns, and how efficient and safe people are likely to be at work. Since there is evidence to suggest that individuals respond differently to sleep loss, there has been a recent focus on trying to account for individual differences. One possible approach could use past behaviour to predict future responses to similar working conditions. This study investigated the predictive value of sleep timing and duration data for a particular individual on a break between shifts relative to data from their colleagues. Sleep diaries and wrist actigraphy were collected from 306 international long-haul pilots for at least 2-weeks. Fifty layovers, equivalent in origin and destination, length and timing, were completed twice by individual pilots. Matched layovers done by other pilots (n=2311) were also identified. Layover periods were analysed for minute-by-minute correspondence of sleep or wake (yes/no), and total sleep time (TST). Using an individual's own data improved concordance by approximately 5% relative to using a large sample of different pilots, and by 10% relative to using a random sample of 50 different pilots. Using an individual's own TST to predict their TST on an equivalent layover yielded an r value of 0.83, compared to r=0.78 when data from a colleague was used, and r=0.73 using different pilots in a random sample of equivalent size. The mean difference in TST using pilots' own data was &lt;20 min, compared to &lt;40 min using data from colleagues. However, the confidence limits on these differences were large (up to 8h). Results suggest that for international pilots on specific layover patterns, knowing the past behaviour of an individual may only represent a modest improvement over knowing the length and timing of a colleague's sleep, when it comes to predicting their sleep behaviour.


Hypoxic-ischemic injury to the brain is a devastating occurrence that frequently results in death or profound long-term neurologic disability. In this report, we describe the neuroradiological findings of a patient suffering from a global brain hypoxic-ischemic injury. Our findings clearly display that the areas of the brain with the highest metabolic activity, such as basal ganglia, thalami, and occipital and perirolandic cortex, are most susceptible to hypoxic injury. The MRI images delineate a map of the brain areas with selective vulnerability to hypoxia.


The neuroanatomy of voice and speech is complex. An intricate neural network is responsible for ensuring the main functions of the larynx: airway protection, cough and Valsalva production, and providing voice. Coordination of these roles is very susceptible to disruption by neurological disorders. Neurological disorders that affect laryngeal function include Parkinson's disease, stroke, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, multiple sclerosis, dystonia and essential tremor. A thorough neurological evaluation should be routine for any patient presenting with voice complaints suggestive of neurogenic cause. Endoscopic visualisation of the larynx using a dynamic voice assessment with a flexible laryngoscope is a crucial part of the evaluation and ancillary tests are sometimes performed. Otolaryngologic evaluation is important in the diagnosis and treatment of neurological disorders that affect laryngeal function.




The present behavioral study investigated the influence of negative affect on the neural mechanisms of cognitive control. We expected to find evidence for an antagonistic modulation of cognition by threat-relevant and threat-irrelevant negative affect (i.e. fear and sadness) that should promote bottom-up monitoring and top-down selection, respectively. Subjects performed one of three conflict tasks (Stroop, Flanker, or Simon) that tap distinct control mechanisms of conflict resolution, comprising specific attentional and motor control processes. On each task trial, target stimuli were preceded by a face stimulus exhibiting a fearful, sad, or neutral expression, providing three affect conditions. Our data provides strong evidence for substantially increased selection (attentional and motor selection) after priming of threat-irrelevant negative affect (sadness). Deviating from the results of previous studies, our analysis did not consistently yield increased monitoring after fear priming. We discuss these findings with respect to the effectiveness of different experimental affect priming procedures (i.e. stimuli) and the role of the task context, among others.
Using a finger cuing paradigm, we investigated response preparation in Parkinson's disease (PD). The central question was whether PD individuals are differentially affected by preparatory cues that specify a more automatic response set configuration (that induces within-hand preparation) as opposed to a more controlled one (that induces between-hands preparation). Reaction times (RTs) and error rates were measured in 20 non-demented individuals with PD and 20 healthy control participants with a long and short preparation interval (500 ms and 2000 ms). RT benefits and/or costs were measured for cues indicating a within- and between-hands motor preparatory set. Overall, RTs were significantly longer, and errors more frequent, for PD participants than for control participants. More importantly, in comparison with control subjects, PD individuals showed a significant deficit in between-hands preparation but not in within-hand preparation. Furthermore, longer preparation intervals slowed down cued RTs of the control participants, but not those of the PD individuals. Together, these findings suggest that whereas automatic response preparation processes are spared in PD, controlled response preparation processes operate at a slower rate and/or are delayed in time.
A longstanding question in false memory research is whether children's implanted false memories represent actual memory traces or merely result from compliance. The current study examined this question using a response latency based deception task. Forty-five 8-year-old children received narratives about a true (first day at school) and false event (hot air balloon ride). Across two interviews, 58/32% of the participants developed a partial/full false memory. Interestingly, these children also showed higher false recall on an unrelated DRM paradigm compared to children without a false memory. The crucial finding, however, was that the results of the deception task revealed that children with partial and full false memories were faster to confirm than to deny statements relating to the false event. This indicates that children's implanted false memories reflect actual memory traces, and are unlikely to be explained by mere compliance.



Neuroadaptations that participate in the ontogeny of alcohol dependence are likely a result of altered gene expression in various brain regions. The present study investigated brain region-specific changes in the pattern and magnitude of gene expression immediately following chronic intermittent ethanol (CIE) exposure and 8 hours following final ethanol exposure [i.e. early withdrawal (EWD)]. High-density oligonucleotide microarrays (Affymetrix 430A 2.0, Affymetrix, Santa Clara, CA, USA) and bioinformatics analysis were used to characterize gene expression and function in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), hippocampus (HPC) and nucleus accumbens (NAc) of C57BL/6J mice (Jackson Laboratories, Bar Harbor, ME, USA). Gene expression levels were determined using gene chip robust multi-array average followed by statistical analysis of microarrays and validated by quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analysis. Results indicated that immediately following CIE exposure, changes in gene expression were strikingly greater in the PFC (284 genes) compared with the HPC (16 genes) and NAc (32 genes). Bioinformatics analysis revealed that most of the transcriptionally responsive genes in the PFC were involved in Ras/MAPK signaling, notch signaling or ubiquitination. In contrast, during EWD, changes in gene expression were greatest in the HPC (139 genes) compared with the PFC (four genes) and NAc (eight genes). The most transcriptionally responsive genes in the HPC were involved in mRNA processing or actin dynamics. Of the few genes detected in the NAc, the most representatives were involved in circadian rhythms. Overall, these findings indicate that brain region-specific and time-dependent neuroadaptive alterations in gene expression play an integral role in the development of alcohol dependence and withdrawal.
Alcohol use is highly heritable and has been associated with many gene variants, including those related to dopamine (DA). However, single gene association studies have shown inconsistent and small effects. Using a system-level approach, the current study aimed to estimate the overall effect of genetic variations in the DA system on alcohol use among male drinkers. One hundred seventy-six male college students who reported to have ever drunk alcohol were enrolled. Alcohol use was measured using the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test. Ninety-eight representative polymorphisms in all major DA neurotransmitter genes were genotyped. Using analysis of variance, we identified six single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP)s that made statistically significant contributions to alcohol use. Next, main effects and interactions of these SNPs were assessed using multiple regression. The final model accounted for approximately 20% of the variance for alcohol use. Finally, permutation analyses ascertained the probability of obtaining these findings by chance to be low, p ranging from 0.024 to 0.048. These results confirmed that DA-related gene variants made strong contributions to reported alcohol use and suggest that multiple regression can be a promising way to explore the genetic basis for multi-gene-determined human behaviors.
In line with learning theories of drug addiction, drug-related cues may be viewed as important motivators of continued drug use. They may be differentially effective depending on the context and motivational significance. The present study aimed to test the significance of different contexts in modulating alcohol-related cue reactivity. Pictures depicting alcohol intake or its paraphernalia and pictures without any relation to alcohol intake were varied to depict physical and social contexts or different consumptive contexts associated with full/half-full/empty alcohol beverage containers. We obtained ratings of craving, valence and arousal of the cues as well as skin conductance responses (SCRs) and startle reflex modulation measures from 21 abstinent alcohol-dependent patients, recruited from an addiction treatment center, and 21 matched healthy controls. Social scenes and full glasses or bottles were rated as more pleasant and arousing compared with neutral drinking situations and empty glasses or bottles in patients. Furthermore, we found a decreased startle reflex magnitude to social compared with neutral drinking situations, and both higher SCRs and decreased startle reflex magnitude to full compared with empty glasses or bottles in patients versus controls. These results show that both physical and social and consumptive contexts differentially influence cue reactivity in abstinent alcohol-dependent patients with both social and pub-related physical contexts, and the initial consumptive context eliciting the most appetitive and arousing responses. These data have not only important implications for our understanding of the role of learning in drug dependence but also for treatment, which needs to take these factors into account.
Environmental stimuli repeatedly associated with the self-administered drugs may acquire motivational importance. Because dopamine (DA) D(2) /D(3) partial agonists and D(3) antagonists interfere with the ability of drug-associated cues to induce drug-seeking behaviour, the present study investigated whether bifeprunox, 7-[4-([1,1'biphenyl]-3-ylmethyl)-1-piperazinyl]-2(3H)-benzoxazolone mesylate), a high-affinity partial agonist of the D(2) subfamily of DA receptors and of serotonin(1A) receptors, influences reinstatement of drug-associated cue-induced nicotine-seeking behaviour. The study also explored whether bifeprunox reduced motivated behaviour by evaluating its effects on reinstatement induced by stimuli conditioned to sucrose. To verify whether bifeprunox interferes with the primary reinforcing properties of either drug or sucrose, we compared its effects on nicotine self-administration and on sucrose-reinforced behaviour. Different groups of experimentally nave, food-restricted Wistar rats were trained to associate a discriminative stimulus with response-contingent availability of nicotine or sucrose and tested for reinstatement after extinction of nicotine or sucrose-reinforced behaviour. Bifeprunox (4-16g/kg, s.c.) dose-dependently attenuated the response-reinstating effects of nicotine-associated cues. Higher doses (64-250g/kg, s.c.) reduced spontaneous locomotor activity and suppressed operant responding induced by sucrose-associated cues and by the primary reinforcing properties of nicotine or sucrose. Provided they can be extrapolated to abstinent human addicts, these results suggest the potential therapeutic use of partial DA D(2) receptor agonist to prevent cue-controlled nicotine-seeking and relapse. The profile of action of high doses of bifeprunox remains to be examined for potential sedation or anhedonia effects.




This study compared differences in risk for suicidality among youth living in the community who met criteria for comorbid depression and binge drinking, depression without binge drinking, and binge drinking without depression relative to a reference group with neither condition. Logistic regression analysis was used to analyze data from the Canadian Community Health Survey, Cycle 3.1 (CCHS 3.1, 2005): a cross-sectional survey of respondents from the Canadian population. To restrict the sample to youth, respondents were excluded who were younger than 15 or older than 24 years. Over 17,000 respondents were assessed to determine whether they met criteria for depression, binge drinking, the comorbid condition, or neither condition (reference group). Binge drinking was defined as five drinks or more on an occasion. The 12-month prevalence rates for comorbid binge drinking and depression were 2.7% for male respondents and 2.1% for female respondents. When adjusted for demographic factors and when compared with the reference group, the risk of suicidality was increased for the depressed group (odds ratio [OR] 5.23, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 3.34-8.2) and the comorbid group (OR 6.28, 95% CI: 3.68-10.70), but not for the binge-drinking group. With the exception of increasing age, sociodemographic factors were not correlates of comorbidity. In conclusion, binge drinking was not associated with an increased risk of suicidality among Canadian youth living in the community, although depression and comorbidity were associated with suicidality.



There are aspects of the ageing brain and cognition that remain poorly understood despite intensive efforts to understand how they are related. Cognitive reserve is the concept that has been developed to explain how it is that some elderly people with extensive neuropathology associated with dementia show little in the way of cognitive decline. Cognitive reserve is intimately related to cortical plasticity but this also, as it relates to ageing, remains poorly understood at the present time. Despite the shortcomings in understanding, we do have some knowledge on which to base efforts to minimise the likelihood of an elderly person developing dementia. For some risks the evidence is far from secure, but resistance to Alzheimer's disease (AD) appears from epidemiological studies to be contributed to by avoiding hypertension in middle life, obesity, depression, smoking and diabetes and head injury and by undertaking extended years of education, physical exercise, and social and intellectual pursuits in middle and late life. Nutritional factors may also promote healthy brain ageing. Resistance to AD is also contributed to by genetic factors, particularly apolipoprotein E2, but some combinations of other genetic polymorphisms as well. Although multiple factors and possible interventions may influence cognitive reserve and susceptibility to dementia, much more work is required on the mechanisms of action in order to determine which, if any, may improve the clinical and epidemiological picture. Understanding of how such factors operate may lead to new initiatives to keep the elderly population in the 21st century able to lead active and fulfilling lives.

Human adult cognition emerges over the course of development via the interaction of multiple critical neurocognitive networks. These networks evolved in response to various selection pressures, many of which were modified or intensified by the intellectual, technological, and sociocultural environments that arose in connection with the evolution of genus Homo. Networks related to language and theory of mind clearly play an important role in adult cognition. Given the critical importance of food to both basic survival and cultural interaction, a &quot;theory of food&quot; (analogous to theory of mind) may represent another complex network essential for normal cognition. I propose that theory of food evolved as an internal, cognitive representation of our diets in our minds. Like other complex cognitive abilities, it relies on complex and overlapping dedicated neural networks that develop in childhood under familial and cultural influences. Normative diets are analogous to first languages in that they are acquired without overt teaching; they are also difficult to change or modify once a critical period in development is passed. Theory of food suggests that cognitive activities related to food may be cognitive enhancers, which could have implications for maintaining healthy brain function in aging.
Despite behavioral differences between genetic subtypes of Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS), no studies have been published characterizing brain structure in these subgroups. Our goal was to examine differences in the brain structure phenotype of common subtypes of PWS [chromosome 15q deletions and maternal uniparental disomy 15 (UPD)]. Fifteen individuals with PWS due to a typical deletion [(DEL) type I; n = 5, type II; n = 10], eight with PWS due to UPD, and 25 age-matched healthy-weight individuals (HWC) participated in structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans. A custom voxel-based morphometry processing stream was used to examine regional differences in gray and white matter volume (WMV) between groups, covarying for age, sex, and body mass index (BMI). Overall, compared to HWC, PWS individuals had lower gray matter volumes (GMV) that encompassed the prefrontal, orbitofrontal and temporal cortices, hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus, and lower WMVs in the brain stem, cerebellum, medial temporal, and frontal cortex. Compared to UPD, the DEL subtypes had lower GMV primarily in the prefrontal and temporal cortices, and lower white matter in the parietal cortex. The UPD subtype had more extensive lower gray and WMVs in the orbitofrontal and limbic cortices compared to HWC. These preliminary findings are the first structural neuroimaging findings to support potentially separate neural mechanisms mediating the behavioral differences seen in these genetic subtypes.
Serotonin (5-HT) modulates the stress response by interacting with the hormonal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and neuronal sympathetic nervous system (SNS). Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) is the rate-limiting enzyme in 5-HT biosynthesis, and the recent identification of a second, neuron-specific TPH isoform (TPH2) opened up a new area of research. While TPH2 genetic variance has been linked to numerous behavioral traits and disorders, findings on TPH2 gene expression have not only reinforced, but also provided new insights into, the long-recognized but not yet fully understood 5-HT-stress interaction. In this review, we summarize advances in TPH2 expression regulation and its relevance to the stress response and clinical implications. Particularly, based on findings on rhesus monkey TPH2 genetics and other relevant literature, we propose that: (i) upon activation of adrenal cortisol secretion, the cortisol surge induces TPH2 expression and de novo 5-HT synthesis; (ii) the induced 5-HT in turn inhibits cortisol secretion by modulating the adrenal sensitivity to ACTH via the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN)-SNS-adrenal system, such that it contributes to the feedback inhibition of cortisol production; (iii) basal TPH2 expression or 5-HT synthesis, as well as early-life experience, influence basal cortisol primarily via the hormonal HPA axis; and (iv) 5'- and 3'-regulatory polymorphisms of TPH2 may differentially influence the stress response, presumably due to their differential roles in gene expression regulation. Our increasing knowledge of TPH2 expression regulation not only helps us better understand the 5-HT-stress interaction and the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders, but also provides new strategies for the treatment of stress-associated diseases.


In vivo measurement of multiple functionally related neurochemicals and metabolites (NMs) is highly interesting but remains challenging in the field of basic neuroscience and clinical research. We present here an analytical method for determining five functionally and metabolically related polar substances, including acetylcholine (quaternary ammonium), lactate and pyruvate (organic acids), as well as glutamine and glutamate (amino acids). These NMs are acquired from samples of the brain and the blood of non-human primates in parallel by dual microdialysis, and subsequently analyzed by a direct capillary hydrophilic interaction chromatography (HILIC)-mass spectrometry (MS) based method. To obtain high sensitivity in electrospray ionization (ESI)-MS, lactate and pyruvate were detected in negative ionization mode whereas the other NMs were detected in positive ionization mode during each HILIC-MS run. The method was validated for linearity, the limits of detection and quantification, precision, accuracy, stability and matrix effect. The detection limit of acetylcholine, lactate, pyruvate, glutamine, and glutamate was 150 pM, 3 M, 2 M, 5 nM, and 50 nM, respectively. This allowed us to quantitatively and simultaneously measure the concentrations of all the substances from the acquired dialysates. The concentration ratios of both lactate/pyruvate and glutamine/glutamate were found to be higher in the brain compared to blood (p &lt; 0.05). The reliable and simultaneous quantification of these five NMs from brain and blood samples allows us to investigate their relative distribution in the brain and blood, and most importantly paves the way for future non-invasive studies of the functional and metabolic relation of these substances to each other.
This article reports large item effects in a study of computer-based learning of neuroanatomy. Outcome measures of the efficiency of learning, transfer of learning, and generalization of knowledge diverged by a wide margin across test items, with certain sets of items emerging as particularly difficult to master. In addition, the outcomes of comparisons between instructional methods changed with the difficulty of the items to be learned. More challenging items better differentiated between instructional methods. This set of results is important for two reasons. First, it suggests that instruction may be more efficient if sets of consistently difficult items are the targets of instructional methods particularly suited to them. Second, there is wide variation in the published literature regarding the outcomes of empirical evaluations of computer-based instruction. As a consequence, many questions arise as to the factors that may affect such evaluations. The present article demonstrates that the level of challenge in the material that is presented to learners is an important factor to consider in the evaluation of a computer-based instructional system.
The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is an intracellular organelle involved in biosynthesis and the secretory pathway. This organelle has many resident proteins including biosynthetic enzymes and secretory proteins. Recent studies have suggested that dysfunction of the ER or secretory pathway is involved in the pathogenesis of various human diseases. Some stresses acting on the ER, which are designated ER stress, induce the accumulation of unfolded/misfolded proteins in the ER, leading to cell death. Misfolded proteins are retained until they form their native conformation or returned to the cytosol for degradation by the proteasome. Among the ER-resident proteins, molecular chaperones prevent aggregation of proteins within the ER, and orchestrate the ER quality control systems. We have reported the roles of novel stress proteins, namely 150-kDa oxygen-regulated protein, 94-kDa glucose-regulated protein and RA410. These proteins are induced significantly by hypoxia or oxidative stress and have cytoprotective effects under these conditions. These findings suggest that hypoxia and oxidative stress target the ER and secretory pathway, resulting in ER stress, and that these proteins exert cytoprotective effects in various diseases associated with ER stress.
To survive in a dynamic environment, an organism must be able to effectively learn, store, and recall the expected benefits and costs of potential actions. The nature of the valuation and decision processes is thus of fundamental interest to researchers at the intersection of psychology, neuroscience, and economics. Although normative theories of choice have outlined the theoretical structure of these valuations, recent experiments have begun to reveal how value is instantiated in the activity of neurons and neural circuits. Here, we review the various forms of value coding that have been observed in different brain systems and examine the implications of these value representations for both neural circuits and behavior. In particular, we focus on emerging evidence that value coding in a number of brain areas is context dependent, varying as a function of both the current choice set and previously experienced values. Similar contextual modulation occurs widely in the sensory system, and efficient coding principles derived in the sensory domain suggest a new framework for understanding the neural coding of value.
Paintings can be interpreted as the product of the complex neural machinery that translates physical light signals into behavior, experience, and emotion. The brain mechanisms responsible for vision and perception have been sculpted during evolution and further modified by cultural exposure and development. By closely examining artists' paintings and practices, we can discover hints to how the brain works, and achieve insight into the discoveries and inventions of artists and their impact on culture. Here, I focus on an integral aspect of color, color contrast, which poses a challenge for artists: a mark situated on an otherwise blank canvas will appear a different color in the context of the finished painting. How do artists account for this change in color during the production of a painting? In the broader context of neural and philosophical considerations of color, I discuss the practices of three modern masters, Henri Matisse, Paul Czanne, and Claude Monet, and suggest that the strategies they developed not only capitalized on the neural mechanisms of color, but also influenced the trajectory of western art history.
We report the first case of a missense mutation in MPZ causing a gain of glycosylation in myelin protein zero, the main protein of peripheral nervous system myelin. The patient was affected by a severe demyelinating neuropathy caused by a missense mutation, D32N, that created a new glycosylation sequence. We confirmed that the mutant protein is hyperglycosylated, is partially retained into the Golgi apparatus in vitro, and disrupts intercellular adhesion. By sequential experiments, we demonstrated that hyperglycosylation is the main mechanism of this mutation. Gain of glycosylation is a new mechanism in Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1B.



Stem cell (SC) transplantation represents a promising tool to treat neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's disease (PD), but positive therapeutic outcomes require elucidation of the biological mechanisms involved. Therefore, we investigated human Mesenchymal SCs (hMSCs) ability to protect murine differentiated Neural SCs (mdNSCs) against the cytotoxic effects of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in a co-culture model mimicking the in vivo neurovascular niche. The internalization of 6-OHDA mainly relies on its uptake by the dopamine active transporter (DAT), but its toxicity could also involve other pathways. We demonstrated that mdNSCs consistently expressed DAT along the differentiative process. Exposure to 6-OHDA did not affect hMSCs, but induced DAT-independent apoptosis in mdNSCs with generation of reactive oxygen species and caspases 3/7 activation. The potential neuroprotective action of hMSCs on mdNSCs exposed to 6-OHDA was tested in different co-culture conditions, in which hMSCs were added to mdNSCs prior to, simultaneously, or after 6-OHDA treatment. In the presence of the neurotoxin, the majority of mdNSCs acquired an apoptotic phenotype, while co-cultures with hMSCs significantly increased their survival (up to 70%) in all conditions. Multiplex human angiogenic array analysis on the conditioned media demonstrated that cytokine release by hMSCs was finely modulated. Moreover, sole growth factor addition yielded a similar neuroprotective effect on mdNSCs. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate that hMSCs protect mdNSCs against 6-OHDA neurotoxicity, and rescue cells from ongoing neurodegeneration likely through the release of multiple cytokines. Our findings provide novel insights for the development of therapeutic strategies designed to counteract the neurodegenerative processes of PD.
Motor imagery (MI) is the mental representation of an action without any concomitant movement. MI has been used frequently after peripheral injuries to decrease pain and facilitate rehabilitation. However, little is known about the effects of MI on muscle activation underlying the motor recovery. This study aimed to assess the therapeutic effects of MI on the activation of lower limb muscles, as well as on the time course of functional recovery and pain after surgery of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL). Twelve patients with a torn ACL were randomly assigned to a MI or control group, who both received a series of physiotherapy. Electromyographic activity of the quadriceps, pain, anthropometrical data, and lower limb motor ability were measured throughout a 12-session therapy. The data provided evidence that MI elicited greater muscle activation, even though imagery practice did not result in pain decrease. Muscle activation increase might originate from a redistribution of the central neuronal activity, as there was no anthropometric change in lower limb muscles after imagery practice. This study confirmed the effectiveness of integrating MI in a rehabilitation process by facilitating muscular properties recovery following motor impairment. MI may thus be considered a reliable adjunct therapy to help injured patients to recover motor functions after reconstructive surgery of ACL.

Acute Disseminated Encephalomyelitis (ADEM) is an acute, multifocal, monophasic, inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system that affects predominantly children. Aim of the study was to evaluate the distribution of Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) class II haplotype in adult ADEM patients, in order to better characterize this rare clinical entity. Six patients (3 males and 3 females; median age 50 years) with ADEM were retrospectively studied in our Neurology Unit; 29 healthy subjects (8 males and 21 females, mean age 43.414.3) were the control group. All the study subjects were molecularly typed for HLA class II haplotype. The frequencies of HLA-DRB1*16 (17% vs 3% in control group; Py=0.02) and HLA-DQB1*05 (42% against 24% in the control group; Py=0.010), as well as the association HLA-DRB1*16/HLA-DQB1*05 were significantly increased in ADEM population compared to the control group. The frequencies of allelic association between 13-04 (P &lt; 0.01) and homozygosis 14 (P &lt; 0.05) alleles at HLA-DRB1* locus and 05-02 (P &lt; 0.05) alleles at HLA-DQB* locus also were increased in ADEM patients. Our preliminary data provide further evidence that the HLA-DR/DQ haplotypes may be involved in susceptibility to immunomediate demyelinating diseases of central nervous system in the Caucasian population.
We are on the cusp of what promises to be an era of unprecedented progress in neurology. Even with current fiscal constraints and serious concerns about how health care will be organized and financed, in the next 2 decades progress in neurology and neurological science will create important new insights into understanding the brain as we decipher its disorders and discover and apply effective treatments.




Markers of dopamine D(1) receptor activation were determined to elucidate intracellular mechanisms associated with the combined effects of caffeine and 3,4 methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), reported previously to produce increased toxicity, when compared with either drug alone. Caffeine (10mg/kg) and MDMA (15mg/kg) were administered to male Sprague Dawley rats alone and in combination. One hour after drug administration, core body temperature and phosphorylation of the dopamine D(1) -related intracellular markers, cAMP response element binding protein (CREB), the dopamine and c-AMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32kDa (DARPP-32) and expression of the immediate early gene and cellular activation marker c-fos were determined in the hypothalamus. Co-administration of caffeine with MDMA increased core body temperature when compared with MDMA or caffeine treatment alone. Pre-treatment with the dopamine D(1) receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (1mg/kg, i.p.), 30min. prior to caffeine and MDMA administration, produced a hypothermic response to MDMA that was unaffected by caffeine. Co-administration of caffeine with MDMA increased p-CREB, p-DARPP-32 and c-fos expression when compared with either treatment alone. Pre-treatment with SCH-23390 attenuated the changes in p-CREB, p-DARPP and c-fos. The results show an enhanced intracellular response when caffeine is combined with MDMA but not with either agent alone suggestive of synergistic intracellular actions convergent on a dopamine D(1) receptor signalling pathway. A dopamine-related synergy associated with the combined administration of caffeine and MDMA may have important use and safety implications for recreational drug users.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine7 (5-HT7) receptor is a G-protein coupled receptor for serotonin that has been implicated in the pathophysiology of psychiatric and neurological disorders including anxiety, depression and schizophrenia. A number of studies have attempted to evaluate the potential role of the 5-HT7 receptor in schizophrenia by utilising genetic or pharmacological tools but to date these have provided conflicting results. Here we investigate the effect of a selective 5-HT7 receptor antagonist, SB-269970, in in vivo psychosis and cognition models and relate efficacy to brain exposures of the compound. SB-269970 significantly attenuated amphetamine-induced rearing and circling in rats. A similar effect was observed in an N-methyl d-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor antagonist driven psychosis model, where SB-269970 significantly reversed phencyclidine-induced hyperlocomotion, rearing and circling; although the effect was not as robust as with the 5-HT2a receptor antagonist positive control, MDL100,907. SB-269970 also attenuated a temporal deficit in novel object recognition (NOR), indicative of an improvement in recognition memory. Pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma and brain samples taken after behavioural testing confirmed that efficacy was achieved at doses and pre-treatment times where receptor occupancy was substantial. These findings highlight the anti-psychotic and pro-cognitive potential of 5-HT7 receptor antagonists and warrant further studies to explore their therapeutic potential in schizophrenia.
Administration of the noncompetitive N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor antagonist (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801) has been shown to produce extinction deficits on appetitive operant tasks. The present study sought to further explore this by comparing extinction pressing to pressing for the primary reward and examining associated neural correlates to determine if the MK-801 extinction profile resembled the behavioral and neural profile associated with pressing for primary reward. Immunohistochemical labeling of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1 and -2(pERK1/2) in the prelimbic (PrL) and infralimbic (IL) cortices and nucleus accumbens shell (AcbSh) and core (AcbC) was examined after rewarded or extinction lever pressing conditions. A dose-response curve revealed a within-day extinction deficit following administration of 0.05 mg/kg MK-801. All doses of MK-801 were associated with reduced IL pERK1/2 staining but only the 0.05 mg/kg dose was associated with elevated AcbSh pERK1/2 labeling. Extinction pressing under the influence of MK-801 was elevated compared to that seen during rewarded pressing-whether on MK-801 or saline. Rewarded pressing following saline or MK-801 was associated with elevated pERK1/2 in the PrL with no similar patterns in the MK-801/extinction group. There was more pERK1/2 labeling in the AcbSh of the MK-801 extinction group than any other condition. These data suggest that the MK-801-induced extinction deficit may be due to the combination of an underactive cortical behavioral inhibition system and an overactive AcbSh reward system.
The purpose of the present study was to evaluate for the first time the stress-induced hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA), adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), corticosterone and prolactin responses of the National Institutes of Health genetically heterogeneous rat stock (N/Nih-HS rats) in comparison with responses of the relatively high and low stress-prone Roman Low- (RLA-I) and High-Avoidance (RHA-I) rat strains. The same rats were also compared (experiment 1) with respect to their levels of unconditioned anxiety (elevated zero-maze test), novelty-induced exploratory behavior, conditioned fear and two-way active avoidance acquisition. In experiment 2, naive rats from these three strains/stocks were evaluated for &quot;depressive-like&quot; behavior in the forced swimming test. N/Nih-HS and RLA-I rats showed significantly higher post-stress ACTH, corticosterone and prolactin levels than RHA-I rats. N/Nih-HS rats also presented the highest context-conditioned freezing responses, extremely poor two-way avoidance acquisition and very low novelty-induced exploratory behavior. Experiment 2 showed that, compared to RHA-I rats, N/Nih-HS and RLA-I rats displayed significantly less struggling (escape-directed) and increased immobility responses in the forced swimming test. Factor analysis of data from experiment 1 showed associations among behavioral and hormonal responses, with a first factor comprising high loadings of elevated zero-maze variables and lower loadings of conditioned fear, two-way avoidance acquisition and hormonal measures, while a second factor mainly grouped conditioned fear and two-way avoidance acquisition with novelty-induced exploration and post-stress prolactin. Thus, regarding their anxiety/fearfulness, passive coping style, &quot;depressive-like&quot; and stress-induced hormonal responses the N/Nih-HS rats resemble the phenotype profiles of the relatively high-anxious and stress-prone RLA-I rat strain.
Many studies have used test batteries for the evaluation of affective behavior in rodents. This has the advantage that treatment effects can be examined on different aspects of the affective domain. However, the behavior in one test may affect the behavior in following test. The present study examined possible order effects in rats that were tested in three different tests: Open Field (OF), Zero Maze (ZM) and Forced Swim Test (FST). The data of the present study indicated that the behavior in ZM was the least affected by the order of testing. In contrast, the behavior in the FST (and to a less extend the OF) was dependent on the order of the test in the test battery. Repeated testing in the same test did not change the behavior in the ZM. However, the behavior in the OF and FST changed with repeated testing. The present study indicates that the performance of rats in a test can be dependent on the order in a test battery. Consequently, these data caution the interpretation of treatment effects in studies in which test batteries are used.
The incidence of stress and stress-related disorders with the transition to motherhood, such as postpartum depression, is estimated to be 20%. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) medications are currently the antidepressant of choice to treat maternal mood disorders. However, little is known about the effects of these medications on the maternal brain and behavior. Therefore, the present study investigated how a commonly used SSRI, fluoxetine, affects neurobehavioral outcomes in the mother using a model of maternal adversity. To do this, gestationally stressed and non-stressed Sprague-Dawley rat dams were treated with either fluoxetine (5 mg/kg/day) or vehicle. Dams were divided into four groups: (1) Control + Vehicle, (2) Control + Fluoxetine, (3) Stress + Vehicle and (4) Stress + Fluoxetine. Fluoxetine or vehicle was administered to the dam during the postpartum period via osmotic minipump implants (Alzet) for 28 days. Results show that chronic fluoxetine treatment, after exposure to gestational stress, significantly decreased serum levels of corticosteroid binding globulin and increased hippocampal neurogenesis. In the absence of maternal stress, fluoxetine treatment alone significantly increased maternal arched-back nursing of pups, increased anxiety-related behavior, and decreased serum levels of corticosterone and corticosteroid binding globulin in the dam. This research provides important information on how SSRIs may act on the behavior, physiology, and neural plasticity of the mother. Although this is a first step in investigating the role of antidepressant treatment on the mother, much more work is needed before we can understand and improve the efficacy of these medications to treat mood disorders in pregnant and postpartum women.
Bile duct ligation (BDL) induces primary biliary cirrhosis characterized by cholestasis, impaired liver function and cognition including impairment of memory formation and anxiety-like behaviors. Endogenous opioid and acetylcholine levels are elevated in animal model of cholestasis. In addition, there is no data about the effects of interaction opioidergic and cholinergic systems of dorsal hippocampus (CA1) on amnesia-induced by cholestasis. Male mice weighing 25-35 g were used in this study. Cholestasis was induced by the ligation of the common bile duct. One-trial step-down and hole-board paradigms were used for the assessment of memory retrieval and anxiety-like behaviors respectively. All drugs injected intra-CA1. The data showed that cholestasis (24 days after BDL) decreased memory retrieval. Sole intra-CA1 injection of higher dose of mecamylamine (0.125, 0.25, 0.5 and 1 g/mice) and scopolamine (0.125, 0.25, 0.5 1 and 2 g/mice) but not all doses of naloxone (0.0125, 0.025 and 0.05 g/mice) decreased memory retrieval in the sham operated BDL. The ineffective doses of naloxone (0.025 and 0.05 g/mice), mecamylamine (0.5 g/mice) and scopolamine (0.5 g/mice) restored cholestasis-induced amnesia 24 days after BDL. Further, all cross co-administration ineffective doses of naloxone (0.0125 g/mice), mecamylamine (0.125 g/mice) and scopolamine (0.125 g/mice) reversed cholestasis-induced amnesia. All doses of the drugs have no effect on exploratory behaviors. The data strongly revealed that synergistic effect between opioidergic and cholinergic systems of CA1 on the modulation of cholestasis-induced amnesia.
The substance P/NK1 receptor system plays an important role in the regulation of stress and emotional responding and as such had been implicated in the pathophysiology of anxiety and depression. The present study investigated whether alterations in the substance P/NK1 receptor system in brain areas which regulate emotional responding accompany the depressive behavioural phenotype observed in the olfactory bulbectomised (OB) mouse. The effect of NK1 receptor deletion on behavioural responding and monoamine levels in discrete brain regions of the OB model, were also examined. Substance P levels in the frontal cortex and NK1 receptor expression in the amygdala and hippocampus were enhanced following olfactory bulbectomy. Although NK1 receptor knockout (NK1-/-) mice did not exhibit altered behavioural responding in the open field test, noradrenaline levels were enhanced in the frontal cortex, amygdala and hippocampus, as were serotonin levels in the frontal cortex. Locomotor activity and exploratory behaviour were enhanced in wild type OB mice, indicative of a depressive-like phenotype, an effect attenuated in NK1-/- mice. Bulbectomy induced a decrease in noradrenaline and 5-HIAA in the frontal cortex and an increase in serotonin in the amygdala, effects attenuated in OB NK1-/- mice. The present studies indicate that alterations in substance P/NK1 receptor system underlie, at least in part, the behavioural and monoaminergic changes in this animal model of depression.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are enzymes involved in degradation of proteins in the extracellular matrix and have been shown to contribute to neuroinflammation by several mechanisms such as blood-brain barrier breakdown. Among the MMPs, MMP-9 (gelatinase B) has been suggested to be of relevance also for synaptic and behavioural plasticity. In order to explore the role of MMP-9 for mental functions a polymorphism in MMP-9 was analysed with respect to personality traits. The two studied populations consisted of women and men, respectively, both recruited from the population registry and assessed by means of the Karolinska Scales of Personality. The non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphism (R668Q, rs17577) studied is located in the coding region of MMP-9 and is believed to affect the activity of the enzyme. The present study found that an amino acid change from arginine (R) to glutamine (Q) was associated with higher scores of the personality trait inhibition of aggression in the female population whilst this substitution was associated with higher scores of verbal aggression and irritability in men. These findings give support for an influence of MMP-9 on mental functions.
Recent findings suggest that the neurotransmitter dopamine (DA) system plays a role in motor control and the acquisition of habits and skills. However, isolating DA-mediated motor learning from motor performance remains challenging as most studies include often severely DA-depleted mice. Using the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), we investigated the effect of various degrees of DA-depletion in mice on three tests of motor behaviors: the accelerating rotarod, wire suspension and pole tests. Three protocols were performed to decrease DA synthesis to various extents: 4 injections (i.p.) of 9 mg/kg in 1 day; 4 injections (i.p.) of 15 mg/kg in 1 day; or 5 injections (s.c.) of 30 mg/kg in 5 days. Severity of DA-depletion was assessed by the evaluation of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine transporter levels in the striatum using the Western blot technique. Mice were gathered into four different groups according their TH levels: mild, moderate, marked and severe. In these mice, the general motor abilities such as coordination, motion speed and muscular strength were relatively intact whereas impaired acquisition of skilled behavior occurred in mice with marked and severe reduction in TH levels. Marked and severely DA-depleted mice exhibited lower scores within the first trials of the first training day as well as a much slower progression in the following days on the accelerating rotarod. Based on these results, we conclude that the learning of a skilled behavior is more vulnerable to DA depletion than the DA-mediated control of motor activity.
As individuals with chromosome 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11DS) show a wide range of IQs, intellectual heterogeneity could mask the neuropsychological profile of the syndrome. This study was designed to identify specific neuropsychological features of children and adolescents with 22q11DS by taking into account the possible source of variability deriving from intellectual disability (ID). First, we compared several neuropsychological domains involving linguistic, visual-motor/visual-perceptual and memory abilities in 34 children and adolescents with 22q11DS and 83 mental age-matched typically developing (TD) participants. Then, we selected participants with 22q11DS according to whether or not they had ID and compared their neuropsychological profiles with those of chronological age-matched TD controls. Although language and several aspects of memory have been found impaired only in children with 22q11DS with ID, deficits in visual-spatial abilities and visual-object short-term memory persist in participants without ID and might be considered a characteristic of 22q11DS, not just related to the presence of ID. On the basis of our findings, children and adolescents with 22q11DS cannot be considered as a single group with a homogeneous neuropsychological profile and must be studied in relation to their global intellectual abilities.
Yawning is contagious in humans and some non-human primates. If there are social functions to contagious behaviors, such as yawning, they might occur in other highly social vertebrates. To investigate this possibility, we conducted an observational study of yawning and an associated behavior, stretching, in budgerigars (Melopsittacus undulatus), a social, flock-living parrot. Flock-housed budgerigars were videotaped for 1.5h at three time-blocks during the day (early morning, afternoon and early evening), and the times of all yawns and stretches for each bird were recorded. Both yawning and stretching were temporally clumped within sessions, but were uniformly distributed across the trials of a particular time-block. This suggests that clumping was not a result of circadian patterning and that both behaviors could be contagious. There was additional evidence of contagion in stretching, which occurred in two forms - a posterior-dorsal extension of either one foot or both feet. Birds that could have observed a conspecific stretch, and that then stretched themselves within 20s, replicated the form of the earlier stretch significantly more often than expected by chance. This study provides the first detailed description of temporal patterns of yawning under social conditions in a flock-living species as well as the first support for contagious yawning and stretching in a non-primate species in a natural context. Experimental evidence will be necessary to confirm the extent of contagion in either behavior.
The relationship between language development and executive function (EF) in children is not well understood. The Lexical Stroop Sort (LSS) task is a computerized EF task created for the purpose of examining the relationship between school-aged children's oral language development and EF. To validate this new measure, a diverse sample of school-aged children completed standardized oral language assessments, the LSS task, and the widely used Dimensional Change Card Sort (DCCS; Zelazo, 2006) task. Both EF tasks require children to sort stimuli into categories based on predetermined rules. While the DCCS largely relies on visual stimuli, the LSS employs children's phonological loop to access their semantic knowledge base. Accuracy and reaction times were recorded for both tasks. Children's scores on the LSS task were correlated with their scores on the DCCS task, and a similar pattern of relationships emerged between children's vocabulary and the two EF tasks, thus providing convergent validity for the LSS. However, children's phonological awareness was associated with their scores on the LSS, but not with those on the DCCS. In addition, a mediation model was used to elucidate the predictive relationship between phonological awareness and children's performance on the LSS task, with children's vocabulary fully mediating this relationship. The use of this newly created and validated LSS task with different populations, such as preschoolers and bilinguals, is also discussed.
The measurement of executive function has a long history in clinical and experimental neuropsychology. The goal of the present report was to determine the profile of behavior across the lifespan on four computerized measures of executive function contained in the recently developed Psychology Experiment Building Language (PEBL) test battery http://pebl.sourceforge.net/ and evaluate whether this pattern is comparable to data previously obtained with the non-PEBL versions of these tests. Participants (N = 1,223; ages, 5-89years) completed the PEBL Trail Making Test (pTMT), the Wisconsin Card Sort Test (pWCST; Berg, Journal of General Psychology, 39, 15-22, 1948; Grant &amp; Berg, Journal of Experimental Psychology, 38, 404-411, 1948), the Tower of London (pToL), or a time estimation task (Time-Wall). Age-related effects were found over all four tests, especially as age increased from young childhood through adulthood. For several tests and measures (including pToL and pTMT), age-related slowing was found as age increased in adulthood. Together, these findings indicate that the PEBL tests provide valid and versatile new research tools for measuring executive functions.
Alcohol is a preventable cause of illness, offending and other adversities worldwide. Prisoners are especially vulnerable. The aim of this study was to test the hypotheses that younger adult male prisoners are more likely to be hazardous drinkers than their older peers, but less likely to recognize this. The study cohort comprised 100 male prisoners aged 18-20 years and 157 aged 21 and over, who were interviewed and completed standard alcohol and drug questionnaires just after reception into prison. It was found that younger men were significantly more likely to be hazardous drinkers than their older peers but less likely to recognise this, even at scores on the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) indicating dependency. They were also less likely to experience withdrawal symptoms, the main factor associated with problem drinking recognition at any age. Younger prisoners were less likely to be depressed, more likely to rate their social support as good and less likely to be dependent drug users. We conclude that reliance on younger prisoners to recognise their hazardous drinking would identify about one-fifth of them. With a lower likelihood of withdrawal symptoms than older men, they are probably still metabolizing alcohol more effectively. Given their similarities to older prisoners in terms of any previous imprisonment and likely personality disorder, formal screening for hazardous drinking might prevent decline into problem drug use, depression, reoffending, re-imprisonment, and social disconnection.
More than 20% of the general population experience a panic attack at least once in their lives; however, only a minority goes on to develop panic disorder (PD). Conditioning mechanisms have been proposed to explain this evolution in persons who are susceptible to developing panic disorder upon a &quot;traumatic&quot; panic attack. According to preparedness theory, some cues are more likely to condition than others, namely, those referring to internal, bodily signals of danger. The aim of the present study was to test this theory in a differential conditioning paradigm, making use of scripts referring to different internal, bodily sensations as conditioned stimulus (CS) and inhalation of 35% CO(2) as unconditioned stimulus (UCS). Thirty-three healthy volunteers were assigned to three scripts conditions: &quot;suffocation,&quot; &quot;neutral,&quot; or &quot;urgency.&quot; During acquisition, one of two versions of a particular script was always followed by an inhalation of 35% CO(2) (CS+) and the other by room air (CS-). Acquisition was followed by a test phase, where only inhalations of room air were administered. In line with our hypothesis, only participants in the suffocation condition exhibited a selective conditioning effect. They were more fearful and showed a significantly higher increase in tidal volume than participants in the two control conditions. Results are discussed with relation to interoceptive conditioning, preparedness, and the possible role of tidal volume in PD.
Conopeptides are small toxins produced by predatory marine snails of the genus Conus. They are studied with increasing intensity due to their potential in neurosciences and pharmacology. The number of existing conopeptides is estimated to be 1 million, but only about 1000 have been described to date. Thanks to new high-throughput sequencing technologies the number of known conopeptides is likely to increase exponentially in the near future. There is therefore a need for a fast and accurate computational method for identification and classification of the novel conopeptides in large data sets. 62 profile Hidden Markov Models (pHMMs) were built for prediction and classification of all described conopeptide superfamilies and families, based on the different parts of the corresponding protein sequences. These models showed very high specificity in detection of new peptides. 56 out of 62 models do not give a single false positive in a test with the entire UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot protein sequence database. Our study demonstrates the usefulness of mature peptide models for automatic classification with accuracy of 96% for the mature peptide models and 100% for the pro- and signal peptide models. Our conopeptide profile HMMs can be used for finding and annotation of new conopeptides from large datasets generated by transcriptome or genome sequencing. To our knowledge this is the first time this kind of computational method has been applied to predict all known conopeptide superfamilies and some conopeptide families.
The present work aims to gain insights into the role of peptide-lipid interactions in the mechanisms of cellular internalization and endosomal escape of the S4(13)-PV cell-penetrating peptide, which has been successfully used in our laboratory as a nucleic acid delivery system. A S4(13)-PV analogue, S4(13)-PVscr, displaying a scrambled amino acid sequence, deficient cell internalization and drug delivery inability, was used in this study for comparative purposes. Differential scanning calorimetry, fluorescence polarization and X-ray diffraction at small and wide angles techniques showed that both peptides interacted with anionic membranes composed of phosphatidylglycerol or a mixture of this lipid with phosphatidylethanolamine, increasing the lipid order, shifting the phase transition to higher temperatures and raising the correlation length between the bilayers. However, S4(13)-PVscr, in contrast to the wild-type peptide, did not promote lipid domain segregation and induced the formation of an inverted hexagonal lipid phase instead of a cubic phase in the lipid systems assayed. Electron microscopy showed that, as opposed to S4(13)-PVscr, the wild-type peptide induced the formation of a non-lamellar organization in membranes of HeLa cells. We concluded that lateral phase separation and destabilization of membrane lamellar structure without compromising membrane integrity are on the basis of the lipid-driven and receptor-independent mechanism of cell entry of S4(13)-PV peptide. Overall, our results can contribute to a better understanding of the role of peptide-lipid interactions in the mechanisms of cell-penetrating peptide membrane translocation, helping in the future design of more efficient cell-penetrating peptide-based drug delivery systems.
The concept of reserve arose from the mismatch between the extent of brain changes or pathology and the clinical manifestations of these brain changes. The cognitive reserve hypothesis posits that individual differences in the flexibility and adaptability of brain networks underlying cognitive function may allow some people to cope better with brain changes than others. Although there is ample epidemiologic evidence for cognitive reserve, the neural substrate of reserve is still a topic of ongoing research. Here we review some representative studies from our group that exemplify possibilities for the neural substrate of reserve including neural reserve, neural compensation, and generalized cognitive reserve networks. We also present a schematic overview of our ongoing research in this area. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Imaging Brain Aging and Neurodegenerative disease.
We report a systems genetic analysis of high density lipoprotein (HDL) levels in an F2 intercross between inbred strains CAST/EiJ and C57BL/6J. We previously showed that there are dramatic differences in HDL metabolism in a cross between these strains, and we now report co-expression network analysis of HDL that integrates global expression data from liver and adipose with relevant metabolic traits. Using data from a total of 293 F2 intercross mice, we constructed weighted gene co-expression networks and identified modules (subnetworks) associated with HDL and clinical traits. These were examined for genes implicated in HDL levels based on large human genome-wide associations studies (GWAS) and examined with respect to conservation between tissue and sexes in a total of 9 data sets. We identify genes that are consistently ranked high by association with HDL across the 9 data sets. We focus in particular on two genes, Wfdc2 and Hdac3, that are located in close proximity to HDL QTL peaks where causal testing indicates that they may affect HDL. Our results provide a rich resource for studies of complex metabolic interactions involving HDL. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Advances in High Density Lipoprotein Formation and Metabolism: A Tribute to John F. Oram (1945-2010).

Adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) was identified in 1970 as the transmitter responsible for non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic neurotransmission in the gut and bladder and the term 'purinergic' was coined. Purinergic cotransmission was proposed in 1976 and ATP is now recognized as a cotransmitter in all nerves in the peripheral and central nervous systems. P1 (adenosine) and P2 (ATP) receptors were distinguished in 1978. Cloning of these receptors in the early 1990s was a turning point in the acceptance of the purinergic signalling hypothesis. There are both short-term purinergic signalling in neurotransmission, neuromodulation and secretion and long-term (trophic) purinergic signalling of cell proliferation, differentiation and death in development and regeneration. Much is known about the mechanisms of ATP release and its breakdown by ectonucleotidases. Recently, there has been emphasis on purinergic pathophysiology, including neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric disorders. Purinergic therapeutic strategies are being developed for treatment of gut, kidney, bladder, lung, skeletal and reproductive system disorders, pain and cancer.
The nervous system interacts directly with the endocrine system to control a plethora of central nervous system (CNS) functions. Metabolic and reproductive hormones are known to be important in the maintenance of neuronal health and their fluctuations are important for CNS aspects ranging from sleep and appetite regulation to cognitive function. This review will summarize and critically evaluate how age-related changes in sex and metabolic hormones modulate affect cognitive function and the implications of targeting the neuroendocrinological system as a therapeutic strategy in Alzheimer's disease.
Mitochondrial dysfunction (primary or secondary) is detrimental to intermediary metabolism. Therapeutic strategies to treat/prevent mitochondrial dysfunction could be valuable for managing metabolic and age-related disorders. Here, we review strategies proposed to treat mitochondrial impairment. We then concentrate on redox-active agents, with mild-redox potential, who shuttle electrons among specific cytosolic or mitochondrial redox-centers. We propose that specific redox agents with mild redox potential (-0.1 V; 0.1 V) improve mitochondrial function because they can readily donate or accept electrons in biological systems, thus they enhance metabolic activity and prevent reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. These agents are likely to lack toxic effects because they lack the risk of inhibiting electron transfer in redox centers. This is different from redox agents with strong negative (-0.4 V; -0.2 V) or positive (0.2 V; 0.4 V) redox potentials who alter the redox status of redox-centers (i.e., become permanently reduced or oxidized). This view has been demonstrated by testing the effect of several redox active agents on cellular senescence. Methylene blue (MB, redox potential 10 mV) appears to readily cycle between the oxidized and reduced forms using specific mitochondrial and cytosolic redox centers. MB is most effective in delaying cell senescence and enhancing mitochondrial function in vivo and in vitro. Mild-redox agents can alter the biochemical activity of specific mitochondrial components, which then in response alters the expression of nuclear and mitochondrial genes. We present the concept of mitochondrial electron-carrier bypass as a potential result of mild-redox agents, a method to prevent ROS production, improve mitochondrial function, and delay cellular aging. Thus, mild-redox agents may prevent/delay mitochondria-driven disorders.

This paper is motivated from the analysis of neuroscience data in a study of neural and muscular mechanisms of muscle fatigue. Multidimensional outcomes of different natures were obtained simultaneously from multiple modalities, including handgrip force, electromyography (EMG), and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We first study individual modeling of the univariate response depending on its nature. A mixed-effects beta model and a mixed-effects simplex model are compared for modeling the force/EMG percentages. A mixed-effects negative-binomial model is proposed for modeling the fMRI counts. Then, I present a joint modeling approach to model the multidimensional outcomes together, which allows us to not only estimate the covariate effects but also to evaluate the strength of association among the multiple responses from different modalities. A simulation study is conducted to quantify the possible benefits by the new approaches in finite sample situations. Finally, the analysis of the fatigue data is illustrated with the use of the proposed methods.
Cochlear implants provide hearing by electrically stimulating the auditory nerve. Implant function can be hindered by device design variables, including electrode size and electrode-to-nerve distance, and cochlear environment variables, including the degeneration of the auditory nerve following hair cell loss. We have developed a dual-component cochlear implant coating to improve both the electrical function of the implant and the biological stability of the inner ear, thereby facilitating the long-term perception of sound through a cochlear implant. This coating is a combination of an arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD)-functionalized alginate hydrogel and the conducting polymer poly(3, 4-ethylenedioxythiophene) (PEDOT). Both in vitro and in vivo assays on the effects of these electrode coatings demonstrated improvements in device performance. We found that the coating reduced electrode impedance, improved charge delivery, and locally released significant levels of a trophic factor into cochlear fluids. This coating is non-cytotoxic, clinically relevant, and has the potential to significantly improve the cochlear implant user's experience.
Ethanol exposure during gestational period is related to growth retardation, morphological abnormality, and even in neurological abnormalities including attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)-like behaviors on offspring. However, relatively little is known about the effects of maternal ethanol consumption prior to conception on their offspring. In this study, we investi-gated whether maternal ethanol administration during preconceptional phase produces ADHD-like behaviors in the rat offspring. Sprague-Dawley (SD) female rats were administrated ethanol via intragastric intubation with dosing regimen of 6 g/kg daily for 10 consecutive days and treated female rats then mated with non-treated male SD rats after 8 weeks. Another group subjected to the same procedure as those conducted on ethanol treated group except the saline administration instead of ethanol. Offspring was tested for their ADHD-like behaviors using open field test, Y maze test and impulsivity test that is performed in the aversive electronic foot shock paradigm. Offspring of preconceptional ethanol treated (EtOH) group showed hyperlocomotive activity, attention deficit and impulsivity. And reduction of striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) level was observed by Western blot in the EtOH group, compared to control (Con) group, while the immunohistochemical analysis exhibited increased expression of norepinephrine transporter (NET) in the frontal cortex. These results suggest that maternal ethanol consumption in the preconceptional phase induces ADHD-like behaviors in offspring that might be related to the abnormal expression of DAT and NET in rat.
5-Aryl-4-carboxamide-1,3-oxazoles are a novel, potent and selective series of GSK-3 inhibitors. The optimization of the series to yield compounds with cell activity and brain permeability is described.
In vitro cell culture models of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) are important tools used to study cellular physiology and brain disease therapeutics. Although the number of model configurations is expanding across neuroscience laboratories, it is not clear that any have been effectively optimized. A sequential screening study to identify optimal primary mouse endothelial cell parameter set points, grown alone and in combination with common model enhancements, including co-culturing with primary mouse or rat astrocytes and addition of biochemical agents in the media, was performed. A range of endothelial cell-seeding densities (1-8  10(5) cells/cm(2) ) and astrocyte-seeding densities (2-8  10(4) cells/cm(2) ) were studied over seven days in the system, and three distinct media-feeding strategies were compared to optimize biochemical agent exposure time. Implementation of all optimal set points increased transendothelial electrical resistance by over 200% compared to an initial model and established a suitable in vitro model for brain disease application studies. These results demonstrate the importance of optimizing cell culture growth, which is the most important parameter in creating an in vitro BBB model as it directly relates the model to the in vivo arrangement.


The present contribution bridges research on body image, self-esteem, and body recognition. Recent work in neuroscience indicates a superiority in the processing of self relative to others' body parts. The present contribution shows that this ability is not universal but it is qualified by individual differences in implicit and explicit self-esteem. In fact, two studies (n = 41 and n = 35) using two different paradigms in body recognition and direct and indirect measures of self-esteem reveal that this advantage in recognizing one's own body parts is associated with one's level of self-esteem. Moreover, it appears that measures of implicit and explicit self-esteem provide different contributions to self-body recognition abilities and that these contributions depend on how self-body recognition is assessed. Implications of these results are discussed notably in the perspective of research on body image.


Long-term supplementation with folic acid may improve cognitive performance in older individuals. The relationship between folate status and cognitive performance might be mediated by changes in methylation capacity, as methylation reactions are important for normal functioning of the brain. Although aberrant DNA methylation has been implicated in neurodevelopmental disorders, the relationship between DNA methylation status and non-pathological cognitive functioning in human subjects has not yet been investigated. The present study investigated the associations between global DNA methylation and key domains of cognitive functioning in healthy older adults. Global DNA methylation, defined as the percentage of methylated cytosine to total cytosine, was measured in leucocytes by liquid chromatography-MS/MS, in 215 men and women, aged 50-70 years, who participated in the Folic Acid and Carotid Intima-Media Thickness (FACIT) study (clinical trial registration number NCT00110604). Cognitive performance was assessed by means of the Visual Verbal Word Learning Task, the Stroop Colour-Word Interference Test, the Concept Shifting Test, the Letter-Digit Substitution Test and the Verbal Fluency Test. Using hierarchical linear regression analyses adjusted for age, sex, level of education, alcohol consumption, smoking status, physical activity, erythrocyte folate concentration and 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase 677CT genotype, we found that global DNA methylation was not related to cognitive performance on any of the domains measured. The present study results do not support the hypothesis that global DNA methylation, as measured in leucocytes, might be associated with cognitive functioning in healthy older individuals.



This article explores boundaries of the intellectual map of inter-group processes, going to the macro (social structure) boundary and the micro (neural systems) boundary. Both are illustrated by with my own and others' work on social structures and on neural structures related to inter-group processes. Analysing the impact of social structures on inter-group processes led to insights about distinct forms of sexism and underlies current work on forms of ageism. The stereotype content model also starts with the social structure of inter-group relations (interdependence and status) and predicts images, emotions, and behaviours. Social structure has much to offer the social psychology of inter-group processes. At the other, less explored boundary, social neuroscience addresses the effects of social contexts on neural systems relevant to inter-group processes. Both social structural and neural analyses circle back to traditional social psychology as converging indicators of inter-group processes.
Psychotic illness is a disorder of social interaction unique to humans. However, up to now research has failed to pin down the exact determinants of the complex and interactive processes associated with the development of trust and reciprocity in psychosis. Utilizing a novel multi-round version of an interactive trust game experiment, we show that patients with psychosis and healthy relatives with a heightened risk for the illness exhibit lower baseline levels of trust compared with healthy controls. This effect partly overlapped with a reduced general intelligence. Furthermore, patients were unable to modify their trusting behaviour neither in response to information about the general trustworthiness of their interaction partner, nor in response to their partners' specific direct behavioural feedback. Relatives, in contrast, modified their trusting behaviour towards similar levels as healthy subjects in response to both. The results show that behavioural flexibility in response to socially relevant information is a critical determinant of success in the instantiation and maintenance of social relationships. A lack thereof may drive social dysfunction and the progression from subclinical symptoms to a full-blown psychosis. This offers a testable mechanistic hypothesis for progression from prodrome to psychotic illness, and may provide a therapeutic avenue to grapple the psychotic symptoms of social dysfunction.
Multiple sclerosis may have a non-progressive symptomatology for decades; however, it is not clear whether the disease activity may abate completely. We identified a cohort of patients, resident in Gothenburg at the time of disease onset, between the years 1950-64 (n = 307). These geographical and temporal restrictions, along with favourable conditions for a 'spider' epidemiological study, were optimal for an unbiased selection; this 15-year incidence cohort was essentially followed prospectively for 37-59 years after onset. The shortest follow-up time for patients without primary or secondary progression was 45 years. For patients with an initial relapsing-remitting course and multiple sclerosis diagnosis according to the Poser criteria (n = 202), the probability of non-progressive disease after 40 years was 22% (standard error 3.0%), and after 50 years it was 14% (standard error 3.2%). For attack onset including patients with possible multiple sclerosis, the corresponding probabilities after 40 and 50 years were 35% (standard error 3.3%) and 28% (standard error 3.5%), respectively. At the last follow-up in 2009-10, when patients reached the average age of the Swedish population life expectancy, only 13 patients from the multiple sclerosis diagnosis cohort, according to the Poser criteria, remained alive and non-progressive. Their annualized attack frequency diminished with time from 0.29 to 0.015. These patients had been functioning well socially. Nine patients had an Expanded Disability Status Scale score of 0-2.5, and four patients had a score of 3 or 3.5, with deficits dating back to attacks decades ago. Eight patients participated in a complete neuropsychological examination, which showed a slight difference (P &lt; 0.01) concerning verbal memory and executive function compared to an age and socially matched reference group, whereas results for five other cognitive domains were within the normal range. Magnetic resonance images fulfilled the Barkhof-Tintor criteria for multiple sclerosis in 10 of 11 patients, with conspicuously few subcortical lesions relative to extensive periventricular lesions and lesions extending from the inferior midline aspect of the corpus callosum. Prediction of the non-progressive stage was possible with moderate hazard ratios and low sensitivity. Early features that predicted a non-progressive course were complete remission of the onset attack, low or moderate initial relapse frequency and-when the patients with possible multiple sclerosis were included-dominating afferent symptoms. The clinical disease activity had abated in these 13 patients, with the caveat that transition to secondary progression continued to occur after four decades, albeit with decreasing risk.
A large hexanucleotide (GGGGCC) repeat expansion in the first intron of C9ORF72, a gene located on chromosome 9p21, has been recently reported to be responsible for ~40% of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis cases of European ancestry. The aim of the current article was to describe the phenotype of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis cases carrying the expansion by providing a detailed clinical description of affected cases from representative multi-generational kindreds, and by analysing the age of onset, gender ratio and survival in a large cohort of patients with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We collected DNA and analysed phenotype data for 141 index Italian familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis cases (21 of Sardinian ancestry) and 41 German index familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis cases. Pathogenic repeat expansions were detected in 45 (37.5%) patients from mainland Italy, 12 (57.1%) patients of Sardinian ancestry and nine (22.0%) of the 41 German index familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis cases. The disease was maternally transmitted in 27 (49.1%) pedigrees and paternally transmitted in 28 (50.9%) pedigrees (P = non-significant). On average, children developed disease 7.0 years earlier than their parents [children: 55.8 years (standard deviation 7.9), parents: 62.8 (standard deviation 10.9); P = 0.003]. Parental phenotype influenced the type of clinical symptoms manifested by the child: of the 13 cases where the affected parent had an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-frontotemporal dementia or frontotemporal dementia, the affected child also developed amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-frontotemporal dementia in nine cases. When compared with patients carrying mutations of other amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-related genes, those with C9ORF72 expansion had commonly a bulbar onset (42.2% compared with 25.0% among non-C9ORF72 expansion cases, P = 0.03) and cognitive impairment (46.7% compared with 9.1% among non-C9ORF72 expansion cases, P = 0.0001). Median survival from symptom onset among cases carrying C9ORF72 repeat expansion was 3.2 years lower than that of patients carrying TARDBP mutations (5.0 years; 95% confidence interval: 3.6-7.2) and longer than those with FUS mutations (1.9 years; 95% confidence interval: 1.7-2.1). We conclude that C9ORF72 hexanucleotide repeat expansions were the most frequent mutation in our large cohort of patients with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis of Italian, Sardinian and German ancestry. Together with mutation of SOD1, TARDBP and FUS, mutations of C9ORF72 account for ~60% of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in Italy. Patients with C9ORF72 hexanucleotide repeat expansions present some phenotypic differences compared with patients with mutations of other genes or with unknown mutations, namely a high incidence of bulbar-onset disease and comorbidity with frontotemporal dementia. Their pedigrees typically display a high frequency of cases with pure frontotemporal dementia, widening the concept of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
Intronic expansion of the GGGGCC hexanucleotide repeat within the C9ORF72 gene causes frontotemporal dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/motor neuron disease in both familial and sporadic cases. Initial reports indicate that this variant within the frontotemporal dementia/amyotrophic lateral sclerosis spectrum is associated with transactive response DNA binding protein (TDP-43) proteinopathy. The amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/motor neuron disease phenotype is not yet well characterized. We report the clinical and pathological phenotypes associated with pathogenic C9ORF72 mutations in a cohort of 563 cases from Northern England, including 63 with a family history of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. One hundred and fifty-eight cases from the cohort (21 familial, 137 sporadic) were post-mortem brain and spinal cord donors. We screened DNA for the C9ORF72 mutation, reviewed clinical case histories and undertook pathological evaluation of brain and spinal cord. Control DNA samples (n = 361) from the same population were also screened. The C9ORF72 intronic expansion was present in 62 cases [11% of the cohort; 27/63 (43%) familial, 35/500 (7%) cases with sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/motor neuron disease]. Disease duration was significantly shorter in cases with C9ORF72-related amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (30.5 months) compared with non-C9ORF72 amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/motor neuron disease (36.3 months, P &lt; 0.05). C9ORF72 cases included both limb and bulbar onset disease and all cases showed combined upper and lower motor neuron degeneration (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis). Thus, clinically, C9ORF72 cases show the features of a relatively rapidly progressive, but otherwise typical, variant of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis associated with both familial and sporadic presentations. Dementia was present in the patient or a close family member in 22/62 cases with C9ORF72 mutation (35%) based on diagnoses established from retrospective clinical case note review that may underestimate significant cognitive changes in late disease. All the C9ORF72 mutation cases showed classical amyotrophic lateral sclerosis pathology with TDP-43 inclusions in spinal motor neurons. Neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions and glial inclusions positive for p62 immunostaining in non-motor regions were strongly over-represented in the C9ORF72 cases. Extra-motor pathology in the frontal cortex (P &lt; 0.0005) and the hippocampal CA4 subfield neurons (P &lt; 0.0005) discriminated C9ORF72 cases strongly from the rest of the cohort. Inclusions in CA4 neurons were not present in non-C9ORF72 cases, indicating that this pathology predicts mutation status.
This review offers a critical appraisal of the literature on episodic memory performance in frontotemporal dementia. Historically, description of patients diagnosed with what was then known as Pick's disease included the presence of memory deficits and an underlying amnestic syndrome was noted in some of these patients. Over the last 20 years, however, the clinical view has been that episodic memory processing is relatively intact in the frontotemporal dementia syndrome. In particular, patients with the subtypes of behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia and progressive non-fluent aphasia are reported to perform within normal limits on standard memory tests. In the third clinical presentation of frontotemporal dementia, semantic dementia, relatively intact episodic memory against a significantly impaired semantic memory was regarded as the hallmark. This position was instrumental in the development of clinical diagnostic criteria for frontotemporal dementia in which amnesia was explicitly listed as an exclusion criterion for the disease. The relative intactness of episodic memory, therefore, appeared to be a useful diagnostic marker to distinguish early frontotemporal dementia from Alzheimer's disease, in which early episodic memory disturbance remains the most common clinical feature. We argue that recent evidence questions the validity of preserved episodic memory in frontotemporal dementia, particularly in behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia. In semantic dementia, a complex picture emerges with preservation of some components of episodic memory, notably recognition-based visual memory and recall of recent autobiographical events. We propose a critical synthesis of recent neuropsychological evidence on retrograde and anterograde memory in light of neuroimaging and neuropathological findings, demonstrating involvement of medial temporal structures in frontotemporal dementia, structures known to be critical for episodic memory processing. We further argue that the multifactorial nature of most memory tests commonly used clinically fail to capture the memory deficits in frontotemporal dementia and that sensitive assessment tools of memory are needed. Together, recent clinical and experimental findings and the historical evidence represent a strong case for a re-evaluation of the importance of memory disturbance in the clinical diagnosis of frontotemporal dementia.

The identification of a hexanucleotide repeat expansion in the C9ORF72 gene as the cause of chromosome 9-linked frontotemporal dementia and motor neuron disease offers the opportunity for greater understanding of the relationship between these disorders and other clinical forms of frontotemporal lobar degeneration. In this study, we screened a cohort of 398 patients with frontotemporal dementia, progressive non-fluent aphasia, semantic dementia or mixture of these syndromes for mutations in the C9ORF72 gene. Motor neuron disease was present in 55 patients (14%). We identified 32 patients with C9ORF72 mutations, representing 8% of the cohort. The patients' clinical phenotype at presentation varied: nine patients had frontotemporal dementia with motor neuron disease, 19 had frontotemporal dementia alone, one had mixed semantic dementia with frontal features and three had progressive non-fluent aphasia. There was, as expected, a significant association between C9ORF72 mutations and presence of motor neuron disease. Nevertheless, 46 patients, including 22 familial, had motor neuron disease but no mutation in C9ORF72. Thirty-eight per cent of the patients with C9ORF72 mutations presented with psychosis, with a further 28% exhibiting paranoid, deluded or irrational thinking, whereas &lt;4% of non-mutation bearers presented similarly. The presence of psychosis dramatically increased the odds that patients carried the mutation. Mutation bearers showed a low incidence of motor stereotypies, and relatively high incidence of complex repetitive behaviours, largely linked to patients' delusions. They also showed a lower incidence of acquired sweet food preference than patients without C9ORF72 mutations. Post-mortem pathology in five patients revealed transactive response DNA-binding protein 43 pathology, type A in one patient and type B in three. However, one patient had corticobasal degeneration pathology. The findings indicate that C9ORF72 mutations cause some but not all cases of frontotemporal dementia with motor neuron disease. Other mutations remain to be discovered. C9ORF72 mutations are associated with variable clinical presentations and pathology. Nevertheless, the findings highlight a powerful association between C9ORF72 mutations and psychosis and suggest that the behavioural characteristics of patients with C9ORF72 mutations are qualitatively distinct. Mutations in the C9ORF72 gene may be a major cause not only of frontotemporal dementia with motor neuron disease but also of late onset psychosis.
Despite language disabilities in autism, music abilities are frequently preserved. Paradoxically, brain regions associated with these functions typically overlap, enabling investigation of neural organization supporting speech and song in autism. Neural systems sensitive to speech and song were compared in low-functioning autistic and age-matched control children using passive auditory stimulation during functional magnetic resonance and diffusion tensor imaging. Activation in left inferior frontal gyrus was reduced in autistic children relative to controls during speech stimulation, but was greater than controls during song stimulation. Functional connectivity for song relative to speech was also increased between left inferior frontal gyrus and superior temporal gyrus in autism, and large-scale connectivity showed increased frontal-posterior connections. Although fractional anisotropy of the left arcuate fasciculus was decreased in autistic children relative to controls, structural terminations of the arcuate fasciculus in inferior frontal gyrus were indistinguishable between autistic and control groups. Fractional anisotropy correlated with activity in left inferior frontal gyrus for both speech and song conditions. Together, these findings indicate that in autism, functional systems that process speech and song were more effectively engaged for song than for speech and projections of structural pathways associated with these functions were not distinguishable from controls.
Neurogenesis is a well-characterized phenomenon within the dentate gyrus (DG) of the adult hippocampus. Environmental enrichment (EE) in rodents increases neurogenesis, enhances cognition, and promotes recovery from injury. However, little is known about the effects of EE on glia (astrocytes and microglia). Given their importance in neural repair, we predicted that EE would modulate glial phenotype and/or function within the hippocampus. Adult male rats were housed either 12 h/day in an enriched environment or in a standard home cage. Rats were injected with BrdU at 1 week, and after 7 weeks, half of the rats from each housing group were injected with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and cytokine and chemokine expression was assessed within the periphery, hippocampus and cortex. Enriched rats had a markedly blunted pro-inflammatory response to LPS within the hippocampus. Specifically, expression of the chemokines Ccl2, Ccl3 and Cxcl2, several members of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) family, and the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1 were all significantly decreased following LPS administration in EE rats compared to controls. EE did not impact the inflammatory response to LPS in the cortex. Moreover, EE significantly increased both astrocyte (GFAP+) and microglia (Iba1+) antigen expression within the DG, but not in the CA1, CA3, or cortex. Measures of neurogenesis were not impacted by EE (BrdU and DCX staining), although hippocampal BDNF mRNA was significantly increased by EE. This study demonstrates the importance of environmental factors on the function of the immune system specifically within the brain, which can have profound effects on neural function.
Although functional cerebral asymmetries (FCAs) affect all cognitive domains, their modulation of the efficacy of specific executive functions is largely unexplored. In the present study, we used a lateralized version of the task switching paradigm to investigate the relevance of hemispheric asymmetries for cognitive control processes. Words were tachistoscopically presented in the left (LVF) and right visual half field (RVF). Participants had to categorise the words either based on their initial letters, or according to their word type. On half of the trials the task changed (switch trials) whereas on the other half it stayed the same (repeat trials). ERPs were recorded and the neural sources of the ERPs were reconstructed using standardised low resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (sLORETA). In the word type task, participants were faster on repeat trials when stimuli were presented in the RVF. In contrast, in the initial letter task participants were faster on repeat trials and in general more accurate after stimulus presentation in the LVF. In both tasks, no hemispheric asymmetries in reaction times were observed on switch trials. On the electrophysiological level, we observed a left lateralization of the N1 that was mediated by activation in the left extrastriate cortex as well as a greater positivity of the P3b after stimulus presentation in the RVF compared to the LVF that was mediated by activation in the superior parietal cortex. These results show that FCAs affect the neurophysiological correlates of executive functions related to task switching. The relation of neurophysiological and behavioural asymmetries is mediated by task complexity, with more complex tasks leading to more interhemispheric interaction and smaller left-right differences in behavioural measures. These findings reveal that FCAs are an important modulator of executive functions related to cognitive flexibility.
The current study investigated the immediate neurophysiological effects of different types of massage in healthy adults using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Much attention has been given to the default mode network, a set of brain regions showing greater activity in the resting state. These regions (i.e. insula, posterior and anterior cingulate, inferior parietal and medial prefrontal cortices) have been postulated to be involved in the neural correlates of consciousness, specifically in arousal and awareness. We posit that massage would modulate these same regions given the benefits and pleasant affective properties of touch. To this end, healthy participants were randomly assigned to one of four conditions: 1. Swedish massage, 2. reflexology, 3. massage with an object or 4. a resting control condition. The right foot was massaged while each participant performed a cognitive association task in the scanner. We found that the Swedish massage treatment activated the subgenual anterior and retrosplenial/posterior cingulate cortices. This increased blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signal was maintained only in the former brain region during performance of the cognitive task. Interestingly, the reflexology massage condition selectively affected the retrosplenial/posterior cingulate in the resting state, whereas massage with the object augmented the BOLD response in this region during the cognitive task performance. These findings should have implications for better understanding how alternative treatments might affect resting state neural activity and could ultimately be important for devising new targets in the management of mood disorders.
Hippocampus and amygdala changes have been implicated in the pathophysiology and symptomatology of both schizophrenia (SCZ) and bipolar disorder (BD). However relationships between illness course, neuropathological changes and variations in symptomatology remain unclear. This investigation examined the associations between hippocampus and amygdala volumes and symptom dimensions in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder patients after their first episode of psychosis. Symptom severity was associated with decreases in hippocampus/amygdala complex volume across groups. In keeping with previous work bilateral hippocampus and amygdala volume reductions were also identified in the SCZ patients while in BD patients only evidence of amygdala inflation reached significance. The study concludes that there appear to be important relationships between volume changes in the hippocampus and amygdala and dimensions and severity of symptomatology in psychosis. Structural alterations are apparent in both SCZ and BD after first episode of psychosis but present differently in each illness and are more severe in SCZ.
Two alleles in cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) gene polymorphisms have been disputably linked to enhanced cognition and decreased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD): the V and A alleles of I405V and C-629A. This study investigates whether these polymorphisms affect brain structure in 188 elderly controls and 318AD or mild cognitive impairment (MCI) subjects from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative cohort. Nominally signficant associations were dependent on APOE 4 carrier status. In APOE 4 carriers, the V and A alleles, both of which decrease CETP and increase HDL, associated with greater baseline cortical thickness and less 12-month atrophy in the medial temporal lobe. Conversely, in APOE 4 non-carriers, the I allele, which increases CETP and decreases HDL, associated with greater baseline thickness, less atrophy and lower risk of dementia. These results suggest CETP may contribute to the genetic variability of brain structure and dementia susceptibility in an APOE-dependent manner.
Schemas are abstract nonverbal representations that parsimoniously depict spatial relations. Despite their ubiquitous use in maps and diagrams, little is known about their neural instantiation. We sought to determine the extent to which schematic representations are neurally distinguished from language on the one hand, and from rich perceptual representations on the other. In patients with either left hemisphere damage or right hemisphere damage, a battery of matching tasks depicting categorical spatial relations was used to probe for the comprehension of basic spatial concepts across distinct representational formats (words, pictures, and schemas). Left hemisphere patients underperformed right hemisphere patients across all tasks. However, focused residual analyses using voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping (VLSM) suggest that (1) left hemisphere deficits in the representation of categorical spatial relations are difficult to distinguish from deficits in naming these relations and (2) the right hemisphere plays a special role in extracting schematic representations from richly textured pictures.
The Parallel Distributed Processing (PDP) framework has significant potential for producing models of cognitive tasks that approximate how the brain performs the same tasks. To date, however, there has been relatively little contact between PDP modeling and data from cognitive neuroscience. In an attempt to advance the relationship between explicit, computational models and physiological data collected during the performance of cognitive tasks, we developed a PDP model of visual word recognition which simulates key results from the ERP reading literature, while simultaneously being able to successfully perform lexical decision-a benchmark task for reading models. Simulations reveal that the model's success depends on the implementation of several neurally plausible features in its architecture which are sufficiently domain-general to be relevant to cognitive modeling more generally.
Neuroinflammation is a pathological hallmark in human amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients and in the transgenic models of the disease. The importance of glial cell activation and pro-inflammatory cytokines in ALS has been confirmed by numerous studies. For instance, tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-), a major pro-inflammatory cytokine, activates microglia and cause neurotoxicity in motor neurons. More recently, the relationship of nuclear factor-B (NF-B) and motor neuron degeneration has garnered attention since optineurin (OPTN) mutations were reported in familial ALS. OPTN negatively regulates TNF--induced NF-B activation, but OPTN mutations can lead to dysinhibition of NF-B-induced neurotoxicity. Notably, OPTN-positive inclusions are observed not only in familial ALS with OPTN mutation but also in sporadic ALS and in familial ALS with SOD1 and fused in sarcoma mutations, suggesting that OPTN- and NF-B-related pathways are relevant to the general pathomechanisms of ALS. In this review, we discuss inflammatory aspects of ALS comprising the roles of cytokines, glial cells, and T cells.
Distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles (DMRV), also called hereditary inclusion body myopathy, is an autosomal recessive disease that typically affects tibialis anterior and hamstring muscles in young adults although other muscles are also involved in later stages. The disease is caused mostly by missense mutations in the GNE gene that encodes a protein with two enzymatic activities in sialic acid biosynthetic pathway: UDP-GlcNAc 2-epimerase and ManNAc kinase, respectively catalyzing the rate-limiting step and the subsequent reaction. Accordingly, sialic acid production is reduced in patients' cells and cells are hyposialylated. We have previously shown that this hyposialylation status can be recovered by simply giving sialic acid, suggesting that hyposilylation status in the muscle should be the cause of myopathy. In support of this notion, myopathic manifestations were virtually completely suppressed by oral administration of sialic acid in our DMRV model mice. Similar efficacy was seen also by ManNAc, precursor of sialic acid, or sialyllactose, a conjugate form of sialic acid. Based upon these in vitro and in vivo results, phase I clinical trial for sialic acid supplementation therapy for human patients was conducted in Japan in 2011. Another phase I trial, using slow release tablets of sialic acid, is currently in progress in the US. Hopefully, phase II trial to see the efficacy of the therapy will be initiated soon.

Networks of neurons in some brain areas are flexible enough to encode new memories quickly. Using a standard firing rate model of recurrent networks, we develop a theory of flexible memory networks. Our main results characterize networks having the maximal number of flexible memory patterns, given a constraint graph on the network's connectivity matrix. Modulo a mild topological condition, we find a close connection between maximally flexible networks and rank 1 matrices. The topological condition is H (1)(X;)=0, where X is the clique complex associated to the network's constraint graph; this condition is generically satisfied for large random networks that are not overly sparse. In order to prove our main results, we develop some matrix-theoretic tools and present them in a self-contained section independent of the neuroscience context.





This article seeks to provide the practising clinician with guidance on the pharmacological management of tic disorders in children and adults. We performed a systematic review of the literature on the treatment of tic disorders. A multi-institutional group of 14 experts in psychiatry, child psychiatry, neurology, pediatrics, and psychology engaged in a consensus meeting. The evidence was presented and discussed, and nominal group techniques were employed to arrive at consensus on recommendations. A strong recommendation is made when the benefits of treatment clearly outweigh the risks and burdens, and can apply to most patients in most circumstances without reservation. With a weak recommendation, the benefits, risks, and burdens are more closely balanced, and the best action may differ depending on the circumstances. Based on these principles, weak recommendations were made for the use of pimozide, haloperidol, fluphenazine, metoclopramide (children only), risperidone, aripiprazole, olanzapine, quetiapine, ziprasidone, topiramate, baclofen (children only), botulinum toxin injections, tetrabenazine, and cannabinoids (adults only). Strong recommendations were made for the use of clonidine and guanfacine (children only). While the evidence supports the efficacy of many of the antipsychotics for the treatment of tics, the high rates of side effects associated with these medications resulted in only weak recommendations for these drugs. In situations where tics are not severe or disabling, the use of a medication with only a weak recommendation is not warranted. However, when tics are more distressing and interfering, the need for tic suppression to improve quality of life is stronger, and patients and clinicians may be more willing to accept the risks of pharmacotherapy.

The hypothalamic-neurohypophysial system (HNS) controls diuresis and parturition through the release of arginine-vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OT). These neuropeptides are chiefly synthesized in hypothalamic magnocellular somata in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei and are released into the blood stream from terminals in the neurohypophysis. These HNS neurons develop specific electrical activity (bursts) in response to various physiological stimuli. The release of AVP and OT at the level of neurohypophysis is directly linked not only to their different burst patterns, but is also regulated by the activity of a number of voltage-dependent channels present in the HNS nerve terminals and by feedback modulators. We found that there is a different complement of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels (VGCC) in the two types of HNS terminals: L, N, and Q in vasopressinergic terminals vs. L, N, and R in oxytocinergic terminals. These channels, however, do not have sufficiently distinct properties to explain the differences in release efficacy of the specific burst patterns. However, feedback by both opioids and ATP specifically modulate different types of VGCC and hence the amount of AVP and/or OT being released. Opioid receptors have been identified in both AVP and OT terminals. In OT terminals, -receptor agonists inhibit all VGCC (particularly R-type), whereas, they induce a limited block of L-, and P/Q-type channels, coupled to an unusual potentiation of the N-type Ca(2+) current in the AVP terminals. In contrast, the N-type Ca(2+) current can be inhibited by adenosine via A(1) receptors leading to the decreased release of both AVP and OT. Furthermore, ATP evokes an inactivating Ca(2+)/Na(+)-current in HNS terminals able to potentiate AVP release through the activation of P2X2, P2X3, P2X4 and P2X7 receptors. In OT terminals, however, only the latter receptor type is probably present. We conclude by proposing a model that can explain how purinergic and/or opioid feedback modulation during bursts can mediate differences in the control of neurohypophysial AVP vs. OT release.
Voltage gated Ca(2+) channels are effective voltage sensors of plasma membrane which convert cell depolarizations into Ca(2+) signaling. The chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla utilize a large number of Ca(2+) channel types to drive the Ca(2+)-dependent release of catecholamines into blood circulation, during normal or stress-induced conditions. Some of the Ca(2+) channels expressed in chromaffin cells (L, N, P/Q, R and T), however, do not control only vesicle fusion and catecholamine release. They also subserve a variety of key activities which are vital for the physiological and pathological functioning of the cell, like: (i) shaping the action potentials of electrical oscillations driven either spontaneously or by ACh stimulation, (ii) controlling the action potential frequency of tonic or bursts firing, (iii) regulating the compensatory and excess endocytosis following robust exocytosis and (iv) driving the remodeling of Ca(2+) signaling which occurs during stressors stimulation. Here, we will briefly review the well-established properties of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels accumulated over the past three decades focusing on the most recent discoveries on the role that L- (Cav1.2, Cav1.3) and T-type (Cav3.2) channels play in the control of excitability, exocytosis and endocytosis of chromaffin cells in normal and stress-mimicking conditions.
Corticosteroid hormones, which are released in high amounts after stress, easily pass the blood-brain-barrier. In the brain they bind to intracellular receptors which act as transcriptional regulators. These receptors are highly expressed in neurons of the hippocampal formation and the amygdala, areas that play a role in (emotional) memory formation. Voltage gated Ca(2+) channels are among the most prominent targets of corticosteroid hormones. When the levels of corticosterone - the prevalent corticosteroid in rats and mice- are low, L-type Ca(2+) currents of CA1 hippocampal cells are small. However, when hormone levels rise e.g. after stress, the amplitude of L-type Ca(2+) currents will be slowly enhanced, through a process requiring DNA binding of glucocorticoid receptor homodimers. Kinetic properties and voltage dependency of the currents remain unchanged. Neurons in the basolateral amygdala respond in a comparable fashion, but Ca(2+) currents of neurons in the dentate gyrus are unaffected by corticosteroids. The stress-induced increase in Ca(2+) influx has considerable functional consequences in health and disease. At the short term, i.e. 1-4h after stress, the enhanced Ca(2+) influx contributes to stronger firing frequency accommodation and a higher threshold for the induction of long-term potentiation. This helps to normalize neuronal activity after stress and presumably protects earlier encoded, stress-related information. At the longer term, though, increased Ca(2+) load may impose a risk, increasing the vulnerability of limbic cells to additional challenges e.g. during epileptic or ischemic episodes.
Endocrine pituitary cells express numerous voltage-gated Na(+), Ca(2+), K(+), and Cl(-) channels and several ligand-gated channels, and they fire action potentials spontaneously. Depending on the cell type, this electrical activity can generate localized or global Ca(2+) signals, the latter reaching the threshold for stimulus-secretion coupling. These cells also express numerous G-protein-coupled receptors, which can stimulate or silence electrical activity and Ca(2+) influx through voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels and hormone release. Receptors positively coupled to the adenylyl cyclase signaling pathway stimulate electrical activity with cAMP, which activates hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-regulated channels directly, or by cAMP-dependent kinase-mediated phosphorylation of K(+), Na(+), Ca(2+), and/or non-selective cation-conducting channels. Receptors that are negatively coupled to adenylyl cyclase signaling pathways inhibit spontaneous electrical activity and accompanied Ca(2+) transients predominantly through the activation of inwardly rectifying K(+) channels and the inhibition of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. The Ca(2+)-mobilizing receptors activate inositol trisphosphate-gated Ca(2+) channels in the endoplasmic reticulum, leading to Ca(2+) release in an oscillatory or non-oscillatory manner, depending on the cell type. This Ca(2+) release causes a cell type-specific modulation of electrical activity and intracellular Ca(2+) handling.
The dynorphin/-opioid receptor system has been implicated in the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of several psychiatric disorders. In the present review, we present evidence indicating a key role for this system in modulating neurotransmission in brain circuits that subserve mood, motivation, and cognitive function. We overview the pharmacology, signaling, post-translational, post-transcriptional, transcriptional, epigenetic and cis regulation of the dynorphin/-opioid receptor system, and critically review functional neuroanatomical, neurochemical, and pharmacological evidence, suggesting that alterations in this system may contribute to affective disorders, drug addiction, and schizophrenia. We also overview the dynorphin/-opioid receptor system in the genetics of psychiatric disorders and discuss implications of the reviewed material for therapeutics development.
The LIM domain only 4 (LMO4) protein is expressed in the hypothalamus, but its function there is not known. Using mice with LMO4 ablated in postnatal glutamatergic neurons, including most neurons of the paraventricular (PVN) and ventromedial (VMH) hypothalamic nuclei where LMO4 is expressed, we asked whether LMO4 is required for metabolic homeostasis. LMO4 mutant mice exhibited early onset adiposity. These mice had reduced energy expenditure and impaired thermogenesis together with reduced sympathetic outflow to adipose tissues. The peptide hormone leptin, produced from adipocytes, activates Jak/Stat3 signaling at the hypothalamus to control food intake, energy expenditure, and fat metabolism. Intracerebroventricular infusion of leptin suppressed feeding similarly in LMO4 mutant and control mice. However, leptin-induced fat loss was impaired and activation of Stat3 in the VMH was blunted in these mice. Thus, our study identifies LMO4 as a novel modulator of leptin function in selective hypothalamic nuclei to regulate fat metabolism.
Recent studies have demonstrated that magnetic stimulation (MS) can induce cellular responses such as Ca(2+) influx into the cultured neurons and glia, leading to increased intracellular phosphorylation. We have demonstrated previously that MS reduces rat neuropathic pain associated with the prevention of neuronal degeneration. Thus, we aimed to elucidate the actions of MS in relation to modulation of spinal neuron-glia and the descending inhibitory system in chronic pain. The male SD rats intrathecally implanted with catheters were subjected to sciatic nerve ligation (CCI). MS is a low power apparatus characterized by two different frequencies, 2 KHz and 83 MHz. Rats were given MS to the skin (injured sciatic nerve) for 10 min from the seventh day after CCI. The paw withdrawal latency (PWL) evoked by thermal stimuli was measured for 14 days after CCI. Immunohistochemistry for Iba-1 or GFAP was performed after 4% paraformaldehyde fixation (microscopic analysis). We employed microdialysis for measuring CSF 5-HIAA as a reflection of 5-HT release by MS stimulation. Following CCI, rats showed a decrease in PWL after CCI, and the decrease continued until the 14th day. With MS treatment, the decrease in PWL was reduced during the 10-14 day after CCI. Injection of JNK-1 inhibitors on the 14th day antagonized the analgesic effect of MS. MS also eliminated the CCI-induced decrease in GFAP immunoreactivity. Moreover, MS evoked spinal 5-HT release reflected by increase in spinal 5-HIAA level. Thus, we demonstrate that a novel magnetic stimulator used cutaneously can ameliorate chronic pain by not only preventing abnormal spinal neuron-glia interaction, but also through the activation of the supra-spinal descending inhibitory system.
Precise regulation of synapse formation, maintenance and plasticity is crucial for normal cognitive function, and synaptic failure has been suggested as one of the hallmarks of neurodegenerative diseases. In this review, we describe the recent progress in our understanding of how the receptor tyrosine kinase Ephs and their ligands ephrins regulate dendritic spine morphogenesis, synapse formation and maturation, as well as synaptic plasticity. In particular, we discuss the emerging evidence implicating that deregulation of Eph/ephrin signaling contributes to the aberrant synaptic functions associated with cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease. Understanding how Eph/ephrin regulates synaptic function may therefore provide new insights into the development of therapeutic agents against neurodegenerative diseases.
The noninvasive methods of cognitive neuroscience offer new possibilities to study language. We used neuronavigated multisite transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to determine the functional relevance of 1) the posterior part of left superior temporal gyrus (Wernicke's area), 2) a midportion of Broca's area (slightly posterior/superior to apex of vertical ascending ramus), and 3) the midsection of the left middle temporal gyrus (MTG), during overt picture naming. Our chronometric TMS design enabled us to chart the time points at which neural activity in each of these regions functionally contributes to overt speech production. Our findings demonstrate that the midsection of left MTG becomes functionally relevant at 225 ms after picture onset, followed by Broca's area at 300 ms and Wernicke's area at 400 ms. Interestingly, during this late time window, the left MTG shows a second peak of functional relevance. Each area thus contributed during the speech production process at different stages, suggesting distinct underlying functional roles within this complex multicomponential skill. These findings are discussed and framed in the context of psycholinguistic models of speech production according to which successful speaking relies on intact, spatiotemporally specific feed forward and recurrent feedback loops within a left-hemispheric fronto-temporal brain connectivity network.
The ocular dominance (OD) shift induced by monocular deprivation (MD) during the critical period is mediated by an initial depression of deprived-eye responses followed by an increased responsiveness to the nondeprived eye. It is not fully clear to what extent these 2 events are correlated and which are their physiological and molecular mediators. The extracellular synaptic environment plays an important role in regulating visual cortical plasticity. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a family of activity-dependent zinc-dependent extracellular endopeptidases mediating extracellular matrix remodeling. We investigated the effects of MMP inhibition on OD plasticity in juvenile monocularly deprived rats. By using electrophysiological recordings, we found that MMP inhibition selectively prevented the potentiation of neuronal responses to nondeprived-eye stimulation occurring after 7 days of MD and potentiation of deprived-eye responses occurring after eye reopening. Three days of MD only resulted in a depression of deprived-eye responses insensitive to MMP inhibition. MMP inhibition did not influence homeostatic plasticity tested in the monocular cortex but significantly prevented an increase in dendritic spine density present after 7 days MD in layer II-III pyramids.
Reward has been shown to promote human performance in multiple task domains. However, an important debate has developed about the uniqueness of reward-related neural signatures associated with such facilitation, as similar neural patterns can be triggered by increased attentional focus independent of reward. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to directly investigate the neural commonalities and interactions between the anticipation of both reward and task difficulty, by independently manipulating these factors in a cued-attention paradigm. In preparation for the target stimulus, both factors increased activity within the midbrain, dorsal striatum, and fronto-parietal areas, while inducing deactivations in default-mode regions. Additionally, reward engaged the ventral striatum, posterior cingulate, and occipital cortex, while difficulty engaged medial and dorsolateral frontal regions. Importantly, a network comprising the midbrain, caudate nucleus, thalamus, and anterior midcingulate cortex exhibited an interaction between reward and difficulty, presumably reflecting additional resource recruitment for demanding tasks with profitable outcome. This notion was consistent with a negative correlation between cue-related midbrain activity and difficulty-induced performance detriments in reward-predictive trials. Together, the data demonstrate that expected value and attentional demands are integrated in cortico-striatal-thalamic circuits in coordination with the dopaminergic midbrain to flexibly modulate resource allocation for an effective pursuit of behavioral goals.
The presence of irrelevant external stimuli during the retrieval of long-term memory (LTM) has a negative impact on the fidelity of recollected details. Top-down control processes that both guide the selection of internal information relevant to LTM goals and resolve interference on retrieval from irrelevant external information have been associated with the same region in left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC). The current study examined a causal role of the left VLPFC in memory performance when external distraction (i.e., visual stimuli irrelevant to the current task goals) was presented during retrieval of LTM. Immediately after functional perturbation of the left VLPFC with 1-Hz repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation, participants' memory was tested when their eyes were closed and when their eyes were open and irrelevant visual stimuli were presented. The results showed that visual distraction diminished LTM performance based on an objective measure of recollection and that perturbation of left VLPFC exacerbated the disruptive effect. This is the first evidence of a direct role of the left VLPFC in diminishing the impact of distraction on recollection, elucidating neural mechanisms that are critically involved in how we reconstruct the past while navigating the external environment.
Granule neurons have a central role in cerebellar function via their synaptic interactions with other neuronal cell types both within and outside this structure. Establishment of these synaptic connections and its control is therefore essential to their function. Both intrinsic as well as environmental mechanisms are required for neuronal development and formation of neuronal circuits, and a key but poorly understood question is how these various events are coordinated and integrated in maturing neurons. In this review, we summarize recent work on the role of the Nuclear Factor I family in the transcriptional programming of cerebellar granule neuron maturation and synapse formation. In particular, we describe (1) the involvement of this family of factors in key developmental steps occurring throughout postmitotic granule neuron development, including dendrite and synapse formation and synaptic receptor expression, and (2) the mediation of these actions by critical downstream gene targets that control cell-cell interactions. These findings illustrate how Nuclear Factor I proteins and their regulons function as a bridge between cell-intrinsic and cell-extrinsic interactions to control multiple phases of granule neuron development.

Working memory is impaired in opioid-dependent individuals, yet the neural underpinnings of working memory in this population are largely unknown. Previous studies in healthy adults have demonstrated that working memory is supported by a network of brain regions that includes a cerebro-cerebellar circuit. The cerebellum, in particular, may be important for inner speech mechanisms that assist verbal working memory. This study used functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine brain activity associated with working memory in five opioid-dependent, methadone-maintained patients and five matched, healthy controls. An item recognition task was administered in two conditions: (1) a low working memory load &quot;match&quot; condition in which participants determined whether target letters presented at the beginning of the trial matched a probe item, and (2) a high working memory load &quot;manipulation&quot; condition in which participants counted two alphabetical letters forward of each of the targets and determined whether either of these new items matched a probe item. Response times and accuracy scores were not significantly different between the groups. FMRI analyses indicated that, in association with higher working memory load (&quot;manipulation&quot; condition), the patient group exhibited hyperactivity in the superior and inferior cerebellum and amygdala relative to that of controls. At a more liberal statistical threshold, patients exhibited hypoactivity in the left prefrontal and medial frontal/pre-SMA regions. These results indicate that verbal working memory in opioid-dependent individuals involves a disrupted cerebro-cerebellar circuit and shed light on the neuroanatomical basis of working memory impairments in this population.
Chorioamnionitis is an important problem in perinatology today, leading to brain injury and neurological handicaps. However, there are almost no data available regarding chorioamnionitis and a specific damage of the cerebellum. Therefore, this study aimed at determining if chorioamnionitis causes cerebellar morphological alterations. Chorioamnionitis was induced in sheep by the intra-amniotic injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) at a gestational age (GA) of 110 days. At a GA of 140 days, we assessed the mean total and layer-specific volume and the mean total granule cell (GCs) and Purkinje cell (PC) number in the cerebelli of LPS-exposed and control animals using high-precision design-based stereology. Astrogliosis was assessed in the gray and white matter (WM) using a glial fibrillary acidic protein staining combined with gray value image analysis. The present study showed an unchanged volume of the total cerebellum as well as the molecular layer, outer and inner granular cell layers (OGL and IGL, respectively), and WM. Interestingly, compared with controls, the LPS-exposed brains showed a statistically significant increase (+20.4%) in the mean total number of GCs, whereas the number of PCs did not show any difference between the two groups. In addition, LPS-exposed animals showed signs of astrogliosis specifically affecting the IGL. Intra-amniotic injection of LPS causes morphological changes in the cerebellum of fetal sheep still detectable at full-term birth. In this study, changes were restricted to the inner granule layer. These cerebellar changes might correspond to some of the motor or non-motor deficits seen in neonates from compromised pregnancies.
We previously demonstrated that TSC22D4, a protein encoded by the TGF-1-activated gene Tsc22d4 (Thg-1pit) and highly expressed in postnatal and adult mouse cerebellum with multiple post-translationally modified protein forms, moves to nucleus when in vitro differentiated cerebellum granule neurons (CGNs) are committed to apoptosis by hyperpolarizing KCl concentrations in the culture medium. We have now studied TSC22D4 cytoplasmic/nuclear localization in CGNs and Purkinje cells: (1) during CGN differentiation/maturation in vivo, (2) during CGN differentiation in vitro, and (3) by in vitro culturing ex vivo cerebellum slices under conditions favoring/inhibiting CGN/Purkinje cell differentiation. We show that TSC22D4 displays both nuclear and cytoplasmic localizations in undifferentiated, early postnatal cerebellum CGNs, irrespectively of CGN proliferation/migration from external to internal granule cell layer, and that it specifically accumulates in the somatodendritic and synaptic compartments when CGNs mature, as indicated by TSC22D4 abundance at the level of adult cerebellum glomeruli and apparent lack in CGN nuclei. These features were also observed in cerebellum slices cultured in vitro under conditions favoring/inhibiting CGN/Purkinje cell differentiation. In vitro TSC22D4 silencing with siRNAs blocked CGN differentiation and inhibited neurite elongation in N1E-115 neuroblastoma cells, pinpointing the relevance of this protein to CGN differentiation.
Action potential-evoked calcium influx into presynaptic boutons is a key determinant of synaptic strength and function. Here, we have examined the calcium dynamics at individual presynaptic boutons of the cerebellar granule cells in the molecular layer of cerebellar slices and investigated whether different subpopulations of granule cell boutons exhibit different calcium dynamics. We found that a population of boutons with low basal calcium clearance rates may activate a second clearance mechanism and exhibit biphasic calcium decay on high calcium influx induced by bursts of action potentials. We also found that boutons on ascending axons and parallel fibers show similar calcium influx amplitudes and calcium clearance rates in response to action potentials. Lastly, we found that parallel fiber boutons located in the inner molecular layer have a higher calcium clearance rate than boutons located in the outer molecular layer. These results suggest that cerebellar granule cell boutons should not be regarded as a homogeneous population, but rather that different subpopulations of boutons may exhibit different properties. The heterogeneity of presynaptic boutons may allow different learned behaviors to be encoded in the same circuit without mutual interference and may be a general mechanism for increasing the computational capacity of the brain.
In this study, we have examined the properties of synaptic transmission between dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and dorsal horn (DH) neurons, placed in co-culture. We also examined the effect of the anti-hyperalgesic gabapentinoid drug pregabalin (PGB) at this pharmacologically relevant synapse. The main method used was electrophysiological recording of excitatory post synaptic currents (EPSCs) in DH neurons. Synaptic transmission between DRG and DH neurons was stimulated by capsaicin, which activates transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (TRPV1) receptors on small diameter DRG neurons. Capsaicin (1 M) application increased the frequency of EPSCs recorded in DH neurons in DRG-DH co-cultures, by about 3-fold, but had no effect on other measured properties of the EPSCs. There was also no effect of capsaicin in the absence of co-cultured DRGs. Application of PGB (100 M) for 40-48 h caused a reduction in the capsaicin-induced increase in EPSC frequency by 57%. In contrast, brief preincubation of PGB had no significant effect on the capsaicin-induced increase in EPSC frequency. In conclusion, this study shows that PGB applied for 40-48 h, but not acute application inhibits excitatory synaptic transmission at DRG-DH synapses, in response to nociceptive stimulation, most likely by a presynaptic effect on neurotransmitter release from DRG presynaptic terminals.
A recent study identified Nipsnap1 as an auxiliary protein inhibiting TRPV6 ion channel activity. Based upon this finding, we investigated the role of Nipsnap1, and the closely related Nipsnap2, in Ca(2+) channel regulation. Here, we find that overexpression of Nipsnap2 caused a 45% increase in currents though L-type Ca(2+) channels in a neuronal cell line, while siRNA knockdown of Nipsnap2 greatly reduced L-type currents. The increased influx through L-type Ca(2+) channels due to Nipsnap2 overexpression led to increased phosphorylation of the transcription factor cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) response element binding protein (CREB) along with enhanced expression of several transcription factors and CREB target genes. These experiments highlight a novel role of Nipsnap2 in transcriptional regulation via L-type Ca(2+) channels.



The renowned surgeon, neuroanatomist, and artist Sir Charles Bell not only impacted the lives of his peers through his creative endeavors and passion for art, but also sparked noteworthy breakthroughs in the field of neuroscience. His empathetic nature and zest for life enabled him to develop an early proclivity for patient care. As a result of his innovative findings regarding sensory and motor nerves and the anatomical makeup of the brain, he accepted some of the most prestigious awards and received an honorable reputation in society. Bell is recognized for his diligence, perseverance, and his remarkable contributions to surgery. The present review will explore his contributions to the discipline now known as neurosurgery.
Ludwig Edinger, a German neurologist is considered as one of the founders of modern neuroanatomy. He was conferred the degree of Doctor of Medicine at the University of Strassburg. His observation of small living organisms under a microscope at an early age led him to study medicine. Edinger had many discoveries to his credit. He was the first to describe the ventral and dorsal spinocerebellar tracts, to distinguish between paleo-encephalon and neo-encephalon, and between paleo-cerebellum and neo-cerebellum. He coined the terms &quot;gnosis&quot; and &quot;praxis,&quot; which were later adopted in psychological descriptions of agnosia and apraxia. He identified the Edinger-Westphal nucleus in 1885 and was the first to describe the syndrome of thalamic pain. Edinger worked with renowned clinicians and published a large number of papers. He founded the Neurological Institute at the Goethe University in Frankfurt, which is the oldest neurological Institute in Germany. Edinger was a rare combination of a profound scientist, a brilliant teacher, a fine artist, and a noted hypnotist. While at the height of his career, he underwent a surgery and died a few hours later. It was his last will that his brain should be dissected in his own institute. It showed extraordinarily well-developed occipital lobes as well as other unusual features.
Relationship functioning and individual mental health and well-being are strongly associated with one another. In this article, we first review the cross-sectional and longitudinal associations between relationship discord and various types of psychopathology, We then review findings suggesting that relationship discord is associated with poorer outcome for individual-based treatments for psychopathology and that, generally, relationship discord does not improve following individual-based treatments for psychopathology. Finally, we present a model for conceptualizing work with couples in which one partner has a psychiatric disorder and review the efficacy of couple-based interventions in the treatment for psychiatric disorders, with a focus on substance-related, mood, and anxiety disorders.

Intra-articular injections of hyaluronic acid (HA) are useful in the treatment of osteoarthritis (OA), as shown by studies on knee, hip, and trapezio-metacarpal joints. The positive results can be explained by several factors: the restoration of elastic and viscous properties of intra-articular fluid, the anti-inflammatory and the anti-nociceptive activity, and the normalisation of hyaluronan synthesis and inhibition of hyaluronic acid degradation. However, evidence of efficacy of hyaluronic acid in ankle osteoarthritis is still lacking: several studies have been performed without a control group, or have shown similar results to those obtained with different therapeutic procedures. The aim of this paper is to analyse the reasons which can explain the discrepancy between the sound biological background and the inconclusive clinical results. First, it must be considered that the ankle joint, from a biomechanical point of view, is more complex than other joints, and that greater stress is sustained by the articular surfaces. Second, the limited benefit can be related to the use of hyaluronic acid mostly in cases of post-traumatic osteoarthritis, where the treatment must be addressed to solve the biomechanical problems, and then to restore the rheological properties of the ankle joint. A third important explanation of the failure may be the improper technique of administration, that has been performed in all studies, but one, without imaging guidance. Indeed, it is well known that hyaluronic acid, if not delivered directly into the intra-articular space, is unlikely to be effective.


Belief and expectation are part of placebo effect. Migraine patients are characterized by a dysfunctional modulation of pain processing, though a clear placebo effect emerges in clinical trials. The aim of the study was to evaluate the effect of visual and verbal suggestion on subjective pain sensation and cortical responses evoked by CO2 painful laser stimuli in migraine without aura patients vs healthy controls. Twenty-six patients were recorded during the inter-ictal phase and compared to 26 sex and age-matched controls. The right hand and the right supraorbital zone were stimulated during a not conditioned and a conditioned task, where laser stimuli were delivered after a verbal and visual cues of decreased (D), increased (I) or basal (B) intensity, which was left unmodified during the entire task. In control subjects pain rating changed, according to the announced intensity, while in migraine patients the basal hyper-algesia remained unmodified. The N1 and N2 amplitudes tended to change coherently with the stimulus cue in controls, while an opposite paradoxical increase in decreasing condition emerged in migraine. The P2 amplitude modulation was also reduced in migraine, differently from controls. The altered pattern of pain rating and N2 amplitude modulation concurred with frequency of migraine, disability and allodynia. In controls suggestion influenced cortical pain processing and subjective pain rating, while in migraine a peculiar pattern of cortical activation contrasted external cues in order to maintain the basal hyper-algesia. This scarce influence of induced suggestion on pain experience seemed to characterize patients with more severe migraine and central sensitization.
Bipolar disorder is a severe mental illness that affects nearly 4.4% of the general population when bipolar spectrum disorders are taken into account. Neurocognitive impairment is thought to be a core deficit of this illness since it is present during euthymia. In fact, 40-60% of euthymic patients present with neurocognitive disturbances. Not only the clinical factors but also disturbances in neurocognition can influence the functional outcome of BD patients. Hence, further research is needed in order to clarify the relationship between these variables. Despite the growing body of evidence that has emerged during the last decade, no unique neurocognitive profile has been proposed yet for either BD subtype. The majority of the studies recluted heterogeneous samples (including both bipolar I and II) or focused on BD-I patients only. The aim of this review is to give an overall picture of the main neurocognitive disturbances found in the bipolar spectrum and particularly in BD-II, where the findings are more ambiguous. An extensive review of all the literature has been done regarding this subtype (from 1980 until July 2009). Data available until now suggest that deficits are present across the bipolar spectrum (BD-I and BD-II), but they seem slightly more severe in BD-I. The extent to which either subtype share-or not-some similarities is still unknown. More studies are required but it would also be interesting to reach a consensus in the neuropsychological assessment of BD to facilitate comparisons between the different studies.

Despite the fact that monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) can be highly effective therapeutic agents for depression and some anxiety disorders, they tend to be underutilized in clinical practice. This is due at least in part to the fact that there is a great deal of misinformation and mythology about their dietary and drug interactions. This article is intended to serve as a guide for clinicians who are not particularly familiar with MAO inhibitors; its aim is to help these clinicians competently integrate these agents into clinical practice when appropriate.
The electrophysiological correlates of conflict processing and cognitive control have been well characterized for the visual modality in paradigms such as the Stroop task. Much less is known about corresponding processes in the auditory modality. Here, electroencephalographic recordings of brain activity were measured during an auditory Stroop task, using three different forms of behavioral response (overt verbal, covert verbal, and manual), that closely paralleled our previous visual Stroop study. As was expected, behavioral responses were slower and less accurate for incongruent than for congruent trials. Neurally, incongruent trials showed an enhanced fronto-central negative polarity wave (N(inc)), similar to the N450 in visual Stroop tasks, with similar variations as a function of behavioral response mode, but peaking ~150ms earlier, followed by an enhanced positive posterior wave. In addition, sequential behavioral and neural effects were observed that supported the conflict-monitoring and cognitive adjustment hypothesis. Thus, while some aspects of the conflict detection processes, such as timing, may be modality dependent, the general mechanisms would appear to be supramodal.

Since the discovery of the major excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters and their receptors in the brain, many have deliberated over their likely structures and how these may relate to function. This was initially satisfied by the determination of the first amino acid sequences of the Cys-loop receptors that recognized acetylcholine, serotonin, GABA, and glycine, followed later by similar determinations for the glutamate receptors, comprising non-NMDA and NMDA subtypes. The last decade has seen a rapid advance resulting in the first structures of Cys-loop receptors, related bacterial and molluscan homologs, and glutamate receptors, determined down to atomic resolution. This now provides a basis for determining not just the complete structures of these important receptor classes, but also for understanding how various domains and residues interact during agonist binding, receptor activation, and channel opening, including allosteric modulation. This article reviews our current understanding of these mechanisms for the Cys-loop and glutamate receptor families.
There has been intense interest in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) since 2004, when mutations in the LRRK2 gene were discovered to cause dominantly inherited Parkinson's disease (PD). This article will address six basic questions about LRRK2 biology as it relates to PD, with particular emphasis on its discovery, current concepts of its physiological and pathological functions, and the strategies being used to discover how LRRK2 dysfunction causes PD.
Since our initial demonstrations that hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) may function as a neuromodulator in the brain and a smooth muscle relaxant in the vascular system, accumulating evidence shows that H(2)S may function as a signaling molecule. We and others also found that H(2)S has a cytoprotective effect. Because H(2)S is well-known toxic gas, a cytoprotective role has been overlooked. H(2)S protects neurons from oxidative stress. It also protects cardiac muscle from ischemia-reperfusion injury. The finding led to the application of H(2)S to the bypass surgery patients in Phase II clinical trial. Cystathionine -synthase (CBS) and cystathionine -lyase (CSE) are well known as H(2)S-producing enzymes. We recently demonstrated that the other H(2)S-producing enzyme, 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (3MST) along with cysteine aminotransferase (CAT) is localized to neurons in the brain and to the vascular endothelium. However, the regulation of H(2)S production by 3MST/CAT pathway had not been well understood. The present study shows that H(2)S production by 3MST/CAT pathway is regulated by Ca(2+) and that H(2)S protects retinal photoreceptor cells from light induced degeneration by suppressing excessive Ca(2+) influx caused by intense light.
Cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis) is a popular laboratory primate belonging to Old World monkeys, which are the group most closely related to humans except for the apes. This paper summarizes a series of our studies regarding the development of cerebral sulci and gyri in this primate, and the stated possibility of evaluation of the sulcal development for assessing the developmental toxicity testing. The cerebrum of cynomolgus monkeys experienced a regular sequence of emergence of sulci and gyri on gross observation while such timetables corresponded to those obtained by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with a lag time of 10-30 days. When the timetables for the emergence of anatomically identical primary sulci and gyri were compared between cynomolgus monkeys and humans, their chronological sequences were comparable, while some sulci and gyri located on the phylogenetically newer cortical region in humans emerged earlier in monkeys. The present paper further indicates brief procedures for evaluating cerebral abnormalities and/or maturity using brain specimens without MRI measurements. The primary sulcal lengths measured by the 'cotton thread' method were a brief index of the degree of regional gyrification. As the development of a calcarine sulcus was closely correlated with morphological maturation of the lateral ventricle, which changed drastically during embryonic days (EDs) 90-100, the cerebral maturity on ED 100 could be evaluated by the infolding of that sulcus. Thus, the present paper provides gross anatomical and MRI references and brief procedures for investigating the normality of the development of cerebral sulci and gyri of laboratory primates, cynomolgus monkeys.
Using self-report as a measure of conscious experience has been a point of contention in mind wandering research. Whereas prior work has focused on the introspective component of self-report validity, the current research introduces an honesty prime task to the current paradigm in order to assess the role of goal states and social factors on self-report accuracy. Findings provide evidence for an inflated report of mind wandering frequency arising from demand characteristics, intensified by the divergent properties of the subjective and behavioural measures and the general deficit in meta-awareness of off task episodes.
It is widely agreed that irrelevant numerical values are automatically activated. However, automatic and intentional activations may give rise to different numerical representations. We examined processing of symbolic and non-symbolic (i.e., numerosity) representations asking whether they differ in automatic and intentional processing. Participants were presented with two-dimensional displays containing repetitions of a digit and were asked to report, in different blocks, whether the digit or numerosity was smaller or larger than 5. Incongruent trials differed either in laterality between the relevant and irrelevant dimensions (i.e., the location of both dimensions in reference to the midpoint 5) or in numerical distance between dimensions. Congruency affected performance regardless of symbolic or non-symbolic presentation. For incongruent trials, laterality (not distance) affected performance, again regardless of presentation. This implies that automaticity does not mean similar processing of relevant and irrelevant dimensions. Specifically, the relevant dimension is processed elaborately whereas the irrelevant dimension is processed crudely.
Inattentional Blindness (IB) occurs when observers engaged in resource-consuming tasks fail to see unexpected stimuli that appear in their visual field. Eye movements were recorded in a dynamic IB task where participants tracked targets amongst distractors. During the task, an unexpected stimulus crossed the screen for several seconds. Individuals who failed to report the unexpected stimulus were deemed to be IB. Being IB was associated with making more fixations and longer gaze times on distractor stimuli, being less likely to fixate the unexpected stimulus, and having lower working memory capacity than those who were not IB. Noticing the unexpected stimulus was not contingent upon fixating it, suggesting that some individuals processed the unexpected stimulus via covert attention. The findings support earlier research on working memory and IB. In addition, IBs were less efficient attentional allocators than those who were not IB, as reflected in their eye tracking of irrelevant distractors.
Attentional scanning was studied in anxious and non-anxious participants, using a modified change detection paradigm. Participants detected changes in pairs of emotional scenes separated by two task irrelevant slides, which contained an emotionally valenced scene (the 'distractor scene') and a visual mask. In agreement with attentional control theory, change detection latencies were slower overall for anxious participants. Change detection in anxious, but not non-anxious, participants was influenced by the emotional valence and exposure duration of distractor scenes. When negative distractor scenes were presented at subliminal exposure durations, anxious participants detected changes more rapidly than when supraliminal negative scenes or subliminal positive scenes were presented. We propose that for anxious participants, subliminal presentation of emotionally negative distractor scenes stimulated attention into a dynamic state in the absence of attentional engagement. Presentation of the same scenes at longer exposure times was accompanied by conscious awareness, attentional engagement, and slower change detection.


Sense of agency (SoA) is a compelling but fragile experience that is augmented or attenuated by internal signals and by external cues. A disruption in SoA may characterise individual symptoms of mental illness such as delusions of control. Indeed, it has been argued that generic SoA disturbances may lie at the heart of delusions and hallucinations that characterise schizophrenia. A clearer understanding of how sensorimotor, perceptual and environmental cues complement, or compete with, each other in engendering SoA may prove valuable in deepening our understanding the agency disruptions that characterise certain focal neurological disorders and mental illnesses. Here we examine the integration of SoA cues in health and illness, describing a simple framework of this integration based on Bayesian principles. We extend this to consider how alterations in cue integration may lead to aberrant experiences of agency.
A controversial issue in the cognitive neuroscience of language is the question whether independent lexical representations need to be included in cognitive models. Recent models claim to account for the available data without including phonological or orthographic lexicons. These models base their lexical decision (&quot;Is it a word or not?&quot;) either on familiarity of the input string or alternatively, on semantic information. These two alternatives were evaluated in a series of experiments with an individual suffering from word-meaning deafness. This is a rare disorder of auditory word comprehension which affects mapping of a word's phonology to its meaning. The participant, BB, was unaffected by the 'word-likeness' of nonwords with comparable accuracy for plausible and abstruse nonwords. She was further able to make lexical decisions despite her severe impairment in comprehending the word's meaning. Lexical and semantic processing were assessed on an item-specific basis providing a methodological advancement over previous studies. The comprehension tasks involved word-picture matching as well as definition tasks. The results suggest that BB's lexical decisions are based neither on familiarity of the input string nor on semantic information, which was largely unavailable. The only alternative are lexical representations on which she could base her decisions.
Visual masking and visual suppression by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) are both widely utilized in cognitive neuroscience to investigate a wide range of processes. However, the neural processes affected by visual masking and TMS remain unclear. We compared para- and metacontrast masking with TMS-induced suppression of visibility in a within-subjects design where participants were asked to detect and rate the visibility of a stimulus. TMS pulses applied 75-109 msec after the onset of the visual stimulus reduced the subjective visibility of the target. Even when the TMS pulses completely eliminated the conscious perception of the target, unconscious location detection was possible. The visual masking condition yielded similar results: metacontrast did not eliminate unconscious location detection even when the target was reported not seen at all. As the first target-related signals were likely to reach the visual cortex before TMS pulses started to modulate target visibility, we suggest that TMS and metacontrast masking affected neural signals subsequent to the target's transient onset-response. This implies that a preserved onset-response is sufficient for unconscious processing of stimulus attributes, but not for conscious perception.
We evaluated the ocular and visual status in a group of patients with a non-surgically treated blowout fracture. Clinical examination with refraction, test of binocular function, and tear film evaluation was performed in 23 patients. These values were statistically correlated with the orbital volume measurements and ocular finding from the patient records at presentation. About 50% of the study group was symptomatic due to low visual acuity from refractive errors and decompensated phorias as a consequence of the blowout fracture. Several patients displayed changes in tear film production. There was no strong correlation between the measured parameters and orbital volume measurements. Patients with a non-surgically treated blowout fracture often display ocular and visual changes after discharge. A routine visual exam is advocated in all patients after the ocular status has stabilized after a blowout fracture.
What do I as a critical care nurse do? Nurses, by virtue of being trained in health promotion, and also because they interact with patients, families, and communities, have firsthand opportunities to play an active role in practicing primary prevention. To avoid the first occurrence of substance abuse, assess community need, assess facility needs, and identify potential risk. Identify the magnitude of the problem. Intervene early with the youth and at-risk populations. Refer patients and their families to mental health specialists. Provide education to patients, families, communities. To reduce occurrences of substance abuse, practicing secondary prevention requires prompt action in the earliest moments of recognizing a problem and directing patients to early intervention and rehabilitation. Screening your patients, providing brief education, and prompt referral constitutes early intervention. To retard the progress of the disease, practice tertiary prevention by providing education, counseling, and support to the afflicted in achieving and maintaining sobriety through medication compliance and rehabilitative group and counseling work. The goal of intervention in the lives of substance abusers is to stop drug use, avoid relapse, and sustain recovery. After years of research, NIDA has identified 13 fundamental principles to effective drug abuse treatment. 1. Addiction is a complex but treatable disease that affects brain function and behavior. 2. No single treatment is appropriate for everyone. 3. Treatment needs to be readily available. 4. Effective treatment attends to multiple needs of the individual, not just his or her drug abuse. 5. Remaining in treatment for an adequate period of time is critical. 6. Counseling--individual and/or group--and other behavioral therapies are the most commonly used forms of drug abuse treatment. 7. Medications are an important element of treatment for many patients, especially when combined with counseling and other behavioral therapies. 8. An individual's treatment and services plan must be assessed continually and modified as necessary to ensure it meets his or her changing needs. 9. Many drug-addicted individuals also have other mental disorders that need treatment. 10. Medically assisted detoxification in the first stage of addiction treatment and by itself does little to change long-term drug abuse. 11. Treatment does not need to be voluntary to be effective. 12. Drug use during treatment must be monitored continuously, because lapses during treatment do occur. 13. Treatment programs should assess patients for the presence of HIV/AIDS, hepatitis B and C, tuberculosis, and other infectious diseases, as well as provide targeted risk-reduction counseling to help patients modify or change behaviors that place them at risk of contracting or spreading infectious diseases. To truly impact this disease, there needs to be improvement in the identification of risk factors and early identification and early intervention with children and adolescents. The future of neuroscience is in objective brain scans and genetic testing. Out of these approaches can come more objective measures of addiction and dependence using brain scans and genetic testing. These measures would potentially allow for the development of vaccines for specific drugs of abuse and dependence, as well as increasingly selective and effective pharmacologic approaches for treatment and a new consensus on standard of care for substance dependence.
The dominance of the neurosciences in psychiatric research raises questions about the relationship between research practices and the lived experience of mental illness. Here, I use data from a group of researchers focusing on neurocognition in schizophrenia to explore the problem of representation in psychiatric research and the forms that neuroscientific evidence assumes for those who produce it. These researchers grappled with the complexity of schizophrenia not by narrowing disease concepts to biological facts but by referencing measurement techniques to generate new versions of schizophrenia. By linking experimental findings to inchoate concepts of personhood and social experience, I found that they reframed and reinforced cultural values, including that those with schizophrenia are destined to a debased and deficient existence. I argue that cognition has emerged as an essential feature of schizophrenia not only because of its representational utility but also because of the ontological work the concept performs. In closing, I present some implications for the neurobiological and social sciences.
Sleep disturbances are prevalent in patients with Alzheimer' disease (AD), being one of the most troubling symptoms during the progression of disease. However, little research has been made to determine if impaired sleep patterns appear years before AD diagnosis. This study tries to shed light on this issue by performing polysomnographic recordings in healthy elders and patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). We further investigated whether changes in sleep patterns parallel memory decline as well as its relationship with the Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) 4 genotype. Results showed a significant shortening of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep together with increased fragmentations of slow-wave sleep in MCI patients relative to healthy elders. Interestingly, we further showed that reduction of REM sleep in MCI patients with ApoE 4 was more noticeable than in 4 non-carriers. Contrary to our initial hypothesis, changes in sleep patterns were not correlated with memory performance in MCI patients. Instead, increased REM sleep accompanied enhanced immediate recall in MCI 4 non-carriers. Taken together, these results suggest that sleep disruptions are evident years before diagnosis of AD, which may have implications for early detection of dementia and/or therapeutic management of sleep complaints in MCI patients.
Despite advances in multidisciplinary approaches, the prognosis for most patients with malignant gliomas is poor. Malignant gliomas are highly vascularized tumors with elevated expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), an important mediator of angiogenesis. Recent studies of bevacizumab, an anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody, alone or associated with chemotherapy, have demonstrated high response rates and prolongation of median and 6-month progression-free survival. Clinical evaluation of several multitarget small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors is ongoing. Other promising antiangiogenic compounds are cilengitide and continuous temozolomide. Toxicity is acceptable. Open issues are represented by patterns of tumor progression, resistance mechanisms and biomarkers.
The prevalence of overweight and obesity has markedly increased during the past few decades. Stress has been suggested as one environmental factor that may contribute to the development of obesity. In this review, we discuss the role that exposure to chronic stress may play in the development of obesity, with particular attention to the effects of chronic psychosocial stress. Of particular importance is the effect that social stress has on dietary preference, food consumption, and regional distribution of adipose tissue. We present evidence from human and animal studies that links sympathetic nervous system and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis hyperactivity with visceral obesity, and that stress tends to alter the pattern of food consumption, and promotes craving of nutrient-dense &quot;comfort foods.&quot; Lastly, we discuss the visible burrow system, a model of chronic social stress used in our laboratory to assess the effects of social subordination on behavioral and metabolic profile.


The vacuolar (H+)-ATPase (V-ATPase) is a universal proton pump and its activity is required for a variety of cell-biological processes such as membrane trafficking, receptor-mediated endocytosis, lysosomal protein degradation, osteoclastic bone resorption and maintenance of acid-base homeostasis by renal intercalated cells. In neuronal and neuroendocrine cells, the V-ATPase is the major regulator of intragranular acidification which is indispensable for correct prohormone processing and neurotransmitter uptake. In these specialized cells, the V-ATPase is equipped with the accessory subunits ATP6AP1/Ac45 and ATP6AP2/(pro) renin receptor. Recent studies have shown that Ac45 interacts with the V0- sector of the V-ATPase complex, thereby regulating the intragranular pH and Ca2+-dependent exocytotic membrane fusion. Thus, Ac45 can be considered as a V-ATPase regulator in the neuroendocrine secretory pathway. ATP6AP2 has recently been found to be identical to the (pro) renin receptor and has a dual role: (i) in the renin-angiotensin system that also regulates V-ATPase activity; (ii) acting as an adapter by binding to both the V-ATPase and the Wnt receptor complex, thereby recruiting the receptor complex into an acidic microenvironment. We here provide an overview of the two V-ATPase accessory subunits as novel key players in V-ATPase regulation. We argue that the accessory subunits are candidate genes for V-ATPase-related human disorders and promising targets for manipulating V-ATPase functioning in vivo.
Drosophila neuroblasts are a model system for studying stem cell self-renewal and the establishment of cortical polarity. Larval neuroblasts generate a large apical self-renewing neuroblast, and a small basal cell that differentiates. We performed a genetic screen to identify regulators of neuroblast self-renewal, and identified a mutation in sgt1 (suppressor-of-G2-allele-of-skp1) that had fewer neuroblasts. We found that sgt1 neuroblasts have two polarity phenotypes: failure to establish apical cortical polarity at prophase, and lack of cortical Scribble localization throughout the cell cycle. Apical cortical polarity was partially restored at metaphase by a microtubule-induced cortical polarity pathway. Double mutants lacking Sgt1 and Pins (a microtubule-induced polarity pathway component) resulted in neuroblasts without detectable cortical polarity and formation of &quot;neuroblast tumors.&quot; Mutants in hsp83 (encoding the predicted Sgt1-binding protein Hsp90), LKB1, or AMPK all show similar prophase apical cortical polarity defects (but no Scribble phenotype), and activated AMPK rescued the sgt1 mutant phenotype. We propose that an Sgt1/Hsp90-LKB1-AMPK pathway acts redundantly with a microtubule-induced polarity pathway to generate neuroblast cortical polarity, and the absence of neuroblast cortical polarity can produce neuroblast tumors.
As the complexity of animal nervous systems has increased during evolution, developmental control of neuronal connectivity has become increasingly refined. How has functional diversification within related axon guidance molecules contributed to the evolution of nervous systems? To address this question, we explore the evolution of functional diversity within the Roundabout (Robo) family of axon guidance receptors. In Drosophila, Robo and Robo2 promote midline repulsion, while Robo2 and Robo3 specify the position of longitudinal axon pathways. The Robo family has expanded by gene duplication in insects; robo2 and robo3 exist as distinct genes only within dipterans, while other insects, like the flour beetle Tribolium castaneum, retain an ancestral robo2/3 gene. Both Robos from Tribolium can mediate midline repulsion in Drosophila, but unlike the fly Robos cannot be down-regulated by Commissureless. The overall architecture and arrangement of longitudinal pathways are remarkably conserved in Tribolium, despite it having only two Robos. Loss of TcSlit causes midline collapse of axons in the beetle, a phenotype recapitulated by simultaneous knockdown of both Robos. Single gene knockdowns reveal that beetle Robos have specialized axon guidance functions: TcRobo is dedicated to midline repulsion, while TcRobo2/3 also regulates longitudinal pathway formation. TcRobo2/3 knockdown reproduces aspects of both Drosophila robo2 and robo3 mutants, suggesting that TcRobo2/3 has two functions that in Drosophila are divided between Robo2 and Robo3. The ability of Tribolium to organize longitudinal axons into three discrete medial-lateral zones with only two Robo receptors demonstrates that beetle and fly achieve equivalent developmental outcomes using divergent genetic programs.

Emotional responses are triggered by environmental signals and involve profound changes at multiple levels, from molecular to behavior. Much has been learnt about two emotions, fear and anxiety, by studying mammalian models. In particular, neural circuits and the corresponding molecular mechanisms essential for the learning and retention of fear, as well as the activation of anxiety, are well known. In contrast, little is known about how these emotions are terminated. The zebrafish is a newcomer to the world of emotion research. A number of assays for fear and anxiety now exist, but the underlying neural circuitry is largely undefined. Recent experiments, however, appear to provide a hint as to how anxiety is downregulated. In particular, they point to an essential role for a circuit involving the posterior septum, medial habenula, and interpeduncular nucleus. This evolutionarily conserved circuit may fulfill a similar function in mammals.
Deciphering the genetic code that determines how the vertebrate nervous system assembles into neural circuits that ultimately control behavior is a fascinating and challenging question in modern neurobiology. Because of the complexity of this problem, successful strategies require a simple yet focused experimental approach without limiting the scope of the discovery. Unbiased, large-scale forward genetic screens in invertebrate organisms have yielded great insight into the genetic regulation of neural circuit assembly and function. For many reasons, this highly successful approach has been difficult to recapitulate in the behavioral neuroscience field's classic vertebrate model organisms-rodents. Here, we discuss how larval zebrafish provide a promising model system to which we can apply the design of invertebrate behavior-based screens to reveal the genetic mechanisms critical for neural circuit assembly and function in vertebrates.
Siblings share similar genetics and environments, however, their behavior can be quite different. To determine if within-litter variance in neonatal-maternal interactions predict adult sibling behavioral variance, we observed mother-pup interactions during postnatal days 1-8 in four Sprague-Dawley rat litters and measured adult offspring behavioral responses to social and physical novelty. Our results indicate that pup and maternal behavior varied by at least twofold within each litter, and that specific pup behaviors within each litter (perioral contact) were associated with increased maternal licking. Furthermore, siblings that received more licks and made more perioral contact during postnatal days 1-8 had longer latencies to approach novel objects in adulthood than siblings that received less licking and made less perioral contact. This within-litter variance in postnatal mother and pup behavior and offspring adult behavior indicates that early social dynamics within families are an important area to examine to understand the development of sibling variance.
We used opposing figural aftereffects to investigate whether there are at least partially separable representations of upright and inverted faces in patients who missed early visual experience because of bilateral congenital cataracts (mean age at test 19.5 years). Visually normal adults and 10-year-olds were tested for comparison. Adults showed the expected opposing aftereffects for upright and inverted faces. Ten-year-olds showed an adultlike aftereffect for upright faces but, unlike the adult group, no aftereffect for inverted faces. Patients failed to show an aftereffect for either upright or inverted faces. Overall, the results suggest that early visual input is necessary for the later development of (at least partially) separable representations of upright and inverted faces, a developmental process that takes many years to reach an adult-like refinement.
Understanding human pre-implantation development has important implications for assisted reproductive technology (ART) and for human embryonic stem cell (hESC)-based therapies. Owing to limited resources, the cellular and molecular mechanisms governing this early stage of human development are poorly understood. Nonetheless, recent advances in non-invasive imaging techniques and molecular and genomic technologies have helped to increase our understanding of this fascinating stage of human development. Here, we summarize what is currently known about human pre-implantation embryo development and highlight how further studies of human pre-implantation embryos can be used to improve ART and to fully harness the potential of hESCs for therapeutic goals.

In the following article we present a view that social cognition and social neuroscience, as shaped by the current research paradigms, are not sufficient to improve our understanding of psychopathological phenomena. We hold that the self, self-awareness, and inter-subjectivity are integral to social perception and actions. In addition, we emphasize that the self and self-awareness are, by their very nature and function, involved over the entire lifespan with the way the individual is perceived in the social environment. Likewise, the modes of operation and identification of the self and self-awareness receive strong developmental contributions from social interactions with parental figures, siblings, peers, and significant others. These contributions are framed by a competitive and cooperative struggle for love and recognition. We suggest that in humans social cognitive neuroscience should be informed by a thoughtful appreciation of the equal significance of the struggle for &quot;life&quot; and that for love and recognition. In order to be better positioned to improve the research agenda and practice of clinical psychiatry, we propose that cognitive and social neurosciences explicitly incorporate in their models phenomena relative to the self, self-awareness, and inter-subjectivity.
This paper is an overview of recent discussions concerning the mind-body problem, which is being addressed at the interface between philosophy and neuroscience. It focuses on phenomenal features of consciousness or &quot;qualia,&quot; which are distinguished from various related issues. Then follows a discussion of various influential skeptical arguments that question the possibility of reductive explanations of qualia in physicalist terms: knowledge arguments, conceivability arguments, the argument of multiple realizability, and the explanatory gap argument. None of the arguments is found to be very convincing. It does not necessarily follow that reductive physicalism is the only option, but it is defensible. However, constant conceptual and methodological reflection is required, alongside ongoing research, to keep such a view free from dogmatism and naivety.
The study of creativity is characterized by a variety of key questions, such as the nature of the creative process, whether there are multiple types of creativity, the relationship between high levels of creativity (&quot;Big C&quot;) and everyday creativity (&quot;little c&quot;), and the neural basis of creativity. Herein we examine the question of the relationship between creativity in the arts and the sciences, and use functional magnetic resonance imaging to explore the neural basis of creativity in a group of &quot;Big C&quot; individuals from both domains using a word association protocol. The findings give no support for the notion that the artists and scientists represent &quot;two cultures. &quot; Rather, they suggest that very gifted artists and scientists have association cortices that respond in similar ways. Both groups display a preponderance of activation in brain circuits involved in higher-order socioaffective processing and Random Episodic Silent Thought /the default mode.
The concept of executive functions has a rich history and remains current despite increased use of other terms, including working memory and cognitive control. Executive functions have sometimes been equated with functions subserved by the frontal cortex, but this adds little clarity, given that we so far lack a comprehensive theory of frontal function. Pending a more complete mechanistic understanding, clinically useful generalizations can help characterize both healthy cognition and multiple varieties of cognitive impairment. This article surveys several hierarchical and autoregulatory control theories, and suggests that the evolutionary cytoarchitectonic trends theory provides a valuable neuroanatomical framework to help organize research on frontal structure-function relations. The theory suggests that paleocortical/ventrolateral and archicortical/dorsomedial trends are associated with neural network flexibility and stability respectively, which comports well with multiple other conceptual distinctions that have been proposed to characterize ventral and dorsal frontal functions, including the &quot;initiation/inhibition,&quot; &quot;what/where,&quot; and &quot;classification/expectation&quot; hypotheses.
Current diagnostic systems for mental disorders were established before the tools of neuroscience were available, and although they have improved the reliability of psychiatric classification, progress toward the discovery of disease etiologies and novel approaches to treatment and prevention may benefit from alternative conceptualizations of mental disorders. The Research Domain Criteria (RDoC) initiative is the centerpiece of NIMH's effort to achieve its strategic goal of developing new methods to classify mental disorders for research purposes. The RDoC matrix provides a research framework that encourages investigators to reorient their research perspective by taking a dimensional approach to the study of the genetic, neural, and behavioral features of mental disorders, RDoCs integrative approach includes cognition along with social processes, arousal/regulatory systems, and negative and positive valence systems as the major domains, because these neurobehavioral systems have all evolved to serve the motivational and adaptive needs of the organism. With its focus on neural circuits informed by the growing evidence of the neurodevelopmental nature of many disorders and its capacity to capture the patterns of co-occurrence of behaviors and symptoms, the RDoC approach holds promise to advance our understanding of the nature of mental disorders.
Macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) is a cytokine that promotes monocyte differentiation and survival. When overexpressed, M-CSF contributes to pathology in a wide variety of diseases, including osteoporosis, obesity, certain human cancers, and in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection, particularly with respect to monocyte/macrophage infection and the development of HIV-1 associated central nervous system disorders. In this study, our aim was to expand the current knowledge of M-CSF regulation, focusing on nuclear factor kappa B (NF-B), a transcription factor playing a prominent role during inflammation and HIV-1 infection. Our results suggest that tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-) promotes M-CSF secretion in primary macrophages and activates the -1310/+48bp M-CSF promoter in Mono-Mac 1 cells. Inhibitors of the NF-B pathway diminish this response. We identified four putative NF-B and four CCAAT-enhancer-binding protein beta binding sites within the M-CSF promoter. Our findings, using promoter constructs mutated at individual NF-B sites within the M-CSF promoter region, suggest that these sites are redundant with respect to NF-B regulation. TNF- treatment promoted NF-B p65 binding to the M-CSF promoter in phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) treated U937 cells chronically infected with HIV-1 (U1 cells), but not in PMA treated uninfected U937 cells, suggesting that the presence of HIV-1 increases the NF-B response. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate that NF-B induces M-CSF expression on a promoter level via multiple functional NF-B binding sites and that this pathway is likely relevant in HIV-1 infection of macrophages.

In seasonal mammals, a distinct photoneuroendocrine circuit that involves the pineal hormone melatonin tightly synchronizes reproduction with seasons. In the Syrian hamster, a seasonal model in which sexual activity is inhibited by short days, we have previously shown that the potent GnRH stimulator, kisspeptin, is crucial to convey melatonin's message; however, the precise mechanisms through which melatonin affects kisspeptin remain unclear. Interestingly, rfrp gene expression in the neurons of the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus, a brain region in which melatonin receptors are present in the Syrian hamster, is strongly down-regulated by melatonin in short days. Because a large body of evidence now indicates that RFamide-related peptide (RFRP)-3, the product of the rfrp gene, is an inhibitor of gonadotropin secretion in various mammalian species, we sought to investigate its effect on the gonadotrophic axis in the Syrian hamster. We show that acute central injection of RFRP-3 induces c-Fos expression in GnRH neurons and increases LH, FSH, and testosterone secretion. Moreover, chronic central administration of RFRP-3 restores testicular activity and Kiss1 levels in the arcuate nucleus of hamsters despite persisting photoinhibitory conditions. By contrast RFRP-3 does not have a hypophysiotrophic effect. Overall, these findings demonstrate that, in the male Syrian hamster, RFRP-3 exerts a stimulatory effect on the reproductive axis, most likely via hypothalamic targets. This places RFRP-3 in a decisive position between the melatonergic message and Kiss1 seasonal regulation. Additionally, our data suggest for the first time that the function of this peptide depends on the species and the physiological status of the animal model.
Ghrelin, a stomach-derived hormone, is an orexigenic peptide that was recently shown to potently increase food reward behavior. The neurochemical circuitry that links ghrelin to the mesolimbic system and food reward behavior remains unclear. Here we examined the contribution of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and opioids to ghrelin's effects on food motivation and intake. Both systems have well-established links to the mesolimbic ventral tegmental area (VTA) and reward/motivation control. NPY mediates the effect of ghrelin on food intake via activation of NPY-Y1 receptor (NPY-Y1R); their connection with respect to motivated behavior is unexplored. The role of opioids in any aspect of ghrelin's action on food-oriented behaviors is unknown. Rats were trained in a progressive ratio sucrose-induced operant schedule to measure food reward/motivation behavior. Chow intake was measured immediately after the operant test. In separate experiments, we explored the suppressive effects of a selective NPY-Y1R antagonist or opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone, injected either intracerebroventricularly or intra-VTA, on ghrelin-induced food reward behavior. The ventricular ghrelin-induced increase in sucrose-motivated behavior and chow intake were completely blocked by intracerebroventricular pretreatment with either an NPY-Y1R antagonist or naltrexone. The intra-VTA ghrelin-induced sucrose-motivated behavior was blocked only by intra-VTA naltrexone. In contrast, the intra-VTA ghrelin-stimulated chow intake was attenuated only by intra-VTA NPY-Y1 blockade. Finally, ghrelin infusion was associated with an elevated VTA -opioid receptor expression. Thus, we identify central NPY and opioid signaling as the necessary mediators of food intake and reward effects of ghrelin and localize these interactions to the mesolimbic VTA.
Primary cultures of fetal rat cortical neurons and astrocytes were used to test the hypothesis that astrocyte-mediated control of neuronal glutathione (GSH) is a potent factor in neuroprotection against rotenone and paraquat. In neurons, rotenone (0.025-1 M) for 4 and 24 h decreased viability as did paraquat (2-100 M). Rotenone (30 nM) decreased neuronal viability and GSH by 24% and 30%, while ROS were increased by 56%. Paraquat (30 M) decreased neuronal viability and GSH by 36% and 70%, while ROS were increased by 23%. When neurons were co-cultured with astrocytes, their GSH increased 1.5 fold and 5 fold at 12 and 24 h. Co-culturing with astrocytes blocked neuronal death and damage by rotenone and paraquat. Astrocyte-mediated neuroprotection was dependent on the activity of components of the -glutamyl cycle. These studies illustrate the importance of astrocyte-mediated glutathione homeostasis for protection of neurons from rotenone and paraquat and the role of the -glutamyl cycle in this neuroprotection.
Aggressive or antisocial behaviours with violations of social rules are the main features of disruptive behaviour disorders (DBDs), which are developmental diseases and include conduct disorder and oppositional defiant disorder. In the last decade, several efforts have been made to shed light on the biological underpinnings of DBDs. In this context, the main findings of functional magnetic resonance imaging studies in DBD are reported here. There are indications of neural dysfunctions in response to affective stimuli, especially regarding medial and orbitofrontal prefrontal cortex and connected subcortical structures.
We report the efficacy of the ketogenic diet in refractory epilepsies focusing on outcomes with regard to epilepsy syndromes and etiology in children and adults with refractory epilepsy. Sixty-four consecutive children and four adults were prospectively enrolled from 2002 to 2009; seven were excluded from analysis. The classical ketogenic diet was initiated on an inpatient basis with dietary ratios ranging from 2:1 to 4:1 fat to carbohydrate and protein. Patients were classified according to syndrome and etiology using the 1989 and more recent 2010 International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE) classification systems. Responders were defined as &gt;50% reduction in seizure frequency compared to baseline. Syndromes included symptomatic generalized (52), genetic (idiopathic) generalized (7), and focal epilepsies (2) and etiologies included structural (24), genetic (18), and unknown (19). Twenty-nine (48%) of 61 patients were responders at 3 months. Two children became seizure-free: one with focal epilepsy of unknown etiology and another with refractory childhood absence epilepsy. Responsive syndromes included migrating partial epilepsy of infancy, childhood absence epilepsy, focal epilepsy, epilepsy with myoclonic-atonic seizures, and Dravet syndrome. Children with lissencephaly and hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy had surprisingly good responses. The ketogenic diet is an effective treatment for children and adults with refractory epilepsy. The response is predicted by type of epilepsy syndrome. Accurate characterization of the electroclinical syndrome is an important factor in decisions about timing of initiation of the ketogenic diet.
Preclinical research has facilitated the discovery of valuable drugs for the symptomatic treatment of epilepsy. Yet, despite these therapies, seizures are not adequately controlled in a third of all affected individuals, and comorbidities still impose a major burden on quality of life. The introduction of multiple new therapies into clinical use over the past two decades has done little to change this. There is an urgent demand to address the unmet clinical needs for: (1) new symptomatic antiseizure treatments for drug-resistant seizures with improved efficacy/tolerability profiles, (2) disease-modifying treatments that prevent or ameliorate the process of epileptogenesis, and (3) treatments for the common comorbidities that contribute to disability in people with epilepsy. New therapies also need to address the special needs of certain subpopulations, that is, age- or gender-specific treatments. Preclinical development in these treatment areas is complex due to heterogeneity in presentation and etiology, and may need to be formulated with a specific seizure, epilepsy syndrome, or comorbidity in mind. The aim of this report is to provide a framework that will help define future guidelines that improve and standardize the design, reporting, and validation of data across preclinical antiepilepsy therapy development studies targeting drug-resistant seizures, epileptogenesis, and comorbidities.
This critical review refers to the new report on terminology and concepts for the organization of epilepsies by the Commission of the International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE). It is unfortunate that most of the proposals in the Commission's report are modified interpretations and nomenclature of previous ILAE classifications; new terms are not better than the old ones, and recent advances have not been incorporated. Hence, the new ILAE report met with considerable dissatisfaction from several expert epileptologists. The Commission abandoned (1) the disease-syndrome distinction, although &quot;disease&quot; is generally differentiated from &quot;syndrome&quot; in most medical texts as well as in the ILAE classification itself; (2) the distinction of &quot;generalized&quot; and &quot;focal&quot; for epileptic syndromes, despite maintaining this distinction for epileptic seizures and despite the fact that most epileptic syndromes manifest exclusively either with generalized or focal epileptic seizures; (4) the terms &quot;idiopathic,&quot;symptomatic,&quot; and &quot;cryptogenic,&quot; although these terms have been well defined in the previous ILAE classifications; reiterating their true meaning would be sufficient. Genetic epilepsy could be a new category and (5) the designation of &quot;benign&quot; epilepsies, despite the recommendations of experts at the Monreale workshop. In addition, the Commission proposed that &quot;age at onset&quot; be used as a primary dimension for organizing the epilepsies. However, (a) this runs counter to classification efforts of other diseases in medicine and neurology; (b) syndromes that are likely to be linked together on the basis of electroclinical (and often genetic) evidence are now separated and intermixed with a number of heterogeneous epilepsies; and (c) a considerable number of epileptic syndromes have a wide range of age at onset from childhood to adulthood. Furthermore, epilepsy syndromes were given by name only, without definition; thus we remain dependent on previous ILAE definitions, which are often broad and imprecise. The ILAE should commission consensus of opinion from experts in specific fields in order to define each syndrome. Areas of certainties and uncertainties and of agreements and disagreements should be identified and explained. This approach may be the only way toward achieving a scientifically sound and clinically meaningful organizational system for the epileptic seizures and the epilepsies-a process that would incorporate the tremendous advances in our field and would be accepted by the wider community of clinicians and scientists.
Dravet syndrome (DS) is a childhood disorder associated with loss-of-function mutations in SCN1A and is characterized by frequent seizures and severe cognitive impairment. Animal studies have revealed new insights into the mechanisms by which mutations in this gene, encoding the type I voltage-gated sodium channel (Na(v)1.1), may lead to seizure activity and cognitive dysfunction. In this review, we further consider the function of fast-spiking GABAergic neurons, one cell type particularly affected by these mutations, in the context of the temporal coordination of neural activity subserving cognitive functions. We hypothesize that disruptions in GABAergic firing may directly contribute to the poor cognitive outcomes in children with DS, and discuss the therapeutic implications of this possibility.



Most previous studies of burnout have focused on work environmental stressors, while familial factors so far mainly have been overlooked. The aim of the study was to estimate the relative importance of genetic influences on burnout (measured with Pines Burnout Measure) in a sample of monozygotic (MZ) and dizygotic (DZ) Swedish twins. The study sample consisted of 20,286 individuals, born 1959-1986 from the Swedish twin registry who participated in the cross-sectional study of twin adults: genes and environment. Probandwise concordance rates (the risk for one twin to be affected given that his/her twin partner is affected by burnout) and within pair correlations were calculated for MZ and DZ same--and opposite sexed twin pairs. Heritability coefficients i.e. the proportion of the total variance attributable to genetic factors were calculated using standard biometrical model fitting procedures. The results showed that genetic factors explained 33% of the individual differences in burnout symptoms in women and men. Environmental factors explained a substantial part of the variation as well and are thus important to address in rehabilitation and prevention efforts to combat burnout.

Much recent work in systems neuroscience has focused on how dynamic interactions between different cortical regions underlie complex brain functions such as motor coordination, language and emotional regulation. Various studies using neuroimaging and neurophysiologic techniques have suggested that in many neuropsychiatric disorders, these dynamic brain networks are dysregulated. Here we review the utility of combined noninvasive brain stimulation and neuroimaging approaches towards greater understanding of dynamic brain networks in health and disease. Brain stimulation techniques, such as transcranial magnetic stimulation and transcranial direct current stimulation, use electromagnetic principles to alter brain activity noninvasively, and induce focal but also network effects beyond the stimulation site. When combined with brain imaging techniques such as functional magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography and electroencephalography, these brain stimulation techniques enable a causal assessment of the interaction between different network components, and their respective functional roles. The same techniques can also be applied to explore hypotheses regarding the changes in functional connectivity that occur during task performance and in various disease states such as stroke, depression and schizophrenia. Finally, in diseases characterized by pathologic alterations in either the excitability within a single region or in the activity of distributed networks, such techniques provide a potential mechanism to alter cortical network function and architectures in a beneficial manner.
A goal-directed navigation model is proposed based on forward linear look-ahead probe of trajectories in a network of head direction cells, grid cells, place cells and prefrontal cortex (PFC) cells. The model allows selection of new goal-directed trajectories. In a novel environment, the virtual rat incrementally creates a map composed of place cells and PFC cells by random exploration. After exploration, the rat retrieves memory of the goal location, picks its next movement direction by forward linear look-ahead probe of trajectories in several candidate directions while stationary in one location, and finds the one activating PFC cells with the highest reward signal. Each probe direction involves activation of a static pattern of head direction cells to drive an interference model of grid cells to update their phases in a specific direction. The updating of grid cell spiking drives place cells along the probed look-ahead trajectory similar to the forward replay during waking seen in place cell recordings. Directions are probed until the look-ahead trajectory activates the reward signal and the corresponding direction is used to guide goal-finding behavior. We report simulation results in several mazes with and without barriers. Navigation with barriers requires a PFC map topology based on the temporal vicinity of visited place cells and a reward signal diffusion process. The interaction of the forward linear look-ahead trajectory probes with the reward diffusion allows discovery of never-before experienced shortcuts towards a goal location.
Distinct subsets of nucleus accumbens (NAc) neurons differentially encode goal-directed behaviors for natural vs. drug rewards [R. M. Carelli et al. (2000)The Journal of Neuroscience, 20, 4255-4266], and the encoding of cocaine-seeking is altered following cocaine abstinence [J. A. Hollander &amp; R. M. Carelli (2007) The Journal of Neuroscience, 27, 3535-3539]. Here, electrophysiological recording procedures were used to determine if the selective encoding of natural vs. cocaine reward by NAc neurons is: (i) maintained when the natural reinforcer is a highly palatable sweet tastant and (ii) altered by cocaine abstinence. Rats (n = 14) were trained on a multiple schedule of sucrose reinforcement and cocaine self-administration (2-3 weeks) and NAc activity was recorded during the task before and after 30 days of cocaine abstinence. Of 130 cells recorded before abstinence, 82 (63%) displayed patterned discharges (increases or decreases in firing rate, termed phasic activity) relative to operant responding for sucrose or cocaine. As in previous reports, the majority of those cells displayed nonoverlapping patterns of activity during responding for sucrose vs. cocaine. Specifically, only 17 (21%) showed similar patterns of activity (i.e. overlapping activity) across the two reinforcer conditions. After abstinence, this pattern was largely maintained, 23 of 70 phasic cells (33%) were overlapping. However, cocaine abstinence altered the overall percentage of selectively active neurons across reinforcer conditions. Specifically, significantly more neurons became selectively activated during cocaine-directed behaviors than during sucrose-directed behaviors. The results indicate that, although the selective encoding of cocaine and natural rewards is maintained even with a highly palatable substance, 30 days of cocaine abstinence dynamically alters the overall population encoding of natural and drug rewards by NAc neurons.
The orexin/hypocretin system is involved in several addiction-related behaviors. In the present experiments, we examined the involvement of orexin in heroin reinforcement and relapse by administering the orexin 1 receptor antagonist SB-334867 prior to heroin self-administration or prior to cue-induced or heroin-induced reinstatement of extinguished heroin seeking in male Sprague Dawley rats. SB-334867 (30 mg/kg, intraperitoneal) reduced heroin intake during self-administration under fixed ratio-1 and progressive ratio schedules. SB-334867 also attenuated reinstatement of heroin seeking elicited by cues, but not reinstatement elicited by a heroin prime. These results indicate that orexin antagonism reduces heroin self-administration, and they support a role for orexin in cue-triggered drug relapse.
Habituation and sensitization are important behavioural responses to repeated exposure of painful stimuli. Whereas within-session response dynamics to nociceptive stimuli is well characterized, little is known about long-term behaviour due to repetitive nociceptive stimulation. We used a standardized longitudinal heat pain paradigm in 66 healthy participants, 21 patients with chronic low back pain and 22 patients with depression who received daily sessions of 60 suprathreshold heat stimuli (48 C each) for eight consecutive days. All three groups showed the same response: Repeated painful stimulation over several days resulted in substantially decreased pain ratings to identical painful stimuli. The decreased perception of pain over time was associated with a very robust increase in pain ratings in each single pain session, i.e., all participants sensitized within sessions and habituated between sessions. This uniform pattern was equally present in all examined groups. Chronic pain and depression do not seem to interfere with short-term sensitization and long-term habituation in this model of repetitive phasic heat pain.


Optimal levels of noise stimulation have been shown to enhance the detection and transmission of neural signals thereby improving the performance of sensory and motor systems. The first series of experiments in the present study aimed to investigate whether subsensory electrical noise stimulation applied over the triceps surae (TS) in seated subjects decreases torque variability during a force-matching task of isometric plantar flexion and whether the same electrical noise stimulation decreases postural sway during quiet stance. Correlation tests were applied to investigate whether the noise-induced postural sway decrease is linearly predicted by the noise-induced torque variability decrease. A second series of experiments was conducted to investigate whether there are differences in torque variability between conditions in which the subsensory electrical noise is applied only to the TS, only to the tibialis anterior (TA) and to both TS and TA, during the force-matching task with seated subjects. Noise stimulation applied over the TS muscles caused a significant reduction in force variability during the maintained isometric force paradigm and also decreased postural oscillations during quiet stance. Moreover, there was a significant correlation between the reduction in force fluctuation and the decrease in postural sway with the electrical noise stimulation. This last result indicates that changes in plantar flexion force variability in response to a given subsensory random stimulation of the TS may provide an estimate of the variations in postural sway caused by the same subsensory stimulation of the TS. We suggest that the decreases in force variability and postural sway found here are due to stochastic resonance that causes an improved transmission of proprioceptive information. In the second series of experiments, the reduction in force variability found when noise was applied to the TA muscle alone did not reach statistical significance, suggesting that TS proprioception gives a better feedback to reduce force fluctuation in isometric plantar flexion conditions.
Implicit learning, i.e. knowledge acquisition in incidental learning situations, is a fundamental feature of the human mind. The extraction of (and subsequent adaptation to) regular patterns in the environment facilitates everyday actions. The cognitive and neural processes accompanying the transition from subconscious (implicit) to verbally reportable (explicit) knowledge about task contingencies are of high interest to the cognitive neurosciences, since they indicate a process that generates awareness for learned associations. Previous studies indicated an important role of high-frequency coupling (gamma-band) for the process that initiates the emergence of awareness for an implicitly learned task-underlying structure. It is unclear, however, whether this EEG coupling is indicative of a general, task-independent process accompanying the shift between implicit and explicit knowledge. To test the general role of this synchrony effect, we investigated EEG gamma-band coherence in the time period where this transition takes place using a serial reaction time paradigm. As expected, we find increased coupling in the gamma-band EEG between right prefrontal and occipital electrode sites just before the behavioural manifestation of emerging explicit sequence representation. These results support both the notion of general involvement of widespread cortical associative couplings in the generation of conscious knowledge and the necessity to study emerging consciously available memory representations using fine-grained properties of behavioural data.
Animal studies using polarising currents have shown that induction of synaptic long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) by bursts of patterned stimulation is affected by the membrane potential of the postsynaptic neurone. The aim of the present experiments was to test whether it is possible to observe similar phenomena in humans with the aim of improving present protocols of inducing synaptic plasticity for therapeutic purposes. We tested whether the LTP/LTD-like after effects of transcranial theta-burst stimulation (TBS) of human motor cortex, an analogue of patterned electrical stimulation in animals, were affected by simultaneous transcranial direct-current stimulation (tDCS), a non-invasive method of polarising cortical neurones in humans. Nine healthy volunteers were investigated in a single-blind, balanced cross-over study; continuous TBS (cTBS) was used to introduce LTD-like after effects, whereas intermittent TBS (iTBS) produced LTP-like effects. Each pattern was coupled with concurrent application of tDCS (&lt;200s, anodal, cathodal, sham). Cathodal tDCS increased the response to iTBS and abolished the effects of cTBS. Anodal tDCS changed the effects of cTBS towards facilitation, but had no impact on iTBS. Cortical motor thresholds and intracortical inhibitory/facilitatory networks were not altered by any of the stimulation protocols. We conclude that the after effects of TBS can be modulated by concurrent tDCS. We hypothesise that tDCS changes the membrane potential of the apical dendrites of cortical pyramidal neurones and that this changes the response to patterned synaptic input evoked by TBS. The data show that it may be possible to enhance LTP-like plasticity after TBS in the human cortex.
The structural and functional data gathered with Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) techniques about the brain cortical motor damage in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) are controversial. In fact some structural MRI studies showed foci of gray matter (GM) atrophy in the precentral gyrus, even in the early stage, while others did not. Most functional MRI (fMRI) studies in ALS reported hyperactivation of extra-primary motor cortices, while contradictory results were obtained on the activation of the primary motor cortex. We aimed to investigate the cortical motor circuitries in ALS patients by a combined structural and functional approach. Twenty patients with definite ALS and 16 healthy subjects underwent a structural examination with acquisition of a 3D T1-weighted sequence and fMRI examination during a maximal force handgrip task executed with the right-hand, the left-hand and with both hands simultaneously. The T1-weighted images were analyzed with Voxel-Based Morphometry (VBM) that showed several clusters of reduced cortical GM in ALS patients compared to controls including the pre and postcentral gyri, the superior, middle and inferior frontal gyri, the supplementary motor area, the superior and inferior parietal cortices and the temporal lobe, bilaterally but more extensive on the right side. In ALS patients a significant hypoactivation of the primary sensory motor cortex and frontal dorsal premotor areas as compared to controls was observed. The hypoactivated areas matched with foci of cortical atrophy demonstrated by VBM. The fMRI analysis also showed an enhanced activation in the ventral premotor frontal areas and in the parietal cortex pertaining to the fronto-parietal motor circuit which paralleled with disease progression rate and matched with cortical regions of atrophy. The hyperactivation of the fronto-parietal circuit was asymmetric and prevalent in the left hemisphere. VBM and fMRI identified structural and functional markers of an extended cortical damage within the motor circuit of ALS patients. The functional changes in non-primary motor cortices pertaining to fronto-parietal circuit suggest an over-recruitment of a pre-existing physiological sensory-motor network. However, the concomitant fronto-parietal cortical atrophy arises the possibility that such a hyper-activation reflects cortical hyper-excitability due to loss of inhibitory inter-neurons.
Introduction: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is sensitive in revealing focal white matter (WM) lesions in patients suspected of having multiple sclerosis (MS). As a consequence, MRI has become an established tool in addition to clinical evaluation in the diagnostic work-up of these patients. Areas covered: This review discusses the role of MRI biomarkers in patients at presentation with clinically isolated syndromes (CIS) suggestive of MS. Conventional MRI has been formally included in the diagnostic work-up of these patients, and imaging criteria have been proposed and are updated on a regular basis. Since in patients with established MS, pathologic and MRI studies have demonstrated that the disease affects the normal-appearing WM and gray matter of the brain and spinal cord in a distributed fashion, significant efforts have been devoted to the development of quantitative MR measures, sensitive to damage to these central nervous system compartments, to better characterize lesion burden at disease onset, to differentiate MS from other neurological conditions and to identify objective markers of an unfavorable clinical evolution in the subsequent years. Expert opinion: In addition to clinical measures, conventional MR sequences are the 'reference standard' for diagnosis and monitoring disease progression in patients who present with CIS suggestive of MS. The potential and utility of novel advanced MRI techniques in these patients still need to be fully evaluated.
Introduction: Spinal tumors comprise a biologically heterogeneous group of neoplasms associated with different treatment strategies and varying prognoses. The accurate diagnosis of these tumors is, therefore, imperative to direct appropriate patient care. Here, the authors review established and emerging tools in the fields of diagnostic imaging and pathology for the assessment of spinal tumors. Areas covered: An approach to standard diagnostic imaging modalities such as plain radiographs, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and angiography is discussed with emphasis on the application of emerging methods such as diffusion tensor imaging, and magnetic resonance spectroscopy to the diagnosis of spinal tumors. Tissue-based diagnostic approaches, including histology and immunohistochemistry, are also reviewed, with a discussion of future trends in the fields of genetics and molecular biology. The authors additionally summarize classical findings of common spinal tumors. Expert opinion: With the appropriate clinical suspicion, numerous complementary tools are used to facilitate the diagnosis of spinal tumors. Increasing knowledge of tumor biology and better discrimination of tumor subtypes will continue to play a significant role in guiding patient-specific treatment decisions.


The mechanism by which amyloid- peptide (A) accumulation causes neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains unresolved. Given that A perturbs calcium homeostasis in neurons, we investigated the possible involvement of calpain, a calcium-activated neutral protease. We first demonstrated close postsynaptic association of calpain activation with A plaque formation in brains from both patients with AD and transgenic (Tg) mice overexpressing amyloid precursor protein (APP). Using a viral vector-based tracer, we then showed that axonal termini were dynamically misdirected to calpain activation-positive A plaques. Consistently, cerebrospinal fluid from patients with AD contained a higher level of calpain-cleaved spectrin than that of controls. Genetic deficiency of calpastatin (CS), a calpain-specific inhibitor protein, augmented A amyloidosis, tau phosphorylation, microgliosis, and somatodendritic dystrophy, and increased mortality in APP-Tg mice. In contrast, brain-specific CS overexpression had the opposite effect. These findings implicate that calpain activation plays a pivotal role in the A-triggered pathological cascade, highlighting a target for pharmacological intervention in the treatment of AD.
Muscle force is typically proportional to muscle size, resulting in constant force normalized to muscle fiber cross-sectional area (specific force). Mice overexpressing insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) exhibit a proportional gain in muscle force and size, but not the myostatin-deficient mice. In an attempt to explore the role of the cytoplasmic volume supported by individual myonuclei [myonuclear domain (MND) size] on functional capacity of skeletal muscle, we have investigated specific force in relation to MND and the content of the molecular motor protein, myosin, at the single muscle fiber level from myostatin-knockout (Mstn(-/-)) and IGF-1-overexpressing (mIgf1(+/+)) mice. We hypothesize that the addition of extra myonuclei is a prerequisite for maintenance of specific force during muscle hypertrophy. A novel algorithm was used to measure individual MNDs in 3 dimensions along the length of single muscle fibers from the fast-twitch extensor digitorum longus and the slow-twitch soleus muscle. A significant effect of the size of individual MNDs in hypertrophic muscle fibers on both specific force and myosin content was observed. This effect was muscle cell type specific and suggested there is a critical volume individual myonuclei can support efficiently. The large MNDs found in fast muscles of Mstn(-/-) mice were correlated with the decrement in specific force and myosin content in Mstn(-/-) muscles. Thus, myostatin inhibition may not be able to maintain the appropriate MND for optimal function.
Abnormalities in T-lymphocyte populations and function are observed in autism. Soluble amyloid precursor protein  (sAPP-) is elevated in some patients with autism and is known to be produced by immune cells. In light of the well-established role of sAPP- in proliferation, growth, and survival of neurons, we hypothesized an analogous role in the immune system. Thus, we explored whether sAPP- could modulate immune development and function, especially aspects of the pinnacle cell of the adaptive arm of the immune system: the T cell. To do this, we generated mice overexpressing human sAPP- and characterized elements of T-cell development, signal transduction, cytokine production, and innate/adaptive immune functions. Here, we report that transgenic sAPP--overexpressing (TgsAPP-) mice displayed increased proportions of CD8(+) T cells, while effector memory T cells were decreased in the thymus. Overall apoptotic signal transduction was decreased in the thymus, an effect that correlated with dramatic elevations in Notch1 activation; while active-caspase-3/total-caspase-3 and Bax/Bcl-2 ratios were decreased. Greater levels of IFN-, IL-2, and IL-4 were observed after ex vivo challenge of TgsAPP- mouse splenocytes with T-cell mitogen. Finally, after immunization, splenocytes from TgsAPP- mice displayed decreased levels IFN-, IL-2, and IL-4, as well as suppressed ZAP70 activation, after recall antigen stimulation. Given elevated levels of circulating sAPP- in some patients with autism, sAPP- could potentially drive aspects of immune dysfunction observed in these patients, including dysregulated T-cell apoptosis, aberrant PI3K/AKT signaling, cytokine alterations, and impaired T-cell recall stimulation.
Opiate-abusing individuals are in the top three risk-factor groups for HIV infection. In fact, almost 30% of HIV-infected individuals in the USA are reported to abuse opiates, highlighting the intersection of drugs of abuse with HIV/AIDS. Opiate-abusers are cognitively impaired and suffer from neurological dysfunctions that may lead to high-risk sexual behavior, poor adherence to antiretroviral regimens, and hepatitis-C virus infection. Collectively, these factors may contribute to accelerated HIV central nervous system (CNS) disease progression. To understand the role of morphine in disease progression, we sought to determine whether morphine influences HIV-induced inflammation or viral replication in human monocyte-derived macrophages (h-mdms) and MAGI cells infected with HIV and exposed to morphine. Chronic morphine exposure of HIV-infected h-mdms led to significant alterations in the secretion of IL-6 and monocyte chemoattractant protein 2 (MCP-2). Morphine enhanced IL-6 secretion and blunted MCP-2 secretion from HIV-infected h-mdms. However, exposure of HIV-infected h-mdms to morphine had no effect on tumor necrosis factor alpha secretion. Morphine had no effect on later stages of viral replication in HIV-infected h-mdms. Morphine had a potentially additive effect on the HIV-induced production of IL-6 and delayed HIV-induced MCP-2 production. These results suggest that in HIV-infected opiate-abusers, enhanced CNS inflammation might result even when HIV disease is controlled.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and epilepsy are separated in the medical community, but seizures occur in some patients with AD, and AD is a risk factor for epilepsy. Furthermore, memory impairment is common in patients with epilepsy. The relationship between AD and epilepsy remains an important question because ideas for therapeutic approaches could be shared between AD and epilepsy research laboratories if AD and epilepsy were related. Here we focus on one of the many types of epilepsy, temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), because patients with TLE often exhibit memory impairment, depression and other comorbidities that occur in AD. Moreover, the seizures that occur in patients with AD may be nonconvulsive, which occur in patients with TLE. Here we first compare neuropathology in TLE and AD with an emphasis on the hippocampus, which is central to both AD and TLE research. Then we compare animal models of AD pathology with animal models of TLE. Although many aspects of the comparisons are still controversial, there is one conclusion that we suggest is clear: some animal models of TLE could be used to help address questions in AD research, and some animal models of AD pathology are bona fide animal models of epilepsy.
SCN1A is the most relevant epilepsy gene. Mutations of SCN1A generate phenotypes ranging from the extremely severe form of Dravet syndrome (DS) to a mild form of generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus (GEFS+). Mosaic SCN1A mutations have been identified in rare familial DS. It is suspected that mosaic mutations of SCN1A may cause other types of familial epilepsies with febrile seizures (FS), which are more common clinically. Thus, we screened SCN1A mutations in 13 families with partial epilepsy with antecedent febrile seizures (PEFS+) using denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography and sequencing. The level of mosaicism was further quantified by pyrosequencing. Two missense SCN1A mutations with mosaic origin were identified in two unrelated families, accounting for 15.4% (2/13) of the PEFS+ families tested. One of the mosaic carriers with ~25.0% mutation of c.5768A&gt;G/p.Q1923R had experienced simple FS; another with ~12.5% mutation of c.4847T&gt;C/p.I1616T was asymptomatic. Their heterozygous children had PEFS+. Recurrent transmission occurred in both families, as noted in most of the families with germline mosaicism reported previously. The two mosaic mutations identified in this study are less destructive missense, compared with the more destructive truncating and splice-site mutations identified in the majority of previous studies. This is the first report of mosaic SCN1A mutations in families with probands that do not exhibit DS, but manifest only a milder phenotype. Therefore, such families with mild cases should be approached with caution in genetic counseling and the possibility of mosaicism origin associated with high recurrence risk should be excluded.
A startle reflex in response to an intense acoustic stimulus is inhibited when a barely detectable pulse precedes the startle stimulus by 30-500 ms. It has been theorized that this phenomenon, named prepulse inhibition (PPI) of a startle response, is an automatic early-stage gating process contributing to the ability to focus attention. Deficits in PPI may therefore contribute to deficits in attentional processing. Both deficits are observed in schizophrenia spectrum disorders. Here, we investigated whether there is overlap in genetic control of PPI and attentional processing phenotypes in the panel of BXD recombinant inbred strains of mice. Using an individually titrated prepulse intensity to handle differences in perceived prepulse intensities among strains, we identified a significant quantitative trait locus (QTL) for PPI at the mid-distal end of chromosome 17. A measure of attentional processing in the five-choice serial reaction time task, response variability, mapped to a different locus on proximal-mid chromosome 16. In addition, the estimated genetic and environmental correlations between PPI and several attentional phenotypes were low and not significant. Taken together, the observation of separate genetic loci for PPI and attention and the absence of genetic and environmental correlations indicate that differences in sensorimotor gating do not contribute to differences in attentional performance. Therefore, it is worth pursuing the causative genes residing in both attention and PPI QTL, as these may contribute to separate molecular pathways implicated in neuropsychiatric diseases, such as schizophrenia.
Post-translational modifications of one or more central &quot;clock&quot; proteins, most notably time-of-day-dependent changes in phosphorylation, are critical for setting the pace of circadian (24 h) clocks. In animals, PERIOD (PER) proteins are the key state variable regulating circadian clock speed and undergo daily changes in abundance and cytoplasmic-nuclear distribution that are partly driven by a complex phosphorylation program. Here, we identify O-GlcNAcylation (O-GlcNAc) as a critical post-translational modification in circadian regulation that also contributes to setting clock speed. Knockdown or overexpression of Drosophila O-GlcNAc transferase (ogt) in clock cells either shortens or lengthens circadian behavioral rhythms, respectively. The Drosophila PERIOD protein (dPER) is a direct target of OGT and undergoes daily changes in O-GlcNAcylation, a modification that is mainly observed during the first half of the night, when dPER is predominantly located in the cytoplasm. Intriguingly, the timing of when dPER translocates from the cytoplasm to the nucleus is advanced or delayed in flies, wherein ogt expression is reduced or increased, respectively. Our results suggest that O-GlcNAcylation of dPER contributes to setting the correct pace of the clock by delaying the timing of dPER nuclear entry. In addition, OGT stabilizes dPER, suggesting that O-GlcNAcylation has multiple roles in circadian timing systems.

Variants of the FTO gene show strong association with obesity, but the mechanisms behind this association remain unclear. We determined the genome wide DNA methylation profile in blood from 47 female preadolescents. We identified sites associated with the genes KARS, TERF2IP, DEXI, MSI1, STON1 and BCAS3 that had a significant differential methylation level in the carriers of the FTO risk allele (rs9939609). In addition, we identified 20 differentially methylated sites associated with obesity. Our findings suggest that the effect of the FTO obesity risk allele may be mediated through epigenetic changes. Further, these sites might prove to be valuable biomarkers for the understanding of obesity and its comorbidites.
Alzheimer's disease could be studied according to neurological, cognitive, and psychopathological aspects. We propose an integrative approach fitting together the theoretical advances of the various dimensions to develop a better understanding of the disorders, then a better care for the patients. The integrative approach deviates deliberately from any attempt to formulate etiological hypotheses, and considers the disorder in its functional complexity, simultaneously taking into account the somatic and psychological factors involved. According to this monistic view, the traditional cleavage between the soma and psyche, usually found in Alzheimer's disease, should be rejected and substituted for the principle of compatibility intending to identify the points of convergence of various conceptual approaches in order to emphasize their potential overlap and areas of clinical complementarity rather than their epistemological antagonisms. The neuro-psychic link is therefore central to the conceptual development proposed here, and more specifically for the memory disorders, the concept of memory trace belonging both to psychoanalytic and neuropsychological theories.
Myelination is the culmination of a complex process in which oligodendrocyte (OL) progenitors transition through defined stages in a well-coordinated differentiation program. The signaling mechanisms that regulate this progression are poorly understood. Here we investigate the role of extracellular signal-regulated-kinase-1,-2 (Erk1/2) and the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), downstream effectors of the Ras/Raf/Mek/Erk and PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathways, at specific stages of OL development in vitro. Using a panel of developmental stage-specific antigenic markers and pharmacological inhibitors, we provide evidence that Erk1/2 signaling regulates transition of early progenitors to the late progenitor stage and, as a consequence, to the immature OL stage, but not the transition of immature OL to the mature OL stage. In contrast, mTOR signaling is not required for early progenitor transition to late progenitor stage. Surprisingly, it is also not required for the transition of late progenitors to terminally differentiated immature OLs, as has been reported previously, but is required for the next sequential transition of immature OLs to the mature OL stage. Furthermore, mTOR signaling regulates OL cytoskeletal organization and major myelin protein expression. These in vitro findings correlate with our in vivo data showing that inhibition of mTOR by rapamycin injection attenuated the onset of myelination in the early postnatal brain. Thus, these studies demonstrate that Erk1/2 and mTOR signaling sequentially regulates distinct stages of OL progenitor differentiation and suggest that cells in the OL-lineage require distinct signaling mechanisms to transition through specific stages of their development.
Cultured astrocytes exhibit a flat/epitelioid phenotype much different from the star-like phenotype of tissue astrocytes. Upon exposure to treatments that affect the small GTPase Rho and/or its effector ROCK, however, flat astrocytes undergo stellation, with restructuring of cytoskeleton and outgrowth of processes with lamellipodia, assuming a phenotype closer to that exhibited in situ. The mechanisms of this change are known only in part. Using the ROCK blocker drug Y27632, which induces rapid (tens of min), dose-dependent and reversible stellations, we focused on two specific aspects of the process: its dependence on small GTPases and the large surface expansion of the cells. Contrary to previous reports, we found stellation to be governed by the small G protein Rac1, up to disappearance of the process when Rac1 was downregulated or blocked by a specific drug. In contrast cdc42, the other G-protein often involved in phenotype changes, appeared not involved. The surface expansion concomitant to cytoskeleton restructuring, also dependent on Rac1, was found to be at least partially sustained by the exocytosis of enlargeosomes, small vesicles distinct from classical cell organelles, which are abundant in astrocytes. Exhaustion of stellation induced by repeated administrations of Y27632 correlated with the decrease of the enlargeosome pool. A whole-cell process like stellation of cultured astrocytes might be irrelevant in the brain tissue. However, local restructuring of the cytoskeleton coordinate with surface expansion, occurring at critical cell sites and sustained by mechanisms analogous to those of stellation, might be of importance in both astrocyte physiology and pathology.
Sphingosine-1-phosphate receptors (S1PRs) are drug targets for the compound FTY720, which is the first oral therapy developed for treatment of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. S1PRs play a variety of functional roles in the differentiation, proliferation, survival and/or migration of neurons and glia. In this study, rat organotypic cerebellar slice cultures were used to assess whether S1PRs play a role in demyelination induced by lysolecithin (LPC). The data demonstrated that FTY720 and SEW2871 (a S1P1R-specific agonist) inhibited LPC-induced demyelination as assessed by myelin basic protein (MBP) immunofluorescence. Treatment with both drugs for 48 h also induced an increase in S1P1R expression in astrocytes. Moreover, FTY720 and SEW2871 inhibited the release of several chemokines in conditions of LPC-induced demyelination, including LIX (CXCL5), MIP-1alpha, and MIP-3alpha. Taken together, the data suggest that activation of S1P1Rs prevents LPC-induced demyelination via a mechanism involving a reduction of chemotactic chemokine release. The study supports the concept that FTY720 attenuates demyelination by not only preventing S1PR-mediated T cell migration into the CNS but also by limiting cytokine communication between cells of the immune system and the CNS.
The ovarian aging, a dynamic process that precedes the clinical manifestations of menopause, can be assessed using ovarian reserve biomarkers. It is well-known that reproduction during the later years of reproductive life has known limitations that challenge the success of assisted reproduction. Therefore, a review of the neuroendocrine modifications during this critical period of reproductive life may help to elucidate the ovarian aging process and its impact on reproduction. In this review, we aim to further the discussion of neuroendocrine changes taking place during the ovarian aging process that may impact reproductive function.

A cochlear implant (CI) signal processing strategy named F0 modulation (F0mod) was compared with the advanced combination encoder (ACE) strategy in a group of four post-lingually deafened Mandarin Chinese speaking CI listeners. F0 provides an enhanced temporal pitch cue by amplitude modulating the multichannel electrical stimulation pattern at the fundamental frequency (F0) of the incoming speech signal. Word and sentence recognition tests were carried out in quiet and in noise. The responses for the word-recognition test were further segmented into phoneme and tone scores. Off-line implementations of ACE and F0mod were used, and electrical stimulation patterns were directly streamed to the CI subject's implant. To focus on the feasibility of enhanced temporal cues for tonal language perception, idealized F0 information that was extracted from speech tokens in quiet was used in the F0mod processing of speech-in-noise mixtures. The results indicated significantly better lexical tone perception with the F0mod strategy than with ACE for the male voice (p&lt;0.05). No significant differences in sentence recognition were found between F0mod and ACE.
We describe a child with progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis (PFIC) of type 2 inherited as uniparental isodisomy of chromosome 2. Bile salt export pump (BSEP) deficiency is a severe, genetically determined subtype PFIC caused by mutations in ABCB11, the gene encoding a bile salt transporter protein. Clinical and pathological diagnosis in PFIC2 is corroborated by an ample array of ABCB11 mutations, inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion. We report clinical, pathological, and molecular studies in a child with PFIC2. A 5.5-year-old boy harbored a described pathogenic mutation (p.R832C) in ABCB11. The mutation was found to be homozygous in the patient and heterozygous in DNA from paternal, but not maternal blood. Having ruled out maternal gene deletion and somatic mosaicism, we showed that the child had inherited an isodisomic paternal chromosome 2, including the 2q31.1 region where ABCB11 is located. The present report is the first description of uniparental isodisomy in a hepatic heritable disorder. Recognizing isodisomic transmission may have a significant impact on genetic counseling helping to define the risk of recurrence in subsequent pregnancies.
During slow-wave sleep (SWS) and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, hippocampal place cells in the rat show replay of sequences previously observed during waking. We tested the hypothesis from computational modeling that the temporal structure of REM sleep replay could arise from an interplay of place cells with head direction cells in the postsubiculum. Physiological single-unit recording was performed simultaneously from five or more head direction or place by head direction cells in the postsubiculum during running on a circular track allowing sampling of a full range of head directions, and during sleep periods before and after running on the circular track. Data analysis compared the spiking activity during individual REM periods with waking as in previous analysis procedures for REM sleep. We also used a new procedure comparing groups of similar runs during waking with REM sleep periods. There was no consistent evidence for a statistically significant correlation of the temporal structure of spiking during REM sleep with spiking during waking running periods. Thus, the spiking activity of head direction cells during REM sleep does not show replay of head direction cell activity occurring during a previous waking period of running on the task. In addition, we compared the spiking of postsubiculum neurons during hippocampal sharp wave ripple events. We show that head direction cells are not activated during sharp wave ripples, whereas neurons responsive to place in the postsubiculum show reliable spiking at ripple events.
Activity-dependent regulation of Egr1/Zif268, a transcription factor (TF) of the Egr family, is essential for stabilization of dentate gyrus synaptic plasticity and consolidation and reconsolidation of several forms of memory. The gene can be rapidly induced in selective brain circuits after certain types of learning or after recall. Here, we focused on area CA1 and examined regulation of Egr1, Egr2, and Egr3 mRNA and protein, and their DNA binding activity to the Egr response element (ERE) at different times after LTP in vivo and after learning and recall of a fear memory. We found LTP in CA1 leads to rapid induction of the three Egrs, however only Egr1 protein was overexpressed without a co-ordinated change in binding activity, indicating a fundamental difference between CA1 and dentate gyrus LTP. Our investigations in fear memory reveal that both learning and retrieval lead to an increase in binding of constitutively expressed Egr1 and Egr3 to the ERE, but not Egr2. Memory recall was also associated with increased Egr1 protein translation. The nature and temporal dynamics of these changes and tests for interactions between TFs suggest that in addition to ERE-mediated transcription, Egr1 in CA1 may interact with the TF c-Fos to regulate genes via other DNA response elements.
Removal of the cholinergic innervation to the hippocampus via selective immunolesions of septohippocampal cholinergic neurons induces dysfunction of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis and decreases glucocorticoid receptor (GR) mRNA. This study examined whether removal of the cholinergic innervation decreased GR protein levels and induced changes in the interaction between GR and the cytoplasmic catalytic subunit of protein kinase A (PKAc) in the hippocampus. In lesioned animals, GR protein levels were markedly decreased in the nucleus, but not in the cytosol of hippocampal neurons, whereas mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) levels remained unchanged in both the nucleus and cytosol. PKAc levels did not differ between lesioned and control groups, but PKAc activity was reduced in lesion tissue compared with the controls. The interaction between GR and PKAc was also decreased in the hippocampus without cholinergic input. These results indicate that degeneration of septohippocampal cholinergic neurons leads to reduced PKAc activity in the hippocampus which, in turn, alters GR signaling. The altered GR signaling induced by the degeneration of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons may contribute to dysfunction of the HPA axis in aged animals and patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and lead to neuropsychiatric symptoms that occur throughout the course of AD.
The hippocampus appears to play an important role in episodic-like, or &quot;what, where, when&quot; memory that may be used for goal finding. We have previously presented a model of the hippocampus describing how navigation to a distal goal location could be achieved through gradient ascent processes based on place field density. Here we extend that model to show that information about both where a goal is, and the attributes of that goal, can be incorporated with relatively simple modifications. In this model both the spatial and attribute information would be available to the animal at any location within the environment although differential recall requires two different firing modes. &quot;Where&quot; information is available when cells in the model are firing in &quot;place field&quot; firing mode. The recall of &quot;what&quot; information requires, however, near simultaneous firing of a large number of place cells. We discuss how this &quot;what&quot; firing mode could potentially depend upon sharp-wave ripple (SPW-R) events. This conception has implications for how we interpret SPW-R related firing. In particular, we suggest that the near simultaneous firing that occurs in large groups of cells during SPW-Rs may be sufficient for &quot;what&quot; recall and that the forward and reverse &quot;replay&quot; of place cell sequences that are often observed during SPW-Rs may be an epiphenomenon of this process.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) patients show cognitive deficits, but it is unclear whether these are a consequence of the pathology or a pre-existing factor of vulnerability to PTSD. Animal models may help to demonstrate whether or not exposure to certain stressors can actually induce long-lasting (LL; days) impairment of hippocampus-dependent memory tasks and to characterize neurobiological mechanisms. Adult male rats were exposed to 2-h immobilization on boards (IMO), a severe stressor, and spatial learning in the Morris water maze (MWM) was studied days later. Exposure to IMO did not modify learning or short-term memory in the MWM when learning started 3 or 9 days after IMO, but stressed rats did show impaired long-term memory at both times, in accordance with the severity of the stressor. New treatments to prevent PTSD symptoms are needed. Thus, considering the potential protective role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on hippocampal function, 7,8-dihydroxyflavone (7,8-DHF), a recently characterized agonist of the BDNF receptor TrkB, was given before or after IMO in additional experiments. Again, exposure to IMO resulted in LL deficit in long-term memory, and such impairment was prevented by the administration of 7,8-DHF either 2 h prior IMO or 8 h after the termination of IMO. The finding that IMO-induced impairment of spatial memory was prevented by pharmacological potentiation of TrkB pathway with 7,8-DHF even when the drug was given 8 h after IMO suggests that IMO-induced impairment is likely to be a LL process that is strongly dependent on the integrity of the BDNF-TrkB system and is susceptible to poststress therapeutic interventions. 7,8-DHF may represent a new therapeutic approach for early treatment of subjects who have suffered traumatic experiences.
Currently, it is accepted that brain injury promotes endogenous neurogenesis in mammals, primarily in the subventricular zone (SVZ), and newborn cells can migrate to the injured area. We examined the pattern of endogenous neurogenesis in adult rats after intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) that was caused by intrastrial administration of collagenase type IV. Our results showed that ICH induced strong endogenous neurogenesis between 72 hours and 7 days after injury, but that the majority of newborn cells did not survive longer than 3 weeks due to apoptosis-mediated cell death. Furthermore, endogenous neurogenesis remained into a small extent at least 1 year after ICH. Because of the growing interest in new strategies for brain regeneration, these data suggest endogenous neurogenesis and inhibiting apoptosis of newborn neuroblasts as potential strategies to improve the consequences of hemorrhagic stroke in humans.
Animal models and behavioral paradigms are critical for elucidating the neural mechanism involved in complex behaviors, including social cognition. Both genotype and phenotype based models have implicated the neuropeptide oxytocin (OT) in the regulation of social behavior. Based on the findings in animal models, alteration of the OT system has been hypothesized to play a role in the social deficits associated with autism and other neuropsychiatric disorders. While the evidence linking the peptide to the etiology of the disorder is not yet conclusive, evidence from multiple animal models suggest modulation of the OT system may be a viable strategy for the pharmacological treatment of social deficits. In this review, we will discuss how animal models have been utilized to understand the role of OT in social cognition and how those findings can be applied to the conceptualization and treatment of the social impairments in ASD. Animal models with genetic alterations of the OT system, like the OT, OT receptor and CD38 knock-out mice, and those with phenotypic variation in social behavior, like BTBR inbred mice and prairie voles, coupled with behavioral paradigms with face and construct validity may prove to have predictive validity for identifying the most efficacious methods of stimulating the OT system to enhance social cognition in humans. The widespread use of strong animal models of social cognition has the potential yield pharmacological, interventions for the treatment social impairments psychiatric disorders. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Oxytocin, Vasopressin, and Social Behavior.
Among its many roles in body and brain, oxytocin influences social behavior. Understanding the precise nature of this influence is crucial, both within the broader theoretical context of neurobiology, social neuroscience and brain evolution, but also within a clinical context of disorders such as anxiety, schizophrenia, and autism. Research exploring oxytocin's role in human social behavior is difficult owing to its release in both body and brain and its interactive effects with other hormones and neuromodulators. Additional difficulties are due to the intricacies of the blood-brain barrier and oxytocin's instability, which creates measurement issues. Questions concerning how to interpret behavioral results of human experiments manipulating oxytocin are thus made all the more pressing. The current paper discusses several such questions. We highlight unresolved fundamental issues about what exactly happens when oxytocin is administered intranasally, whether such oxytocin does in fact reach appropriate receptors in brain, and whether central or peripheral influences account for the observed behavioral effects. We also highlight the deeper conceptual issue of whether the human data should be narrowly interpreted as implicating a specific role for oxytocin in complex social cognition, such a generosity, trust, or mentalizing, or more broadly interpreted as implicating a lower-level general effect on general states and dispositions, such as anxiety and social motivation. Using several influential studies, we show how seemingly specific, higher-level social-cognitive effects can emerge via a process by which oxytocin's broad influence is channeled into a specific social behavior in a context of an appropriate social and research setting. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Oxytocin, Vasopressin, and Social Behavior.
Social relationships are a fundamental aspect of life, affecting social, psychological, physiological, and behavioral functions. While positive social interactions can attenuate stress and promote health, the social environment can also be a major source of stress when it includes social disruption, confrontation, isolation, or neglect. Social stress can impair the basal function and stress-induced activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, impairing function of multiple biological systems and posing a risk to mental and physical health. In contrast, social support can ameliorate stress-induced physiological and immunological deficits, reducing the risk of subsequent psychological distress and improving an individual's overall well-being. For better clinical treatment of these physiological and mental pathologies, it is necessary to understand the regulatory mechanisms of stress-induced pathologies as well as determine the underlying biological mechanisms that regulate social buffering of the stress system. A number of ethologically relevant animal models of social stress and species that form strong adult social bonds have been utilized to study the etiology, treatment, and prevention of stress-related disorders. While undoubtedly a number of biological pathways contribute to the social buffering of the stress response, the convergence of evidence denotes the regulatory effects of oxytocin in facilitating social bond-promoting behaviors and their effect on the stress response. Thus, oxytocin may be perceived as a common regulatory element of the social environment, stress response, and stress-induced risks on mental and physical health. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Oxytocin, Vasopressin, and Social Behavior.
The hormone oxytocin (OT) is released both centrally and peripherally during and after mating. Although research in humans suggests a central role in sexuality, the most reliable findings to date involve peripheral activation. This review will discuss these results and will particularly focus on understanding the most recent findings from fMRI data and the effects of exogenous peripheral OT administration. We will then consider hypotheses of the roles played by central and systemic OT release as well as their control and modulation in the female, summarizing recent findings from animal research. Finally, we will discuss the contribution of OT to the initiation of pregnancy in rodents. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Oxytocin, Vasopressin, and Social Behavior.
Neuropeptides in the arginine vasotocin/arginine vasopressin (AVT/AVP) family play a major role in the regulation of social behavior by their actions in the brain. In mammals, AVP is found within a circuit of recriprocally connected limbic structures that form the social behavior neural network. This review examines the role played by AVP within this network in controlling social processes that are critical for the formation and maintenance of social relationships: social recognition, social communication and aggression. Studies in a number of mammalian species indicate that AVP and AVP V1a receptors are ideally suited to regulate the expression of social processes because of their plasticity in response to factors that influence social behavior. The pattern of AVP innervation and V1a receptors across the social behavior neural network may determine the potential range and intensity of social responses that individuals display in different social situations. Although fundamental information on how social behavior is wired in the brain is still lacking, it is clear that different social behaviors can be influenced by the actions of AVP in the same region of the network and that AVP can act within multiple regions of this network to regulate the expression of individual social behaviors. The existing data suggest that AVP can influence social behavior by modulating the interpretation of sensory information, by influencing decision making and by triggering complex motor outputs. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Oxytocin, Vasopressin, and Social Behavior.
The primary visual cortex (V1) has been the target of stimulation in a number of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) studies. In this study, we estimated the actual sites of stimulation by modeling the cortical location of the TMS-induced electric field when participants reported visual phosphenes or scotomas. First, individual retinotopic areas were identified by multifocal functional magnetic resonance imaging (mffMRI). Second, during the TMS stimulation, the cortical stimulation sites were derived from electric field modeling. When an external anatomical landmark for V1 was used (2 cm above inion), the cortical stimulation landed in various functional areas in different individuals, the dorsal V2 being the most affected area at the group level. When V1 was specifically targeted based on the individual mffMRI data, V1 could be selectively stimulated in half of the participants. In the rest, the selective stimulation of V1 was obstructed by the intermediate position of the dorsal V2. We conclude that the selective stimulation of V1 is possible only if V1 happens to be favorably located in the individual anatomy. Selective and successful targeting of TMS pulses to V1 requires MRI-navigated stimulation, selection of participants and coil positions based on detailed retinotopic maps of individual functional anatomy, and computational modeling of the TMS-induced electric field distribution in the visual cortex. It remains to be resolved whether even more selective stimulation of V1 could be achieved by adjusting the coil orientation according to sulcal orientation of the target site.

Polyalanine (poly-A) tracts exist in 494 annotated proteins; to date, expansions in these tracts have been associated with nine human diseases. The pathogenetic mechanism by which a poly-A tract results in these various human disorders remains uncertain. To understand the role of this mutation type, we investigated the change in functional properties of the transcription factor Arx when it has an expanded poly-A tract (Arx(E)), a mutation associated with infantile spasms and intellectual disabilities in humans. We found that although Arx(E) functions normally in the dorsal brain, its function in subpallial-derived populations of neurons is compromised. These contrasting functions are associated with the misregulation of Arx targets through the loss of the ability of Arx(E) to interact with the Arx cofactor Tle1. Our data demonstrate a novel mechanism for poly-A expansion diseases: the misregulation of a subset of target genes normally regulated by a transcription factor.
There is substantial evidence that impairment of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)--coactivator 1 (PGC-1) levels and activity play an important role in Huntington's disease (HD) pathogenesis. We tested whether pharmacologic treatment with the pan-PPAR agonist bezafibrate would correct a deficiency of PGC-1 and exert beneficial effects in a transgenic mouse model of HD. We found that administration of bezafibrate in the diet restored levels of PGC-1, PPARs and downstream genes to levels which occur in wild-type mice. There were significant improvements in phenotype and survival. In the striatum, astrogliosis and neuronal atrophy were attenuated and numbers of mitochondria were increased. Bezafibrate treatment prevented conversion of type I oxidative to type II glycolytic muscle fibers and increased the numbers of muscle mitochondria. Finally, bezafibrate rescued lipid accumulation and apparent vacuolization of brown adipose tissue in the HD mice. These findings provide strong evidence that treatment with bezafibrate exerts neuroprotective effects which may be beneficial in the treatment of HD.
Genome-wide association studies have convincingly implicated several novel genes in susceptibility to schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. The first genome-wide significant association with the broad phenotype of psychosis was with a polymorphism in the ZNF804A gene. However, the biological function(s) of ZNF804A have, to date, been entirely unknown. In this study, we manipulated the expression of ZNF804A in neural progenitor cells derived from human cortical neuroepithelium and assessed its effects on the cellular transcriptome. Gene ontology analysis of differentially expressed genes indicated a significant effect of ZNF804A knockdown on the expression of genes involved in cell adhesion, suggesting a role for ZNF804A in processes such as neural migration, neurite outgrowth and synapse formation. Several highly significant gene expression changes were confirmed in repeat cell culture experiments. Most consistent gene expression changes were seen for C2ORF80, a gene of as-yet-unknown function, and STMN3, a gene involved in neurite outgrowth and axonal and dendritic branching. These data, generated in a hypothesis-free manner, provide a basis for more targeted investigations of ZNF804A function.

As many articles in this issue of IEEE Pulse demonstrate, interfacing directly with the brain presents several fundamental challenges. These challenges reside at multiple levels and span many disciplines, ranging from the need to understand brain states at the level of neural circuits to creating technological innovations to facilitate new therapeutic options. The goal of our multiuniversity research team, composed of researchers from Stanford University, Brown University, the University of California at San Francisco (UCSF), and the University College London (UCL), is to substantially elevate the fundamental understanding of brain information processing and its relationship with sensation, behavior, and injury. Our team was assembled to provide expertise ranging from neuroscience to neuroengineering and to neurological and psychiatric clinical guidance, all of which are critical to the overarching research goal. By employing a suite of innovative experimental, computational, and theoretical approaches, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) Reorganization and Plasticity to Accelerate Injury Recovery (REPAIR) team has set its sights on learning how the brain and its microcircuitry react (e.g., to sudden physiological changes) and what can be done to encourage recovery from such (reversible) injury. In this article, we summarize some of the team's technical goals, approaches, and early illustrative results.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is increasingly used for studying functional integration of the brain. However, large inter-subject variability in functional connectivity, particularly in disease populations, renders detection of representative group networks challenging. In this paper, we propose a novel technique, &quot;group replicator dynamics&quot; (GRD), for detecting sparse functional brain networks that are common across a group of subjects. We extend the replicator dynamics (RD) approach, which we show to be a solution of the nonnegative sparse principal component analysis problem, by integrating group information into each subject's RD process. Our proposed strategy effectively coaxes all subjects' networks to evolve towards the common network of the group. This results in sparse networks comprising the same brain regions across subjects yet with subject-specific weightings of the identified brain regions. Thus, in contrast to traditional averaging approaches, GRD enables inter-subject variability to be modeled, which facilitates statistical group inference. Quantitative validation of GRD on synthetic data demonstrated superior network detection performance over standard methods. When applied to real fMRI data, GRD detected task-specific networks that conform well to prior neuroscience knowledge.
Slow Feature Analysis (SFA) extracts slowly varying features from a quickly varying input signal. It has been successfully applied to modeling the visual receptive fields of the cortical neurons. Sufficient experimental results in neuroscience suggest that the temporal slowness principle is a general learning principle in visual perception. In this paper, we introduce the SFA framework to the problem of human action recognition by incorporating the discriminative information with SFA learning and considering the spatial relationship of body parts. In particular, we consider four kinds of SFA learning strategies, including the original unsupervised SFA (U-SFA), the supervised SFA (S-SFA), the discriminative SFA (D-SFA), and the spatial discriminative SFA (SD-SFA), to extract slow feature functions from a large amount of training cuboids which are obtained by random sampling in motion boundaries. Afterward, to represent action sequences, the squared first order temporal derivatives are accumulated over all transformed cuboids into one feature vector, which is termed the Accumulated Squared Derivative (ASD) feature. The ASD feature encodes the statistical distribution of slow features in an action sequence. Finally, a linear support vector machine (SVM) is trained to classify actions represented by ASD features. We conduct extensive experiments, including two sets of control experiments, two sets of large scale experiments on the KTH and Weizmann databases, and two sets of experiments on the CASIA and UT-interaction databases, to demonstrate the effectiveness of SFA for human action recognition. Experimental results suggest that the SFA-based approach (1) is able to extract useful motion patterns and improves the recognition performance, (2) requires less intermediate processing steps but achieves comparable or even better performance, and (3) has good potential to recognize complex multiperson activities.
The effects of a humanized monoclonal antibody (mAb) having high affinity and specificity for cocaine in animal models are reviewed. The mAb reduced the concentration of cocaine in the brain of mice after intravenous injection of cocaine. In addition, the mAb increased the concentration of cocaine required to reinstate cocaine self-administration. These effects may predict clinical efficacy of a passive immunotherapy for reducing the probability of cocaine-induced relapse. However, in the presence of the mAb, once cocaine self-administration was reinstated, the consumption rate of cocaine was increased. This effect is hypothesized to result from a pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic interaction. A humanized mAb should minimize adverse events related to the immunogenicity of the mAb protein, and the specificity for cocaine should avoid adverse events related to interactions with physiologically relevant endogenous proteins.




Neural cell adhesion molecules 2 (NCAM2/OCAM/RNCAM), is a paralog of NCAM1. The protein exists in a transmembrane and a lipid-anchored isoform, and has an ectodomain consisting of five immunoglobulin modules and two fibronectin type 3 homology modules. Structural models of the NCAM2 ectodomain reveal that it facilitates cell adhesion through reciprocal interactions between the membrane-distal immunoglobulin modules. There are no known heterophilic NCAM2 binding partners, and NCAM2 is not glycosylated with polysialic acid, a posttranslational modification known to be a major modulator of NCAM1-mediated processes. This suggests that NCAM2 has a function or mode of action distinctly different from that of NCAM1. NCAM2 is primarily expressed in the brain, where it is believed to stimulate neurite outgrowth and to facilitate dendritic and axonal compartmentalization.
Conformational and functional changes of cardosin A, an aspartic protease of vegetal origin, in the presence of 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol (TFE), were assessed. TFE induced alterations of cardosin activity and conformation that differed with the solvent concentration. MD simulations showed that there are significant local alterations in protein flexibility and TFE molecules were found to replace several hydration molecules in the active site of the enzyme. This may explain some of the activity loss observed in the presence of TFE, especially at low TFE concentrations, as well as the recovery of enzyme activity upon aqueous dilution, indicating the release of the TFE molecules from the active site.
Anorexia nervosa remains an enigma and its clinical challenge is intimidating. But the potential for new insights has been advancing, largely as a result of elegant research in the neurosciences that has modeled behavioral processes resembling key features of the illness. Unfortunately, many in the eating disorder field seem to know little of this work or the implication it holds for treatment philosophy. Instead, the knowledge void has been taken up recently by a host of misguided notions about etiology, blatantly dismissive attitudes toward psychological concepts, and ill-conceived beliefs about therapy priorities. This article is a clinical perspective on these issues.
Suicide in later life is a global public health problem. The aim of this review was to conduct a systematic analysis of studies with comparison groups that examined the associations between social factors and suicidal behavior (including ideation, non-fatal suicidal behavior, or deaths) among individuals aged 65 and older. Our search identified only 16 articles (across 14 independent samples) that met inclusion criteria. The limited number of studies points to the need for further research. Included studies were conducted in Canada (n = 2), Germany (n = 1), Hong Kong (n = 1), Japan (n = 1), Singapore (n = 1), Sweden (n = 2), Taiwan (n = 1), the U.K. (n = 2), and the U.S. (n = 3). The majority of the social factors examined in this review can be conceptualized as indices of positive social connectedness-the degree of positive involvement with family, friends, and social groups. Findings indicated that at least in industrialized countries, limited social connectedness is associated with suicidal ideation, non-fatal suicidal behavior, and suicide in later life. Primary prevention programs designed to enhance social connections as well as a sense of community could potentially decrease suicide risk, especially among men.
In this paper we examine imaging research involving first-episode schizophrenic treatment-naive individuals (FESTNIs) through a legal human rights lens; in particular, the lens of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine Concerning Biomedical Research. We identify a number of ethical and legal hot spots highlighted by the Protocol, and offer a series of recommendations designed to ensure the human rights compatibility of this research. Subsequently, we argue that the lack of reporting on design elements related to ethical concerns frustrates commitments at the heart of the human rights approach, namely, transparency and openness to international scrutiny. To redress this problem, we introduce two norms for the first time: ethical transparency, and ethical reproducibility. When concluding, we offer a set of reporting guidelines designed to operationalize these norms in the context of imaging research involving FESTNIs. Though we will not make this case here, we believe that parallel reporting guidelines should be incorporated into other areas of research involving human subjects.
Will neuroscience revolutionize forensic practice and our legal institutions? In the debate about the legal implications of brain research, free will and the neural bases of antisocial or criminal behavior are of central importance. By analyzing frequently quoted examples for the unconscious determinants of behavior and antisocial personality changes caused by brain lesions in a wider psychological and social context, the paper argues for a cautious middle position: Evidence for an impending normative &quot;neuro-revolution&quot; is scarce and neuroscience may instead gradually improve legal practice in the long run, particularly where normative questions directly pertain to brain-related questions. In the conclusion the paper raises concerns that applying neuroscience methods about an individual's responsibility or dangerousness is premature at the present time and carries serious individual and societal risks. Putting findings from brain research in wider contexts renders them empirically investigable in a way that does not neglect psychological and social aspects of human mind and behavior.
Fast-paced developments in psychiatry, neuroscience and emerging neuroimaging technologies place continual pressure on the legal recognition of mental illness and disease across jurisdictional boundaries. Nevertheless, the Canadian legal definition of exculpatory mental disease in the context of criminal liability has remained largely static, sheltered from the immediate influence of medical theory and advancements. In order to effectively reflect on the intersection of mental health and criminal justice systems in this area, it is important to understand its historical development and the English common law origins of the current approach. Specifically turning to the early 19th century, documented history and accounts of early medical witness testimony on the mental state of the accused provide a unique opportunity to understand the initial collision between fundamental concepts of moral and legal culpability and new scientific understandings of mental function and disease. In this article, I suggest that early psychiatric testimony to the accused's mental state challenged the evolving criminal law of 19th century England to reconcile its restrictive definition of &quot;insanity&quot; with expanding scientific reasoning and accounts of mental disease. The trial of Edward Oxford, an attempted royal assassination case of 1840, is examined as a symbolic height in this conflict prior to the first common law pronouncement of the current approach in 1843. As debate continues on the role of medical advancement in the identification of exculpatory medical disorders in law, this historical perspective may serve as a touchstone in balancing the enforcement of legal culpability with our society's greater appreciation for mental illness.
Almost all of the world's legal systems recognize the &quot;M'Naghten&quot; exception to criminal responsibility: the inability to appreciate the wrongfulness of action. This exception rests on the assumption that punishment is morally justified only if the defendant was able to choose whether to do wrong. Jurists and jurisdictions differ, however, on whether to extend M'Naghten's logic to cases where the defendant understood the wrongfulness of an act but was incapable of resisting an impulse to commit it. In this article I ask whether contemporary neuroscience can help lawmakers to decide whether to adopt or retain this defense, known variously as the &quot;irresistible impulse&quot; defense or the &quot;control&quot; or &quot;volitional&quot; test for insanity. More specifically, I ask firstly, whether it is empirically true that a person can understand the wrongfulness of an act yet be powerless to refrain from committing it; and second (assuming an affirmative answer to the first), whether the law of criminal responsibility can practically accommodate this phenomenon? After canvassing the relevant neuroscientific literature, I conclude that the answer to the first question is &quot;yes.&quot; After examining the varied treatment of the defense in the United States and other nations, I also give an affirmative answer to the second question, but only in limited circumstances. In short, the defense of irresistible impulse should be recognized, but only when it can be shown that the defendant experienced a total incapacity to control his or her conduct in the circumstances.
The increasing popularity of functional neuroimaging technologies in multiple disciplines has gained attention from within and outside the field of neuroscience. As the scope of research employing functional neuroimaging technologies broadens, there appears to also be a growing concern about the use of these technologies and the related social, ethical and legal issues. These concerns have been coined 'neuroskepticism'. First, we review how the term neuroskepticism has been previously used and defined. Second, we examine review and commentary articles published in journals with top impact factors, probing the presence and evolution of neuroskepticism within these articles. Results demonstrate a wide, but expected, range of issues associated with functional neuroimaging. It also appears that neuroskepticism is increasing as functional neuroimaging technologies gain popularity, which may indicate the presence of a classic Gartner Hype Cycle.
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is a complex psychiatric condition, the effects of which can be seriously debilitating. As it originates from a specific traumatic event, it often impacts soldiers and victims of violent crime. It is currently one of the most frequently litigated mental diseases. Neuroscience is slowly discovering the neural bases of PTSD and other psychiatric ailments and is building tests to distinguish actual patients from non-suffering individuals. We examine the current state of neuroscientific research on PTSD and its biomarkers, focusing on a recent experiment by Apostolos Georgopoulos and coworkers. Then we analyze the legal consequences of these scientific advances, both in civil and criminal law, from a comparative perspective. Neuro-technology is likely to provide courts with a new kind of evidence, which will not replace but add to older behavioral evidence. Furthermore, it will weaken the so far standing distinction between physical and emotional harm. However, even extremely sensitive tests (&gt;95%) can have insufficient accuracy if the prevalence of a condition in the tested population is low. Therefore, the law ought to take into account the prevalence of PTSD and other psychiatric conditions when the decision whether to admit neuro-evidence in courts or not is made.
Non-invasive brain stimulation promises innovative experimental possibilities for psychology and neuroscience as well as new therapeutic and palliative measures in medicine. Because of its good risk-benefit ratio, non-invasiveness and reversibility as well as its low effort and cost it has good chances of becoming a widespread tool in science, medicine and even in lay use. While most issues in medical and research ethics such as informed consent, safety, and potential for misuse can be handled with manageable effort, the real promise of brain stimulation does raise one prominent moral worry: it may lay the foundation of reliable, precise and stable manipulations of the mind. This article addresses this worry and concludes that it is not the possibility of manipulation, but the shift in our understanding of our mind which stands in need of careful consideration.
Volumetric differences of the hypothalamus and/or the pituitary gland tend to support involvement of the HPA axis in psychotic disorders. These structures were manually outlined in 154 schizophrenia patients and 156 matched healthy comparison subjects by MRI brain images. Linear regression analyses were performed to investigate differences in volume between groups. Moreover, the effects of illness duration and type of medication were investigated. No significant differences were found between patients and healthy controls in volumes of the hypothalamus and pituitary gland. In addition, there were no differences in volumes between patients with short and long illness duration. There was a trend towards patients receiving typical antipsychotic medication at the time of scanning having larger pituitary volumes than patients receiving atypical medication. These findings indicate that volume decreases in brain structures important for the normal functioning of the HPA axis are not present, either in recent-onset or chronically ill patients.
In this work we investigated the ability of AM251 to reverse schizophrenia-like symptoms produced by a neurodevelopmental animal model based on a social isolation procedure. First, we assessed the validity of our isolation-rearing protocol and, as expected, isolation-reared rats showed hyperlocomotion in a novel environment, cognitive impairment in the novel object recognition (NOR) test and a significant increase in the number of aggressive behaviours in the social interaction test compared to group-housed controls. This behavioural picture was associated with a reduction in CB receptor/G protein coupling in specific brain areas as well as reduced c-Fos immunoreactivity in the prefrontal cortex and caudate putamen. In this model, chronic but not acute treatment with the CB receptor antagonist AM251 counteracted isolation-induced cognitive impairment in the NOR test and aggressive behaviours in the social interaction test. This behavioural recovery was accompanied by the rescue of CB receptor functionality and c-Fos levels in all brain regions altered in isolation-reared rats. Moreover, chronic AM251 also increased c-Fos immunoreactivity in the nucleus accumbens, as previously demonstrated for antipsychotic drugs. Interestingly, the behavioural recovery due to chronic AM251 administration persisted until 10 d after discontinuing the treatment, indicating a long-lasting effect of the cannabinoid antagonist on psychotic-like symptoms.

The objective of this study was to examine the patients' perception of the causes of their success and lack of success in achieving their potential in rehabilitation and their emotional reactions to the outcome of their rehabilitation. Thirty-five patients with spinal cord injury who were participating in the Rehabilitation Program at Hamilton Health Sciences completed a questionnaire pertaining to their (a) perception of the outcome of their rehabilitation, (b) causal explanations for the outcome, and (c) emotional reactions following the outcome. The results indicate that the patients who achieved their potential in rehabilitation (the successful group) attributed their success primarily to 'psychological causes'. The patients who did not achieve their potential in rehabilitation (the unsuccessful group) attributed their lack of success to 'medical and treatment-related causes', causes that they perceived as being variable over time. With the exception of the emotion of 'disappointment', the two groups did not differ in their emotional reactions to the outcome of their rehabilitation. In conclusion, the patients who achieved their potential in rehabilitation attributed their success to causes that enhanced their self-esteem (they did not feel that they depended on others for their success). The patients who did not achieve their potential in rehabilitation attributed their lack of success to causes that they perceived as being changeable over time; this allowed them to expect that they will achieve their potential at a later time. Causal explanations for rehabilitation outcomes have implications for the motivation of persons with spinal cord injury to achieve their potential in rehabilitation.
Light and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) were used to study the epidermal lateral line system of the Siberian sturgeon (Acipenser baerii Brandt, 1869). This system consists of mechanoreceptive neuromasts, ampullae and the electroreceptive organ. The neuromasts are located in 5 pairs of cephalic and 1 pair of trunk canals and superficially in the middle and posterior pit lines that lie dorsomedially along the top of the skull immediately adjacent to the otic ampullae field. Both canal neuromasts and pit organ superficial neuromasts have opposite polarized hair cells that are parallel along the axis of the canal and pit line, respectively. However, they differ in both size and shape and in the density and length of the hair bundles. The ampullae are confined on the head, adjacent to the neuromast lines. The morphological structure of the ampullae in the Siberian sturgeon is similar to the ampullae in elasmobranchs and other primitive fish. Nevertheless, it has a relatively large mucus-filled ampulla, and a shorter and narrower canal leading to a small opening to the outer epidermal surface. We also present new information concerning the peripheral innervation of lateral line receptors in sturgeons. The receptors of the lateral line system are innervated by 2 pairs of cranial nerves: anterior and posterior lateral line nerves. The peripheral processes of the anterior lateral line nerve form superficial ophthalmic, buccal, otic and anteroventral rami. The peripheral processes of the posterior lateral line nerve form middle, supratemporal and lateral rami.
The electro-receptive lateral line system appeared early in the evolutionary history of fish. Sturgeons, members of the primitive Chondrostei group, are known for their electroreceptors (ampullae of Lorenzini) on the head, which are thought to be sensitive to weak electric fields in aquatic environments and involved in feeding, mating and migration. Here, we report the results of a set of behavioral and electrophysiological experiments designed to determine the function and characteristics of the electrosense in cultured sturgeons. The results showed Siberian sturgeon (Acipenser baerii Brandt, 1869) feeding striking at bio-electric fields produced by living feed-fish enclosed in a gel chamber and at the corrosion field produced by metal rods. With an electric stimulus that mimics the bio-electric fields produced by living prey, the relative discharge rate of electrosensory neurons in the dorsal octavolateralis nucleus (DON) was modulated by and phase-locked to sinusoidal stimulus and some units showed selectivity for dipolar direction in white sturgeon (Acipenser transmontanus Richardson, 1836). This is the first study to provide the empirical evidence correlating with electrosensory behaviors and electrophysiological responses in cultured sturgeons, and suggesting that electrosense does play an innate role in feeding behavior of sturgeon. We believe this will have important implications for protecting sturgeons in the wild.
Cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) is a potentially serious disease, with nonspecific clinical symptoms and an unpredictable outcome. Despite adequate anticoagulation, a patient's clinical condition can rapidly deteriorate. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of local thrombolysis in these patients. Consecutive patients with progressive cerebral venous thrombosis between October 2008 and January 2011 were enrolled prospectively. Progressive CVT was defined as the persistence of neurologic findings (headache, blurred vision, and visual field defects) despite at least four days (or 48 hours in patients with involvement of more than one sinus) on full anticoagulation therapy with heparin and development of focal neurologic deficits or cortical hemorrhage. We excluded patients with large hematomas and predisposing malignancies like leukemia. All patients underwent local thrombolysis with 30 mg recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA). Overall, 26 patients were enrolled with a mean age of 35.5 years (range 18 to 56 years). Six patients (23%) were male and twenty patients (77%) were female. The most common presenting feature was headache and the most common neurologic finding was papilledema, which was present in all patients. Eighty-five percent of women had a history of oral contraceptive pill consumption. Successful recanalization was achieved in all patients except one (96.2%). Neurological examinations and follow-up assessments were based on a modified Rankin scale (mRS). Favorable outcome and recovery was defined as a mRS score of 0-1. Follow-up assessments at the third week showed that 25 out of 26 recovered, with 18 having a mRS score of 0 and 7 with a mRS score of 1. There were no procedure-related neurological complications. Our results show that local thrombolysis is a safe and effective treatment modality for patients suffering from progressive CVT.



Humans are able to adapt to unfamiliar forms of speech (such as accented, time-compressed, or noise-vocoded speech) quite rapidly. Can such perceptual learning occur when attention is directed away from the speech signal? Here, participants were simultaneously exposed to noise-vocoded sentences, auditory distractors, and visual distractors. One group attended to the speech, listening to each sentence and reporting what they heard. Two other groups attended to either the auditory or visual distractors, performing a target-detection task. Only the attend-speech group benefited from the exposure when subsequently reporting noise-vocoded sentences. Thus, attention to noise-vocoded speech appears necessary for learning.


Increased recent research activity in exercise physiology has dramatically improved our understanding of skeletal muscle development and physiology in both health and disease. Advances in bioengineering have enabled the development of biomimetic 3D in vitro models of skeletal muscle which have the potential to further advance our understanding of the fundamental processes that underpin muscle physiology. As the principle structural protein of the extracellular matrix, collagen-based matrices are popular tools for the creation of such 3D models but the custom nature of many reported systems has precluded their more widespread adoption. Here we present a simple, reproducible iteration of an established 3D in vitro model of skeletal muscle, demonstrating both the high levels of reproducibility possible in this system and the improved cellular architecture of such constructs over standard 2D cell culture techniques. We have used primary rat muscle cells to validate this simple model and generate comparable data to conventional established cell culture techniques. We have optimized culture parameters for these cells which should provide a template in this 3D system for using muscle cells derived from other donor species and cell lines.
Inhibitors of Rho kinase (ROCK) have potential for management of neurological disorders by inhibition of glial scarring. Since astrocytes play key roles in brain physiology and pathology, we determined changes in the astrocytic transcriptome produced by the ROCK inhibitor Fasudil to obtain mechanistic insights into its beneficial action during brain injury. Cultured murine astrocytes were treated with Fasudil (100 M) and morphological analyses revealed rapid stellation by 1 h and time-dependent (2-24 h) dissipation of F-actin-labelled stress fibres. Microarray analyses were performed on RNA and the time-course of global gene profiling (2, 6, 12 and 24 h) provided a comprehensive description of transcriptomic changes. Hierarchical clustering of differentially expressed genes and analysis for over-represented gene ontology groups using the DAVID database focused attention on Fasudil-induced changes to major biological processes regulating cellular shape and motility (actin cytoskeleton, axon guidance, transforming growth factor- (TGF) signalling and tight junctions). Bioinformatic analyses of transcriptomic changes revealed how these biological processes contributed to changes in astrocytic motility and cytoskeletal reorganisation. Here genes associated with extracellular matrix were also involved, but unexpected was a subset of alterations (EAAT2, BDNF, anti-oxidant species, metabolic and signalling genes) indicative of adoption by astrocytes of a pro-survival phenotype. Expression profiles of key changes with Fasudil and another ROCK inhibitor Y27632 were validated by real-time PCR. Although effects of ROCK inhibition have been considered to be primarily cytoskeletal via reduction of glial scarring, we demonstrate additional advantageous actions likely to contribute to their ameliorative actions in brain injury.
Satellite cells are muscle stem cells that have important roles in postnatal muscle growth and adult muscle regeneration. Although fast- and slow-dividing populations in activated satellite cells have been observed, the functional differences between them remain unclear. Here we elucidated the relationship between proliferation behaviour and satellite cell function. To assess the frequency of cell division, satellite cells isolated from mouse EDL muscle were labelled with the fluorescent dye PKH26, stimulated to proliferate and then sorted by FACS. The vast majority of activated satellite cells were PKH26(low) fast-dividing cells, whereas PKH26(high) slow-dividing cells were observed as a minority population. The fast-dividing cells generated a higher number of differentiated and self-renewed cells compared with the slow-dividing cells. However, cells derived from the slow-dividing population formed secondary myogenic colonies when passaged, whereas those from the fast-dividing population rapidly underwent myogenic differentiation without producing self-renewing cells after a few rounds of cell division. Furthermore, slow-dividing cells transplanted into injured muscle extensively contributed to muscle regeneration in vivo. Id1, a HLH protein, was expressed by all activated satellite cells, but the expression level varied within the slow-dividing cell population. We show that the slow-dividing cells retaining long-term self-renewal ability are restricted to an undifferentiated population that express high levels of Id1 protein (PKH26(high)Id1(high) population). Finally, genome-wide gene expression analysis described the molecular characteristics of the PKH26(high)Id1(high) population. Taken together, our results indicate that undifferentiated slow-dividing satellite cells retain stemness for generating progeny capable of long-term self-renewal, and so might be essential for muscle homeostasis throughout life.
Vascular cognitive impairment is an umbrella term for cognitive dysfunction associated with and presumed to be caused by vascular brain damage. Autopsy studies have identified microinfarcts as an important neuropathological correlate of vascular cognitive impairment that escapes detection by conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). As a frame of reference for future high-resolution MRI studies, we systematically reviewed the literature on neuropathological studies on cerebral microinfarcts in the context of vascular disease, vascular risk factors, cognitive decline and dementia. We identified 32 original patient studies involving 10,515 people. The overall picture is that microinfarcts are common, particularly in patients with vascular dementia (weighted average 62%), Alzheimer's disease (43%), and demented patients with both Alzheimer-type and cerebrovascular pathology (33%) compared with nondemented older individuals (24%). In many patients, multiple microinfarcts were detected. Microinfarcts are described as minute foci with neuronal loss, gliosis, pallor, or more cystic lesions. They are found in all brain regions, possibly more so in the cerebral cortex, particularly in watershed areas. Reported sizes vary from 50 m to a few mm, which is within the detection limit of current high-resolution MRI. Detection of these lesions in vivo would have a high potential for future pathophysiological studies in vascular cognitive impairment.
In patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), a diffuse axonal degeneration occurring throughout the white matter of the central nervous system causes progressive neurologic disability. The underlying mechanism is unclear. This review describes a number of pathways by which dysfunctional astrocytes in MS might lead to axonal degeneration. White-matter astrocytes in MS show a reduced metabolism of adenosine triphosphate-generating phosphocreatine, which may impair the astrocytic sodium potassium pump and lead to a reduced sodium-dependent glutamate uptake. Astrocytes in MS white matter appear to be deficient in (2) adrenergic receptors, which are involved in stimulating glycogenolysis and suppressing inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2). Glutamate toxicity, reduced astrocytic glycogenolysis leading to reduced lactate and glutamine production, and enhanced nitric oxide (NO) levels may all impair axonal mitochondrial metabolism, leading to axonal degeneration. In addition, glutamate-mediated oligodendrocyte damage and impaired myelination caused by a decreased production of N-acetylaspartate by axonal mitochondria might also contribute to axonal loss. White-matter astrocytes may be considered as a potential target for neuroprotective MS therapies.
Loss of plasma membrane integrity is a feature of acute cellular injury/death in vitro and in vivo. Plasmalemma-resealing agents are protective in acute central nervous system injury models, but their ability to reseal cell membranes in vivo has not been reported. Using a mouse controlled cortical impact (CCI) model, we found that propidium iodide-positive (PI+) cells pulse labeled at 6, 24, or 48 hours maintained a degenerative phenotype and disappeared from the injured brain by 7 days, suggesting that plasmalemma permeability is a biomarker of fatal cellular injury after CCI. Intravenous or intracerebroventricular administration of Kollidon VA64, poloxamer P188, or polyethylene glycol 8000 resealed injured cell membranes in vivo (P&lt;0.05 versus vehicle or poloxamer P407). Kollidon VA64 (1mmol/L, 500L) administered intravenously to mice 1 hour after CCI significantly reduced acute cellular degeneration, chronic brain tissue damage, brain edema, blood-brain barrier damage, and postinjury motor deficits (all P&lt;0.05 versus vehicle). However, VA64 did not rescue pulse-labeled PI+ cells from eventual demise. We conclude that PI permeability within 48 hours of CCI is a biomarker of eventual cell death/loss. Kollidon VA64 reduces secondary damage after CCI by mechanisms other than or in addition to resealing permeable cells.
To assess angiogenesis noninvasively in a C6 rat brain tumor model, the rapid-steady-state-T(1) (RSST(1)) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) method was used for microvascular blood volume fraction (BVf) quantification with a novel contrast agent gadolinium per (3,6 anhydro) -cyclodextrin (Gd-ACX). In brain tissue contralateral to the tumor, equal BVfs were obtained with Gd-ACX and the clinically approved gadoterate meglumine (Gd-DOTA). Contrary to Gd-DOTA, which leaks out of the tumor vasculature, Gd-ACX was shown to remain vascular in the tumor tissue allowing quantification of the tumor BVf. We sought to confirm the obtained tumor BVf using an independent method: instead of using a 'standard' two-dimensional histologic method, we study here how vascular morphometry combined with a stereological technique can be used for three-dimensional assessment of the vascular volume fraction (V(V)). The V(V) is calculated from the vascular diameter and length density. First, the technique is evaluated on simulated data and the healthy rat brain vasculature and is then applied to the same C6 tumor vasculature previously quantified by RSST(1)-MRI with Gd-ACX. The mean perfused V(V) and the BVf obtained by MRI in tumor regions are practically equal and the technique confirms the spatial heterogeneity revealed by MRI.
To improve the ability to move from preclinical trials in mouse models of Huntington's disease (HD) to clinical trials in humans, biomarkers are needed that can track similar aspects of disease progression across species. Brain metabolites, detectable by magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), have been suggested as potential biomarkers in HD. In this study, the R6/2 transgenic mouse model of HD was used to investigate the relative sensitivity of the metabolite profiling and the brain volumetry to anticipate the disease progression. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and (1)H MRS data were acquired at 9.4T from the R6/2 mice and wild-type littermates at 4, 8, 12, and 15 weeks. Brain shrinkage was detectable in striatum, cortex, thalamus, and hypothalamus by 12 weeks. Metabolite changes in cortex paralleled and sometimes preceded those in striatum. The entire set of metabolite changes was compressed into principal components (PCs) using Partial Least Squares-Discriminant Analysis (PLS-DA) to increase the sensitivity for monitoring disease progression. In comparing the efficacy of volume and metabolite measurements, the cortical PC1 emerged as the most sensitive single biomarker, distinguishing R6/2 mice from littermates at all time points. Thus, neurochemical changes precede volume shrinkage and become potential biomarkers for HD mouse models.


Ganglion cysts (ganglia) are benign lesions of the soft tissue arising in the periarticular space. We present a 54-year-old woman with a 5-month history of headache and weakness of the tongue with deviation to the left side who had a rare extraneural intradural bilobate ganglion cyst of the atlanto-occipital joint compressing the hypoglossal nerve. An MRI showed a bilobate cystic lesion in the premedullary cistern on the left side at the level of the hypoglossal canal. This lesion was removed using a lateral suboccipital approach in the semi-sitting position with removal of the C1 hemiarch. The lesion proved to be a ganglion cyst on histopathology. Intracranial juxtafacet (ganglion and synovial) cysts compressing the hypoglossal nerve should be considered in the differential diagnosis with other lesions of this region. Although there was no recurrence at 30-month follow-up, there was no significant improvement of the tongue weakness. We describe our surgical strategy and discuss the pathogenesis of the cyst.
Surgeons in abdominal and gynecological fields have pioneered the use of Seprafilm (a chemically modified sodium hyaluronate/carboxymethylcellulose absorbable adhesion barrier, Genzyme Biosurgery, Cambridge, MA, USA) to prevent adhesion but its use outside these specialties is not well documented. The authors have used Seprafilm for craniectomy closure in several patients as a dural substitute and anti-adhesion barrier. During emergent craniectomy, the dura mater is reapproximated and a layer of Seprafilm is placed over the dura as an onlay and anti-adhesion barrier. During subsequent surgery for bone flap replacement, dissection between the dural plane and overlying tissues has been completed easily. There has been minimal adhesion to the underlying Seprafilm/dural layer. The Seprafilm has been incorporated into the surrounding dural plane. No postoperative complications have been noted. Seprafilm's anti-adhesive properties and biodegradable characteristics make it useful as a dural onlay for craniectomy in which a second surgery is planned.
Periodic quality control (QC) for ultrasound scanners checks their overall performance, reducing the risk of inaccurate diagnoses. Data from routine annual QC activity were analyzed to optimize the scheduling and the criteria of further QC programs. Among all the ultrasound scanners (68 transducers) in use at the Regional Medical Department of the Aosta Valley, which are currently tested, 48.6% showed problems, mainly (35.3%) related to defects detectable by physical and mechanical inspection. Nearly two-thirds of these problems impacted QC parameters. Failures were significantly related to the workload and to the &quot;technological level&quot; of the equipment. QC scheduling should therefore include a daily/weekly physical inspection in addition to a more complete, objective and software algorithms-based test, the frequency of which should be tailored on the basis of the equipment characteristics.  2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Clin Ultrasound, 2012.

An unexplained phenomenon in neuroscience is the discovery that electrical stimulation in temporal neocortex can cause neurosurgical patients to spontaneously experience memory retrieval. Here we provide the first detailed examination of the neural basis of stimulation-induced memory retrieval by probing brain activity in a patient who reliably recalled memories of his high school (HS) after stimulation at a site in his left temporal lobe. After stimulation, this patient performed a customized memory task in which he was prompted to retrieve information from HS and non-HS topics. At the one site where stimulation evoked HS memories, remembering HS information caused a distinctive pattern of neural activity compared with retrieving non-HS information. Together, these findings suggest that the patient had a cluster of neurons in his temporal lobe that help represent the &quot;high school-ness&quot; of the current cognitive state. We believe that stimulation here evoked HS memories because it altered local neural activity in a way that partially mimicked the normal brain state for HS memories. More broadly, our findings suggest that brain stimulation can evoke memories by recreating neural patterns from normal cognition.
The concept of the &quot;mnemonic scotoma,&quot; a spatially circumscribed region of working memory impairment produced by unilateral lesions of the PFC, is central to the view that PFC is critical for the short-term retention of information. Presented here, however, are previously unpublished data that offer an alternative, nonmnemonic interpretation of this pattern of deficit. In their study, Wajima and Sawaguchi [Wajima, K., &amp; Sawaguchi, T. The role of GABAergic inhibiton in suppressing perseverative responses in the monkey prefrontal cortex. Neuroscience Research, 50(Suppl. 1), P3-P317, 2004] applied the GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline methiodide unilaterally to the PFC of two monkeys while they performed an oculomotor delayed-response task. Consistent with previous studies, errors for the initial memory-guided saccade were markedly higher when the cued location fell into the region of the visual field affected by the infusion. These erroneous saccades tended to select an alternative target location (out of a possible 16) that had not been cued on that trial. By extending the analysis window, however, it was observed that the second, &quot;corrective&quot; saccade often acquired the location that had been cued on that trial. Further analysis of the erroneous initial saccades indicated that they tended to be directed to a location that had been relevant on the previous trial. Thus, the deficit was not one of &quot;forgetting&quot; the cued location. Rather, it was one of selecting between currently and previously relevant locations. These findings suggest a need for a reconsideration of the concept of the mnemonic scotoma, which in turn invites a reconsideration of functional interpretations of sustained neuronal activity in PFC.
The question of hemispheric lateralization of neural processes is one that is pertinent to a range of subdisciplines of cognitive neuroscience. Language is often assumed to be left-lateralized in the human brain, but there has been a long running debate about the underlying reasons for this. We addressed this problem with fMRI by identifying the neural responses to amplitude and spectral modulations in speech and how these interact with speech intelligibility to test previous claims for hemispheric asymmetries in acoustic and linguistic processes in speech perception. We used both univariate and multivariate analyses of the data, which enabled us to both identify the networks involved in processing these acoustic and linguistic factors and to test the significance of any apparent hemispheric asymmetries. We demonstrate bilateral activation of superior temporal cortex in response to speech-derived acoustic modulations in the absence of intelligibility. However, in a contrast of amplitude-modulated and spectrally modulated conditions that differed only in their intelligibility (where one was partially intelligible and the other unintelligible), we show a left dominant pattern of activation in STS, inferior frontal cortex, and insula. Crucially, multivariate pattern analysis showed that there were significant differences between the left and the right hemispheres only in the processing of intelligible speech. This result shows that the left hemisphere dominance in linguistic processing does not arise because of low-level, speech-derived acoustic factors and that multivariate pattern analysis provides a method for unbiased testing of hemispheric asymmetries in processing.
The division of cortical visual processing into distinct dorsal and ventral streams is a key concept in primate neuroscience [Goodale, M. A., &amp; Milner, A. D. Separate visual pathways for perception and action. Trends in Neurosciences, 15, 20-25, 1992; Steele, G., Weller, R., &amp; Cusick, C. Cortical connections of the caudal subdivision of the dorsolateral area (V4) in monkeys. Journal of Comparative Neurology, 306, 495-520, 1991]. The ventral stream is usually characterized as a &quot;What&quot; pathway, whereas the dorsal stream is implied in mediating spatial perception (&quot;Where&quot;) and visually guided actions (&quot;How&quot;). A subpathway emerging from the dorsal stream and projecting to the medial-temporal lobe has been identified [Kravitz, D. J., Saleem, K. S., Baker, C. I., &amp; Mishkin, M. A new neural framework for visuospatial processing. Nature Reviews Neuroscience, 12, 217-230, 2011; Cavada, C., &amp; Goldman-Raiuc, P. S. Posterior parietal cortex in rhesus monkey: I. Parcellation of areas based on distinctive limbic and sensory cortico-cortical connections. Journal of Comparative Neurology, 287, 393-421, 1989]. The current article studies the coordination of visual information typically associated with the dorsal stream (&quot;Where&quot;), with planned movements, focusing on the temporal lobe. We recorded extracellular activity from 565 cells in the human medial-temporal and frontal lobes while 13 patients performed cued hand movements with visual feedback (visuomotor task), without feedback (motor task), or observed visual feedback without motor movement (visual-only task). We discovered two different neural populations in the human medial-temporal lobe. One consists of motor-like neurons representing hand position, speed or acceleration during the motor task but not during the visuomotor or visual tasks. The other is specific to the parahippocampal gyrus (an area known to process visual motion [Gur, M., &amp; Snodderly, D. M. Direction selectivity in V1 of alert monkeys: Evidence for parallel pathways for motion processing. Journal of Physiology, 585, 383-400, 2007; Sato, N., &amp; Nakamura, K. Visual response properties of neurons in the parahippocampal cortex of monkeys. Journal of Neurophysiology, 90, 876-886, 2003]) and encodes speed, acceleration, or direction of hand movements, but only during the visuomotor task: neither during visual-only nor during motor tasks. These findings suggest a functional basis for the anatomical subpathway between the dorsal stream and the medial-temporal lobe. Similar to the recent expansion of the motor control process into the sensory cortex [Matyas, F., Sreenivasan, V., Marbach, F., Wacongne, C., Barsy, B., Mateo, C., et al. Motor control by sensory cortex. Science, 330, 1240-1243, 2010], our findings render the human medial-temporal lobe an important junction in the process of planning and execution of motor acts whether internally or externally (visually) driven. Thus, the medial-temporal lobe might serve as an integration node between the two processing streams. Our findings thus shed new light on the brain mechanisms underlying visuomotor coordination which is a crucial capacity for everyday survival, whether it is identifying and picking up food, sliding a key into a lock, driving a vehicle, or escaping a predator.
In retinitis pigmentosa (RP), the death of cones normally follows some time after the degeneration of rods. Recently, surviving cones in RP have been studied and reported in detail. These cones undergo extensive remodeling in their morphology. Here we report an extension of the remodeling study to consider possible modifications of spatial-distribution patterns. For this purpose we used S334ter-line-3 transgenic rats, a transgenic model developed to express a rhodopsin mutation causing RP. In this study, retinas were collected at postnatal (P) days P5-30, 90, 180, and P600. We then immunostained the retinas to examine the morphology and distribution of cones and to quantify the total cone numbers. Our results indicate that cones undergo extensive changes in their spatial distribution to give rise to a mosaic comprising an orderly array of rings. These rings first begin to appear at P15 at random regions of the retina and become ubiquitous throughout the entire tissue by P90. Such distribution pattern loses its clarity by P180 and mostly disappears at P600, at which time the cones are almost all dead. In contrast, the numbers of cones in RP and normal conditions do not show significant differences at stages as late as P180. Therefore, rings do not form by cell death at their centers, but by cone migration. We discuss its possible mechanisms and suggest a role for hot spots of rod death and the remodeling of Mller cell process into zones of low density of photoreceptors.
In the lateral hypothalamus, groups of functionally related cells tend to be widely scattered rather than confined to discrete, anatomically distinct units. However, by using parvalbumin (PV)-specific antibodies, a solitary, compact cord of PV-immunoreactive cells (the PV1-nucleus) has been identified in the ventrolateral tuberal hypothalamus in various species. Here we describe the topography, the chemo-, cyto-, and myeloarchitectonics, and the ultrastructure of this PV1-nucleus in rodents. The PV1-nucleus is located within the ventrolateral division of the medial forebrain bundle. In the horizontal plane, it has a length of 1 mm in mice and 2 mm in rats. PV-immunoreactive perikarya fall into two distinct size categories and number (~800 in rats and ~400 in mice). They are intermingled with PV-negative neurons and coarse axons of the medial forebrain bundle, some of which are PV-positive. Symmetric and asymmetric synapses, as well as PV-positive and PV-negative fiber endings, terminate on the perikarya of both PV-positive and PV-negative neurons. PV-positive neurons of the PV1-nucleus express glutamate, not -aminobutyric acid (GABA), the neurotransmitter that is usually associated with PV-containing nerve cells. Although we could not find evidence that PV1 neurons express either catecholamines or known neuropeptides, they sometimes are interspersed with the fibers and terminals of such cells. From its analogous topographical situation, the PV1-nucleus could correspond to the lateral tuberal nucleus in humans. We anticipate that the presence of the marker protein PV in the PV1-nucleus of the rodent hypothalamus will facilitate future studies relating to the connectivity, transcriptomics, and function of this entity.
Cones are critically dependent on interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein (IRBP) for retinoid delivery in the visual cycle. Cone-dominant vertebrates offer an opportunity to uncover the molecular basis of IRBP's role in this process. Here, we explore the association of IRBP with the interphotoreceptor matrix (IPM) of cones vs. rods in cone dominant retinas from chicken (Gallus domesticus), turkey (Meleagris gallopavo), and pig (Sus scrofa). Retinas were detached and fixed directly or washed in saline prior to fixation. Disassociated photoreceptors with adherent matrix were also prepared. Under 2 mM CaCl(2) , insoluble matrix was delaminated from saline washed retinas. The distribution of IRBP, as well as glycans binding peanut agglutinin (cone matrix) and wheat germ agglutinin (rod/cone matrix), was defined by confocal microscopy. Retina flat mounts showed IRBP diffusely distributed in an interconnecting, lattice-like pattern throughout the entire matrix. Saline wash replaced this pattern with fluorescent annuli surrounding individual cone outer segments. In isolated cones and matrix sheets, IRBP colocalized with the peanut agglutinin binding matrix glycans. Our results reveal a wash-resistant association of IRBP with a matrix domain immediately surrounding cone outer segments. The cone matrix sheath may be responsible for IRBP-mediated cone targeting of 11-cis retinoids.
Anophthalmia and micro-orbitism due to infections, traumatic events, and oncologic disease can occur both in adulthood and in childhood. After restoring the volume of the socket surgically or using an expander, concurrent forniceal expansion with expanding conformer should be maintained. We created a new type of conformer that is possible to fit even in very reduced or very irregularly shaped socket. It is formed by 3 acrylic portions connected by metallic clumps that represent an intrinsic mechanism of expansion. The 3 acrylic portions could be modeled on the shape of the individual patient socket while the metal elements allow a thrust in 3 directions. The positioning of this conformer does not need any surgical treatment and it is possible to fit it in an ambulatory manner; it is shaped on the individual patient and is then available in most cases that occur.
Mothers' actions are more enthusiastic, simple, and repetitive when demonstrating novel object properties to their infants than to adults, a behavioral modification called &quot;infant-directed action&quot; by Brand and colleagues (2002). The current study tested whether fathers also tailor their behavior when interacting with infants and whether this modification differs from the infant-directed action that mothers show. A sample of 42 parents (21 mothers and 21 fathers) demonstrated the properties of two novel toys to their infants (12-month-olds) and to other adults. Fathers and mothers modified their actions with respect to repetitiveness, rate, range of motion, proximity, interactiveness, and enthusiasm compared with interactions with other adults. Fathers differed from mothers with respect to proximity, carrying out actions closer to their infants than mothers did. These results provide evidence that fathers show modifications in their infant-directed action that is similar to that of mothers.
The special section on the neural substrate of relational reasoning includes 4 articles that address the processes and brain regions involved in analogical reasoning (Green, Kraemer, Fugelsang, Gray, &amp; Dunbar, 2011; Maguire, McClelland, Donovan, Tillman, &amp; Krawczyk, 2011) and in metaphor comprehension (Chettih, Durgin, &amp; Grodner, 2011; Prat, Mason, &amp; Just, 2011). We see this work as an example of how neuroscience approaches to cognition can lead to increased understanding of cognitive processes. In this brief introduction, we first situate the 4 articles in the context of prior cognitive neuroscience work on relational reasoning. We then highlight the main issues explored in these articles: different sources of complexity and difficulty in relational processing, potential differences between the roles of the 2 hemispheres, and the impact of individual differences in various cognitive abilities. The 4 articles illustrate a range of methodologies, including functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI; Green et al., 2011; Prat et al., 2011), event-related potentials (ERPs; Maguire et al., 2011), and different types of semantic priming (Chettih et al., 2011; Prat et al., 2011). They highlight the connections between research on analogy and on metaphor comprehension and suggest, collectively, that a cognitive neuroscience approach to relational reasoning can lead to converging conclusions.
The brain areas that represent taste including the primary taste cortex and the orbitofrontal cortex also provide a representation of oral texture. Fat texture is represented by neurons independently of viscosity: some neurons respond to fat independently of viscosity, and other neurons encode viscosity. The neurons that respond to fat also respond to silicone and paraffin oil, indicating that the sensing is texture-specific not chemo-specific. This fat sensing is not related to free fatty acids such as linoleic acid, and a few other neurons that respond to free fatty acids typically do not respond to fat in the mouth. Complementary human functional neuroimaging studies show that the pleasantness of food texture is represented in the orbitofrontal cortex. These findings have implications for the design of foods that mimic the pleasant texture of fat in the mouth but have low energy content, and thus for the prevention and treatment of obesity.

Experts play a critical role in forensic decision making, even when cognition is offloaded and distributed between human and machine. In this paper, we investigated the impact of using Automated Fingerprint Identification Systems (AFIS) on human decision makers. We provided 3680 AFIS lists (a total of 55,200 comparisons) to 23 latent fingerprint examiners as part of their normal casework. We manipulated the position of the matching print in the AFIS list. The data showed that latent fingerprint examiners were affected by the position of the matching print in terms of false exclusions and false inconclusives. Furthermore, the data showed that false identification errors were more likely at the top of the list and that such errors occurred even when the correct match was present further down the list. These effects need to be studied and considered carefully, so as to optimize human decision making when using technologies such as AFIS.
Poker has gained tremendous popularity in recent years, increasing the risk for some individuals to develop pathological gambling. Here, we investigated cognitive biases in a computerized two-player poker task against a fictive opponent, among 12 pathological gambling poker players (PGP), 10 experienced poker players (ExP), and 11 inexperienced poker players (InP). Players were compared on probability estimation and decision-making with the hypothesis that ExP would have significantly lower cognitive biases than PGP and InP, and that the groups could be differentiated based on their cognitive bias styles. The results showed that ExP had a significantly lower average error margin in probability estimation than PGP and InP, and that PGP played hands with lower winning probability than ExP. Binomial logistic regression showed perfect differentiation (100%) between ExP and PGP, and 90.5% classification accuracy between ExP and InP. Multinomial logistic regression showed an overall classification accuracy of 23 out of 33 (69.7%) between the three groups. The classification accuracy of ExP was higher than that of PGP and InP due to the similarities in probability estimation and decision-making between PGP and InP. These impairments in probability estimation and decision-making of PGP may have implications for assessment and treatment of cognitive biases in pathological gambling poker players.
Executive function (EF) deficits may underlie some of the impulse control problems seen in pathological gambling. Pathological gamblers (PGs, n = 45) and controls (n = 45) were compared on several measures of EF (including measures of response inhibition, working memory, cognitive flexibility and perseveration, planning and decision-making), as well as memory and intelligence tests to examine whether PGs evidence EF dysfunction. Compared with controls, PGs exhibited specific deficits on measures of planning and decision-making. PGs also exhibited relative deficits on a measure of perseveration, but this deficit was no longer significant after controlling for group differences in intelligence. These results suggest that PGs may experience deficits on specific components of EF.
JC virus (JCV) is the aetiological agent of the demyelinating disease progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, an AIDS defining illness and serious complication of mAb therapies. Initial infection probably occurs in childhood. In the working model of dissemination, virus persists in the kidney and lymphoid tissues until immune suppression/modulation causes reactivation and trafficking to the brain where JCV replicates in oligodendrocytes. JCV infection is regulated through binding of host factors such as Spi-B to, and sequence variation in the non-coding control region (NCCR). Although NCCR sequences differ between sites of persistence and pathogenesis, evidence suggests that the virus that initiates infection in the brain disseminates via B-cells derived from latently infected haematopoietic precursors in the bone marrow. Spi-B binds adjacent to TATA boxes in the promoter/enhancer of the PML-associated JCV Mad-1 and Mad-4 viruses but not the non-pathogenic, kidney-associated archetype. The Spi-B-binding site of Mad-1/Mad-4 differs from that of archetype by a single nucleotide, AAAAGGGAAGGGA to AAAAGGGAAGGTA. Point mutation of the Mad-1 Spi-B site reduced early viral protein large T-antigen expression by up to fourfold. Strikingly, the reverse mutation in the archetype NCCR increased large T-antigen expression by 10-fold. Interestingly, Spi-B protein binds the NCCR sequence flanking the viral promoter/enhancer, but these sites are not essential for early viral gene expression. The effect of mutating Spi-B-binding sites within the JCV promoter/enhancer on early viral gene expression strongly suggests a role for Spi-B binding to the viral promoter/enhancer in the activation of early viral gene expression.

In the present school-based study, a convenience sample of 477 students in grades 6-9 and second year in high school from a city and a smaller town recorded daily occurrence and intensity of headaches in a standard paper diary during a 3-week period. Total headache activity (headache sum), number of headache days, intensity level and duration for weekly headaches were estimated. Approximately 85% of the adolescents had experienced headache of any intensity level during the 3-week recording period. On the average, they reported 2.5 headache days per week and a mean intensity level for headache episodes of 1.7. Our estimates for headache of any intensity level (1-5) occurring at least once a week was surprisingly high (73.8%). For the highest intensity level across the whole 3-week period, almost identical proportions of mild and moderate headaches were reported by students (22.3-22.5%), while about twice as many (40.7%) had experienced severe headaches. Girls consistently reported more headaches than boys, in particular of the moderate and severe intensity types. Students in the city also reported more frequent and intense headaches than those in the town. Peak headache activity was observed at noon and in the afternoon and in the days from the middle of the week until weekend. The use of prospective recordings in diaries will further advance our knowledge on the prevalence and characteristics of recurrent headaches among children and adolescents in community samples.
This study explored Closing-in behavior (CIB), the tendency in figure copying to draw very close to or on top of the model, in mild cognitive impairment (MCI). The files of 154 people diagnosed with MCI were reviewed and CIB was identified in 21% of cases. Two approaches were used to explore CIB. First, we capitalized on the diverse cognitive profiles within MCI, subdividing the overall sample into people with and without memory deficits. The frequency of CIB was significantly higher in multidomain non-amnestic MCI than in multidomain amnestic MCI, suggesting that CIB is not associated with specific memory impairment. Second, we assessed the cognitive correlates of CIB, by selecting patients with MCI who completed a battery of executive, visuo-constructional and memory tasks. Sub-groups of patients with and without CIB showed a similar overall severity of cognitive decline and comparable performance in visuo-constructional and memory tasks, but those with CIB were slightly but significantly more impaired on executive function tasks. The study provides evidence against memory-based accounts of CIB, and supports recent suggestions that executive impairments are the dominant cognitive correlate of this clinical sign.
Previous dual task studies have demonstrated that patients with sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) are impaired in their ability to perform two tasks simultaneously compared with healthy controls, despite being able to successfully perform the tasks alone relatively well. Yet, it remains unclear what the earliest clinical manifestation of this dual task coordination deficit is. This study examined dual task abilities in individuals who are at risk of early-onset familial AD due to an E280A presenilin-1 mutation. Thirty-nine carriers of the gene mutation who did not meet the criteria for AD and 29 non-carrier healthy controls were asked to perform digit recall accompanied by a secondary tracking task. Individuals who were carriers of the genetic mutation demonstrated significantly higher dual task costs than healthy non-carriers. Dual task performance was found to be more sensitive to this very early stage of FAD than episodic memory measures. The findings support the notion that a deficit in the coordination mechanism of the central executive may be a pre-clinical marker for the early detection of AD due to the E280A presenilin-1 gene mutation.
Training experimental animals to discriminate between different visual stimuli has been an important tool in cognitive neuroscience as well as in vision research for many decades. Current methods used for visual choice discrimination training of zebrafish require human observers for response tracking, stimulus presentation and reward delivery and, consequently, are very labor intensive and possibly experimenter biased. By combining video tracking of fish positions, stimulus presentation on computer monitors and food delivery by computer-controlled electromagnetic valves, we developed a method that allows for a fully automated training of multiple adult zebrafish to arbitrary visual stimuli in parallel. The standardized training procedure facilitates the comparison of results across different experiments and laboratories and contributes to the usability of zebrafish as vertebrate model organisms in behavioral brain research and vision research.
One reason for the difficulty to develop effective therapies for stroke is that intrinsic factors, such as stress, may critically influence pathological mechanisms and recovery. In cognitive tasks, stress can both exaggerate and alleviate functional loss after focal ischemia in rodents. Using a comprehensive motor assessment in rats, this study examined if chronic stress and corticosterone treatment affect skill recovery and compensation in a task-specific manner. Groups of rats received daily restraint stress or oral corticosterone supplementation for two weeks prior to a focal motor cortex lesion. After lesion, stress and corticosterone treatments continued for three weeks. Motor performance was assessed in two skilled reaching tasks, skilled walking, forelimb inhibition, forelimb asymmetry and open field behavior. The results revealed that persistent stress and elevated corticosterone levels mainly limit motor recovery. Treated animals dropped larger amounts of food in successful reaches and showed exaggerated loss of forelimb inhibition early after lesion. Stress also caused a moderate, but non-significant increase in infarct size. By contrast, stress and corticosterone treatments promoted reaching success and other quantitative measures in the tray reaching task. Comparative analysis revealed that improvements are due to task-specific development of compensatory strategies. These findings suggest that stress and stress hormones may partially facilitate task-specific and adaptive compensatory movement strategies. The observations support the notion that hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activation may be a key determinant of recovery and motor system plasticity after ischemic stroke.
Adenosine 5'-triphosphate and adenosine receptors have been identified in adult and fetal keratinocytes, fibroblasts, melanocytes, mast cells, Langerhans cells, and Meissner's corpuscles, as well as in hair follicles, sweat glands, and smooth muscle and endothelial cells of skin vessels. Purinergic signaling is involved in skin pathology, including inflammation, wound healing, pain, psoriasis, scleroderma, warts, and skin cancer.
Though the existence of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) in biological tissues has been known for over 300 years, it is the most recently appreciated of the gasotransmitters as a physiologic messenger molecule. The enzymes cystathionine -lyase (CSE) and cystathionine -synthase (CBS) had long been speculated to generate H2S, and inhibitors of these enzymes had been employed to characterize influences of H2S in various organs. Definitive evidence that H2S is a physiologic regulator came with the development of mice with targeted deletion of CSE and CBS. Best characterized is the role of H2S, formed by CSE, as an endothelial derived relaxing factor that normally regulates blood pressure by acting through ATP-sensitive potassium channels. H2S participates in various phases of the inflammatory process, predominantly exerting anti-inflammatory actions. Currently, the most advanced efforts to develop therapeutic agents involve the combination of H2S donors with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). The H2S releasing moiety provides cytoprotection to gastric mucosa normally adversely affected by NSAIDs while the combination of H2S and inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis may afford synergistic anti-inflammatory influences.
In neurons, voltage-dependent Kv3 potassium channels are essential for the generation of action potentials at high frequency. A dysregulation of the Kv3.1 and Kv3.4 channel subunits has been suggested to contribute to neuronal and glial alterations in Alzheimer's disease, but a quantitative evaluation of these subunits in a mouse model of the pathology is still lacking. We analysed the profile of expression of the four Kv3 subunits by quantitative reverse transcription PCR and Western blot in the whole mouse brain and in dissected brain regions (olfactory bulb, septum, neocortex, hippocampus, brainstem and cerebellum) from 14 days after conception to 18 months after birth. In addition, we measured the levels of Kv3.1 and Kv3.4 messenger RNAs (mRNAs) and proteins in neocortex and hippocampus of APPPS1 mice, a transgenic model of Alzheimer's disease. Although all Kv3 transcripts were significantly expressed in embryonic age in whole brain extracts, only Kv3.1, Kv3.2 and Kv3.4 subunit proteins were present, suggesting a novel role for Kv3 channels at this developmental stage. With the exception of Kv3.4, during postnatal development, Kv3 transcripts and proteins showed a progressive increase in expression and reached an asymptote in adulthood, suggesting that the increase in Kv3 expression during development might contribute to the maturation of the electrical activity of neurons. During aging, Kv3 expression was rather stable. In contrast, in the neocortex of aged APPPS1 mice, Kv3.1 mRNA and protein levels were significantly lower compared to wild type, suggesting that a decrease in Kv3 currents could play a role in the cognitive symptoms of Alzheimer's disease.
Mifepristone, a glucocorticoid and progesterone receptor antagonist, has been shown to attenuate retrograde amnesia induced by repeated electroconvulsive shocks (ECS). We examined the efficacy of CORT 108297, a selective glucocorticoid antagonist, in this regard. Adult, male, Wistar rats (n=69) received either vehicle or CORT 108297 (1mg/kg) 2h before each of 5 once-daily true or sham 30mC ECS. Recall of previous exposure to a noxious stimulus in a passive avoidance (step-through) paradigm was tested 1day after the 5-ECS course. Analyses were conducted using recall operationalized in different ways: using the absolute final latency scores; defining adequate recall as a final latency of 30s or greater; defining perfect recall as a final latency of 180s; and using visual, subjective assessments of animal behavior. ECS was associated with significant impairment of recall, and this impairment was significantly attenuated by CORT 108297 on all outcome measures (with the exception of the perfect recall analyses, where outcomes narrowly missed statistical significance). In conclusion, these findings strengthen previous data from our laboratory implicating glucocorticoid mechanisms in ECS-induced retrograde amnesia. We suggest that the administration of a selective glucocorticoid receptor antagonist shortly before electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) treatments may attenuate the deleterious effect of ECT-induced acute hypercortisolemia on neural mechanisms involved in learning and memory.
Wechsler adult intelligence scale-revised was performed in 576 healthy adults to examine whether a functional polymorphism (Asp358Ala) of the IL-6 receptor (IL-6R) gene is associated with cognitive performance. Verbal intelligence quotient in Asp homozygotes was significantly higher compared to Ala carriers (P=0.005). Compared to Ala carriers, Asp homozygotes performed better in the verbal subtests requiring long-term memory stores. Elevated IL-6 and soluble IL-6R levels in Ala carriers may have negative impact on acquiring verbal cognitive ability requiring long-term memory.
The repellent semaphorin 3A (Sema3A) causes growth cone turning or collapse by triggering cytoskeletal rearrangements and detachment of adhesion sites. Growth cone detachment is dependent on eicosanoid activation of protein kinase C epsilon (PKC), but the characterization of the phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2) ) that releases arachidonic acid (AA) for eicosanoid synthesis has remained elusive. Here, we show, in rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, that Sema3A stimulates PLA(2) activity, that Sema3A-induced growth cone turning and collapse are dependent on the release of AA, and that the primary PLA(2) involved is the group IV  isoform (GIVA). Silencing GIVA expression renders growth cones resistant to Sema3A-induced collapse, and GIVA inhibition reverses Sema3A-induced repulsion into attraction. These studies identify a novel, early step in Sema3A-signaling and a PLA(2) necessary for growth cone repulsion and collapse.
Deposition of amyloid  protein (A) in the brain is the hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. Beta-site amyloid precursor protein (APP) cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) is the -secretase in vivo essential for generation of A. Previously we demonstrated that BACE1 is ubiquitinated and the degradation of BACE1 is mediated by the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway (UPP). However the mechanism underlying regulation of BACE1 degradation by UPP remains elusive. Ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCHL1) is a deubiquitinating enzyme highly specific to neuron, catalyzing the hydrolysis of ubiquitin conjugates from ubiquitinated substrates. UCHL1 regulates ubiquitin-dependent protein degradation. However, whether UCHL1 is particularly involved in the proteasomal degradation of BACE1 and what is the role of UCHL1 in AD pathogenesis remain elusive. To investigate the effect of UCHL1 on BACE1 degradation, HUCH cells, a UCHL1 stably over-expressed HEK293 cell line, was established. We found that inhibition of UCHL1 significantly increased BACE1 protein level in a time-dependent manner. Half life of BACE1 was reduced in HUCH cells compared with HEK. Over-expression of UCHL1 decreased APP C-terminal fragment C99 and A levels in HUCH cells. Moreover, disruption of Uchl1 gene significantly elevated levels of endogenous BACE1, C99 and A in the Uchl1-null gad mice. These results demonstrated that UCHL1 accelerates BACE1 degradation and affects APP processing and A production. This study suggests that potentiation of UCHL1 might be able to reduce the level of BACE1 and A in brain, which makes it a novel target for AD drug development.
During pregnancy, activation of the maternal immune system results in inflammation in the foetal nervous system. The causative agents are pro-inflammatory cytokines like interleukin-1 (IL-1), produced by the foetus. In this study, we examine the effect of IL-1 on the proliferation and differentiation of neural progenitor cells (NPCs) to better understand its potential effects on the developing brain. We find that the IL-1 receptor (IL-1R1) is expressed in the ventral mesencephalon of the developing brain. Furthermore, IL-1R1 is expressed on Nestin-positive, Sox-2-positive NPCs. IL-1 treatment reduced the numbers of proliferating NPCs, an effect prevented by the IL-1R1 receptor antagonist. LDH and MTT assays, and western blot analysis for cleaved caspase 3 and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase, confirmed that this was not due to an increase in cell death but rather an induction of differentiation. To further study the effects of IL-1 on cell fate determination, we differentiated NPCs in the presence and absence of IL-1. Il-1 promoted gliogenesis and inhibited neurogenesis, an effect that required p38-MAPK kinase signalling. In summary, these data show that exposure of NPCs to IL-1 affects their development. This necessitates an examination of the consequences that maternal immune system activation during pregnancy has on the cellular architecture of the developing brain.
Mephedrone (4-methylmethcathinone) is a -ketoamphetamine with close structural analogy to substituted amphetamines and cathinone derivatives. Abuse of mephedrone has increased dramatically in recent years and has become a significant public health problem in the United States and Europe. Unfortunately, very little information is available on the pharmacological and neurochemical actions of mephedrone. In light of the proven abuse potential of mephedrone and considering its similarity to methamphetamine and methcathinone, it is particularly important to know if mephedrone shares with these agents an ability to cause damage to dopamine nerve endings of the striatum. Accordingly, we treated mice with a binge-like regimen of mephedrone (4  20 or 40 mg/kg) and examined the striatum for evidence of neurotoxicity 2 or 7 days after treatment. While mephedrone caused hyperthermia and locomotor stimulation, it did not lower striatal levels of dopamine, tyrosine hydroxylase or the dopamine transporter under any of the treatment conditions used presently. Furthermore, mephedrone did not cause microglial activation in striatum nor did it increase glial fibrillary acidic protein levels. Taken together, these surprising results suggest that mephedrone, despite its numerous mechanistic overlaps with methamphetamine and the cathinone derivatives, does not cause neurotoxicity to dopamine nerve endings of the striatum.
Several prior investigations of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients have indicated naturally occurring autoantibodies against amyloid- (A) species are produced. Although many studies have focused on the relative concentrations or binding affinities of autoantibodies against A-related proteins in AD and aging, data regarding their functional properties are limited. It is generally believed that these antibodies act to aid in clearance of A. However, as antibodies which bind to A also typically bind to the parent amyloid precursor protein (APP), we reasoned that certain A-targeting autoantibodies may bind to APP thereby altering its conformation and processing. Here we show for the first time, that naturally occurring A-reactive autoantibodies isolated from AD patients, but not from healthy controls, promote -secretase activity in cultured cells. Furthermore, using monoclonal antibodies to various regions of A, we found that antibodies generated against the N-terminal region, especially A(1-17) , dose dependently promoted amyloidogenic processing of APP via-secretase activation. Thus, this property of certain autoantibodies in driving A generation could be of etiological importance in the development of sporadic forms of AD. Furthermore, future passive or active anti-A immunotherapies must consider potential off-target effects resulting from antibodies targeting the N-terminus of A, as co-binding to the corresponding region of APP may actually enhance A generation.
Microglia are the resident immune cells within the brain and their production of immune molecules such as cytokines and chemokines is critical for the processes of normal brain development including neurogenesis, axonal migration, synapse formation, and programmed cell death. Notably, sex differences exist in many of these processes throughout brain development; however, it is unknown whether a sex difference concurrently exists in the colonization, number, or morphology of microglia within the developing brain. We demonstrate for the first time that the number and morphology of microglia throughout development is dependent upon the sex and age of the individual, as well as the brain region of interest. Males have overall more microglia early in postnatal development [postnatal day (P) 4], whereas females have more microglia with an activated/amoeboid morphology later in development, as juveniles and adults (P30-60). Finally, gene expression of a large number of cytokines, chemokines and their receptors shifts dramatically over development, and is highly dependent upon sex. Taken together, these data warrant further research into the role that sex-dependent mechanisms may play in microglial colonization, number, and function, and their potential contribution to neural development, function, or potential dysfunction.
Exposure to psychostimulants results in neuroadaptive changes of the mesencephalic dopaminergic system including morphological reorganization of dopaminergic neurons. Increased dendrite arborization and soma area were previously observed in primary cultures of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons after 3-day exposure to dopamine agonists via activation of D(3) autoreceptors (D(3) R). In this work, we showed that cocaine significantly increased dendritic arborization and soma area of dopaminergic neurons from E12.5 mouse embryos by activating phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and thymoma viral proto-oncogene (Akt). These effects were dependent on functional D(3) R expression because cocaine did not produce morphological changes or ERK/Akt phosphorylation neither in primary cultures of D(3) R mutant mice nor following pharmacologic blockade with D(3) R antagonists SB-277011-A and S-33084. Cocaine effects on morphology and ERK/Akt phosphorylation were inhibited by pre-incubation with the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor LY294002. These observations were corroborated in vivo by morphometrical assessment of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons of P1 newborns exposed to cocaine from E12.5 to E16.5. Cocaine increased the soma area of wild-type but not of D(3) R mutant mice, supporting the translational value of primary culture. These findings indicate a direct involvement of D3R and ERK/Akt pathways as critical mediators of cocaine-induced structural plasticity, suggesting their involvement in psychostimulant addiction.
Synaptic remodeling has been postulated as a mechanism underlying synaptic plasticity and cell adhesion molecules are thought to contribute to this process. We examined the role of nectin-1 ectodomain shedding on synaptogenesis in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. Nectins are Ca(2+) -independent immunoglobulin-like adhesion molecules, involved in cell-cell adherens junctions. Herein, we show that the processing of nectin-1 occurs by multiple endoproteolytic steps both in vivo and in vitro. We identified regions containing two distinct cleavage sites within the ectodomain of nectin-1. By alanine scanning mutagenesis, two point mutations that disrupt nectin-1 ectodomain cleavage events were identified. Expression of these mutants significantly alters the density of dendritic spines. These findings suggest that ectodomain shedding of nectin-1 regulates dendritic spine density and related synaptic functions.
Recent studies suggest that l-3,4 dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia (LID), a severe complication of conventional L-DOPA therapy of Parkinson's disease, may be caused by dopamine (DA) release originating in serotonergic neurons. To evaluate the in vivo effect of a 5-HT(1A) agonist [()-8-hydroxy-2-(dipropylamino) tetralin hydrobromide, 8-OHDPAT] on the L-DOPA-induced increase in extracellular DA and decrease in [(11) C]raclopride binding in an animal model of advanced Parkinson's disease and LID, we measured extracellular DA in response to L-DOPA or a combination of L-DOPA and the 5-HT(1A) agonist, 8-OHDPAT, with microdialysis, and determined [(11) C]raclopride binding to DA receptors, with micro-positron emission tomography, as the surrogate marker of DA release. Rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions had micro-positron emission tomography scans with [(11) C]raclopride at baseline and after two pharmacological challenges with L-DOPA+benserazide with or without 8-OHDPAT co-treatment. Identical challenge regimens were used with the subsequent microdialysis concomitant with ratings of LID severity. The baseline increase of [(11) C]raclopride-binding potential (BP(ND) ) in lesioned striatum was eliminated by the L-DOPA challenge, while the concurrent administration of 8-OHDPAT prevented this L-DOPA-induced displacement of [(11) C]raclopride significantly in lesioned ventral striatum and near significantly in the dorsal striatum. With microdialysis, the L-DOPA challenge raised the extracellular DA in parallel with the emergence of strong LID. Co-treatment with 8-OHDPAT significantly attenuated the release of extracellular DA and LID. The 8-OHDPAT co-treatment reversed the L-DOPA-induced decrease of [(11) C]raclopride binding and increase of extracellular DA and reduced the severity of LID. The reversal of the effect of L-DOPA on [(11) C]raclopride binding, extracellular DA and LID by 5-HT agonist administration is consistent with the notion that part of the DA increase associated with LID originates in serotonergic neurons.
cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) plays a critical role in nervous system development by modulating sonic hedgehog and bone morphogenetic protein signaling. In the current studies, P19 embryonic carcinoma cells were neuronally differentiated by expression of the proneural basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor Ascl1. After expression of Ascl1, but prior to expression of neuronal markers such as microtubule associated protein 2 and neuronal -tubulin, P19 cells demonstrated a large, transient increase in both mRNA and protein for the endogenous protein kinase inhibitor (PKI). PKI-targeted shRNA constructs both reduced the levels of PKI expression and blocked the neuronal differentiation of P19 cells. This inhibition of differentiation was rescued by transfection of a shRNA-resistant expression vector for the PKI protein, and this rescue required the PKA-specific inhibitory sequence of the PKI protein. PKI played a very specific role in the Ascl1-mediated differentiation process as other PKI isoforms were unable to rescue the deficit conferred by shRNA-mediated knockdown of PKI. Our results define a novel requirement for PKI and its inhibition of PKA during neuronal differentiation of P19 cells.
Physical activity has an impact on several endocrine functions. During exercise, certain endocrine adjustments are required to maintain the homeostasis. It is well known that, depending on the intensity and duration, exercise stimulates the release of the hormone prolactin (PRL). After the cessation of acute exercise, this effect persist and continues during the recovery period. Chronic exercise can affect the PRL basal concentration and/or the PRL response to acute exercise. The main functions of PRL are associated with the maintenance of homeostasis and processes of reproduction. A role for PRL also has been recognised as an important regulator of cellular proliferation. The present review examines the exercise-induced acute or adaptive responses of PRL secretion. It is also hypothesised that increased concentrations of PRL during exercise could play an important role for neuroplasticity as a result of involvement of the hormone in the neurogenesis in subventricular zone of the adult brain.









Nitric oxide has been implicated in the regulation of enzyme activity, particularly the activity of metalloproteinases. Since the inducible form of the nitric oxide synthase (NOS2), is upregulated in Alzheimer's disease, we investigated the activity of two amyloid  degrading enzymes, IDE and neprilysin. In vitro we demonstrated that the activity of IDE was inhibited by *NO donor Sin-1, whereas activity of neprilysin remained unaffected. In vivo the activity of insulin-degrading enzyme was lowered in APP/PS1 mice, but not in APP/PS1/NOS2(-/-) mice. These data suggest that NOS2 upregulation impairs amyloid  degradation through negative regulation of IDE activity and thus loss of NOS2 activity will positively influence amyloid  clearance.
The growing family of interleukin (IL)-12-like cytokines produced by activated macrophages and dendritic cells became the important players in the control of infections, development of inflammation, autoimmunity and cancer. However, the role of one of them-heterodimer IL-23, which consists of IL12p40 and the unique p19 subunit in HIV-1 infection pathogenesis and progression to AIDS, represent special interest. We overviewed findings of IL-23 involvement in control of peripheral bacterial pathogens and opportunistic infection, central nervous system (CNS) viral infections and autoimmune disorders, and tumorogenesis, which potentially could be applicable to HIV-1 and AIDS.
Studies of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) in rheumatoid arthritis imply that inflammation is important in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, these drugs have not alleviated the symptoms of AD in those who have already developed dementia. This suggests that the primary mediator targeted by these drugs, PGE2, is not actively suppressing memory function in AD. Amyloid- oligomers appear to be important for the mild cognitive changes seen in AD transgenic mice, yet amyloid immunotherapy has also proven unsuccessful in clinical trials. Collectively, these findings indicate that NSAIDs may target a prodromal process in mice that has already passed in those diagnosed with AD, and that synaptic and neuronal loss are key determinants of cognitive dysfunction in AD. While the role of inflammation has not yet become clear, inflammatory processes definitely have a negative impact on cognitive function during episodes of delirium during dementia. Delirium is an acute and profound impairment of cognitive function frequently occurring in aged and demented patients exposed to systemic inflammatory insults, which is now recognised to contribute to long-term cognitive decline. Recent work in animal models is beginning to shed light on the interactions between systemic inflammation and CNS pathology in these acute exacerbations of dementia. This review will assess the role of prostaglandin synthesis in the memory impairments observed in dementia and delirium and will examine the relative contribution of amyloid, synaptic and neuronal loss. We will also discuss how understanding the role of inflammatory mediators in delirious episodes will have major implications for ameliorating the rate of decline in the demented population.
A hallmark of the aged immune system is impaired immunoregulation of the innate and adaptive immune system in the periphery and also in the central nervous system (CNS). Impaired immunoregulation may predispose older individuals to an increased frequency of peripheral infections with concomitant cognitive and behavioral complications. Thus, normal aging is hypothesized to alter the highly coordinated interactions between the immune system and the brain. In support of this notion, mounting evidence in rodent models indicate that the increased inflammatory status of the brain is associated with increased reactivity of microglia, the innate immune cells of the CNS. Understanding how immunity is affected with age is important because CNS immune cells play an integral role in propagating inflammatory signals that are initiated in the periphery. Increased reactivity of microglia sets the stage for an exaggerated inflammatory cytokine response following activation of the peripheral innate immune system that is paralleled by prolonged sickness, depressive-like complications and cognitive impairment. Moreover, amplified neuroinflammation negatively affects several aspects of neural plasticity (e.g., neurogenesis, long-term potentiation, and dendritic morphology) that can contribute to the severity of neurological complications. The purpose of this review is to discuss several key peripheral and central immune changes that impair the coordinated response between the immune system and the brain and result in behavioral and cognitive deficits.
Cognitive decline is a common problem of aging. Whereas multiple neural and glial mechanisms may account for these declines, microglial sensitization and/or dystrophy has emerged as a leading culprit in brain aging and dysfunction. However, glial activation is consistently observed in normal brain aging as well, independent of frank neuroinflammation or functional impairment. Such variability suggests the existence of additional vulnerability factors that can impact neuronal-glial interactions and thus overall brain and cognitive health. The goal of this review is to elucidate our working hypothesis that an individual's risk or resilience to neuroinflammatory disorders and poor cognitive aging may critically depend on their early life experience, which can change immune reactivity within the brain for the remainder of the lifespan. For instance, early-life infection in rats can profoundly disrupt memory function in young adulthood, as well as accelerate age-related cognitive decline, both of which are linked to enduring changes in glial function that occur in response to the initial infection. We discuss these findings within the context of the growing literature on the role of immune molecules and neuroimmune crosstalk in normal brain development. We highlight the intrinsic factors (e.g., chemokines, hormones) that regulate microglial development and their colonization of the embryonic and postnatal brain, and the capacity for disruption or &quot;re-programming&quot; of this crucial process by external events (e.g., stress, infection). An impact on glia, which in turn alters neural development, has the capacity to profoundly impact cognitive and mental health function at all stages of life.

Acute intoxication with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) induces nigrostriatal neurodegeneration that reflects Parkinson's disease (PD) pathobiology. The model is commonly used for rodent studies of PD pathogenesis and diagnostics and for developmental therapeutics. However, tests of motor function in MPTP-intoxicated mice have yielded mixed results. This unmet need reflects, in part, lesion severity, animal variability, and the overall test sensitivity and specificity. In attempts to standardize rodent motor function and behavioral tests, mice were trained on the rotarod or habituated in an open field test chamber, and baseline performance measurements were collected prior to MPTP intoxication. One week following MPTP intoxication, motor function and behavior were assessed and baseline measurements applied to post-MPTP measurements with normalization to PBS controls. Rotarod and open field tests assessed in this manner demonstrated significant differences between MPTP- and saline-treated mice, while tests of neuromuscular strength and endurance did not. We conclude that the rotarod and open field tests provide reliable measures of motor function for MPTP-intoxicated mice.
We present neuroimages for a patient in a locked-in state with reversed flow in the anterior spinal artery as a result of bilateral distal vertebral artery occlusion. Following vertebral artery stenting, there is markedly improved flow in the posterior circulation and significant neurological recovery.
Needle electromyography (EMG) is an established method of evaluating motor unit and muscle fibre function and pathology in clinical practice, while the development of advanced techniques including single-fibre EMG and combined recordings with other modalities have become increasingly useful in research. The development of quantitative EMG in particular had led to greater reproducibility and inter-rater reliability. This review provides an overview of standard needle EMG as well as discussing advanced recording and analysis techniques and their increasing role in clinical research.
In order to determine the relationship between regional neuropathology and severity of clinical features in Richardson's syndrome (PSP-RS), the following hypotheses were tested: (1) executive dysfunction relates to prefrontal pathology; (2) language difficulties to pathology in Broca's area and/or the perirhinal cortex; and (3) visuospatial impairment to pathology in the supramarginal region. A prospectively studied case series of brain donors at a specialist clinic in Addenbrooke's Hospital Cambridge, UK, were examined. All those fulfilling postmortem criteria for PSP-RS and their last cognitive assessment within 24 months of death (N = 11/25) were included. The degree of regional neuronal loss and neuronal tau deposition across a number of cortical brain regions was performed and compared to 10 age- and sex-matched controls from the Sydney Brain Bank. Stepwise multiple linear regressions were used to determine the neuropathological correlates to cognitive scores and revealed the following. Executive dysfunction, as indexed by letter fluency, related to the degree of tau deposition in the superior frontal gyrus and supramarginal cortices (p &lt; 0.020), language deficits related to neuron loss in the perirhinal gyrus (p &lt; 0.001) and tau deposition in Broca's area (p = 0.020), while visuospatial dysfunction and global cognitive impairment related to tau deposition in the supramarginal gyrus (p &lt; 0.007). The severity of cognitive deficits relate to regional cortical tau deposition in PSP-RS, although language impairment related to neuronal loss in the perirhinal region. Global cognitive dysfunction related most to the severity of tau deposition in the supramarginal gyrus warranting further research on the role of this brain region in PSP-RS.
The aim of the study was to examine the relationship between EEG abnormalities and the pattern of MRI changes in familial Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (fCJD) patients with E200K mutation. As part of a controlled, prospective study, 13 E200K fCJD patients underwent comprehensive evaluations, with EEG and an extensive MRI protocol that included one of the most prion-disease sensitive sequences, diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI). The relationship between EEG abnormalities and the pattern of DWI hyperintensities was examined. EEG demonstrated the classical CJD finding of PSWC (periodic sharp wave complexes) in five patients (38%) while in eight patients (62%) the EEG showed only slow activity. Six patients showed the typical cortical changes on MRI, and in five of them (83%) concordance between the MRI and the EEG was found. Five patients had isolated basal ganglia involvement per MRI, and in two of them (40%) concordance between the MRI and the EEG laterality was found. In the remaining two patients MRI did not show any changes suggesting CJD and EEG showed focal slow activity. The EEG of our E200K fCJD patients appears similar to that of the largest prion disease patient group, sporadic CJD (sCJD). EEG abnormalities in E200K fCJD appear to correlate mainly with cortical pathology, as revealed by DWI, rather than basal ganglia pathology. The observation that PSWC abnormalities reflect cortical rather than basal ganglia pathology is significant with respect to theories of the origins of EEG abnormalities in prion disease.




The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of anion size and the contribution of the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) and the transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (TRPV1) channel on sodium-taste responses in rat chorda tympani (CT) neurons. We recorded multiunit responses from the severed CT nerve and single-cell responses from intact, narrowly tuned and broadly tuned, salt-sensitive neurons in the geniculate ganglion simultaneously with stimulus-evoked summated potentials to signal when the stimulus contacted the lingual epithelium. Artificial saliva served as the rinse and solvent for all stimuli (0.3 M NH(4)Cl, 0.5 M sucrose, 0.03-0.5 M NaCl, 0.01 M citric acid, 0.02 M quinine hydrochloride, 0.1 M KCl, and 0.03-0.5 M Na-gluconate). We used the pharmacological antagonist benzamil to assess NaCl responses mediated by ENaC, and SB-366791 and cetylpyridinium chloride to assess responses mediated by TRPV1. CT nerve responses were greater to NaCl than Na-gluconate at each concentration; this was attributed mostly to broadly tuned, acid-generalist neurons that responded with higher frequency and shorter latency to NaCl than Na-gluconate. In contrast, narrowly tuned NaCl-specialist neurons responded more similarly to the two salts, but with subtle differences in temporal pattern. Benzamil reduced CT nerve and single-cell responses only of narrowly tuned neurons to NaCl. Surprisingly, SB-366791 and cetylpyridinium chloride were without effect on CT nerve or single-cell NaCl responses. Collectively, our data demonstrate the critical role that apical ENaCs in fungiform papillae play in processing information about sodium by peripheral gustatory neurons; the role of TRPV1 channels is an enigma.
Covert attention modulates saccadic performance, e.g., the abrupt onset of a task-irrelevant visual stimulus grabs attention as measured by a decrease in saccadic reaction time (SRT). The attentional advantage bestowed by the task-irrelevant stimulus is short-lived: SRT is actually longer ~200 ms after the onset of a stimulus than it is when no stimulus appears, known as inhibition of return. The mechanism by which attention modulates saccadic reaction is not well-understood. Here, we propose two possible mechanisms: by selective routing of the visuomotor signal through different pathways (routing hypothesis) or by general modulation of the speed of visuomotor transformation (shifting hypothesis). To test them, we designed a cue gap paradigm in which a 100-ms gap was introduced between the fixation point disappearance and the target appearance to the conventional cued visual reaction time paradigm. The cue manipulated the location of covert attention, and the gap interval resulted in a bimodal distribution of SRT, with an early mode (express saccade) and a late mode (regular saccade). The routing hypothesis predicts changes in the proportion of express saccades vs. regular saccades, whereas the shifting hypothesis predicts a shift of SRT distribution. The addition of the cue had no effect on mean reaction time of express and regular saccades, but it changed the relative proportion of two modes. These results demonstrate that the covert attention modification of the mean SRT is largely attributed to selective routing between visuomotor pathways rather than general modulation of the speed of visuomotor transformation.
A compelling idea in cognitive neuroscience links motor control and action observation. Recent work supports the idea that a link exists not just between action observation and action planning, but between observation and motor learning. Several studies support the idea that cortical regions that underlie active motor learning also play a role in motor learning by observing. The goal of the present study was to test whether motor learning by observing is effector dependent (as in active motor learning) or effector independent (as in studies of action observation and mirror neurons). Right-handed human subjects observed a video depicting another individual learning to reach to visual targets in a force field (FF). The video showed reaching in a clockwise FF (CWFF) or a counter-clockwise FF (CCWFF), and depicted an individual reaching with the right or left arm. After observation, all subjects were asked to reach in a CWFF, using their right arm. As in our prior studies, subjects who observed a CWFF prior to the CWFF test performed better than subjects who observed a CCWFF. We show here that this effect was seen both when observers watched others reach using their right arm, and when observers watched others learning to reach using the left arm. These results suggest that information about novel forces learned through observation is represented in an effector-independent coordinate frame, and are consistent with the idea that the brain links not only observation and movement, but motor learning as well, through abstract representations of actions.
Norepinephrine (NE) is an easily oxidized neurotransmitter that is found throughout the brain. Considerable evidence suggests that it plays an important role in neurocircuitry related to fear and anxiety responses. In certain subregions of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), NE is found in large amounts. In this work we probed differences in electrically evoked release of NE and its regulation by the norepinephrine transporter (NET) and the (2)-adrenergic autoreceptor ((2)-AR) in two regions of the BNST of anesthetized rats. NE was monitored in the dorsomedial BNST (dmBNST) and ventral BNST (vBNST) by fast-scan cyclic voltammetry at carbon fiber microelectrodes. Pharmacological agents were introduced either by systemic application (intraperitoneal injection) or by local application (iontophoresis). The iontophoresis barrels were attached to a carbon fiber microelectrode to allow simultaneous detection of evoked NE release and quantitation of iontophoretic delivery. Desipramine (DMI), an inhibitor of NET, increased evoked release and slowed clearance of released NE in both regions independent of the mode of delivery. However, the effects of DMI were more robust in the vBNST than in the dmBNST. Similarly, the (2)-AR autoreceptor inhibitor idazoxan (IDA) enhanced NE release in both regions but to a greater extent in the vBNST by both modes of delivery. Since both local application by iontophoresis and systemic application of IDA had similar effects on NE release, our results indicate that terminal autoreceptors play a predominant role in the inhibition of subsequent release.
Recent evidence shows that brain-derived steroids such as estrogens (&quot;neuroestrogens&quot;) are controlled in a manner very similar to traditional neurotransmitters. The advent of in vivo microdialysis for steroids in songbirds has provided new information about the spatial and temporal dynamics of neuroestrogen changes in a region of the auditory cortex, the caudomedial nidopallium (NCM). Here, experiments using in vivo microdialysis demonstrate that neuroestradiol (E(2)) fluctuations occur within the auditory NCM during presentation of naturalistic auditory and visual stimuli in males but only to the presentation of auditory stimuli in females. These changes are acute (within 30 min) and appear to be specific to the NCM, because similar treatments elicit no changes in E(2) in a nearby mesopallial region or in circulating plasma. Further experiments coupling in vivo steroid microdialysis with extracellular recordings in NCM show that neuroestrogens rapidly boost auditory responses to song stimuli in females, similar to recent observations in males. We also find that the rapid actions of estradiol on auditory responses are fully mimicked by the cell membrane-impermeable estrogen biotinylestradiol, consistent with acute estrogen actions at the neuronal membrane. Thus we conclude that local and acute E(2) flux is regulated by convergent multimodal sensory input, and that this regulation appears to be sex-specific. Second, rapid changes in local E(2) levels in NCM have consequences for the modulation of auditory processing in females and males. Finally, the rapid actions of neuroestrogens on NCM auditory processing appear to be mediated by a nonclassical, membrane-bound estrogen receptor.
The effect of interleukin-1 (IL-1) on the electrical properties of sensory neurons was assessed at levels and exposure times comparable to those found in animal models of neuropathic pain. Experiments involved whole cell current-clamp recordings from rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in defined-medium, neuron-enriched cultures. Five- to six-day exposure to 100 pM IL-1 produced subpopulation-dependent effects on DRG neurons. These included an increase in the excitability of medium-diameter and small-diameter isolectin B(4) (IB(4))-positive neurons that was comparable to that found after peripheral nerve injury. By contrast, a reduction in excitability was observed in large-diameter neurons, while no effect was found in small-diameter IB(4)-negative neurons. Further characterization of changes in medium and small IB(4)-positive neurons revealed that some, but not all, effects of IL-1 were mediated through its receptor, IL-1RI. Although the acute actions of IL-1 on sensory neurons have been well studied and related to acute and/or inflammatory pain, the present study shows how sensory neurons respond to long-term cytokine exposure. Such effects are relevant to understanding processes that contribute to the onset of neuropathic pain.
The supplementary eye fields (SEF) are thought to enable higher-level aspects of oculomotor control. The goal of the present experiment was to learn more about the SEF's role in orienting, specifically by examining neck muscle recruitment evoked by stimulation of the SEF. Neck muscle activity was recorded from multiple muscles in two monkeys during SEF stimulation (100 A, 150-300 ms, 300 Hz, with the head restrained or unrestrained) delivered 200 ms into a gap period, before a visually guided saccade initiated from a central position (doing so avoids confounds between initial position and prestimulation neck muscle activity). SEF stimulation occasionally evoked overt gaze shifts and/or head movements but almost always evoked a response that invariably consisted of a contralateral head turning synergy by increasing activity on contralateral turning muscles and decreasing activity on ipsilateral turning muscles (when background activity was present). Neck muscle responses began well in advance of evoked gaze shifts (~30 ms after stimulation onset, leading gaze shifts by ~40-70 ms on average), started earlier and attained a larger magnitude when accompanied by progressively larger gaze shifts, and persisted on trials without overt gaze shifts. The patterns of evoked neck muscle responses resembled those evoked by frontal eye field (FEF) stimulation, except that response latencies from the SEF were ~10 ms longer. This basic description of the cephalomotor command evoked by SEF stimulation suggests that this structure, while further removed from the motor periphery than the FEF, accesses premotor orienting circuits in the brain stem and spinal cord in a similar manner.
Whether a link exists between the two orienting processes of saccade preparation and visuospatial attention has typically been studied by using either sensory cues or predetermined rules that instruct subjects where to allocate these limited resources. In the real world, explicit instructions are not always available and presumably expectations shaped by previous experience play an important role in the allocation of these processes. Here we examined whether manipulating two experiential factors that clearly influence saccade preparation--the probability and timing of saccadic responses--also influences the allocation of visuospatial attention. Occasionally, a visual probe was presented whose spatial location and time of presentation varied relative to those of the saccade target. The proportion of erroneous saccades directed toward this probe indexed saccade preparation, and the proportion of correct discriminations of probe orientation indexed visuospatial attention. Overall, preparation and attention were significantly correlated to each other across these manipulations of saccade probability and timing. Saccade probability influenced both preparation and attention processes, whereas saccade timing influenced only preparation processes. Unexpectedly, discrimination ability was not improved in those trials in which the probe triggered an erroneous saccade despite particularly heightened levels of saccade preparation. To account for our results, we propose a conceptual dual-purpose threshold model based on neurophysiological considerations that link the processes of saccade preparation and visuospatial attention. The threshold acts both as the minimum activity level required for eliciting saccades and a maximum level for which neural activity can provide attentional benefits.
Attention influences visual processing in striate and extrastriate cortex, which has been extensively studied for spatial-, object-, and feature-based attention. Most studies exploring neural signatures of feature-based attention have trained animals to attend to an object identified by a certain feature and ignore objects/displays identified by a different feature. Little is known about the effects of feature-selective attention, where subjects attend to one stimulus feature domain (e.g., color) of an object while features from different domains (e.g., direction of motion) of the same object are ignored. To study this type of feature-selective attention in area MT in the middle temporal sulcus, we trained macaque monkeys to either attend to and report the direction of motion of a moving sine wave grating (a feature for which MT neurons display strong selectivity) or attend to and report its color (a feature for which MT neurons have very limited selectivity). We hypothesized that neurons would upregulate their firing rate during attend-direction conditions compared with attend-color conditions. We found that feature-selective attention significantly affected 22% of MT neurons. Contrary to our hypothesis, these neurons did not necessarily increase firing rate when animals attended to direction of motion but fell into one of two classes. In one class, attention to color increased the gain of stimulus-induced responses compared with attend-direction conditions. The other class displayed the opposite effects. Feature-selective activity modulations occurred earlier in neurons modulated by attention to color compared with neurons modulated by attention to motion direction. Thus feature-selective attention influences neuronal processing in macaque area MT but often exhibited a mismatch between the preferred stimulus dimension (direction of motion) and the preferred attention dimension (attention to color).
Being able to effectively explore the visual world is of fundamental importance, and it has been suggested that the straight-ahead gaze position within the egocentric reference frame (&quot;primary position&quot;) might play a special role in this context. In the present study we employed human electroencephalography (EEG) to examine neural activity related to the spatial guidance of saccadic eye movements. Moreover, we sought to investigate whether such activity would be modulated by the spatial relation of saccade direction to the primary gaze position (recentering saccades). Participants executed endogenously cued saccades between five equidistant locations along the horizontal meridian. This design allowed for the comparison of isoamplitude saccades from the same starting position that were oriented either toward the primary position (centripetal) or further away from it (centrifugal). By back-averaging time-locked to the saccade onset on each trial, we identified a parietally distributed, negative-polarity EEG deflection contralateral to the direction of the upcoming saccade. Importantly, this contralateral presaccadic negativity, which appeared to reflect the location-specific attentional guidance of the eye movement, was attenuated for recentering saccades relative to isoamplitude centrifugal saccades. This differential electrophysiological signature was paralleled by faster saccadic reaction times and was substantially more apparent when time-locking the data to the onset of the saccade rather than to the onset of the cue, suggesting a tight temporal association with saccade initiation. The diminished level of this presaccadic component for recentering saccades may reflect the preferential coding of the straight-ahead gaze position, in which both the eye-centered and head-centered reference frames are perfectly aligned and from which the visual world can be effectively explored.
Potassium currents play key roles in regulating motoneuron activity, including functional specializations that are important for locomotion. The thoracic and abdominal segments in the Drosophila larval ganglion have repeated arrays of motoneurons that innervate body-wall muscles used for peristaltic movements during crawling. Although abdominal motoneurons and their muscle targets have been studied in detail, owing, in part, to their involvement in locomotion, little is known about the cellular properties of motoneurons in thoracic segments. The goal of this study was to compare firing properties among thoracic motoneurons and the potassium currents that influence them. Whole-cell, patch-clamp recordings performed from motoneurons in two thoracic and one abdominal segment revealed both transient and sustained voltage-activated K(+) currents, each with Ca(++)-sensitive and Ca(++)-insensitive [A-type, voltage-dependent transient K(+) current (I(Av))] components. Segmental differences in the expression of voltage-activated K(+) currents were observed. In addition, we demonstrate that Shal contributes to I(Av) currents in the motoneurons of the first thoracic segment.
Neural activity in motor cortex during reach and grasp movements shows modulations in a broad range of signals from single-neuron spiking activity (SA) to various frequency bands in broadband local field potentials (LFPs). In particular, spatiotemporal patterns in multiband LFPs are thought to reflect dendritic integration of local and interareal synaptic inputs, attentional and preparatory processes, and multiunit activity (MUA) related to movement representation in the local motor area. Nevertheless, the relationship between multiband LFPs and SA, and their relationship to movement parameters and their relative value as brain-computer interface (BCI) control signals, remain poorly understood. Also, although this broad range of signals may provide complementary information channels in primary (MI) and ventral premotor (PMv) areas, areal differences in information have not been systematically examined. Here, for the first time, the amount of information in SA and multiband LFPs was compared for MI and PMv by recording from dual 96-multielectrode arrays while monkeys made naturalistic reach and grasp actions. Information was assessed as decoding accuracy for 3D arm end point and grip aperture kinematics based on SA or LFPs in MI and PMv, or combinations of signal types across areas. In contrast with previous studies with 16 simultaneous electrodes, here ensembles of &gt;16 units (on average) carried more information than multiband, multichannel LFPs. Furthermore, reach and grasp information added by various LFP frequency bands was not independent from that in SA ensembles but rather typically less than and primarily contained within the latter. Notably, MI and PMv did not show a particular bias toward reach or grasp for this task or for a broad range of signal types. For BCIs, our results indicate that neuronal ensemble spiking is the preferred signal for decoding, while LFPs and combined signals from PMv and MI can add robustness to BCI control.
A challenge to learning words of a foreign language is encoding nonnative phonemes, a process typically attributed to cortical circuitry. Using multimodal imaging methods [functional magnetic resonance imaging-adaptation (fMRI-A) and auditory brain stem responses (ABR)], we examined the extent to which pretraining pitch encoding in the inferior colliculus (IC), a primary midbrain structure, related to individual variability in learning to successfully use nonnative pitch patterns to distinguish words in American English-speaking adults. fMRI-A indexed the efficiency of pitch representation localized to the IC, whereas ABR quantified midbrain pitch-related activity with millisecond precision. In line with neural &quot;sharpening&quot; models, we found that efficient IC pitch pattern representation (indexed by fMRI) related to superior neural representation of pitch patterns (indexed by ABR), and consequently more successful word learning following sound-to-meaning training. Our results establish a critical role for the IC in speech-sound representation, consistent with the established role for the IC in the representation of communication signals in other animal models.
Existing studies on task switching in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients have led to somewhat different results. In particular, it is unclear whether PD patients have a deficit in attentional control. In this study, we assessed task-switching abilities in samples of non-demented PD patients and elderly controls. We used a paradigm in which there was a random task sequence and the task was cued in every trial. This allowed the investigation of both task-set reconfiguration and task-set dissipation. In terms of the proportion of errors made, the patients showed increased switch cost and congruency effects. For reaction times, PD patients showed enlarged congruency effects on switch trials, specifically in the condition in which we used a short constant response-cue interval (RCI). Nevertheless, in a similar fashion to older controls, the patients showed reductions in reaction time switch cost from a short to a long cue-target interval (CTI) and from a short to a long RCI. While these latter findings, respectively, suggest unimpaired task preparation and task dissipation on correct trials in the PD patients, the overall results show that they have a deficit in biasing and selecting currently relevant task sets and more generally argue in favour of a failure of attentional control in PD.
Ischemia elicits a variety of stress responses in neuronal cells, which result in cell death. wld(S) Mice bear a mutation that significantly delays Wallerian degeneration. This mutation also protects all neuronal cells against other types of stresses resulting in cell death, including ischemia. To clarify the types of stresses that neuronal cell bodies derived from wld(S) mice are protected from, we exposed primary cultured neurons derived from wld(S) mice to various components of hypoxic stress. We found that wld(S) mouse neurons are protected against cellular injury induced by reoxygenation following hypoxic stress. Furthermore, we found that wld(S) mouse neurons are protected against functional impairment of the mitochondrial electron transport chain. These data suggest that Wld(S) protein expression may provide protection against neuronal cell death caused by mechanisms involving mitochondrial electron transport dysfunction.
Olfactory mucosa is a source of cells for transplant-mediated repair of spinal cord injury (SCI) and is currently being assessed in clinical trials. We previously reported that olfactory mucosa can generate two types of sphere-forming cells with stem cell-like properties. Here we have assessed the repair potential of these cells in a rodent SCI model. Sphere-forming cells transplanted into a dorsal column injury integrated with the host spinal cord, filling the injury cavity, but showed no evidence of differentiation in vivo. Moreover, transplants supported robust axonal regeneration, particularly when suspensions of smaller spheres, rather than large aggregates, were transplanted. However, tract-tracing of dorsal column fibers showed that regenerating axons did not extend beyond the transplant. These observations show that undifferentiated olfactory spheres, though capable of supporting axonal regeneration, do not show any advantage over olfactory ensheathing cells isolated from adult olfactory tissue. In addition, olfactory spheres induced a greater astrocytic hypertrophy at the injury site than previously observed for purified olfactory ensheathing cells.
The complex process of microglial activation encompasses several functional activation states associated either with neurotoxic/antineurogenic or with neurotrophic/proneurogenic properties, depending mainly on the extent of activation and the nature of the activating stimuli. Several studies have demonstrated that acute exposure to the prototypical activating agent lipopolysaccharide (LPS) confers antineurogenic properties upon microglial cells. Acutely activated microglia ortheir conditioned media (CM) reduce neural stem progenitor cell (NPC) survival and prevent NPC differentiation into neurons. The present study tested the hypothesis that docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), a long-chain polyunsatured fatty acid (L-PUFA) with potent immunomodulatory properties, could dampen microglial proinflammatory functions and modulate their antineurogenic effect. We demonstrate that DHA dose dependently inhibits the synthesis of inflammatory products in activated microglia without inducing an alternative antiinflammatory phenotype. Among the possible DHA mechanisms of action, we propose the inhibition of p38 MAPK phosphorylation and the activation of the nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator activated receptor (PPAR)-. The attenuation of M1 proinflammatory phenotype has relevant consequences for the survival and differentiation of NPC, because DHA reverses the antineurogenic activities of conditioned media from LPS-activated microglia. Our study identifies new relevant potentially protective and proneurogenic functions of DHA, exerted through the modulation of microglial functions, that could be exploited to sustain or promote neuroregenerative processes in damaged/aged brain.
CNS injury is often localized but can be followed by more widespread secondary degenerative events that usually result in greater functional loss. Using a partial transection model in rat optic nerve (ON). we recently demonstrated in vivo increases in the oxidative stress-associated enzyme MnSOD 5 min after injury. However, mechanisms by which early oxidative stress spreads remain unclear. In the present study, we assessed ion distributions, additional oxidative stress indicators, and ion channel immunoreactivity in ON in the first 24 hr after partial transection. Using nanoscale secondary ion mass spectroscopy (NanoSIMS), we demonstrate changes in the distribution pattern of Ca ions following partial ON transection. Regions of elevated Ca ions in normal ON in vivo rapidly decrease following partial ON transection, but there is an increasingly punctate distribution at 5 min and 24 hr after injury. We also show rapid decreases in catalase activity and later increases in immunoreactivity of the advanced glycation end product carboxymethyl lysine in astrocytes. Increased oxidative stress in astrocytes is accompanied by significantly increased immunoreactivity of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR1 and aquaporin 4 (AQP4). Taken together, the results indicate that Ca ion changes and oxidative stress are early events following partial ON injury that are associated with changes in GluR1 AMPA receptor subunits and altered ionic balance resulting from increased AQP4.
The hippocampus and the striatum have traditionally been considered as part of different and independent memory systems. However, there is evidence that supports a functional interaction between the hippocampus and the dorsal striatum at least in particular learning tasks. Here, we evaluated the functional contribution of both brain regions in a visual discrimination learning task using cytochrome c oxidase (CO) quantitative histochemistry. Compared with other brain metabolic mapping techniques, CO activity reflects steady-state neuronal energy demand. Rats were trained for 6 days in a water T-maze to find a hidden escape platform associated with an intramaze visual cue. A control group of animals swam for an equivalent amount of time compared as the trained group but without any escape platform available. After finishing the behavioral task, CO activity was measured in subdivisions of the dorsal hippocampus and the dorsal striatum in both groups. Results show significantly higher CO activity in the CA1 area and the dentate gyrus of the dorsal hippocampus in the trained rats compared with the control group. In addition, a significant negative functional cross-correlation between area CA1 of the dorsal hippocampus and the anterodorsal striatum was found. Our results support current theories on competitive interaction of different memory systems during visual discrimination learning.






When Chaplaincy and Psychiatry examine their own methodologies, do they work to reduce age-old barriers, thereby involving each other to promote holistic patient care? Chaplaincy trains in self-awareness and pastoral care specializing in religion, spirituality, grief and loss; while Psychiatry trains in medicine, neurology, and the behavioral neurosciences. Relationships across disciplines with common interests are vital. Ongoing dialogue between these professions will enhance the shared goals of coping and healing in the communities they serve.
The absence or a prolonged latency of late responses, like F-waves, is a common neurophysiological finding with diagnostic utility in the early Guillain-Barr syndrome. However, the presence and the number of repeater F-waves have not been studied in this disease. In four patients, we report the transient presence of repeater F-waves in nerves of the lower limbs shortly after the onset of the disease. In each patient, the initial (diagnostic) nerve conduction study showed a high incidence of repeater F-waves in the tibial or in the peroneal nerves of one side, with normal distal motor latencies; in the other nerves explored the F-waves were fully abolished and the motor potentials were abnormal. In a second study, done 2-6 weeks later, we observed the abolition of the F-waves or a significant increase of its minimal latency in those nerves in which we had detected the repeaters. The presence of a high number of repeater F-waves with normal latencies in some nerves may be a transient and initial electrophysiological sign useful in the early diagnosis of this disease.
Uniform conduction slowing has been considered a characteristic of inherited demyelinating neuropathies. We present an 18-year-old girl, born from first cousins, that presented a late motor and psychological development, cerebellar ataxia, facial diplegia, abnormal eye movement, scoliosis, and corpus callosum agenesis, whose compound muscle action potentials were slowed and dispersed. A mutation was found on KCC3 gene, confirming Andermann syndrome, a disease that must be included in the differential diagnosis of inherited neuropathies with non-uniform conduction slowing.
The prenatal and infantile neuropathies are an uncommon and complex group of conditions, most of which are genetic. Despite advances in diagnostic techniques, approximately half of children presenting in infancy remain without a specific diagnosis. This review focuses on inherited demyelinating neuropathies presenting in the first year of life. We clarify the nomenclature used in these disorders, review the clinical features of demyelinating forms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease with early onset, and discuss the demyelinating infantile neuropathies associated with central nervous system involvement. Useful clinical, neurophysiologic, and neuropathologic features in the diagnostic work-up of these conditions are also presented.
This review provides an overview of selected aspects of peripheral nerve regeneration and potential avenues to explore therapeutically. The overall coordinated and orchestrated pattern of recovery from peripheral nerve injury has a beauty of execution and progress that rivals all other forms of neurobiology. It involves changes at the level of the perikaryon, coordination with important peripheral glial partners, the Schwann cells, a controlled inflammatory response, and growth that overcomes surprising intrinsic roadblocks. Both regenerative axon growth and collateral sprouting encompass fascinating aspects of this story. Better understanding of peripheral nerve regeneration may also lead to enhanced central nervous system recovery.
Previous studies have shown that female rats exhibit enhanced cocaine seeking during multiple phases of cocaine addiction compared with males. The orexin/hypocretin system recently has been implicated in drug addiction in male rats. Based on the known sex differences in cocaine addiction, in the current study we examined orexin-mediated cocaine seeking during self-administration, extinction, and reinstatement in age-matched male (initial weight 250-300 g) and female (initial weight 175-225 g) Sprague-Dawley rats by using the orexin-1 receptor (OX1R) antagonist 1-(2-methylbenzoxazol-6-yl)-3-[1,5]naphthyridin-4-yl urea (SB-334867) (10-30 mg/kg). OX1R blockade had no effect on established cocaine self-administration, but attenuated cocaine seeking during extinction in both male and female rats. It is noteworthy that OX1R blockade potently attenuated cue-induced reinstatement in males but had no effect on females. SB-334867 also reduced cocaine seeking during pharmacological stress-induced (yohimbine, 2.5 mg/kg) and yohimbine + cue-induced reinstatement in both sexes. SB-334867 failed to affect reinstatement induced by cocaine (10 mg/kg) in either male or female rats, but selectively reduced cocaine + cue-induced reinstatement only in males. In separate experiments examining basal and cocaine-induced locomotion, SB-334867 attenuated locomotion in both male and female rats. Finally, assessment of plasma and brain levels of SB-334867 showed that estrus females had slightly higher plasma levels than diestrus females, but no overall sex differences or estrous cycle differences were observed in plasma or brain SB-334867 concentrations. These results show that OX1R signaling plays a role in mediating cocaine seeking, but differs between the sexes for cue-induced reinstatement.
Various neurodegenerative diseases and psychiatric disorders are marked by alterations in brain cholinergic function and cognitive deficits. Efforts to alleviate such deficits have been limited by a lack of selective M(1) muscarinic agonists. 5-(3-Ethyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl)-1,4,5,6-tetrahydropyrimidine hydrochloride (CDD-0102A) is a partial agonist at M(1) muscarinic receptors with limited activity at other muscarinic receptor subtypes. The present studies investigated the effects of CDD-0102A on working memory and strategy shifting in rats. CDD-0102A administered intraperitoneally 30 min before testing at 0.1, 0.3, and 1 mg/kg significantly enhanced delayed spontaneous alternation performance in a four-arm cross maze, suggesting improvement in working memory. In separate experiments, CDD-0102A had potent enhancing effects on learning and switching between a place and visual cue discrimination. Treatment with CDD-0102A did not affect acquisition of either a place or visual cue discrimination. In contrast, CDD-0102A at 0.03 and 0.1 mg/kg significantly enhanced a shift between a place and visual cue discrimination. Analysis of the errors in the shift to the place or shift to the visual cue strategy revealed that in both cases CDD-0102A significantly increased the ability to initially inhibit a previously relevant strategy and maintain a new, relevant strategy once selected. In anesthetized rats, the minimum dose required to induce salivation was approximately 0.3 mg/kg i.p. Salivation increased with dose, and the estimated ED(50) was 2.0 mg/kg. The data suggest that CDD-0102A has unique memory and cognitive enhancing properties that might be useful in the treatment of neurological disorders at doses that do not produce adverse effects such as salivation.
The potential efficacy of GABA(B) receptor agonists in the treatment of pain, drug addiction, epilepsy, cognitive dysfunctions, and anxiety disorders is supported by extensive preclinical and clinical evidence. However, the numerous side effects produced by the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen considerably limit the therapeutic use of this compound. The identification of positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) of the GABA(B) receptor may constitute a novel approach in the pharmacological manipulation of the GABA(B) receptor, leading to fewer side effects. The present study reports the identification of two novel compounds, methyl 2-(1-adamantanecarboxamido)-4-ethyl-5-methylthiophene-3-carboxylate (COR627) and methyl 2-(cyclohexanecarboxamido)-4-ethyl-5-methylthiophene-3-carboxylate (COR628), which act as GABA(B) PAMs in 1) rat cortical membranes and 2) in vivo assay. Both compounds potentiated GABA- and baclofen-stimulated guanosine 5'-O-(3-[(35)S]thio)-triphosphate binding to native GABA(B) receptors, while producing no effect when given alone. GABA concentration-response curves in the presence of fixed concentrations of COR627 and COR628 revealed an increase of potency of GABA rather than its maximal efficacy. In radioligand binding experiments [displacement of the GABA(B) receptor antagonist, 3-N-[1-((S)-3,4dichlorophenyl)-ethylaminol]-2-(S)hydroxypropyl cyclo-hexylmethyl phosphinic acid ([(3)H]CGP54626)], both COR627 and COR628 increased the affinity of high- and low-affinity binding sites for GABA, producing no effect when administered alone up to a concentration of 1 mM. In vivo experiments indicated that pretreatment with per se ineffective doses of COR627 and COR628 potentiated the sedative/hypnotic effect of baclofen. In conclusion, COR627 and COR628 may represent two additional tools for use in investigating the roles and functions of positive allosteric modulatory binding sites of the GABA(B) receptor.
The distinctive umami taste elicited by l-glutamate and some other amino acids is thought to be initiated by G-protein-coupled receptors. Proposed umami receptors include heteromers of taste receptor type 1, members 1 and 3 (T1R1+T1R3), and metabotropic glutamate receptors 1 and 4 (mGluR1 and mGluR4). Multiple lines of evidence support the involvement of T1R1+T1R3 in umami responses of mice. Although several studies suggest the involvement of receptors other than T1R1+T1R3 in umami, the identity of those receptors remains unclear. Here, we examined taste responsiveness of umami-sensitive chorda tympani nerve fibres from wild-type mice and mice genetically lacking T1R3 or its downstream transduction molecule, the ion channel TRPM5. Our results indicate that single umami-sensitive fibres in wild-type mice fall into two major groups: sucrose-best (S-type) and monopotassium glutamate (MPG)-best (M-type). Each fibre type has two subtypes; one shows synergism between MPG and inosine monophosphate (S1, M1) and the other shows no synergism (S2, M2). In both T1R3 and TRPM5 null mice, S1-type fibres were absent, whereas S2-, M1- and M2-types remained. Lingual application of mGluR antagonists selectively suppressed MPG responses of M1- and M2-type fibres. These data suggest the existence of multiple receptors and transduction pathways for umami responses in mice. Information initiated from T1R3-containing receptors may be mediated by a transduction pathway including TRPM5 and conveyed by sweet-best fibres, whereas umami information from mGluRs may be mediated by TRPM5-independent pathway(s) and conveyed by glutamate-best fibres.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of melatonin on glucose homeostasis in young male Zucker diabetic fatty (ZDF) rats, an experimental model of metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). ZDF rats (n=30) and lean littermates (ZL) (n=30) were used. At 6wk of age, both lean and fatty animals were subdivided into three groups, each composed of ten rats: naive (N), vehicle treated (V), and melatonin treated (M) (10mg/kg/day) for 6wk. Vehicle and melatonin were added to the drinking water. ZDF rats developed DM (fasting hyperglycemia, 46039.8mg/dL; HbA(1) c 8.30.5%) with both insulin resistance (HOMA-IR 9.280.9 versus 1.20.1 in ZL) and decreased -cell function (HOMA1-%B) by 75%, compared with ZL rats. Melatonin reduced fasting hyperglycemia by 18.6% (P&lt;0.05) and HbA(1) c by 11% (P&lt;0.05) in ZDF rats. Also, melatonin lowered insulinemia by 15.9% (P&lt;0.05) and HOMA-IR by 31% (P&lt;0.01) and increased HOMA1-%B by 14.4% (P&lt;0.05). In addition, melatonin decreased hyperleptinemia by 34% (P&lt;0.001) and raised hypoadiponectinemia by 40% (P&lt;0.001) in ZDF rats. Moreover, melatonin reduced serum free fatty acid levels by 13.5% (P&lt;0.05). These data demonstrate that oral melatonin administration ameliorates glucose homeostasis in young ZDF rats by improving both insulin action and -cell function. These observations have implications on melatonin's possible use as a new pharmacologic therapy for improving glucose homeostasis and of obesity-related T2DM, in young subjects.
In Italy since 15 years huge investments in term of human, material and economical resources have been allocated to prevention. However epidemiological data show unsatisfactory results. It's necessary and urgent to modify the general learning of prevention in order to increase all the actors involved in social and productive system. The aim of our project is to improve competencies and knowledge concerning hygiene in the workplace and prevention of nursing personnel, using cooperative-learning model, concerning the ways of transmission of infectious diseases, so that they will be able to develop their activities and being motivated in the adoption of safety proceedings. The results indicate, in all the participants groups, an improvement of their skills and knowledge about the correct behavioural procedures to limit biological hazards for themselves and for their patients. We observed increased motivation and awareness, a greater ability to take action when they see the adoption of inadequate or incorrect procedures by colleagues.
A self-report version of the Lifetime History of Impulsive Behaviors (LHIB) interview was developed and its psychometric properties examined. Initially, forty-two personality disordered and 20 control subjects completed both the interview (I) and self-report (Q53) versions of the LHIB along with other self-report measures of impulsivity and an assessment of venturesomeness and empathy.The LHIB-Q53 demonstrated good to excellent internal consistency, test-retest reliability, and evidence of convergent and divergent validity. The LHIB-Q53 was then simplified to 20 items and administered to a large population-based sample of adults from the community. Following this, it was administered to nearly 400 subjects with or without histories of Axis I and/or II disorders. The latter two studies demonstrated good to excellent psychometric properties as well as evidence of convergent and divergent validity. Since the LHIB quantifies the occurrence of impulsive behaviors, rather than a self-assessment of a personality trait of impulsivity, we propose that the LHIB-Q20 represents a needed additional assessment of impulsivity for behavioral science research.

The brain has evolved to understand and interact with other people. We are increasingly learning more about the neurophysiological basis of social cognition and what is known as the social brain, that is the network of brain regions involved in understanding others. This paper focuses on how the social brain develops during adolescence. Adolescence is a time characterized by change - hormonally, physically, psychologically and socially. Yet until recently this period of life was neglected by cognitive neuroscience. In the past decade, research has shown that the brain develops both structurally and functionally during adolescence. Large-scale structural MRI studies have demonstrated development during adolescence in white matter and grey matter volumes in regions within the social brain. Activity in some of these regions, as measured using fMRI, also shows changes between adolescence and adulthood during social cognition tasks. I will also present evidence that theory of mind usage is still developing late in adolescence. Finally, I will speculate on potential implications of this research for society.






CD4 T cell activation during peripheral infections not only is essential in inducing protective CD8 T cell memory but also promotes CD8 T cell function and survival. However, the contributions of CD4 T cell help to antiviral CD8 T cell immunity during central nervous system (CNS) infection are not well established. Encephalitis induced by the sublethal coronavirus JHMV was used to identify when CD4 T cells regulate CD8 T cell responses following CNS infection. Peripheral expansion of virus-specific CD8 T cells was impaired when CD4 T cells were ablated prior to infection but not at 4 days postinfection. Delayed CD4 T cell depletion abrogated CD4 T cell recruitment to the CNS but only slightly diminished CD8 T cell recruitment. Nevertheless, the absence of CNS CD4 T cells was associated with reduced gamma interferon (IFN-) and granzyme B expression by infiltrating CD8 T cells, increased CD8 T cell apoptosis, and impaired control of infectious virus. CD4 T cell depletion subsequent to CD4 T cell CNS migration restored CD8 T cell activity and virus control. Analysis of c-dependent cytokine expression indicated interleukin-21 (IL-21) as a primary candidate optimizing CD8 T cell activity within the CNS. These results demonstrate that CD4 T cells play critical roles in both enhancing peripheral activation of CD8 T cells and prolonging their antiviral function within the CNS. The data highlight the necessity for temporally and spatially distinct CD4 T cell helper functions in sustaining CD8 T cell activity during CNS infection.
In many rodent laboratories, blood samples are collected from rats using the tail vein nick procedure and analyzed to quantify blood corticosterone levels as an indicator of stress. The standard method of corticosterone quantification often requires the collection of a relatively large volume of blood, followed by the extraction of the blood plasma. An alternative blood sampling method requires the collection of only a drop of blood on paper (the 'drop' method), minimizing handling of the animals, and does not require plasma extraction. The authors aimed to validate the drop method of blood sampling for use in corticosterone quantification. They induced stress in rats by cerebral ischemia, collected blood samples at various intervals using both the drop method and the plasma extraction method and then quantified corticosterone by radioimmunoassay. Corticosterone levels of the ischemic rats were compared with those of sham-operated rats and those of ischemic rats that had been given metyrapone, a glucocorticoid synthesis inhibitor, prior to vessel occlusion. Blood corticosterone levels in the samples obtained from the same animal using the two different methods were highly correlated for all rats. The authors further provide a regression model that can be used to predict plasma corticosterone values from those obtained from the drop blood samples. Quantification of corticosterone from only a small drop of blood has many practical and ethical advantages and should be considered as an alternative to standard methods.
The association between small but still visible lacunar infarcts and cognitive decline has been established by population-based radiological and pathological studies. Microscopic examination of brain sections shows even smaller but substantially more numerous microinfarcts, the focus of this Review. These lesions often result from small vessel pathologies such as arteriolosclerosis or cerebral amyloid angiopathy. They typically go undetected in clinical-radiological correlation studies that rely on conventional structural MRI, although the largest acute microinfarcts can be detected by diffusion-weighted imaging. In view of their high numbers and widespread distribution, microinfarcts could directly disrupt important cognitive networks and thus account for some of the neurological dysfunction associated with lesions visible on conventional MRI such as lacunar infarcts and white matter hyperintensities. Standardised neuropathological assessment criteria and the development of non-invasive means of detection during life would be major steps towards understanding the causes and consequences of otherwise macroscopically invisible microinfarcts.
Diabetes and ischaemic stroke often arise together. People with diabetes have more than double the risk of ischaemic stroke after correction for other risk factors, relative to individuals without diabetes. Multifactorial treatment of risk factors for stroke-in particular, lifestyle factors, hypertension, and dyslipidaemia-will prevent a substantial number of these disabling strokes. Hyperglycaemia occurs in 30-40% of patients with acute ischaemic stroke, also in individuals without a known history of diabetes. Admission hyperglycaemia is associated with poor functional outcome, possibly through aggravation of ischaemic damage by disturbing recanalisation and increasing reperfusion injury. Uncertainty surrounds the question of whether glucose-lowering treatment for early stroke can improve clinical outcome. Achievement of normoglycaemia in the early stage of stroke can be difficult, and the possibility of hypoglycaemia remains a concern. Phase 3 studies of glucose-lowering therapy in acute ischaemic stroke are underway.
Functional (psychogenic) movement disorders (FMD) are part of the wide spectrum of functional neurological disorders, which together account for over 16% of patients referred to neurology clinics. FMD have been described as a &quot;crisis for neurology&quot; and cause major challenges in terms of diagnosis and treatment. As with other functional disorders, a key issue is the absence of pathophysiological understanding. There has been an influential historical emphasis on causation by emotional trauma, which is not supported by epidemiological studies. The similarity between physical signs in functional disorders and those that occur in feigned illness has also raised important challenges for pathophysiological understanding and has challenged health professionals' attitudes toward patients with these disorders. However, physical signs and selected investigations can help clinicians to reach a positive diagnosis, and modern pathophysiological research is showing an appreciation of the importance of both physical and psychological factors in FMD.


Auditory brainstem implants (ABIs) can provide highly beneficial hearing sensations to individuals deafened by bilateral vestibular schwannomas (neurofibromatosis type 2). Relatively little is known about the status of stimulated neurons after long-term ABI use. Direct examination of the cochlear nuclear complex (CN) of one 5-year ABI user indicated no deleterious effect. Recently, we examined the brainstem of a patient who used his ABI daily for 15 years with excellent performance. There was good preservation of CN cell size, morphology, and packing density, a very favorable sign considering that a number of infants are now receiving ABIs.
An attentional-associative model (Schmajuk, Lam, &amp; Gray Journal of Experimental Psychology: Animal Behavior Processes, 22, 321-349, 1996) assumes that nonreinforced presentations of an inhibitory conditioned stimulus (CS) do not decrease its inhibitory associations. However, the model predicts that extended presentations will decrease attention to the inhibitor, thereby decreasing both (1) the expression of its inhibitory power in a summation test and (2) the rate of acquisition in a retardation test. The model also predicts that subsequent presentations of the inhibitory CS with a novel CS will increase both (1) and (2). Using a predictive learning design in humans, Experiment 1 examined the predictions involving the summation tests, whereas Experiments 2 and 3 examined the predictions involving the retardation tests. Experimental results were in agreement with the predictions of the model.
Circadian rhythms influence a variety of physiological and behavioral processes; however, little is known about how circadian rhythms interact with the organisms' ability to acquire and retain information about their environment. These experiments tested whether rats trained outside their endogenous active period demonstrate the same rate of acquisition, daily performance, and remote memory ability as their nocturnally trained counterparts in tasks of sustained attention and spatial memory. Furthermore, we explored how daily task training influenced circadian patterns of activity. We found that rats demonstrate better acquisition and performance on an operant task requiring attentional effort when trained during the dark-phase. Time of day did not affect acquisition or performance on the Morris water maze; however, when animals were retested 2 wk after their last day of training, they showed better remote memory if training originally occurred during the dark-phase. Finally, attentional, but not spatial, task performance during the light-phase promotes a shift toward diurnality and the synchronization of activity to the time of daily training; this shift was most robust when the demands on the cognitive control of attention were highest. Our findings support a theory of bidirectional interactions between cognitive performance and circadian processes and are consistent with the view that the circadian abnormalities associated with shift-work, aging, and neuropsychiatric illnesses may contribute to the deleterious effects on cognition often present in these populations. Furthermore, these findings suggest that time of day should be an important consideration for a variety of cognitive tasks principally used in psychological and neuroscience research.


Previous investigations have suggested considerable inter-individual variability in the time course pattern of net joint moments during normal human walking, although the limited sample sizes precluded statistical analyses. The purpose of the present study was to obtain joint moment patterns from a group of normal subjects and to test whether or not the expected differences would prove to be statistically significant. Fifteen healthy male subjects were recorded on video while they walked across two force platforms. Ten kinematic and kinetic parameters were selected and input to a statistical cluster analysis to determine whether or not the 15 subjects could be divided into different 'families' (clusters) of walking strategy. The net joint moments showed a variability corroborating earlier reports. The cluster analysis showed that the 15 subjects could be grouped into two clusters of 5 and 10 subjects, respectively. Five parameters differed significantly, so the group of 5 subjects was characterized by (1) a higher peak knee joint extensor moment, (2) more flexed knee joint angle at heel strike, (3) during the whole stance phase, (4) lower peak knee joint flexor moment and (5) lower ankle joint angle at flat foot position. Calculation of bone-on-bone forces in the knee joint showed a value of 64 N/kg body weight in the K+ group and 55 N/kg in the K- group (p&lt;0.05). It is unknown if differences of similar magnitude contribute to early joint degeneration in some individuals while not in others.

Cellular senescence is, essentially, a permanent proliferation arrest induced by various cellular stresses or inappropriate stimuli. This arrest, which is associated with dramatic changes in cell morphology, metabolism and gene expression, involves a complex signalling network aiming at stable inactivation of CDKs, major cell cycle regulators. Notably, several tumour suppressors, such as p53, pRb or p16(Ink4a), play key roles both in the initiation of the senescence program and in its maintenance, which often involves epigenetic changes. While having widely recognized roles in tumour suppression and wound healing, senescence, like the roman god Janus, recently revealed another darker face. Mostly due to altered secretion phenotype favouring inflammation, senescent cells strongly influence surrounding tissue contributing to the development of age-related pathologies, including cancer.
Mitochondrial biogenesis is a key physiological process that is required for normal growth and development and for maintenance of ongoing cellular energy requirements during aging. Of equivalent and or greater importance is the regulated enhancement of mitochondrial biogenesis upon physiological demand coupled to multiple cellular insults. Basically, cellular survival mechanisms following a variety of disease-related pathophysiological insults are entrained by convergent mechanisms designed to regain homeostatic control of mitochondrial biogenesis. Recent molecular studies represent a clearly defined approach to maximize normative cellular expression of mitochondrial biogenesis for maintenance of cellular energy requirements and as an anti-aging strategy in healthy human populations. This report focuses on mitochondrial transcription factor A, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha, PINK1 and Parkin. Designing agents to target mitochondrial function represents a compelling therapeutic strategy for enhancement of cellular expression of mitochondrial biogenesis in diverse human populations afflicted with metabolic, degenerative, neurodegenerative, and metastatic diseases.&lt;br /&gt;
It has been well documented that both estrogen and immune cells (CD4+ T cells) mediate neuroprotection in the mouse facial nerve axotomy model. Estrogen has been shown to play an important role in regulating the immune response. However, it is unclear whether immune cell-mediated neuroprotection is dependent on estrogen signaling. In this study, using FACS staining, we confirmed that the majority of CD4+ T cells express high levels of estrogen receptor-alpha (ER), suggesting that CD4+ T cell-mediated neuroprotection may be modulated by estrogen signaling. We previously found that immunodeficient Rag-2KO mice showed a significant increase in axotomy-induced facial motoneuron death compared to immunocompetent wild-type mice. Therefore, we investigated axotomy-induced facial motoneuron loss in immunodeficient Rag-2KO mice that received 17-estradiol treatment or adoptive transfer of immune cells from mice lacking functional ER. Our results indicate that while estradiol treatment failed to rescue facial motoneurons from axotomy-induced cell death in Rag-2KO mice, immune cells lacking ER successfully restored facial motoneuron survival in Rag-2 KO mice to a wild-type level. Collectively, we concluded that CD4+ T cell-mediated neuroprotection is independent of estrogen action through ER.
Central nervous system (CNS) disorders remain a formidable challenge for the development of efficient therapies. Cell and gene therapy approaches are promising alternatives that can have a tremendous impact by treating the causes of the disease rather than the symptoms, providing specific targeting and prolonged duration of action. Hampering translation of gene-based therapeutic treatments of neurodegenerative diseases from experimental to clinical gene therapy is the lack of valid and reliable pre-clinical models that can contribute to evaluate feasibility and safety. Herein we describe a robust and reproducible methodology for the generation of 3D in vitro models of the human CNS following a systematic technological approach based on stirred culture systems. We took advantage of human midbrain-derived neural progenitor cells (hmNPCs) capability to differentiate into the various neural phenotypes and of their commitment to the dopaminergic lineage to generate differentiated neurospheres enriched in dopaminergic neurons. Furthermore, we describe a protocol for efficient gene transfer into differentiated neurospheres using CAV-2 viral vectors and stable expression of the transgene for at least 10 days. CAV-2 vectors, derived from canine adenovirus type 2, are promising tools to understand and treat neurodegenerative diseases, in particular Parkinson's disease. CAV-2 vectors preferentially transduce neurons and have an impressive level of axonal retrograde transport in vivo. Our model provides a practical and versatile in vitro approach to study the CNS in a 3D cellular context. With the successful differentiation and subsequent genetic modification of neurospheres we are increasing the collection of tools available for neuroscience research and contributing for the implementation and widespread utilization of 3D cellular CNS models. These can be applied to study neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease; to study the interaction of viral vectors of therapeutic potential within human neural cell populations, thus enabling the introduction of specific therapeutic genes for treatment of CNS pathologies; to study the fate and effect of delivered therapeutic genes; to study toxicological effects. Furthermore these methodologies may be extended to other sources of human neural stem cells, such as human pluripotent stem cells, including patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cells.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is a neuropeptide that exerts pleiotropic functions, acting as a hypophysiotropic factor, a neurotrophic and a neuroprotective agent. The molecular pathways activated by PACAP to exert its physiological roles in brain are incompletely understood. In this study, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), prolactin, luteinising hormone (LH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), brain-derived neurotrophic factor and corticosterone blood levels were determined before and 20, 40, 60, and 120 min after PACAP intracerebroventricular administration. PACAP treatment increased ACTH, corticosterone, LH and FSH blood concentrations, while it decreased TSH levels. A proteomics investigation was carried out in hypothalamus, hippocampus and pre-frontal/frontal cortex (P/FC) using 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis at 120 min, the end-point suggested by studies on PACAP hypophysiotropic activities. Spots showing statistically significant alterations after PACAP treatment were identified by Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-Time of flight mass spectrometry. Identified proteins were consistent with PACAP involvement in different molecular processes in brain. Altered expression levels were observed for proteins involved in cytoskeleton modulation and synaptic plasticity: actin in the hypothalamus; stathmin, dynamin, profilin and cofilin in hippocampus; synapsin in P/FC. Proteins involved in cellular differentiation were also modulated: glutathione-S-transferase  and peroxiredoxin in hippocampus; nucleoside diphosphate kinase in P/FC. Alterations were detected in proteins involved in neuroprotection, neurodegeneration and apoptosis: ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase isozyme L1 and heat shock protein 90- in hypothalamus; -synuclein in hippocampus; glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and prohibitin in P/FC. This proteomics study identified new proteins involved in molecular mechanisms mediating PACAP functions in the central nervous system.
The mammalian Dcp2 mRNA-decapping protein functions primarily on a subset of mRNAs in a transcript-specific manner. Here we show that Dcp2 is an important modulator of genes involved in the type I interferon (IFN) response, which is the initial line of antiviral innate immune response elicited by a viral challenge. Mouse embryonic fibroblast cells with reduced Dcp2 levels (Dcp2(/)) contained significantly elevated levels of mRNAs encoding proteins involved in the type I IFN response. In particular, analysis of a key type I IFN transcription factor, IFN regulatory factor 7 (IRF-7), revealed an increase in both IRF-7 mRNA and protein in Dcp2(/) cells. Importantly, the increase in IRF-7 mRNA within the background of reduced Dcp2 levels was attributed to a stabilization of the IRF-7 mRNA, suggesting that Dcp2 normally modulates IRF-7 mRNA stability. Moreover, Dcp2 expression was also induced upon viral infection, consistent with a role in attenuating the antiviral response by promoting IRF-7 mRNA degradation. The induction of Dcp2 levels following a viral challenge and the specificity of Dcp2 in targeting the decay of IRF-7 mRNA suggest that Dcp2 may negatively contribute to the innate immune response in a negative feedback mechanism to restore normal homeostasis following viral infection.
Gamma motor neurons (MNs), the efferent component of the fusimotor system, regulate muscle spindle sensitivity. Muscle spindle sensory feedback is required for proprioception that includes sensing the relative position of neighboring body parts and appropriately adjust the employed strength in a movement. The lack of a single and specific genetic marker has long hampered functional and developmental studies of gamma MNs. Here we show that the serotonin receptor 1d (5-ht1d) is specifically expressed by gamma MNs and proprioceptive sensory neurons. Using mice expressing GFP driven by the 5-ht1d promotor, we performed whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of 5-ht1d::GFP and 5-ht1d::GFP motor neurons from young mice. Hierarchal clustering analysis revealed that gamma MNs have distinct electrophysiological properties intermediate to fast-like and slow-like alpha MNs. Moreover, mice lacking 5-ht1d displayed lower monosynaptic reflex amplitudes suggesting a reduced response to sensory stimulation in motor neurons. Interestingly, adult 5-ht1d knockout mice also displayed improved coordination skills on a beam-walking task, implying that reduced activation of MNs by Ia afferents during provoked movement tasks could reduce undesired exaggerated muscle output. In summary, we show that 5-ht1d is a novel marker for gamma MNs and that the 5-ht1d receptor is important for the ability of proprioceptive circuits to receive and relay accurate sensory information in developing and mature spinal cord motor circuits.
Neurogenesis occurs in the hippocampus of the developing and adult brain due to the presence of multipotent stem cells and restricted precursor cells at different stages of differentiation. It has been proposed that they may be of potential benefit for use in cell transplantation approaches for neurodegenerative disorders and trauma. Prolonged release of interleukin-1 (IL-1) from activated microglia has a deleterious effect on hippocampal neurons and is implicated in the impaired neurogenesis and cognitive dysfunction associated with aging, Alzheimer's disease and depression. This study assessed the effect of IL-1 on the proliferation and differentiation of embryonic rat hippocampal NPCs in vitro. We show that IL-1R1 is expressed on proliferating NPCs and that IL-1 treatment decreases cell proliferation and neurosphere growth. When NPCs were differentiated in the presence of IL-1, a significant reduction in the percentages of newly-born neurons and post-mitotic neurons and a significant increase in the percentage of astrocytes was observed in these cultures. These effects were attenuated by IL-1 receptor antagonist. These data reveal that IL-1 exerts an anti-proliferative, anti-neurogenic and pro-gliogenic effect on embryonic hippocampal NPCs, which is mediated by IL-1R1. The present results emphasise the consequences of an inflammatory environment during NPC development, and indicate that strategies to inhibit IL-1 signalling may be necessary to facilitate effective cell transplantation approaches or in conditions where endogenous hippocampal neurogenesis is impaired.
This study aimed to quantify the influence of the astrocyte proximity on myelination genomic fabric (MYE) of oligodendrocytes, defined as the most interconnected and stably expressed gene web responsible for myelination. Such quantitation is important to evaluate whether astrocyte signaling may contribute to demyelination when impaired and remyelination when properly restored. For this, we compared changes in the gene expression profiles of immortalized precursor oligodendrocytes (Oli-neu), stimulated to differentiate by the proximity of nontouching astrocytes or treatment with db-cAMP. In a previous paper, we reported that the astrocyte proximity upregulated or turned-on a large number of myelination genes and substantially enriched the Ca(2+)-signaling and cytokine receptor regulatory networks of MYE in Oli-neu cells. Here, we introduce the &quot;transcriptomic distance&quot; to evaluate fabric remodeling and &quot;pair-wise relevance&quot; to identify the most influential gene pairs. Together with the prominence gene analysis used to select and rank the fabric genes, these novel analytical tools provide a comprehensively quantitative view of the physio/pathological transformations of the transcriptomic programs of myelinating cells. Applied to our data, the analyses revealed not only that the astrocyte neighborhood is a substantially more powerful regulator of myelination than the differentiating treatment but also the molecular mechanisms of the two differentiating paradigms are different. By inducing a profound remodeling of MYE and regulatory transcriptomic networks, the astrocyte-oligodendrocyte intercommunication may be considered as a major player in both pathophysiology and therapy of neurodegenerative diseases related to myelination.
A specific biochemical marker for early diagnosing and for monitoring disease progression in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) will have important clinical applications. ALS is a heterogeneous syndrome with multiple subtypes with ill-defined borders. A minority of patients carries mutations in the Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene but the disease mechanism remains unknown for all types of ALS. Using a GC-TOFMS platform we studied the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) metabolome in 16 ALS patients with six different mutations in the SOD1 gene and compared with ALS-patients without such mutations. OPLS-DA was used for classification modeling. We find that patients with a SOD1 mutation have a distinct metabolic profile in the CSF. In particular, the eight patients homozygous for the D90A SOD1 mutation showed a distinctively different signature when modeled against ALS patients with other SOD1 mutations and sporadic and familial ALS patients without a SOD1 gene mutation. This was found irrespective of medication with riluzole and survival time. Among the metabolites that contributed most to the CSF signature were arginine, lysine, ornithine, serine, threonine and pyroglutamic acid, all found to be reduced in patients carrying a D90A SOD1 mutation. ALS-patients with a SOD1 gene mutation appear as a distinct metabolic entity in the CSF, in particular in patients with the D90A mutation, the most frequently identified cause of ALS. The findings suggest that metabolomic profiling using GC-TOFMS and multivariate data analysis may be a future tool for diagnosing and monitoring disease progression, and may cast light on the disease mechanisms in ALS.
Carriers of the APOE E4 allele have an increased risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. However, it is less clear whether APOE E4 status may also be involved in non-pathological cognitive ageing. The present study investigated the associations between APOE genotypes and cognitive change over 8 years in older community-dwelling individuals. APOE genotype was determined in 501 participants of the Lothian Birth Cohort 1921, whose intelligence had been measured in childhood in the Scottish Mental Survey 1932. A polymorphic variant of TOMM40 (rs10524523) was included to differentiate between the effects of the APOE E3 and E4 allelic variants. Cognitive performance on the domains of verbal memory, abstract reasoning and verbal fluency was assessed at mean age 79 years (n=501), and again at mean ages of 83 (n=284) and 87 (n=187). Using linear mixed models adjusted for demographic variables, vascular risk factors and IQ at age 11 years, possession of the APOE E4 allele was associated with a higher relative rate of cognitive decline over the subsequent 8 years for verbal memory and abstract reasoning. Individuals with the long allelic variant of TOMM40, which is linked to APOE E4, showed similar results. Verbal fluency was not affected by APOE E4 status. APOE E2 status was not associated with change in cognitive performance over 8 years. In non-demented older individuals, possession of the APOE E4 allele predicted a higher rate of cognitive decline on tests of verbal memory and abstract reasoning between 79 and 87 years. Thus, possession of the APOE E4 allele may not only predispose to Alzheimer's disease, but also appears to be a risk factor for non-pathological decline in verbal memory and abstract reasoning in the ninth decade of life.
Arginine methylation is a post-translational modification that regulates protein function. RNA-binding proteins are an important class of cell-function mediators, some of which are methylated on arginine. Early studies of RNA-binding proteins and arginine methylation are briefly introduced, and the enzymes that mediate this post-translational modification are described. We review the most common RNA-binding domains and briefly discuss how they associate with RNAs. We address the following groups of RNA-binding proteins: hnRNP, Sm, Piwi, Vasa, FMRP, and HuD. hnRNPs were the first RNA-binding proteins found to be methylated on arginine. The Sm proteins function in RNA processing and germ cell specification. The Piwi proteins are largely germ cell specific and are also required for germ cell production, as is Vasa. FMRP participates in germ cell formation in Drosophila, but is more widely known for its neuronal function. Similarly, HuD plays a role in nervous system development and function. We review the effects of arginine methylation on the function of each protein, then conclude by addressing remaining questions and future directions of arginine methylation as an important and emerging area of regulation.
Deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus is an effective treatment for the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease. Although a range of psychiatric and behavioral problems have been documented following deep brain stimulation, the short-term effects of subthalamic nucleus stimulation on patients' mood have only been investigated in a few studies. Our aim was to compare self-reported mood in Parkinson's patients with deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus ON versus OFF. Twenty-three Parkinson's patients with bilateral deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus and 11 unoperated Parkinson's patients completed a mood visual analogue scale twice. Operated patients were tested with deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus both ON and OFF. All were assessed on medication. The operated Parkinson's group reported feeling significantly better coordinated, stronger, and more contented with deep brain stimulation ON compared to OFF. Fourteen of the 16 mood scales changed in a positive direction when deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus was ON. When changes in motor scores were taken into account, the operated patients still reported feeling better-coordinated, but also less gregarious with stimulation ON. Unoperated Parkinson's patients showed no differences on any of these measures between their 2 ratings. Short-term changes in deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus have a small and mostly positive effect on mood, which may be partly related to improvements in motor symptoms. The implications for day-to-day management of patients with deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus are discussed.

Deep brain stimulation has been used as a means of reducing dyskinesias in various conditions, including Parkinson's disease and dystonia for many years. Recently, owing to the clinical similarities between L-dopa induced dyskinesia and chorea, deep brain stimulation has now been implemented as a novel treatment method in both Huntington's disease and neuroacanthocytosis, and a paucity of case studies exist reporting its efficacy. This review will summarize the case studies of deep brain stimulation in both Huntington's disease and neuroacanthocytosis, and discuss the possible implications and limitations associated with these reports. As both these disorders are often refractory to medication and difficult to treat, deep brain stimulation may be a useful treatment option in the future.

Vitamin B(12) deficiency causes a wide range of hematological, gastrointestinal, and neurological manifestations. The most common neurological complication is subacute combined degeneration, sometimes associated with polyneuropathy. Isolated peripheral neuropathy due to cyanocobalamin deficiency is less frequent, and thus it may be overlooked. We describe 2 patients with isolated sensory axonal neuropathy secondary to vitamin B(12) deficiency who had complete clinical and electrophysiological recovery after cyanocobalamin replacement. Testing for serum vitamin B(12) and its metabolites should be done in any distal symmetric neuropathy.
Quantifying the extent of cognitive dysfunction in patients with intracranial tumors is important to monitor treatment effects and assess patients' needs. Inspection time, a measure of the efficiency of visual information processing, was evaluated, and its usefulness in patients with intracranial tumors was compared with that of other widely used cognitive tests. Newly presenting inpatients with supratentorial intracranial tumors (n = 118) underwent preoperative assessment using inspection time and a number of other measures of cognitive function, mood, and functional status. The brain tumor cohort was compared with patients admitted for elective spinal surgery (n = 85) and a healthy control group (n = 80). Analysis of covariance was used to compare the performance of the 3 groups. The brain tumor cohort had significantly lower inspection time scores than the spinal surgery group (P = .005) and the healthy volunteer control group (P &lt; .001). The effect size was moderate. There was a large effect size of participant group for the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test, Digit Symbol-Coding, and Verbal Fluency (P = .002). The performance of patients with brain tumors was significantly worse than that of both of the control groups. Inspection time was well-tolerated by patients with intracranial tumors. However, inspection time is neither as easy to perform nor as sensitive as some other measures of cognitive function. Although its lack of any motor speed or coordination requirements, conceptual simplicity, repeatability, and relative lack of learning effect make inspection time a potentially useful tool in clinical neuro-oncology, practical considerations will limit its use.
Mutations in valosin-containing protein (VCP) gene, already known to be associated with the multisystemic disorder, inclusion body myopathy with Paget's disease and frontotemporal dementia (IBMPFD), have been recently found also in familial cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). To further define the frequency of VCP mutations in ALS Italian population, we screened a cohort of 166 familial ALS and 14 ALS-frontotemporal dementia (FTD) individuals. We identified a previously reported synonymous mutation (c.2093A&gt;C; p.Q568Q), 2 intronic variants (c.1749-14C&gt;T; c.2085-3C&gt;T), and 1 nucleotide change (c.2814G&gt;T) in the 3' untranslated region (UTR). Bioinformatical analyses predicted no changes in splicing process or microRNA binding sites. Our results do not confirm a main contribution of VCP gene to familial ALS in the Italian population.
A large genome-wide screen in patients with sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) showed that the common variant rs12608932 in gene UNC13A was associated with disease susceptibility. UNC13A regulates the release of neurotransmitters, including glutamate. Genetic risk factors that, in addition, modify survival, provide promising therapeutic targets in ALS, a disease whose etiology remains largely elusive. We examined whether UNC13A was associated with survival of ALS patients in a cohort of 450 sporadic ALS patients and 524 unaffected controls from a population-based study of ALS in The Netherlands. Additionally, survival data were collected from individuals of Dutch, Belgian, or Swedish descent (1767 cases, 1817 controls) who had participated in a previously published genome-wide association study of ALS. We related survival to rs12608932 genotype. In both cohorts, the minor allele of rs12608932 in UNC13A was not only associated with susceptibility but also with shorter survival of ALS patients. Our results further corroborate the role of UNC13A in ALS pathogenesis.
Inheritance of the 4 allele of apolipoprotein E (ApoE) is the only confirmed and consistently replicated risk factor for late onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). ApoE is also a key ligand for low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor-related protein (LRP), a major neuronal low-density lipoprotein receptor. Despite the considerable converging evidence that implicates ApoE and LRP in the pathogenesis of AD, the precise mechanism by which ApoE and LRP modulate the risk for AD remains elusive. Moreover, studies investigating expression of ApoE and LRP in AD brain have reported variable and contradictory results. To overcome these inconsistencies, we studied the mRNA expression of ApoE and LRP in the postmortem brain of persons who died at different stages of dementia and AD-associated neuropathology relative to controls by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and Western blotting analyses. Clinical dementia rating scores were used as a measure of dementia severity, whereas, Braak neuropathological staging and neuritic plaque density were used as indexes of the neuropathological progression of AD. ApoE and LRP mRNA expression was significantly elevated in the postmortem inferior temporal gyrus (area 20) and the hippocampus from individuals with dementia compared with those with intact cognition. In addition to their strong association with the progression of cognitive dysfunction, LRP and ApoE mRNA levels were also positively correlated with increasing neuropathological hallmarks of AD. Additionally, Western blot analysis of ApoE protein expression in the hippocampus showed that the differential expression observed at the transcriptional level is also reflected at the protein level. Given the critical role played by LRP and ApoE in amyloid beta (A) and cholesterol trafficking, increased expression of LRP and ApoE may not only disrupt cholesterol homeostasis but may also contribute to some of the neurobiological features of AD, including plaque deposition.
Aging of olfactory function (discrimination and short-term memory) was studied in 2, 10, and 23-month-old mice. We also addressed the issue of the responsiveness of the aging system to olfactory experience-dependent plasticity by submitting mice of different ages to an enrichment paradigm, and assessed neurogenesis in the olfactory bulb and the status of the noradrenergic system, 2 effectors of enrichment. Discrimination ability and its response to enrichment were essentially preserved with aging. In contrast, memory and its improvement by enrichment were altered at 10 and 23 months. Regarding neurogenesis, we found less proliferation of progenitors at 10 months and then lower neuronal differentiation and survival at 23 months. Furthermore, enrichment did not improve neurogenesis beyond the age of 2 months. Noradrenergic markers and their response to enrichment were altered at 23 months in line with memory performance. Aging thus differentially affected olfactory discrimination and memory abilities and their responsiveness to enrichment. Bulbar neurogenesis was an early target of aging whose decline could contribute to age-dependent memory impairments.
Lipofuscin accumulation is a characteristic feature of senescent postmitotic neuronal cells but estrogen may have protecting effects by inhibiting its formation. In the present ultrastructural study, lipofuscin accumulation was studied in 2 estrogen--receptive brainstem areas: nucleus pararetroambiguus (NPRA) and the commissural part of the solitary tract nucleus/A2 catecholaminergic group (NTScom/A2) and compared with the estrogen-insensitive medial tegmental field (mtf), in young (23 weeks) and aged (95 weeks) female hamsters. In the aged animals, extensive intracytoplasmic lipofuscin accumulation was observed. A total number of 6450 neurons were classified in 4 categories. Levels were significantly elevated in each of the brain areas studied. Lipofuscin accumulation was strongest in the mtf, less in NPRA, and remarkably less in the area of NTScom/A2. In conclusion, the observed differences in lipofuscin accumulation suggest: (1) considerable regional differences in the degree of neuronal vulnerability; and (2) a possible neuroprotective role for estrogen, because the degree of accumulation is inversely related to the density of the estrogen receptors, varying from nonreceptive (mtf) to NPRA and NTScom/A2 (most receptive).
Physiological aging affects early sensory-perceptual processes. The aim of this experiment was to evaluate changes in auditory sensory memory in physiological aging using the Mismatch Negativity (MMN) paradigm as index. The MMN is a marker recorded through the electroencephalogram and is used to evaluate the integrity of the memory system. We adopted a new, faster paradigm to look for differences between 3 groups of subjects of different ages (young, middle age and older adults) as a function of short or long intervals between stimuli. We found that older adults did not show MMN at long interval condition and that the duration of MMN varied according to the participants' age. The current study provides electrophysiological evidence supporting the theory that the encoding of stimuli is preserved during normal aging, whereas the maintenance of sensory memory is impaired. Considering the advantage offered by the MMN paradigm used here, these data might be a useful reference point for the assessment of auditory sensory memory in pathological aging (e.g., in neurodegenerative diseases).
Recent studies have linked dopamine to differences in behavior and brain activity in normal individuals. We explored these relationships in older and younger adults by investigating how functional connectivity between the striatum and prefrontal cortex is related to caudate dopamine and verbal working memory task performance. We studied 12 young and 18 older participants with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) during this task, and used positron emission tomography with the tracer 6-[(18)F]-fluoro-L-m-tyrosine (FMT) to assess dopamine synthesis capacity. Younger adults had a greater extent of frontal caudate functional connectivity during the load-dependent delay period of the working memory task than the older participants. Across all subjects, the extent of this functional connectivity was negatively correlated with dopamine synthesis capacity, such that participants with the greatest connectivity had the lowest caudate 6-[(18)F]-fluoro-L-m-tyrosine (FMT) signal. Additionally, the extent of functional connectivity was positively correlated with working memory performance. Overall these data suggest interdependencies exist between frontostriatal functional connectivity, dopamine, and working memory performance and that this system is functioning suboptimally in normal aging.
We investigated whether abrupt ethanol withdrawal (EW) age-specifically inhibits a key mitochondrial enzyme, cytochrome c oxidase (COX), and whether estrogen mitigates this problem. We also tested whether this possible effect of EW involves a substrate (cytochrome c) deficiency that is associated with proapoptotic Bcl2-associated X protein (BAX) and mitochondrial membrane swelling. Ovariectomized young, middle age, and older rats, with or without 17-estradiol (E2) implantation, underwent repeated EW. Cerebelli were collected to measure COX activity and the mitochondrial membrane swelling using spectrophotometry and the mitochondrial levels of cytochrome c and BAX using an immunoblot method. The loss of COX activity and the mitochondrial membrane swelling occurred only in older rats under control diet conditions but occurred earlier, starting in the young rats under EW conditions. E2 treatment mitigated these EW effects. EW increased mitochondrial BAX particularly in middle age rats but did not alter cytochrome c. Collectively EW hastens but E2 delays the age-associated loss of COX activity. This EW effect is independent of cytochrome c but may involve the mitochondrial overload of BAX and membrane vulnerability.
Diffusion tensor (DT) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) tractography was used to investigate microstructural and volumetric abnormalities of the major brain white matter (WM) tracts with aging in 84 healthy subjects. Linear relationships were found between age and mean diffusivity (MD) increase and fractional anisotropy (FA) decrease in all WM tracts, except the right cingulum and bilateral uncinate, where a linear correlation with age was found for FA only. Quadratic model fitted better MD and FA values of several tracts, including the corpus callosum, limbic pathways, and bilateral association, and corticospinal tracts. Age-related MD and FA abnormalities were associated with radial diffusivity increase in all WM tracts, while axial diffusivity changes were characterized by a considerable variation from a tract to another. A linear negative relationship with age was found for the volumes of the left cingulum and fornix, while the quadratic model fitted better age-related volume loss of corpus callosum and right inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus. Diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging may shed light into the complex pathological substrates of WM changes with aging.
In patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), postmortem and imaging studies have revealed early and prominent reductions in cerebral serotonin 2A (5-HT(2A)) receptors. To establish if this was due to a selective disease process of the serotonin system, we investigated the cerebral 5-HT(2A) receptor and the serotonin transporter binding, the latter as a measure of serotonergic projections and neurons. Twelve patients with AD (average Mini Mental State Examination [MMSE]: 24) and 11 healthy age-matched subjects underwent positron emission tomography (PET) scanning with [(18)F]altanserin and [(11)C]N,N-Dimethyl-2-(2-amino-4-cyanopheylthio)benzylamine ([(11)C]DASB). Overall [(18)F]altanserin binding was markedly reduced in AD by 28%-39% (p = 0.02), whereas the reductions in [(11)C]DASB binding were less prominent and mostly insignificant, except for a marked reduction of 33% in mesial temporal cortex (p = .0005). No change in [(11)C]DASB binding was found in the midbrain. We conclude that the prominent reduction in neocortical 5-HT(2A) receptor binding in early AD is not caused by a primary loss of serotonergic neurons or their projections.
Delirium is an acute, severe neuropsychiatric syndrome, characterized by cognitive deficits, that is highly prevalent in aging and dementia and is frequently precipitated by peripheral infections. Delirium is poorly understood and the lack of biologically relevant animal models has limited basic research. Here we hypothesized that synaptic loss and accompanying microglial priming during chronic neurodegeneration in the ME7 mouse model of prion disease predisposes these animals to acute dysfunction in the region of prior pathology upon systemic inflammatory activation. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 100 g/kg) induced acute and transient working memory deficits in ME7 animals on a novel T-maze task, but did not do so in normal animals. LPS-treated ME7 animals showed heightened and prolonged transcription of inflammatory mediators in the central nervous system (CNS), compared with LPS-treated normal animals, despite having equivalent levels of circulating cytokines. The demonstration that prior synaptic loss and microglial priming are predisposing factors for acute cognitive impairments induced by systemic inflammation suggests an important animal model with which to study aspects of delirium during dementia.
The aged canine (dog) is an excellent model for investigating the neurobiological changes that underlie cognitive impairment and neurodegeneration in humans, as canines and humans undergo similar pathological and behavioral changes with aging. Recent evidence indicates that a combination of environmental enrichment and antioxidant-fortified diet can be used to reduce the rate of age-dependent neuropathology and cognitive decline in aged dogs, although the mechanisms underlying these changes have not been established. We examined the hypothesis that an increase in levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is one of the factors underlying improvements in learning and memory. Old, cognitively impaired animals that did not receive any treatment showed a significant decrease in BDNF mRNA in the temporal cortex when compared with the young group. Animals receiving either an antioxidant diet or environmental enrichment displayed intermediate levels of BDNF mRNA. However, dogs receiving both an antioxidant diet and environmental enrichment showed increased levels of BDNF mRNA when compared with untreated aged dogs, approaching levels measured in young animals. BDNF receptor TrkB mRNA levels did not differ between groups. BDNF mRNA levels were positively correlated with improved cognitive performance and inversely correlated with cortical A((1-42)) and A((1-40)) levels. These findings suggest that environmental enrichment and antioxidant diet interact to maintain brain levels of BDNF, which may lead to improved cognitive performance. This is the first demonstration in a higher animal that nonpharmacological changes in lifestyle in advanced age can upregulate BDNF to levels approaching those in the young brain.
Insufficiency of the transcriptional regulator GTF2IRD1 has become a strong potential explanation for some of the major characteristic features of the neurodevelopmental disorder Williams-Beuren syndrome (WBS). Genotype/phenotype correlations in humans indicate that the hemizygous loss of the GTF2IRD1 gene and an adjacent paralogue, GTF2I, play crucial roles in the neurocognitive and craniofacial aspects of the disease. In order to explore this genetic relationship in greater detail, we have generated a targeted Gtf2ird1 mutation in mice that blocks normal GTF2IRD1 protein production. Detailed analyses of homozygous null Gtf2ird1 mice have revealed a series of phenotypes that share some intriguing parallels with WBS. These include reduced body weight, a facial deformity resulting from localised epidermal hyperplasia, a motor coordination deficit, alterations in exploratory activity and, in response to specific stress-inducing stimuli; a novel audible vocalisation and increased serum corticosterone. Analysis of Gtf2ird1 expression patterns in the brain using a knock-in LacZ reporter and c-fos activity mapping illustrates the regions where these neurological abnormalities may originate. These data provide new mechanistic insight into the clinical genetic findings in WBS patients and indicate that insufficiency of GTF2IRD1 protein contributes to abnormalities of facial development, motor function and specific behavioural disorders that accompany this disease.
Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) is an inherited lysosomal storage disease characterised by accumulation of cholesterol and glycosphingolipids. NPC patients suffer a progressive neurodegenerative phenotype presenting with motor dysfunction, mental retardation and cognitive decline. To examine the onset and progression of neuropathological insults in NPC we have systematically examined the CNS of a mouse model of NPC1 (Npc1(-/-) mice) at different stages of the disease course. This revealed a specific spatial and temporal pattern of neuropathology in Npc1(-/-) mice, highlighting that sensory thalamic pathways are particularly vulnerable to loss of NPC1 resulting in neurodegeneration in Npc1(-/-) mice. Examination of markers of astrocytosis and microglial activation revealed a particularly pronounced reactive gliosis in the thalamus early in the disease, which subsequently also occurred in interconnected cortical laminae at later ages. Our examination of the precise staging of events demonstrate that the relationship between glia and neurons varies between brain regions in Npc1(-/-) mice, suggesting that the cues causing glial reactivity may differ between brain regions. In addition, aggregations of pre-synaptic markers are apparent in white matter tracts and the thalamus and are likely to be formed within axonal spheroids. Our data provide a new perspective, revealing a number of events that occur prior to and alongside neuron loss and highlighting that these occur in a pathway dependent manner.
Huntington disease (HD) is a dominantly inherited neurodegenerative disease caused by a polyglutamine (polyQ) expansion in the protein huntingtin (htt). Previous studies have shown enhanced N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-induced excitotoxicity in neuronal models of HD, mediated in part by increased NMDA receptor (NMDAR) GluN2B subunit binding with the postsynaptic density protein-95 (PSD-95). In cultured hippocampal neurons, the NMDAR-activated p38 Mitogen-activated Protein Kinase (MAPK) death pathway is disrupted by a peptide (Tat-NR2B9c) that uncouples GluN2B from PSD-95, whereas NMDAR-mediated activation of c-Jun N-terminal Kinase (JNK) MAPK is PSD-95-independent. To investigate the mechanism by which Tat-NR2B9c protects striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs) from mutant htt (mhtt)-enhanced NMDAR toxicity, we compared striatal tissue and cultured MSNs from presymptomatic yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) mice expressing htt with 128 polyQ (YAC128) to those from YAC18 and/or WT mice as controls. Similar to the previously published shift of GluN2B-containing NMDARs to extrasynaptic sites, we found increased PSD-95 localization as well as elevated PSD-95-GluN2B interactions in the striatal non-PSD (extrasynaptic) fraction from YAC128 mice. Notably, basal levels of both activated p38 and JNK MAPKs were elevated in the YAC128 striatum. NMDA stimulation of acute slices increased activation of p38 and JNK in WT and YAC128 striatum, but Tat-NR2B9c pretreatment reduced only the p38 activation in YAC128. In cultured MSNs, p38 MAPK inhibition reduced YAC128 NMDAR-mediated cell death to WT levels, and occluded the Tat-NR2B9c peptide protective effect; in contrast, inhibition of JNK had a similar protective effect in cultured MSNs from both WT and YAC128 mice. Our results suggest that altered activation of p38 MAPK contributes to mhtt enhancement of GluN2B/PSD-95 toxic signaling.
Overactivation of subtype P2X7 receptors can induce excitotoxic neuronal death by calcium (Ca(2+)) overload. In this study, we characterize the functional properties of P2X7 receptors using electrophysiology and Ca(2+) monitoring in primary cortical neuron cultures and in brain slices. Both electrical responses and Ca(2+) influx induced by ATP and benzoyl-ATP were reduced by Brilliant Blue G (BBG) at concentrations which specifically inhibit P2X7 receptors. In turn, oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) caused neuronal death that was reduced with BBG application. OGD in neuron cultures and brain slices generated an inward current, which was delayed and reduced by BBG. To assess the relevance of these in vitro findings, we used middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats as a model of transient focal cerebral ischemia to study the neuroprotective effect of BBG in vivo. Treatment with BBG (twice per day, 30 mg/kg) produced a 60% reduction in the extent of brain damage compared to treatment with vehicle alone. These results show that P2X7 purinergic receptors mediate tissue damage after OGD in neurons and following transient brain ischemia. Therefore, these receptors are a relevant molecular target for the development of new treatments to attenuate brain damage following stroke.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterised by the progressive loss of nigral dopamine neurons and the presence of synucleinopathy. Overexpression of -synuclein in vivo using viral vectors has opened interesting possibilities to model PD-like pathology in rodents. However, the attempts made so far have failed to show a consistent behavioural phenotype and pronounced dopamine neurodegeneration. Using a more efficient adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector construct, which includes a WPRE enhancer element and uses the neuron-specific synapsin-1 promoter to drive the expression of human wild-type -synuclein, we have now been able to achieve increased levels of -synuclein in the transduced midbrain dopamine neurons sufficient to induce profound deficits in motor function, accompanied by reduced expression of proteins involved in dopamine neurotransmission and a time-dependent loss of nigral dopamine neurons, that develop progressively over 2-4 months after vector injection. As in human PD, nigral cell loss was preceded by degenerative changes in striatal axons and terminals, and the appearance of -synuclein positive inclusions in dystrophic axons and dendrites, supporting the idea that -synuclein-induced pathology hits the axons and terminals first and later progresses to involve also the cell bodies. The time-course of changes seen in the AAV--synuclein treated animals defines distinct stages of disease progression that matches the pre-symptomatic, early symptomatic, and advanced stages seen in PD patients. This model provides new interesting possibilities for studies of stage-specific pathologic mechanisms and identification of targets for disease-modifying therapeutic interventions linked to early or late stages of the disease.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by accumulation of -synuclein aggregates and degeneration of melanized, catecholaminergic neurons. The tissue transglutaminase (tTG) enzyme catalyzes molecular protein cross-linking. In PD, tTG levels are increased and cross-linking has been identified as an important factor in -synuclein aggregation. In our quest to link tTGs distribution in the human brain to the hallmarks of PD pathology, we recently reported that catecholaminergic neurons in PD disease-affected brain areas display typical endoplasmic reticulum (ER) granules showing tTG immunoreactivity. In the present study, we set out to elucidate the nature of the interaction between tTG and the ER in PD pathogenesis, using retinoic-acid differentiated SH-SY5Y cells exposed to the PD-mimetic 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)). Alike our observations in PD brain, MPP(+)-treated cells displayed typical TG-positive granules, that were also induced by other PD mimetics and by ER-stress inducing toxins. Additional immunocytochemical and biochemical investigation revealed that tTG is indeed associated to the ER, in particular at the cytoplasmic face of the ER. Upon MPP(+) exposure, additional recruitment of tTG toward the ER was found. In addition, we observed that MPP(+)-induced tTG activity results in transamidation of ER membrane proteins, like calnexin. Our data provide strong evidence for a, so far unrecognized, localization of tTG at the ER, at least in catecholaminergic neurons, and suggests that in PD activation of tTG may have a direct impact on ER function, in particular via post-translational modification of ER membrane proteins.
Emotional influences on memory for events have long been documented yet surprisingly little is known about how emotional signals conveyed by contextual cues influence memory for face identity. This study investigated how positively and negatively valenced contextual emotion cues conveyed by body expressions or background scenes influence face memory. The results provide evidence of emotional context influence on face recognition memory and show that faces encoded in emotional (either fearful or happy) contexts (either the body or background scene) are less well recognized than faces encoded in neutral contexts and this effect is larger for body context than for scene context. The findings are compatible with the hypothesis that emotional signals in visual scenes trigger orienting responses which may lead to a less elaborate processing of featural details like the identity of a face, in turn resulting in a decreased facial recognition memory.
During fear learning, anticipation of an impending aversive stimulus increases defensive behaviors. Interestingly, omission of the aversive stimulus often produces another response around the time the event was expected. This omission response suggests that the subject detected a mismatch between what was predicted and what actually occurred, thereby providing an indirect measure of cognitive expectancy. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate whether omission-related brain activity reflects fear expectancy during learning and generalization of conditioned fear. During conditioning, a face expressing a moderate amount of fear (conditioned stimulus, CS+) signaled delivery of an aversive shock unconditioned stimulus (US), whereas the same face with a neutral expression was unreinforced. In a subsequent generalization test, subjects were presented with faces expressing more or less fear intensity than the CS+. Psychophysiological results revealed an increase in the skin conductance response (SCR) during learning when the US was omitted. Omission-related SCRs were also observed during the generalization test following the offset of high- but not low-intensity face expressions. Neuroimaging results revealed omission-related neural activity during learning in the anterior cingulate cortex, parietal cortex, insula, and striatum. These same regions also showed omission-related responses during the generalization test following highly expressive fearful faces. Finally, regression analysis on omission responses during the generalization test revealed correlations in offset-related SCRs and neural activity in the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex and posterior parietal cortex. Thus, converging psychophysiological and neural activity upon omission of aversive stimulation provides a novel metric of US expectancy, even to generalized cues that had no prior history of reinforcement.
TDP-43 proteinopathies are characterized by loss of nuclear TDP-43 and accumulation of the protein in the cytosol as ubiquitinated protein aggregates. These protein aggregates may have an important role in subsequent neuronal degeneration in motor neuron disease, frontotemporal dementia and potentially other neurodegenerative diseases. Although the cellular mechanisms driving the abnormal accumulation of TDP-43 are not understood, recent studies have shown that an early change to TDP-43 metabolism in disease may be accumulation in cytosolic RNA stress granules (SGs). However, it is unclear whether the TDP-43 in these SGs progresses to become irreversible protein aggregates as observed in patients. We have shown recently that paraquat-treated cells are a useful model for examining TDP-43 SG localization. In this study, we used the paraquat model to examine if endogenous TDP-43 in SGs can progress to more stable protein aggregates. We found that after treatment of HeLa cells overnight with paraquat, TDP-43 co-localized to SGs together with the ubiquitous SG marker, human antigen R (HuR). However, after a further incubation in paraquat-free, conditioned medium for 6h, HuR-positive SGs were rarely detected yet TDP-43 positive aggregates remained present. The majority of these TDP-43 aggregates were positive for ubiquitin. Further evidence for persistence of TDP-43 aggregates was obtained by treating cultures with cycloheximide after paraquat treatment. Cycloheximide abolished nearly all cytosolic HuR aggregation (SGs) but large TDP-43-positive aggregates remained. Finally, we showed that addition of ERK and JNK inhibitors together with paraquat blocked TDP-43-positive SG formation, while treatment with inhibitors after 24h paraquat exposure failed to reverse the TDP-43 accumulation. This failure was most likely due to the addition of inhibitors after maximal activation of the kinases at 4h post-paraquat treatment. These findings provide strong evidence that once endogenous TDP-43 accumulates in SGs, it has the potential to progress to stable protein aggregates as observed in neurons in TDP-43 proteinopathies. This may provide a therapeutic opportunity to inhibit the transition of TDP-43 from SG protein to aggregate.
Autophagy is a conserved mechanism responsible for the continuous clearance of unnecessary organelles or misfolded proteins in lysosomes. Three types of autophagy have been reported in the difference of substrate delivery to lysosome: macroautophagy, microautophagy, and chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA). Among these types, CMA is a unique autophagy system that selectively degrades substrates detected by heat shock cognate protein 70 (HSC70). Recently, autophagic cell death has been reported to be involved in neuronal death following brain ischemia; however, the contribution of CMA to neuronal death/survival after ischemic stress has not been addressed. In the present study, we determined whether quantitative alterations in LAMP-2A, which is the key molecule in CMA, would modulate neuronal cell survival under hypoxic conditions. Incubation of Neuro2A cells in a hypoxic chamber (1% O(2), 5% CO(2)) increased the level of LAMP-2A and induced accumulation of LAMP-2A-positive lysosomes in the perinuclear area, which is a hallmark of CMA activation. The activation of CMA in response to hypoxia was also confirmed by the GAPDH-HaloTag CMA indicator system at the single cell level. Next, we asked whether CMA was involved in cell survival during hypoxia. Blocking LAMP-2A expression with siRNA increased the level of cleaved caspase-3 and the number of propidium iodide-positive cells after hypoxic stress regardless of whether macroautophagy could occur, whereas the administration of mycophenolic acid, a potent CMA activator, rescued hypoxia-mediated cell death. Finally, we asked whether CMA was activated in the neurons after middle cerebral artery occlusion in vivo. The expression of LAMP-2A was significantly increased in the ischemic hemisphere seven days after brain ischemia. These results indicate that CMA is activated during hypoxia and contributes to the survival of cells under these conditions.
The adrenal gland plays a fundamental role in the response to a variety of stress situations. After a stress condition, adrenal medullary chromaffin cells release, by exocytosis, high quantities of catecholamine (epinephrine, EP; norepinephrine, NE), especially EP. Once in the blood stream, catecholamines reach different target organs, and induce their biological actions through the activation of different adrenoceptors. Adrenal gland cells may also be activated by catecholamines, through hormonal, paracrine and/or autocrine system. The presence of functional adrenoceptors on human adrenal medulla and their involvement on catecholamines secretion was not previously evaluated. In the present study we investigated the role of (1)-, (2)- and (3)-adrenoceptors on catecholamine release from human adrenal chromaffin cells in culture. We observed that the -adrenoceptor agonist (isoproterenol) and (2)-adrenoceptor agonist (salbutamol) stimulated catecholamine (NE and EP) release from human adrenal chromaffin cells. Furthermore, the (2)-adrenoceptor antagonist (ICI 118,551; 100 nM) and (3)-adrenoceptor antagonist (SR 59230A; 100 nM) inhibited the catecholamine release stimulated by isoproterenol and nicotine in chromaffin cells. The (1)-adrenoceptor antagonist (atenolol; 100 nM) did not change the isoproterenol- neither the nicotine-evoked catecholamine release from human adrenal chromaffin cells. Moreover, our results show that the protein kinase A (PKA), protein kinase C (PKC), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and phospholipase C (PLC) are intracellular mechanisms involved in the catecholamine release evoked by salbutamol. In conclusion, our data suggest that the activation of (2)- and (3)-adrenoceptors modulate the basal and evoked catecholamine release, NE and EP, via an autocrine positive feedback loop in human adrenal chromaffin cells.
Hypoxia in neonates disrupts the oxygen flow to the brain, essentially starving the brain and preventing it from performing vital biochemical processes important for central nervous system development. Hypoxia results in a permanent brain damage by gene and receptor level alterations mediated through neurotransmitters. The present study evaluated GABA, GABAA, GABAB receptor functions and gene expression changes in glutamate decarboxylase in the corpus striatum of hypoxic neonatal rats and the treatment groups with glucose, oxygen and epinephrine. Since GABA is the principal neurotransmitter involved in hypoxic ventilatory decline, the alterations in its level under hypoxic stress points to an important aspect of respiratory control. Following hypoxic stress, a significant decrease in total GABA, GABAA and GABAB receptors function and GAD expression was observed in the striatum, which accounts for the ventilator decline. Hypoxic rats treated with glucose alone and with oxygen showed a reversal of the receptor alterations and changes in GAD to near control. Being a source of immediate energy, glucose can reduce the ATP-depletion-induced changes in GABA and oxygenation helps in overcoming reduction in oxygen supply. Treatment with oxygen alone and epinephrine was not effective in reversing the altered receptor functions. Thus, our study point to the functional role of GABA receptors in mediating ventilatory response to hypoxia and the neuroprotective role of glucose treatment. This has immense significance in the proper management of neonatal hypoxia for a better intellect in the later stages of life.



The amygdala is critically involved in detecting emotionally salient stimuli and in enhancing memory for emotional information. Growing evidence also suggests that the amygdala plays a crucial role in addiction, perhaps by strengthening associations between emotionally-charged drug cues and drug-seeking behavior. In the current study, by integrating functional MRI (fMRI), genetics, and outcome data from a large group of smokers who completed a smoking-cessation intervention and attempted to quit, we show that the amygdala also plays a role in quitting. Specifically, we demonstrate that the amygdala response to smoking-cessation messages in smokers trying to quit is a predictor of their post-intervention quitting outcome. We further show that the amygdala response is modulated by genetic variation in the serotonin transporter and mediates the impact of this genetic variation on quitting. These results point to a gene-brain-behavior pathway relevant to smoking cessation, and add to our understanding of the role of the amygdala in nicotine addiction.
The premise of cognitive therapy is that one can overcome the irresistible temptation of highly palatable foods by actively restructuring the way one thinks about food. Testing this idea, participants in the present study were instructed to passively view foods, up-regulate food palatability thoughts, apply cognitive reappraisal (e.g., thinking about health consequences), or suppress food palatability thoughts and cravings. We examined whether these strategies affect self-reported food craving and mesocorticolimbic activity as assessed by functional magnetic resonance imaging. It was hypothesized that cognitive reappraisal would most effectively inhibit the mesocorticolimbic activity and associated food craving as compared to suppression. In addition, it was hypothesized that suppression would lead to more prefrontal cortex activity, reflecting the use of more control resources, as compared to cognitive reappraisal. Self-report results indicated that up-regulation increased food craving compared to the other two conditions, but that there was no difference in craving between the suppression and cognitive reappraisal strategy. Corroborating self-report results, the neuroimaging results showed that up-regulation increased activity in important regions of the mesocorticolimbic circuitry, including the ventral tegmental area, ventral striatum, operculum, posterior insular gyrus, medial orbitofrontal cortex and ventromedial prefrontal cortex. Contrary to our hypothesis, suppression more effectively decreased activity in the core of the mesocorticolimbic circuitry (i.e., ventral tegmental area and ventral striatum) compared to cognitive reappraisal. Overall, the results support the contention that appetitive motivation can be modulated by the application of short-term cognitive control strategies.
Most of what is known about the reorganization of functional brain networks that accompanies normal aging is based on neuroimaging studies in which participants perform specific tasks. In these studies, reorganization is defined by the differences in task activation between young and old adults. However, task activation differences could be the result of differences in task performance, strategy, or motivation, and not necessarily reflect reorganization. Resting-state fMRI provides a method of investigating functional brain networks without such confounds. Here, a support vector machine (SVM) classifier was used in an attempt to differentiate older adults from younger adults based on their resting-state functional connectivity. In addition, the information used by the SVM was investigated to see what functional connections best differentiated younger adult brains from older adult brains. Three separate resting-state scans from 26 younger adults (18-35 yrs) and 26 older adults (55-85) were obtained from the International Consortium for Brain Mapping (ICBM) dataset made publically available in the 1000 Functional Connectomes project www.nitrc.org/projects/fcon_1000. 100 seed-regions from four functional networks with 5mm(3) radius were defined based on a recent study using machine learning classifiers on adolescent brains. Time-series for every seed-region were averaged and three matrices of z-transformed correlation coefficients were created for each subject corresponding to each individual's three resting-state scans. SVM was then applied using leave-one-out cross-validation. The SVM classifier was 84% accurate in classifying older and younger adult brains. The majority of the connections used by the classifier to distinguish subjects by age came from seed-regions belonging to the sensorimotor and cingulo-opercular networks. These results suggest that age-related decreases in positive correlations within the cingulo-opercular and default networks, and decreases in negative correlations between the default and sensorimotor networks, are the distinguishing characteristics of age-related reorganization.

Functional magnetic resonance imaging typically measures signal increases arising from changes in the transverse relaxation rate over small regions of the brain and associates these with local changes in cerebral blood flow, blood volume and oxygen metabolism. Recent developments in pulse sequences and image analysis methods have improved the specificity of the measurements by focussing on changes in blood flow or changes in blood volume alone. However, FMRI is still unable to match the physiological information obtainable from positron emission tomography (PET), which is capable of quantitative measurements of blood flow and volume, and can indirectly measure resting metabolism. The disadvantages of PET are its cost, its availability, its poor spatial resolution and its use of ionising radiation. The MRI techniques introduced here address some of these limitations and provide physiological data comparable with PET measurements. We present an 18-minute MRI protocol that produces multi-slice whole-brain coverage and yields quantitative images of resting cerebral blood flow, cerebral blood volume, oxygen extraction fraction, CMRO(2), arterial arrival time and cerebrovascular reactivity of the human brain in the absence of any specific functional task. The technique uses a combined hyperoxia and hypercapnia paradigm with a modified arterial spin labelling sequence.
Numerical processing has been demonstrated to be subserved typically by the brain regions around the bilateral intraparietal sulcus (IPS). The goal of the current study was to investigate whether the processing of mathematical terms shared the same brain regions with numerical processing. Healthy adult participants performed semantic distance judgment tasks on five types of materials, including geometric terms, algebraic terms, linguistic terms, words for tools and other common objects, and Arabic numbers. Brain activation was measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The results showed that geometric terms had greater activation than algebraic terms, linguistic terms and tool words in the horizontal IPS, but algebraic terms did not have greater activation than linguistic terms and tool words in this region. Arabic numbers showed greater activation than non-number materials (including geometric terms, algebraic terms, linguistic terms and tool words) in the bilateral IPS, right inferior frontal gyrus and bilateral middle frontal gyrus, but the non-number materials showed stronger activation in the left inferior frontal gyrus and left middle temporal gyrus. These results suggest that the brain area for the processing of numbers (the left IPS) seems to be involved in semantic processing of geometric terms, but not that of other mathematical terms such as algebraic terms. Both algebraic and geometric terms share similar brain organization with basic semantic processing in the left temporal and frontal regions.
Studies have shown that the periodic repetition of a stimulus induces, at certain stimulation frequencies, a sustained electro-cortical response of corresponding frequency, referred to as steady-state evoked potential (SSEP). Using infrared laser stimulation, we recently showed that SSEPs can be used to explore nociceptive cortical processing. Here, we implemented a novel approach to elicit such responses, using a periodic intra-epidermal electrical stimulation of cutaneous A-nociceptors (A-SSEPs). Using a wide range of frequencies (3-43 Hz), we compared the scalp topographies and temporal dynamics of these A-SSEPs to the A-SSEPs elicited by non-nociceptive transcutaneous electrical stimulation, as well as to the transient ERPs elicited by the onsets of the 10-s stimulation trains, applied to the left and right hand. At 3 Hz, we found that the topographies of A- and A-SSEPs were both maximal at the scalp vertex, and resembled closely that of the late P2 wave of transient ERPs, suggesting activity originating from the same neuronal populations. The responses also showed marked habituation, suggesting that they were mainly related to unspecific, attention-related processes. In contrast, at frequencies &gt;3 Hz, the topographies of A- and A-SSEPs were markedly different. A-SSEPs were maximal over the contralateral parietal region, whereas A-SSEPs were maximal over midline frontal regions, thus indicating an entrainment of distinct neuronal populations. Furthermore, the responses showed no habituation, suggesting more obligatory and specific stages of sensory processing. Taken together, our results indicate that A- and A-SSEPs offer a unique opportunity to study the cortical representation of nociception and touch.
Meta-analysis based techniques are emerging as powerful, robust tools for developing models of connectivity in functional neuroimaging. Here, we apply meta-analytic connectivity modeling to the human caudate to 1) develop a model of functional connectivity, 2) determine if meta-analytic methods are sufficiently sensitive to detect behavioral domain specificity within region-specific functional connectivity networks, and 3) compare meta-analytic driven segmentation to structural connectivity parcellation using diffusion tensor imaging. Results demonstrate strong coherence between meta-analytic and data-driven methods. Specifically, we found that behavioral filtering resulted in cognition and emotion related structures and networks primarily localized to the head of the caudate nucleus, while perceptual and action specific regions localized to the body of the caudate, consistent with early models of nonhuman primate histological studies and postmortem studies in humans. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) revealed support for meta-analytic connectivity modeling's (MACM) utility in identifying both direct and indirect connectivity. Our results provide further validation of meta-analytic connectivity modeling, while also highlighting an additional potential, namely the extraction of behavioral domain specific functional connectivity.
Sleep is essential for living beings, and sleep loss has been shown to affect hippocampal structure and function in rats by inhibiting cell proliferation and neurogenesis in this region of the brain. We aimed to analyze the correlation between sleep duration and the hippocampal volume using brain magnetic resonance images of 290 healthy children aged 5-18 years. We examined the volume of gray matter, white matter, and the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) space in the brain using a fully automated and established neuroimaging technique, voxel-based morphometry, which enabled global analysis of brain structure without bias towards any specific brain region while permitting the identification of potential differences or abnormalities in brain structures. We found that the regional gray matter volume of the bilateral hippocampal body was significantly positively correlated with sleep duration during weekdays after adjusting for age, sex, and intracranial volume. Our results indicated that sleep duration affects the hippocampal regional gray matter volume of healthy children. These findings advance our understanding of the importance of sleep habits in the daily lives of healthy children.
This review and meta-analysis aims at summarizing and integrating the human neuroimaging studies that report periaqueductal gray (PAG) involvement; 250 original manuscripts on human neuroimaging of the PAG were identified. A narrative review and meta-analysis using activation likelihood estimates is included. Behaviors covered include pain and pain modulation, anxiety, bladder and bowel function and autonomic regulation. Methods include structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging, functional connectivity measures, diffusion weighted imaging and positron emission tomography. Human neuroimaging studies in healthy and clinical populations largely confirm the animal literature indicating that the PAG is involved in homeostatic regulation of salient functions such as pain, anxiety and autonomic function. Methodological concerns in the current literature, including resolution constraints, imaging artifacts and imprecise neuroanatomical labeling are discussed, and future directions are proposed. A general conclusion is that PAG neuroimaging is a field with enormous potential to translate animal data onto human behaviors, but with some growing pains that can and need to be addressed in order to add to our understanding of the neurobiology of this key region.
Imagination is a key function for many human activities, such as reminiscing, learning, or planning. Unravelling its neuro-biological basis is paramount to grasp the essence of our thoughts. Previous neuroimaging studies have identified brain regions subserving the visualisation of &quot;what?&quot; (e.g. faces or objects) and &quot;where?&quot; (e.g. spatial layout) content of mental images. However, the functional role of a common set of involved regions - the frontal regions - and their interplay with the &quot;what&quot; and &quot;where&quot; regions, has remained largely unspecified. This study combines functional MRI and electroencephalography to examine the full-brain network that underlies the visual imagery of complex scenes and to investigate the spectro-temporal properties of its nodes, especially of the frontal cortex. Our results indicate that frontal regions integrate the &quot;what&quot; and &quot;where&quot; content of our thoughts into one visually imagined scene. We link early synchronisation of anterior theta and beta oscillations to regional activation of right and central frontal cortices, reflecting retrieval and integration of information. These frontal regions orchestrate remote occipital-temporal regions (including calcarine sulcus and parahippocampal gyrus) that encode the detailed representations of the objects, and parietal &quot;where&quot; regions that encode the spatial layout into forming one coherent mental picture. Specifically the mesial superior frontal gyrus appears to have a principal integrative role, as its activity during the visualisation of the scene predicts subsequent performance on the imagery task.
Whilst MRI is routinely used for the assessment and diagnosis of multiple sclerosis, there is poor correspondence between clinical disability in primary progressive multiple sclerosis (PPMS) patients and conventional MRI markers of disease activity (e.g., number of enhancing lesions). As PPMS patients show diffuse and global myelin loss, the aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of whole-brain myelin water fraction (MWF) imaging in PPMS. Specifically, we sought to use full-brain analysis techniques to: 1) determine the reproducibility of MWF estimates in PPMS brain; 2) compare MWF values in PPMS brain to healthy controls; and 3) establish the relationship between MWF and clinical disability, regionally and globally throughout the brain. Seventeen PPMS patients and seventeen age-matched controls were imaged using a whole-brain multi-component relaxation imaging technique to measure MWF. Analysis of MWF reduction was performed on three spatial levels: 1) histogram; 2) white matter skeleton; and 3) voxel-wise at the single-subject level. From histogram analysis, PPMS patients had significantly reduced global normal appearing white matter MWF (6%, p=0.04) compared to controls. Focal lesions showed lower MWF values than white matter in controls (61%, p&lt;0.001) and patients (59%, p&lt;0.001). Along the white matter skeleton, MWF was diffusely reduced throughout the PPMS brain, with significant correlations between reduced MWF and increased clinical disability (more severe symptoms), as measured by the Expanded Disability Status Scale, within the corpus callosum and frontal, temporal, parietal and occipital white matter. Correlations with the more specific mental and sensory functional system scores were localized to clinically eloquent locations: reduced MWF was significantly associated with increased mental scores in anterior regions (i.e., frontal lobes and genu of the corpus callosum), and increased sensory scores in more posterior regions closer to the sensory cortex. Individual patient MWF maps were also compared to a normative population atlas, which highlighted areas of statistical difference between the individual patient and the population mean. A significant correlation was found between the volume of significantly reduced MWF and clinical disability (p=0.008, R=0.58). Our results show that clinical disability is reflected in particular regions of cerebral white matter that are consistent between subjects, and illustrates a method to examine tissue alteration throughout the brain of individual patients. These results strongly support the use of MWF imaging to evaluate disease activity in PPMS.
Temporal congruency promotes perceptual binding of multisensory inputs. Here, we used EEG frequency-tagging to track cortical activities elicited by auditory and visual inputs separately, in the form of steady-state evoked potentials (SS-EPs). We tested whether SS-EPs could reveal a dynamic coupling of cortical activities related to the binding of auditory and visual inputs conveying synchronous vs. non-synchronous temporal periodicities, or beats. The temporally congruent audiovisual condition elicited markedly enhanced auditory and visual SS-EPs, as compared to the incongruent condition. Furthermore, an increased inter-trial phase coherence of both SS-EPs was observed in that condition. Taken together, these observations indicate that temporal congruency enhances the processing of multisensory inputs at sensory-specific stages of cortical processing, possibly through a dynamic binding by synchrony of the elicited activities and/or improved dynamic attending. Moreover, we show that EEG frequency-tagging with SS-EPs constitutes an effective tool to explore the neural dynamics of multisensory integration in the human brain.

The amyloid cascade hypothesis on the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) states that amyloid  (A) accumulation in the brain is a key factor that initiates the neurodegenerative process. A is generated from amyloid precursor protein (APP) through sequential cleavages by BACE1 (the major -secretase in the brain) and -secretase. The purpose of this study was to characterize APP metabolism in vivo in AD patients versus cognitively healthy subjects by examining alterations in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers. We measured BACE1 activity and concentrations of - and -cleaved soluble APP (sAPP and sAPP, respectively) and A40 in CSF, biomarkers that all reflect the metabolism of APP, in 75 AD patients and 65 cognitively healthy controls. These analytes were also applied in a multivariate model to determine whether they provided any added diagnostic value to the core CSF AD biomarkers A42, T-tau, and P-tau. We found no significant differences in BACE1 activity or sAPP, sAPP, and A40 concentrations between AD patients and controls. A multivariate model created with all analytes did not improve the separation of AD patients from controls compared with using the core AD biomarkers alone, highlighting the strong diagnostic performance of A42, T-tau, and P-tau for AD. However, AD patients in advanced clinical stage, as determined by low MMSE score (20), had lower BACE1 activity and sAPP, sAPP, and A40 concentrations than patients with higher MMSE score, suggesting that these markers may be related to the severity of the disease.
A large number of molecular pathways have been implicated in the degeneration of axotomized motoneurons. We previously have demonstrated substantial differences in the survival rate of axotomized motoneurons across different rat strains. Identification of genetic differences underlying such naturally occurring strain differences is a powerful approach, also known as forward genetics, to gain knowledge of mechanisms relevant for complex diseases, like injury-induced neurodegeneration. Overlapping congenic rat strains were used to fine map a gene region on rat chromosome eight previously shown to regulate motoneuron survival after ventral root avulsion. The smallest genetic fragment, R5, contains 35 genes and displays a highly significant regulatory effect on motoneuron survival. Furthermore, expression profiling in a F2(DAxPVG) intercross demonstrates one single cis-regulated gene within the R5 fragment; Gsta4, encoding glutathione S-transferase alpha-4. Confirmation with real-time PCR shows higher Gsta4 expression in PVG compared with DA both in nave animals and at several time points after injury. Immunolabeling with a custom made rat Gsta4 antibody demonstrates a neuronal staining pattern, with a strong cytoplasmic labeling of motoneurons. These results demonstrate and map naturally occurring genetic differences in the expression of Gsta4 is associated both with a highly significant increase in the survival of axotomized motoneurons and with a trans-regulation of several molecular pathways involved in neurodegenerative processes. This adds to a large body of evidence implicating lipid peroxidation as an important pathway for neurodegeneration.
Tubular aggregates are inclusions, usually found in type II muscle fibers and in males, consisting of regular arrays of tubules derived from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Tubular aggregates are associated with a wide variety of muscle disorders, including poorly defined &quot;tubular aggregate myopathies&quot; characterized by weakness and/or myalgia and/or cramps, and are also present in different mouse models, including normal aging muscles. The mechanism(s) responsible for inducing the formation of these structures have not been identified, because of the slow time course of their development in vivo, several months in mice. However, identical structures are formed in a few hours in rat muscles kept in vitro in hypoxic medium. Here I suggest that tubular aggregates result from reshaping of sarcoplasmic reticulum caused by misfolding and aggregation of membrane proteins and thus represent a special type of &quot;protein aggregates&quot; due to altered proteostasis.
The ascending 5-HT system has been and continues to be the subject of much research. The majority of invivo electrophysiological and neurochemical studies of 5-HT function in rodents have been conducted in animals under anaesthesia - usually chloral hydrate or urethane. However, the effects of anaesthetics, on 5-HT function have not been systematically investigated. Here we used invitro electrophysiology in dorsal raphe slices, to determine the effects of anaesthetically relevant concentrations of chloral hydrate (100M and 1mM), urethane (10 and 30mM), pentobarbitone (10 and 100M) and ketamine (10, 100 and 300M) on regulators of 5-HT firing activity. We examined i) basal firing (driven by (1) adrenoceptors), ii) the excitatory response to N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA), iii) the 5-HT(1A) autoreceptor-mediated inhibitory response to 5-HT and iv) the GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory response to 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo[5,4-c]pyridinyl-3-ol (THIP, gaboxadol). Pentobarbitone selectively enhanced the response to THIP. Ketamine decreased basal firing, attenuated the response to NMDA, and enhanced responses to both 5-HT and THIP. Chloral hydrate had marginal effects on basal firing, slightly attenuated the NMDA response, and enhanced both the 5-HT and THIP responses. Urethane increased basal firing, decreased the NMDA response, increased the response to THIP, but had no effect on the 5-HT response. Our data indicate that all anaesthetics tested significantly affect the regulators of 5-HT neuronal function. These findings will aid in the interpretation of previous reports of invivo studies of the 5-HT system and will allow researchers to make a rational selection of anaesthetic for future studies.
Metabotropic glutamate subtype 1 (mGlu1) receptor is thought to play a role in synaptic responses in thalamic relay nuclei. The aim of this study was to evaluate the positive allosteric modulator (PAM) Ro67-4853 as a tool to modulate thalamic mGlu1 receptors on single thalamic neurones invivo. Ro67-4853, applied by iontophoresis onto ventrobasal thalamus neurones of urethane-anaesthetised rats, selectively enhanced responses to the agonist (S)-3,5-dihydroxy-phenylglycine (DHPG), an effect consistent with mGlu1 potentiation. The PAM was also able to enhance maintained responses to 10Hz trains of sensory stimulation of the vibrissae, but had little effect on responses to single sensory stimuli. Thus Ro67-4853 appears to be a highly selective tool that can be useful in investigating how mGlu1 receptor potentiation can alter neural processing invivo. Our results show the importance of mGlu1 in sensory processing and attention mechanisms at the thalamic level and suggest that positive modulation of mGlu1 receptors might be a useful mechanism for enhancing cognitive and attentional processes.
Over-activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors is critically involved in many neurological conditions, thus there has been considerable interest in developing NMDA receptor antagonists. We have recently identified a series of naphthoic and phenanthroic acid compounds that allosterically modulate NMDA receptors through a novel mechanism of action. In the present study, we have determined the structure-activity relationships of 18 naphthoic acid derivatives for the ability to inhibit the four GluN1/GluN2(A-D) NMDA receptor subtypes. 2-Naphthoic acid has low activity at GluN2A-containing receptors and yet lower activity at other NMDA receptors. 3-Amino addition, and especially 3-hydroxy addition, to 2-naphthoic acid increased inhibitory activity at GluN1/GluN2C and GluN1/GluN2D receptors. Further halogen and phenyl substitutions to 2-hydroxy-3-naphthoic acid leads to several relatively potent inhibitors, the most potent of which is UBP618 (1-bromo-2-hydroxy-6-phenylnaphthalene-3-carboxylic acid) with an IC(50)2M at each of the NMDA receptor subtypes. While UBP618 is non-selective, elimination of the hydroxyl group in UBP618, as in UBP628 and UBP608, leads to an increase in GluN1/GluN2A selectivity. Of the compounds evaluated, specifically those with a 6-phenyl substitution were less able to fully inhibit GluN1/GluN2A, GluN1/GluN2B and GluN1/GluN2C responses (maximal % inhibition of 60-90%). Such antagonists may potentially have reduced adverse effects by not excessively blocking NMDA receptor signaling. Together, these studies reveal discrete structure-activity relationships for the allosteric antagonism of NMDA receptors that may facilitate the development of NMDA receptor modulator agents for a variety of neuropsychiatric and neurological conditions.
Psycho-genetic studies have revealed a role for the brain serotonin system in gambling proneness and poor decision-making. We assessed whether manipulation of brain serotonin levels in rats affected performance in operant-based tasks for decision-making and gambling proneness. Male Wistar rats were exposed to an l-tryptophan (TRP) deficient diet (0.0g/kg; T- group) or to a control, l-tryptophan containing diet (2.8g/kg; T+ group). The same rats were tested for decision-making performance in the rodent Iowa Gambling Task (rIGT) using home-cage operant panels, and subsequently for gambling proneness in a Probabilistic Delivery Task (rPDT) using classic Skinnerboxes. At sacrifice, monoamines and metabolites were evaluated with HPLC analysis, confirming a drastically reduced serotonin synthesis, as well as altered dopamine turnover in the prefrontal cortex of T- rats. As expected, control rats (T+) progressively chose the option with the best long-term payoff in the rIGT, and also shifted from &quot;Large &amp; Luck-Linked&quot; (LLL) to &quot;Small &amp; Sure&quot; (SS) reinforcers in the rPDT. In contrast, depleted animals (T-) exhibited a weaker improvement of performance in the rIGT and maintained a sub-optimal attraction for LLL reinforcer in the rPDT. Comparing individual performances in both tests, we found a significant correlation between the two tasks in control (T+) but not in depleted (T-) rats. The present study revealed that (1) brain 5-HT depletion leads to poor decision-making and to gambling proneness; (2) the relationship between these two traits, shown in the control group, was disrupted in 5-HT depleted rats. The data are discussed in terms of changes within forebrain loops involved in cognitive and motivational/affective processes.
Emerging evidence points to the involvement of the brain extracellular matrix (ECM) in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia (SZ). Abnormalities affecting several ECM components, including Reelin and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs), have been described in subjects with this disease. Solid evidence supports the involvement of Reelin, an ECM glycoprotein involved in corticogenesis, synaptic functions and glutamate NMDA receptor regulation, expressed prevalently in distinct populations of GABAergic neurons, which secrete it into the ECM. Marked changes of Reelin expression in SZ have typically been reported in association with GABA-related abnormalities in subjects with SZ and bipolar disorder. Recent findings from our group point to substantial abnormalities affecting CSPGs, a main ECM component, in the amygdala and entorhinal cortex of subjects with schizophrenia, but not bipolar disorder. Striking increases of glial cells expressing CSPGs were accompanied by reductions of perineuronal nets, CSPG- and Reelin-enriched ECM aggregates enveloping distinct neuronal populations. CSPGs developmental and adult functions, including neuronal migration, axon guidance, synaptic and neurotransmission regulation are highly relevant to the pathophysiology of SZ. Together with reports of anomalies affecting several other ECM components, these findings point to the ECM as a key component of the pathology of SZ. We propose that ECM abnormalities may contribute to several aspects of the pathophysiology of this disease, including disrupted connectivity and neuronal migration, synaptic anomalies and altered GABAergic, glutamatergic and dopaminergic neurotransmission.
A number of selective phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitors have been demonstrated to improve learning in several rodent models of cognition. Given that schizophrenia is associated with impairments in frontal lobe-dependent cognitive functions (e.g., working memory and cognitive flexibility), we examined whether PDE inhibitors would attenuate cognitive deficits associated with schizophrenia. Persistent suppression of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor function produces enduring structural changes in neocortical and limbic regions in a pattern similar to changes reported in schizophrenia. This similarity suggests that subchronic treatment with NMDA receptor antagonists (e.g., phencyclidine, PCP) may represent a useful preclinical model of neurobiological and related cognitive deficits associated with schizophrenia. We treated male Long-Evans rats with subchronic PCP (5 mg/kg, ip, BID, 7 d) or saline and then examined the effects of acute treatment with selected doses of PDE inhibitors that have been demonstrated to regulate both intracellular levels of cAMP and/or cGMP, and to improve cognitive function. We used an extradimensional-intradimensional (ED/ID) test of cognitive flexibility similar to those used in humans and non-human primates for assessing executive function. Subchronic treatment with PCP produced a selective impairment on ED shift (EDS) performance without significant impairment on any other discrimination problem when compared to saline-treated control animals. Selected doses of the four PDEIs evaluated (PDE2: BAY 60-7550; PDE4: rolipram; PDE5: sildenafil; PDE10A: papaverine) were able to significantly attenuate this cognitive deficit in EDS performance. This suggests that this rodent model of executive function was sensitive to pro-cognitive effects of intracellular effects resulting from PDE inhibition. Together, these data suggest that inhibition of PDE activity may represent valuable therapeutic targets to improve cognition associated with neuropsychiatric disorders that feature cognitive dysfunction as a key symptom.
The risk of developing schizophrenia has been linked to perturbations in embryonic development, but the physiological alterations that result from such insults are incompletely understood. Here, we have investigated aspects of hippocampal physiology in a proposed neurodevelopmental model of schizophrenia, induced during gestation in rats by injection of the antimitotic agent methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) at embryonic day 17 (MAM(E17)). We observed a reduction in synaptic innervation and synaptic transmission in the dorsal hippocampus of MAM(E17) treated rats, accompanied by a pronounced increase in CA1 pyramidal neuron excitability. Pharmacological investigations suggested that a deficit in GABAergic inhibition could account for the increase in excitability; furthermore, some aspects of the hyper-excitability could be normalised by the GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) potentiator diazepam. Despite these alterations, two major forms of synaptic plasticity, long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) could be readily induced. In contrast, there was a substantial deficit in the reversal of LTP, depotentiation. These findings suggest that delivering neurodevelopmental insults at E17 may offer insights into some of the physiological alterations that underlie behavioural and cognitive symptoms observed in schizophrenia.
Schizophrenia is a devastating chronic psychotic disorder characterized by positive, negative, and cognitive symptoms. Although the positive symptoms are relatively well controlled by current monoamine-based treatments for schizophrenia, these agents provide only modest efficacy against the negative and cognitive symptoms of the disease. Furthermore serious adverse events have been reported during treatment with antipsychotic drugs. Therefore, novel treatment strategies are needed that provide improved efficacy across the multiple symptom domains of schizophrenia and have improved tolerability/safety profiles. Glutamate is the primary excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS) and plays an important role in physiological and pathological processes of the CNS. Group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGlu receptors), in particular, have been shown to modulate glutamatergic activity in brain synapses thought to be involved in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. In recent years a number of selective mGlu2/3 receptor agonists and mGlu2 positive allosteric modulators have been disclosed with demonstrated efficacy in multiple animal models for schizophrenia. Consistent with predictions from pre-clinical animal studies, LY2140023 monohydrate, an mGlu2/3 receptor agonist prodrug, recently demonstrated evidence for antipsychotic activity in phase II proof of concept study. Although additional efficacy and safety studies are needed to understand the therapeutic potential of LY2140023, emerging preclinical and clinical data suggest that activation of group II mGlu receptors is a mechanistically novel and promising approach for the treatment of schizophrenia.
Many antipsychotics (APDs) have a high affinity for muscarinic receptors, which is thought to contribute to their therapeutic efficacy, or side effect profile. In order to define how muscarinic receptor gene expression is affected by atypical or typical APDs, rats were treated with chronic (2.58 mg/kg) PCP (a psychotomimetic) or vehicle, plus clozapine (20 mg/kg/day) or haloperidol (1 mg/kg/day), and M1, M2 and M3 receptor mRNA levels were determined in brain sections. Negligible changes in M2 or M3 muscarinic mRNA were detected in any region after clozapine or haloperidol. Chronic PCP administration increased M1 mRNA expression in the prefrontal cortex, which was not reversed by either chronic clozapine or haloperidol treatment. Chronic clozapine treatment in combination with PCP treatment decreased M1 receptor mRNA levels in the nucleus accumbens core, whereas chronic haloperidol in combination with PCP treatment increased M1 receptor mRNA levels in the ventromedial hypothalamus and medial amygdala. Thus M1 receptor gene expression is targeted by APDs, although the regions affected differ according to the APD treatment and whether PCP has been administered. The different brain circuitry modulated, may reflect the differing modes of action of typical and atypical APDs. These data provide support for the dysregulation of M1 receptors in schizophrenia, and furthermore, modulation by antipsychotic agents in the treatment of schizophrenia.
For decades, the predominant hypothesis of schizophrenia centered on dysfunctions of the dopamine system. However, recent evidence now suggests that the dopamine system may be &quot;normal&quot; in its configuration, but instead is regulated abnormally by modulatory processes. Convergent studies in animals and in humans have now focused on the hippocampus as a central component in the generation of psychosis and possibly other symptom states in schizophrenia. Thus, activity in the ventral hippocampus has been shown to regulate dopamine neuron responsivity by controlling the number of dopamine neurons that can be phasically activated by stimuli. In this way, this structure determines the gain of the dopamine signal in response to stimuli. However, in schizophrenia, the hippocampus appears to be hyper-active, possibly due to attenuation of function of inhibitory interneurons. As a result, the dopamine system is driven into an overly responsive state. Current medications have focused on blockade of overstimulated dopamine receptors; however, this now appears to be several synapses downstream from the pathological antecedent. Therapeutic approaches that focus on normalizing hippocampal function may prove to be more effective treatment avenues for the schizophrenia patient.
Treatment options for schizophrenia that address all symptom categories (positive, negative, and cognitive) are lacking in current therapies for this disorder. Compounds targeting the metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors hold promise as a more comprehensive therapeutic alternative to typical and atypical antipsychotics and may avoid the occurrence of extrapyramidal side effects that accompany these treatments. Activation of the group II mGlu receptors (mGlu(2) and mGlu(3)) and the group I mGlu(5) are hypothesized to normalize the disruption of thalamocortical glutamatergic circuitry that results in abnormal glutamaterigic signaling in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Agonists of mGlu(2) and mGlu(3) have demonstrated efficacy for the positive symptom group in both animal models and clinical trials with mGlu(2) being the subtype most likely responsible for the therapeutic effect. Limitations in the chemical space tolerated by the orthosteric site of the mGlu receptors has led to the pursuit of compounds that potentiate the receptor's response to glutamate by acting at less highly conserved allosteric sites. Several series of selective positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) for mGlu(2) and mGlu(5) have demonstrated efficacy in animal models used for the evaluation of antipsychotic agents. In addition, evidence from animal studies indicates that mGlu(5) PAMs hold promise for the treatment of cognitive deficits that occur in schizophrenia. Hopefully, further optimization of allosteric modulators of mGlu receptors will yield clinical candidates that will allow full evaluation of the potential efficacy of these compounds in the treatment of multiple symptom domains in schizophrenia patients in the near future.
Cognitive dysfunction is a core feature of schizophrenia. Growing evidence indicates that a wide variety of genetic mutations and polymorphisms impact cognition and may thus be implicated in various aspects of this mental disorder. Despite differences between human and rodent brain structure and function, genetic mouse models have contributed critical information about brain mechanisms involved in cognitive processes. Here, we summarize discoveries of genetic modifications in mice that impact cognition. Based on functional hypotheses, gene modifications within five model systems are described: 1) dopamine (D1, D2, D3, D4, D5, DAT, COMT, MAO); 2) glutamate (GluR-A, NR1, NR2A, NR2B, GRM2, GRM3, GLAST); 3) GABA ((5), (2), (4), GABA(A), GABA(B(1)), GAT1); 4) acetylcholine (nAChR2, 7, CHRM1); and 5) calcium (CaMKII-, neurogranin, CaMKK, CaMKIV). We also consider other risk-associated genes for schizophrenia such as dysbindin (DTNBP1), neuregulin (NRG1), disrupted-in-schizophrenia1 (DISC1), reelin and proline dehydrogenase (PRODH). Because of the presumed importance of environmental factors, we further consider genetic modifications within the stress-sensitive systems of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and the endocannabinoid systems. We highlight the missing information and limitations of cognitive assays in genetically modified mice models relevant to schizophrenia pathology.
Neuroanatomical, electrophysiological and behavioural abnormalities following timed prenatal methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) treatment in rats model changes observed in schizophrenia. In particular, MAM treatment on gestational day 17 (E17) preferentially disrupts limbic-cortical circuits, and is a promising animal model of schizophrenia. The hypersensitivity of this model to the NMDA receptor antagonist-induced hyperactivity has been proposed to mimic the increase in sensitivity observed in schizophrenia patients following PCP and Ketamine administration. However, how this increase in sensitivity in both patients and animals translates to differences in EEG oscillatory activity is unknown. In this study we have shown that MAM-E17 treated animals have an increased response to the hyperlocomotor and wake promoting effects of Ketamine, PCP, and MK801 but not to the competitive antagonist SDZ 220,581. These behavioural changes were accompanied by altered EEG responses to the NMDAR antagonists, most evident in the gamma and high frequency (HFO) ranges; altered sensitivity of these neuronal network oscillations in MAM-exposed rats is regionally selective, and reflects altered interneuronal function in this neurodevelopmental model.
Schizophrenia is a complex developmental disorder that presents challenges to modern neuroscience in terms of discovering etiology and aiding in effective treatment of afflicted humans. One approach is to divide the constellation of symptoms of human neuropsychiatric disorders into discrete units for study. Multiple animal models are used to study brain ontogeny, response to psychoactive compounds, substrates of defined behaviors. Frontal cortical areas have been found to have abnormal anatomy and neurotransmitter levels in postmortem brains from schizophrenic patients. The mouse model has the advantage of rather straightforward genetic manipulation and offers numerous genetic variations within the same species. However, until recently, the behavioral analyses in the mice lagged behind the primate and rat, especially with respect to testing of frontal cortical regions. Current reports of mouse prefrontal anatomy and function advocate the mouse as a feasible animal model to study prefrontal cortical function. This review highlights the most recent developments from behavioral paradigms for testing orbital and medial prefrontal cortical function in pharmacological and genetic models of human schizophrenia.
The lack of efficacy for antipsychotics with respect to negative symptoms and cognitive deficits is a significant obstacle for the treatment of schizophrenia. Developing new drugs to target these symptoms requires appropriate neural biomarkers that can be investigated in model organisms, be used to track treatment response, and provide insight into pathophysiological disease mechanisms. A growing body of evidence indicates that neural oscillations in the gamma frequency range (30-80 Hz) are disturbed in schizophrenia. Gamma synchrony has been shown to mediate a host of sensory and cognitive functions, including perceptual encoding, selective attention, salience, and working memory - neurocognitive processes that are dysfunctional in schizophrenia and largely refractory to treatment. This review summarizes the current state of clinical literature with respect to gamma-band responses (GBRs) in schizophrenia, focusing on resting and auditory paradigms. Next, preclinical studies of schizophrenia that have investigated gamma-band activity are reviewed to gain insight into neural mechanisms associated with these deficits. We conclude that abnormalities in gamma synchrony are ubiquitous in schizophrenia and likely reflect an elevation in baseline cortical gamma synchrony ('noise') coupled with reduced stimulus-evoked GBRs ('signal'). Such a model likely reflects hippocampal and cortical dysfunction, as well as reduced glutamatergic signaling with downstream GABAergic deficits, but is probably less influenced by dopaminergic abnormalities implicated in schizophrenia. Finally, we propose that analogous signal-to-noise deficits in the flow of cortical information in preclinical models are useful targets for the development of new drugs that target the treatment-resistant symptoms of schizophrenia.
The dopamine transporter (DAT) is the major regulator of the spatial and temporal resolution of dopaminergic neurotransmission in the brain. Hyperdopaminergic mice with DAT gene deletions were evaluated for their ability to perform duration discriminations in the seconds-to-minutes range. DAT -/- mice were unable to demonstrate temporal control of behavior in either fixed-interval or peak-interval timing procedures, whereas DAT +/- mice were similar to DAT +/+ mice under normal conditions. Low to moderate-dose methamphetamine (MAP) challenges indicated that DAT +/- mice were less sensitive to the clock-speed enhancing effects of MAP compared with DAT +/+ mice. In contrast, DAT +/- mice were more vulnerable than DAT +/+ mice to the disruptive effects of MAP at high doses as revealed by the elevation of response rate in the right hand tail of the Gaussian-shaped timing functions. Moreover, this treatment made DAT +/- mice functionally equivalent to DAT -/- mice in terms of the loss of temporal control. Taken together, these results demonstrate the importance of dopaminergic control of interval timing in cortico-striatal circuits and the potential link of timing dysfunctions to schizophrenia and drug abuse.
Researchers have long noted an excess of patients with schizophrenia were born during the months of January and March. This winter birth effect has been hypothesized to result either from various causes such as vitamin D deficiency (McGrath, 1999; McGrath et al., 2010), or from maternal infection during pregnancy. Infection with a number of viruses during pregnancy including influenza, and rubella are known to increase the risk of schizophrenia in the offspring (Brown, 2006). Animal models using influenza virus or Poly I:C, a viral mimic, have been able to replicate many of the brain morphological, genetic, and behavioral deficits of schizophrenia (Meyer et al., 2006, 2008a, 2009; Bitanihirwe et al., 2010; Meyer and Feldon, 2010; Short et al., 2010). Using a murine model of prenatal viral infection, our laboratory has shown that viral infection on embryonic days 9, 16, and 18 leads to abnormal expression of brain genes and brain structural abnormalities in the exposed offspring (Fatemi et al., 2005, 2008a,b, 2009a,b). The purpose of the current study was to examine gene expression and morphological changes in the placenta, hippocampus, and prefrontal cortex as a result of viral infection on embryonic day 7 of pregnancy. Pregnant mice were either infected with influenza virus [A/WSN/33 strain (H1N1)] or sham-infected with vehicle solution. At E16, placentas were harvested and prepared for either microarray analysis or for light microscopy. We observed significant, upregulation of 77 genes and significant downregulation of 93 genes in placentas. In brains of exposed offspring following E7 infection, there were changes in gene expression in prefrontal cortex (6 upregulated and 24 downregulated at P0; 5 upregulated and 14 downregulated at P56) and hippocampus (4 upregulated and 6 downregulated at P0; 6 upregulated and 13 downregulated at P56). QRT-PCR verified the direction and magnitude of change for a number of genes associated with hypoxia, inflammation, schizophrenia, and autism. Placentas from infected mice showed a number of morphological abnormalities including presence of thrombi and increased presence of immune cells. Additionally, we searched for presence of H1N1 viral-specific genes for M1/M2, NA, and NS1 in placentas of infected mice and brains of exposed offspring and found none. Our results demonstrate that prenatal viral infection disrupts structure and gene expression of the placenta, hippocampus, and prefrontal cortex potentially explaining deleterious effects in the exposed offspring without evidence for presence of viral RNAs in the target tissues.
Effective treatment of the cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia has remained an elusive goal. Despite the intense focus on treatments acting at or via cholinergic mechanisms, little remains known about the dynamic cholinergic abnormalities that contribute to the manifestation of the cognitive symptoms in patients. Evidence from basic neuroscientific and psychopharmacological investigations assists in proposing detailed cholinergic mechanisms and treatment targets for enhancement of attentional performance. Dynamic, cognitive performance-dependent abnormalities in cholinergic activity have been observed in animal models of the disorder and serve to further refine such proposals. Finally, the potential usefulness of individual groups of cholinergic drugs and important issues concerning the interactions between pro-cholinergic and antipsychotic treatments are addressed. The limited evidence available from patient studies and animal models indicates pressing research needs in order to guide the development of cholinergic treatments of the cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia.
T-type calcium channels are important in burst firing and expressed in brain regions implicated in schizophrenia. Therefore, we examined the effects of novel selective T-type calcium channel antagonists in preclinical assays predictive of antipsychotic-like activity. TTA-A2 blocked the psychostimulant effects of amphetamine and MK-801 and decreased conditioned avoidance responding. These effects appeared mechanism based, rather than compound specific, as two structurally dissimilar T-type antagonists also reduced amphetamine-induced psychomotor activity. Importantly, the ability to reduce amphetamine's effects was maintained following 20 days pre-treatment with TTA-A2. To explore the neural substrates mediating the observed behavioral effects, we examined the influence of TTA-A2 on amphetamine-induced c-fos expression as well as basal and stimulant-evoked dopamine and glutamate release in the nucleus accumbens. TTA-A2 decreased amphetamine-induced c-fos expression as well as MK-801-induced, but not basal, glutamate levels in the nucleus accumbens. Basal, amphetamine- and MK-801-induced dopamine efflux was altered. These findings suggest that T-type calcium channel antagonism could represent a novel mechanism for treating schizophrenia.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) are highly prevalent among Veterans of the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. These conditions are associated with common and unique neuropsychological and neuroanatomical changes. This review synthesizes neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies for both of these disorders and studies examining their co-occurrence. Recommendations for future research, including use of combined neuropsychological and advanced neuroimaging techniques to study these disorders alone and in concert, are presented. It is clear from the dearth of literature that addiitonal studies are required to examine and understand the impact of specific factors on neurocognitive outcome. Of particular relevance are temporal relationships between PTSD and mTBI, risk and resilience factors associated with both disorders and their co-occurrence, and mTBI-specific factors such as time since injury and severity of injury, utilizing comprehensive, yet targeted cognitive tasks.
The significance of the recent introduction to cognitive neuroscience of multivariate pattern analysis (MVPA) is that, unlike univariate approaches which are limited to identifying magnitudes of activity in localized parts of the brain, it affords the detection and characterization of patterns of activity distributed within and across multiple brain regions. This technique supports stronger inferences because it captures neural representations that have markedly higher selectivity than do univariate activation peaks. Recently, we used MVPA to assess the neural consequences of dissociating the internal focus of attention from short-term memory (STM), finding that the information represented in delay-period activity corresponds only to the former (Lewis-Peacock, Drysdale, Oberauer, &amp; Postle, in press). Here we report several additional analyses of these data in which we directly compared the results generated by MVPA vs. those generated by univariate analyses. The sensitivity of MVPA to subtle variations in patterns of distributed brain activity revealed a novel insight: although overall activity remains elevated in category-selective brain regions corresponding to unattended STM items, the multivariate patterns of activity within these regions reflect the representation of a different category, i.e., the one that is currently being attended to. In addition, MVPA was able to dissociate attended from unattended STM items in brain regions whose univariate activity did not appear to be sensitive to the task. These findings highlight the fallacy of the assumption of homogeneity of representation within putative category-selective regions. They affirm the view that neural representations in STM are highly distributed and overlapping, and they demonstrate the necessity of multivariate analysis for dissociating such representations.
Visual input is ambiguous, yet conscious experience is unambiguous. In binocular rivalry the two eyes receive conflicting images, but only one of them is consciously perceived at a time. Here we search for the neural sites of the competitive interactions underlying this phenomenon by testing whether neural pattern activity occurring before stimulus presentation can predict the initial dominant percept in binocular rivalry and, if so, where in the brain such predictive activity is found. Subjects were scanned while viewing an image of a face in one eye and an image of a house in the other eye with anaglyph glasses. The rivalrous stimulus was presented briefly for each trial, and the subject indicated which of the two images he or she preferentially perceived. Our results show that BOLD fMRI multivariate pattern activity in the fusiform face area (FFA) before the stimulus is presented predicts which of the two images will be dominant, suggesting that higher extrastriate areas, such as the FFA, are not only correlated with, but may also be involved in determining the initial dominant percept in binocular rivalry. Furthermore, by examining pattern activity before and after trial onset, we found that pre-trial activity in the FFA for the rivalrous face trials is no more similar to the post-trial activity for the non-rivalrous face trials than to that for the non-rivalrous house trials, indicating a dissociation between neural pattern information, which predicts a given state of awareness, and mean responses, which reflect the state of awareness ultimately achieved.


Based on the glutamatergic hypothesis of schizophrenia we assessed the effects of a novel mGlu5 positive allosteric modulator, LSN2463359 [N-(1-methylethyl)-5-(pyridin-4-ylethynyl)pyridine-2-carboxamide] on deficits in cognitive flexibility in two distinct rodent models of schizophrenia, the neurodevelopmental MAM E17 model and the acute PCP model. Cognitive flexibility was measured with the intra-dimensional and extra-dimensional set-shifting and reversal learning digging paradigm. Regional effects of MAM on the expression of parvalbumin-positive cells (PV) and mGlu5 receptors were also examined, to further characterize the model. Results showed that LSN2463359 selectively attenuated reversal learning deficits in the MAM but not acute PCP model. Whilst both models led to deficits in reversal learning and extra-dimensional set-shifting, the reversal impairments were qualitatively distinct, with MAM increasing perseverative responding, whereas the PCP deficit was mainly due to the inability of rats to maintain reinforced choice behavior. Reduction of PV and mGlu5 expression was found in the MAM model in several regions of importance in schizophrenia, such as the orbitofrontal and medial prefrontal cortex, which also mediate reversal learning and extra-dimensional set-shifting. The present findings confirm that the positive modulation of mGlu5 receptors may have beneficial effects in the treatment of certain aspects of cognitive impairment associated with schizophrenia. This study also illustrates the importance of studying putative cognitive enhancing drug effects in a number of models which may have implications for the future development of the compound.
Individual variation in reward sensitivity may have an important role in early substance use and subsequent development of substance abuse. This may be especially important during adolescence, a transition period marked by approach behavior and a propensity toward risk taking, novelty seeking and alteration of the social landscape. However, little is known about the relative contribution of personality, behavior, and brain responses for prediction of alcohol use in adolescents. In this study, we applied factor analyses and structural equation modeling to reward-related brain responses assessed by functional magnetic resonance imaging during a monetary incentive delay task. In addition, novelty seeking, sensation seeking, impulsivity, extraversion, and behavioral measures of risk taking were entered as predictors of early onset of drinking in a sample of 14-year-old healthy adolescents (N=324). Reward-associated behavior, personality, and brain responses all contributed to alcohol intake with personality explaining a higher proportion of the variance than behavior and brain responses. When only the ventral striatum was used, a small non-significant contribution to the prediction of early alcohol use was found. These data suggest that the role of reward-related brain activation may be more important in addiction than initiation of early drinking, where personality traits and reward-related behaviors were more significant. With up to 26% of explained variance, the interrelation of reward-related personality traits, behavior, and neural response patterns may convey risk for later alcohol abuse in adolescence, and thus may be identified as a vulnerability factor for the development of substance use disorders.
Methamphetamine (METH) causes partial depletion of central monoamine systems and cognitive dysfunction in rats and humans. We have previously shown and now further show that the positive correlation between expression of the immediate-early gene Arc (activity-regulated, cytoskeleton-associated) in the dorsomedial (DM) striatum and learning on a response reversal task is lost in rats with METH-induced striatal dopamine loss, despite normal behavioral performance and unaltered N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated excitatory post-synaptic currents, suggesting intact excitatory transmission. This discrepancy suggests that METH-pretreated rats may no longer be using the dorsal striatum to solve the reversal task. To test this hypothesis, male Sprague-Dawley rats were pretreated with a neurotoxic regimen of METH or saline. Guide cannulae were surgically implanted bilaterally into the DM striatum. Three weeks after METH treatment, rats were trained on a motor response version of a T-maze task, and then underwent reversal training. Before reversal training, the NMDA receptor antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP5) or an Arc antisense oligonucleotide was infused into the DM striatum. Acute disruption of DM striatal function by infusion of AP5 impaired reversal learning in saline-, but not METH-, pretreated rats. Likewise, acute disruption of Arc, which is implicated in consolidation of long-term memory, disrupted retention of reversal learning 24h later in saline-, but not METH-, pretreated rats. These results highlight the critical importance of Arc in the striatum in consolidation of basal ganglia-mediated learning and suggest that long-term toxicity induced by METH alters the cognitive strategies/neural circuits used to solve tasks normally mediated by dorsal striatal function.

The use of biomaterials, such as hydrogels, as neural cell delivery devices is becoming more common in areas of research such as stroke, traumatic brain injury, and spinal cord injury. When reviewing the available research there is some ambiguity in the type of materials used and results are often at odds. This review aims to provide the neuroscience community who may not be familiar with fundamental concepts of hydrogel construction, with basic information that would pertain to neural tissue applications, and to describe the use of hydrogels as cell and drug delivery devices. We will illustrate some of the many tunable properties of hydrogels and the importance of these properties in obtaining reliable and consistent results. It is our hope that this review promotes creative ideas for ways that hydrogels could be adapted and employed for the treatment of a broad range of neurological disorders.
This article is part of a Special Issue entitled:Stress, Emotional Behavior, and the Endocannabinoid System.
An adequate emotional response to stress is essential for survival and requires the fine-tuned regulation of several distinct neuronal circuits. Therefore, a precise control of these circuits is necessary to prevent behavioral imbalances. During the last decade, numerous investigations have evidenced that the endocannabinoid (eCB) system is able to crucially control stress coping. Its central component, the cannabinoid type 1 receptor (CB1 receptor), is located at the presynapse, where it is able to attenuate neurotransmitter release after its activation by postsynaptically produced and released eCBs. To date, the eCB system has been found to control the neurotransmitter release from several neuron populations (e.g. GABA, glutamate, catecholamines and monoamines), suggesting a general mechanism for tuning neuronal activity, and thereby regulating emotion and stress responses. In this review, we aim at summarizing the anatomical and functional relation of the eCB system to an adequate response to stressful situations. Of special interest will be neuronal connections to the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, but also circuits between cortical structures, such as prefrontal cortex, amygdala and hippocampus, and subcortical regions, such as raphe nuclei and locus coeruleus. We further like to step toward allocating eCB system functions to distinct cellular subpopulations in the brain. It has emerged that the eCB system is spatially well defined, and its detailed knowledge is a prerequisite for understanding the eCB system in the context of controlling behavior. Thus, advanced approaches combining different genetic and pharmacological tools to dissect specific eCB system functions are of particular interest.
The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis regulates the outflow of glucocorticoid hormones under basal conditions and in response to stress. Within the last decade, a large body of evidence has mounted indicating that the endocannabinoid system is involved in the central regulation of the stress response; however, the specific role endocannabinoid signaling plays in phases of HPA axis regulation, and the neural sites of action mediating this regulation, were not mapped out until recently. This review aims to collapse the current state of knowledge regarding the role of the endocannabinoid system in the regulation of the HPA axis to put together a working model of how and where endocannabinoids act within the brain to regulate outflow of the HPA axis. Specifically, we discuss the role of the endocannabinoid system in the regulation of the HPA axis under basal conditions, activation in response to acute stress, and glucocorticoid-mediated negative feedback. Interestingly, there appears to be some anatomical specificity to the role of the endocannabinoid system in each phase of HPA axis regulation, as well as distinct roles of both anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol in these phases. Overall, the current level of information indicates that endocannabinoid signaling acts to suppress HPA axis activity through concerted actions within the prefrontal cortex, amygdala, and hypothalamus.
Restraint stress exposures evoke progressively larger increases in 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) in limbic brain regions as the number of repetitions increases. The Porsolt swim test usually involves two swim exposures separated by 24 h, and we asked whether the 2-AG response differed between the first and second exposures. Methods: Four groups of male C57/Bl6N mice were studied: control; exposed to a single 6 min swim and killed immediately; exposed to a single 6 min swim and killed 24 h later; and exposed to two swims, separated by 24 h, and killed after the second swim. Outcomes were swim behavior, serum corticosterone, and 2-AG and 2-oleoylglycerol (2-OG) contents in amygdala, hippocampus, and prefrontal cortex. Results: Mean 2-AG contents were not significantly different among the four treatment groups in any brain region and did not correlate with immobility in either forced swim exposure. However, 2-AG contents in all three brain regions only of the mice exposed to two swims were significantly, positively correlated with serum corticosterone concentrations measured at the same time. 2-OG is present in brain and exhibits a striking regional heterogeneity in control mice. 2-OG concentrations in prefrontal cortex were significantly reduced in the mice killed on the second day compared with the mice killed on the first day. As the target of 2-OG in brain is not known, the significance of these observations await further studies. Conclusions: Although prior exposure to swim stress does not alter brain 2-AG contents upon re-exposure, 2-AG concentrations in brain become significantly correlated with the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis response to stress when prior exposure to the stress has occurred. These data suggest that even a single exposure to a short period of intense stress sensitizes the 2-AG response to re-exposure to that situation and are consistent with a role for endocannabinoid signaling in modulating stress responses.
Preclinical data support the long-term adverse effects on cognition, emotionality, and psychotic-like behaviors of adolescent exposure to natural and synthetic cannabinoids. To investigate whether the long-lasting adverse effects induced by cannabinoids in adolescence are influenced by early-life stress, female and male rats were subjected to 24-h maternal deprivation at postnatal day (PND) 9 and treated with tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) during adolescence (PND 35-45) according to our previously reported protocol. At adulthood, rats were tested in the novel object recognition, social interaction, and forced swim tests, to evaluate possible alterations in recognition memory, social behavior, and coping strategy. Moreover, cannabinoid CB1 receptor density and functionality, as well as NMDA and dopamine D1 and D2 receptor densities were measured through autoradiographic binding studies. In female maternally deprived rats, THC failed to impair recognition memory, counteracted aggressiveness induced by maternal deprivation, whereas no interaction was observed in the passive coping behavior. In males, the association of the two events increased passive coping response without affecting other behaviors. This behavioral picture was accompanied by gender-dependent and region-specific alterations in NMDA, D1 and D2 receptors. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that adolescent THC exposure might have different behavioral outcomes in animals previously exposed to early-life stress compared with non-stressed controls. The interaction between the two events is not univocal, and different combinations may arise depending on the sex of the animals and the behavior considered. Alterations in NMDA, D1 and D2 receptors might be involved in the behavioral responses induced by maternal deprivation and in their modulation by THC.
The endocannabinoid system seems to play very specific roles in fear extinction, which can only be described within a well-defined model of the various fear relief processes. We, therefore, seek to clarify the current conceptual framework of fear relief within classical and operant fear conditioning paradigms as well as propose new clarifications within this framework where necessary. Based on these revisions as well as previous research involving the endocannabinoid system and fear relief, we are able to pinpoint the processes in which endocannabinoids seem to play a significant role. Following auditory-cued fear conditioning, this applies in particular to habituation and its involvement in acute and long-lasting fear relief. Following contextual conditioning, in contrast, endocannabinoids seem to affect relearning processes as well. Furthermore, we describe how the involvement of the endocannabinoid system develops over the course of the fear relief process and what this may imply for the clinical use of pharmacotherapies targeting the endocannabinoid system in treating fear and anxiety disorders.
The relationship between glucocorticoids and endocannabinoids at hypothalamic synapses in the presence of stress is particularly complex. Under conditions of acute stress, glucocorticoids trigger the synthesis of endocannabinoids, which through activation of type I cannabinoid receptors (CB1Rs), inhibit stress-relevant neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). Through this signaling mechanism, endocannabinoids constrain the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. However, following chronic or repeated stress, the ability of endocannabinoids to modulate synaptic activity is compromised because of a functional down-regulation in CB1Rs. Here we examine recent findings that highlight important aspects of endocannabinoid signaling in response to stress in the PVN and the dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH), two hypothalamic nuclei that play integral roles in regulating the neuroendocrine and autonomic responses to stress.
Altered regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is associated with stress-induced changes in cognitive, emotional, and physical health. Recent evidence indicates that the endogenous cannabinoid (eCB) system may modulate HPA-axis function both directly and more centrally, via regulation of limbic brain systems that control HPA-axis activity. The current study examines the contribution of cannabinoid type 1 (CB1) receptor modulation throughout the neuraxis on control and stress-induced HPA-axis activity. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were given intraperitoneal injections of either CB1 receptor antagonist (AM251, 2 mg/kg) or vehicle 30 min prior to a session of loud white noise stress (95 dBA for 30 min) or placement in a familiar sound-proof chamber. Immediately following stress and control treatments, rats were killed, the brains and pituitary glands were excised for subsequent immediate early gene (c-fos mRNA) measurement, and trunk blood was collected for subsequent determination of corticosterone (CORT) and adrenocorticotropic (ACTH) hormone levels. AM251 treatment resulted in a potentiated plasma ACTH response to loud noise stress. AM251 treatment also increased stress-induced plasma CORT levels, but that increase may be due to an increase in basal plasma CORT levels, as was evident in control rats. AM251 treatment produced three distinctive c-fos mRNA response patterns across the various brain regions examined. In cortical (prelimbic, infralimbic, somatosensory, and auditory) and some subcortical structures (basolateral amygdala and paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus), AM251 treatment produced a substantial increase in c-fos mRNA that was comparable with the elevated c-fos mRNA levels present in those brain regions of both vehicle and AM251-treated stressed rats. In some other subcortical structures (bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and medial preoptic area) and the anterior pituitary, AM251 treatment produced a c-fos mRNA response pattern that was similar to the response pattern of ACTH hormone levels, that is, no effect on no noise control levels, but an augmentation of stress-induced levels. Conversely, in the medial geniculate and ventral posterior thalamus, AM251 treatment inhibited stress-induced c-fos mRNA induction. These data indicate that disruption of eCB signaling through CB1 receptors results in potentiated neural and endocrine responses to loud noise stress, but also substantial increases in activity in various brain regions and the adrenal gland.
The endocannabinoid signaling system is a widespread, neuromodulatory system in brain and is also widely utilized in the periphery to modulate metabolic functions and the immune system. Preclinical data demonstrate that endocannabinoid signaling is an important stress buffer and modulates emotional and cognitive functions. These data suggest the hypothesis that endocannabinoid signaling could be dysfunctional in a number of mental disorders. Genetic polymorphisms in the human genes for two important proteins of the endocannabinoid signaling system, the CB1 cannabinoid receptor (CB1R) and fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), have been explored in the context of normal and pathological conditions. In the case of the gene for FAAH, the mechanistic relationships among the common genetic polymorphism, the expression of the FAAH protein, and its likely impact on endocannabinoid signaling are understood. However, multiple polymorphisms in the gene for the CB1R occur and are associated with human phenotypic differences without an understanding of the functional relationships among the gene, mRNA, protein, and protein function. The endocannabinoid ligands are found in the circulation, and several studies have identified changes in their concentrations under various conditions. These data are reviewed for the purpose of generating hypotheses and to encourage further studies in this very interesting and important area.
Growing evidence suggests that the endocannabinoid system is vital to ensuring normative maturation of the brain into adulthood. Endocannabinoid signaling contributes to guiding pro-neurogenic processes in early life and the development of neurotransmitter systems. Moreover, there is extensive evidence that recruitment of the endocannabinoid system is crucial in the regulation of neuroendocrine responses to stress via the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, and contributes to subsequent psychopathological consequences associated with emotionality and anxiety. These stress-induced physiological and behavioural sequelae are regulated by neural structures within the corticolimbic circuit, including the amygdala, hypothalamus, hippocampus, and prefrontal cortex. Based on evidence demonstrating endocannabinoid system involvement in both development and stress-induced changes in HPA axis function, it is reasonable to suggest that endocannabinoid signaling is an important mediator of interactions between stress responsivity and maturational stage. In this review, we discuss the ontogeny of the endocannabinoid system in the central nervous system, clinical and rodent models demonstrating short- and long-term effects of stress exposure, regulation of HPA axis responsivity by endocannabinoid signaling, as well as pharmacological and stress models indicating involvement of the endocannabinoid system in early post-natal and adolescent development on stress reactivity of the HPA, the corticolimbic system, and behaviour.
We have recently reported that early maternal deprivation (MD) for 24 h [postnatal day (PND) 9-10] and/or an adolescent chronic treatment with the cannabinoid agonist CP-55,940 (CP) [0.4 mg/kg, PND 28-42] in Wistar rats induced, in adulthood, diverse sex-dependent long-term behavioral and physiological modifications. Here we show the results obtained from investigating the immunohistochemical analysis of CB1 cannabinoid receptors, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) positive (+) cells and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression in the hippocampus of the same animals. MD induced, in males, a significant increase in the number of GFAP+ cells in CA1 and CA3 areas and in the polymorphic layer of the dentate gyrus (DG), an effect that was attenuated by CP in the two latter regions. Adolescent cannabinoid exposure induced, in control non-deprived males, a significant increase in the number of GFAP+ cells in the polymorphic layer of the DG. MD induced a decrease in CB1 expression in both sexes, and this effect was reversed in males by the cannabinoid treatment. In turn, the drug &quot;per se&quot; induced, in males, a general decrease in CB1 immunoreactivity, and the opposite effect was observed in females. Cannabinoid exposure tended to reduce BDNF expression in CA1 and CA3 of females, whereas MD counteracted this trend and induced an increase of BDNF in females. As a whole, the present results show sex-dependent long-term effects of both MD and juvenile cannabinoid exposure as well as functional interactions between the two treatments.
In the last 10 years, numerous experimental studies have revealed the participation of the endocannabinoid system in the control of emotional behavior and mood through the activation of the CB1 cannabinoid receptors. Endocannabinoids are able to exert a regulative control of different physiological mechanisms that are impaired during mood disorders, including monoaminergic system, the activity of pituitary-adrenal axis, the release and activation of neurotrophic factors that promotes neuroplasticity and adapted behavior, and probably neuroinflammatory cytokines release during the depressive disorders. Considering the body of elements that acts under the control of the endocannabinoid system and the key role played by the activation of the CB1 cannabinoid receptors in the control of emotion and mood, we had proposed that genetically modified mice lacking the CB1 cannabinoid receptors could represent a genetic model for depression. These animals generated by three distinct laboratories behave normally under basal conditions, but they could display an altered behavior under adverse environmental conditions. In this review, we have integrated most of the study that have been developed using mice lacking CB1 cannabinoid receptor for the studies of emotional responses. We have focused our attention not only in the data obtained using different behavioral paradigms, but also in different biomarkers that have been classically or recently associated to mood disorders, such as the deregulation of the serotonergic system, the reported impairment in neurotrophic factors and plasticity function described for depression, the alterations in the pituitary-adrenal axis function, and the lately reported role for inflammatory factors in the mood regulation. Finally, clinical studies support and confirm the obtained findings in animal models and lead us to propose that mice lacking CB1 cannabinoid receptor could represent a validate and appropriate model to evaluate depressive-like disorders in animals.
The endocannabinoid system is an important regulator of the nervous, neuroendocrine, and immune systems, thus representing a novel therapeutic target for stress-related neuroinflammatory and psychiatric disorders. However, there is a paucity of data relating to the effects of endocannabinoids on neuroinflammatory mediators following an immune stress/challenge in vivo. This study investigated the effects of URB597, a selective inhibitor of fatty acid amide hydrolyase (FAAH), the enzyme that preferentially metabolizes anandamide, on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced increases in the expression of immune mediators in the hypothalamus. Systemic administration of URB597 increased the levels of anandamide and the related N-acylethanolamines, N-palmitoylethanolamide, and N-oleoylethanolamide, but not 2-arachidonoyl glycerol, in the hypothalamus and spleen. URB597 attenuated the LPS-induced increase in interleukin (IL)-1 expression while concurrently augmenting the LPS-induced increase in suppressor of cytokine signalling (SOCS)-3 expression. In addition, URB597 tended to enhance and reduce the LPS-induced increase in IL-6 and IL-10 mRNA expression, respectively. LPS-induced increases in peripheral cytokine levels or plasma corticosterone were not altered by URB597. The present study provides evidence for a role for FAAH in the regulation of LPS-induced expression of inflammatory mediators in the hypothalamus. Improved understanding of endocannabinoid-mediated regulation of neuroimmune function has fundamental physiological and potential therapeutic significance in the context of stress-related disorders.
Limbic endocannabinoid signaling is known to be sensitive to chronic stress; however, studies investigating the impact of prolonged exposure to glucocorticoid hormones have been limited by the concurrent exposure to the stress of daily injections. The present study was designed to examine the effects of a noninvasive approach to alter plasma corticosterone (CORT) on the endocannabinoid system. More precisely, we explored the effects of a 4-week exposure to CORT dissolved in the drinking water of mice (100 g/ml) and measured cannabinoid CB(1) receptor binding, endocannabinoid content, activity of the endocannabinoid degrading enzyme fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), and mRNA expression of both the CB(1) receptor and FAAH in both the hippocampus and amygdala. Our data demonstrate that CORT decreases CB(1) receptor binding site density in both the hippocampus and amygdala and also reduced anandamide (AEA) content and increased FAAH activity within both structures. These changes in both CB(1) receptor binding and FAAH activity were not accompanied by changes in mRNA expression of either the CB(1) receptor or FAAH in either brain region. Interestingly, our CORT delivery regimen significantly increased 2-AG concentrations within the hippocampus, but not the amygdala. Collectively, these data demonstrate that the confounder of injection stress is sufficient to conceal the ability of protracted exposure to glucocorticoids to reduce CB(1) receptor density and augment AEA metabolism within limbic structures.
This study has investigated the role of hypothalamic and amygdalar type-1 cannabinoid (CB1) receptors in the emotional and neuroendocrine responses to stress. To do so, we used the Cre/loxP system to generate conditional mutant mice lacking the CB1 gene in neurons expressing the transcription factor single-minded 1 (Sim1). This choice was dictated by former evidence for Sim1-Cre transgenic mice bearing Cre activity in all areas expressing Sim1, which chiefly includes the hypothalamus (especially the paraventricular nucleus, the supraoptic nucleus, and the posterior hypothalamus) and the mediobasal amygdala. Genomic DNA analyses in Sim1-CB1(-/-) mice indicated that the CB1 allele was excised from the hypothalamus and the amygdala, but not from the cortex, the striatum, the thalamus, the nucleus accumbens, the brainstem, the hippocampus, the pituitary gland, and the spinal cord. Double-fluorescent in situ hybridization experiments further indicated that Sim1-CB1(-/-) mice displayed a weaker CB1 receptor mRNA expression in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and the mediobasal part of the amygdala, compared to wild-type animals. Individually housed Sim1-CB1(-/-) mice and their Sim1-CB1(+/+) littermates were exposed to anxiety and fear memory tests under basal conditions as well as after acute/repeated social stress. A principal component analysis of the behaviors of Sim1-CB1(-/-) and Sim1-CB1(+/+) mice in anxiety tests (open field, elevated plus-maze, and light/dark box) revealed that CB1 receptors from Sim1-expressing neurons exert tonic, albeit opposite, controls of locomotor and anxiety reactivity to novel environments. No difference between genotypes was observed during the recall of contextual fear conditioning or during active avoidance learning. Sim1-CB1(-/-), but not Sim1-CB1(+/+), mice proved sensitive to an acute social stress as this procedure reverted the increased ambulation in the center of the open field. The stimulatory influence of repeated social stress on body and adrenal weights, water intake, and sucrose preference was similar in the two genotypes. On the other hand, repeated social stress abolished the decrease in cued-fear conditioned expression that was observed in Sim1-CB1(-/-) mice, compared to Sim1-CB1(+/+) mice. This study suggests that CB1 receptors located on Sim1-expressing neurons exert a tonic control on locomotor reactivity, unconditioned anxiety, and cued-fear expression under basal conditions as well as after acute or repeated stress.
The transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 channel (TRPV1; originally vanilloid receptor VR1) is activated in peripheral terminals of nociceptive fibers by noxious heat, low pH, and natural products such as capsaicin, the pungent ingredient of red-hot chilli peppers. Evidence has been accumulating that TRPV1 is expressed also in the brain, where it seems to be involved in antinociception, locomotor control, and regulation of affective behaviors. This ion channel might be activated by arachidonoyl ethanolamide (anandamide), the endogenous agonist of the cannabinoid type 1 (CB(1)) receptor. However, while CB(1) activation leads to a decrease in intracellular calcium and attenuation of synaptic transmission, anandamide binding to TRPV1 results in elevated calcium levels and potentiated synaptic transmission. This suggests a tripartite regulatory system with antagonistic effects of CB(1) and TRPV1, which are tied together by the same endogenous ligand. Such a system may have important implication for the modulation of behavioral responses. The present commentary elaborates on this interplay between CB(1) receptors and TRPV1 channels in the context of fear- and anxiety-related behaviors.
Glucocorticoids, stress hormones released from the adrenal cortex, have potent modulatory effects on emotional memory. Whereas early studies focused mostly on the detrimental effects of chronic stress and glucocorticoid exposure on cognitive performance and the classic genomic pathways that mediate these effects, recent findings indicate that glucocorticoids exert complex and often rapid influences on distinct memory phases. Specifically, glucocorticoids have been shown to enhance memory consolidation of emotionally arousing experiences, but to impair memory retrieval and working memory during emotionally arousing test situations. Furthermore, growing evidence indicates that these different glucocorticoid effects depend on a nongenomically mediated interaction with emotional arousal-induced noradrenergic activation within the basolateral complex of the amygdala. In this paper, we present a model suggesting that the endocannabinoid system, a lipid-based retrograde signaling system, might play an important role in mediating such rapid glucocorticoid influences on the noradrenergic system in modulating memory of emotionally arousing experiences.
The molecular constituents of endocannabinoid (eCB) signaling are abundantly expressed within the mammalian amygdaloid complex, consistent with the robust role of eCB signaling in the modulation of emotional behavior, learning, and stress-response physiology. Here, we detail the anatomical distribution of eCB signaling machinery in the amygdala and the role of this system in the modulation of excitatory and inhibitory neuroplasticity in this region. We also summarize recent findings demonstrating dynamic alternations in eCB signaling that occur in response to stress exposure, as well as known behavioral consequences of eCB-mediated modulation of amygdala function. Finally, we discuss how integrating anatomical and physiological data regarding eCB signaling in the amygdala could help elucidate common functional motifs of this system in relation to broader forebrain function.
This study examined the role of endocannabinoid signaling in stress-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking and explored the interaction between noradrenergic and endocannabinergic systems in the process. A well-validated preclinical model for human relapse, the rodent conditioned place preference assay, was used. Cocaine-induced place preference was established in C57BL/6 mice using injections of 15 mg/kg cocaine. Following extinction of preference for the cocaine-paired environment, reinstatement of place preference was determined following 6 min of swim stress or cocaine injection (15 mg/kg, i.p.). The role of endocannabinoid signaling was studied using the cannabinoid antagonist AM-251 (3 mg/kg, i.p.). Another cohort of mice was tested for reinstatement following administration of the cannabinoid agonist CP 55,940 (10, 20, or 40 g/kg, i.p.). The alpha-2 adrenergic antagonist BRL-44408 (5 mg/kg, i.p.) with or without CP 55,940 (20 g/kg) was administered to a third group of mice. We found that: (1) AM-251 blocked forced swim-induced, but not cocaine-induced, reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior; (2) the cannabinoid agonist CP 55,940 did not reinstate cocaine-seeking behavior when administered alone but did synergize with a non-reinstating dose of the alpha-2 adrenergic antagonist BRL-44408 to cause reinstatement. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that stress exposure triggers the endogenous activation of CB1 receptors and that activation of the endocannabinoid system is required for the stress-induced relapse of the mice to cocaine seeking. Further, the data suggest that the endocannabinoid system interacts with noradrenergic mechanisms to influence stress-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior.
The endocannabinoid system has recently emerged as a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of stress-related emotional disorders. A growing literature base has collectively demonstrated that facilitation of endocannabinoid signaling promotes antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like responses in preclinical animal models, while disruption of this system profoundly affects emotion, cognition, and neuroendocrine functioning. Although these findings are encouraging, the role of endocannabinoid signaling within discrete corticolimbic brain structures is considerably complex. Consequently, researchers have recently shifted focus to examining the effects of local cannabinoid manipulations on emotion from a neuroanatomical standpoint. This review provides an overview of the site-specific effects of cannabinergic compounds in preclinical tests of emotionality, as well as the alterations in endocannabinoid signaling observed in animal models of depression. Broadly speaking, these studies indicate that CB(1) receptors in the medial prefrontal cortex and ventral hippocampus appear to be responsible for the antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like phenotype elicited by systemic CB(1) receptor agonists, which parallels biochemical studies showing that endocannabinoids are downregulated in these two regions following exposure to chronic stress. Conversely, CB(1) receptor activation within distinct amygdalar nuclei yields opposing effects on emotional behavior, such that local stimulation of CB(1) receptors in the basolateral amygdala and central amygdala promoting anxiogenesis and anxiolysis, respectively. Moreover, a series of elegant studies has revealed that cannabinoid transmission in the basolateral amygdala strongly modulates the acquisition and processing of associative fear memory via interactions with the medial prefrontal cortex. Given the crucial role of this corticolimbic network in regulating emotional behavior, it is palpable that alterations in endocannabinoid signaling within any of these structures could have profound implications for the pathophysiological development of affective illnesses. Accordingly, local pharmacological augmentation of endocannabinoid signaling within discrete corticolimbic subregions may serve as a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of these debilitating disorders.
The endocannabinoid (eCB) system is an important regulator of the stress response and mediates several stress-related behaviors, including anxiety. Despite anatomical evidence that eCBs interact with the principle stress peptide, corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), few data exist that address functional interactions between these systems. Accordingly, we examined the effects of the CB1 receptor antagonist, AM251, on behavioral anxiety induced by (1) exogenous CRF, and (2) withdrawal from chronic cocaine exposure (mediated by CRF). After behavioral testing, we collected blood and assessed plasma corticosterone levels. In Experiment 1, male Long-Evans rats were pretreated with AM251 (0, 10, 100, or 200 g, i.c.v.), followed by CRF (0 or 0.5 g, i.c.v.), before testing for anxiety-like behavior in the elevated plus maze (EPM). In Experiment 2, rats were exposed to cocaine (20 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline for 14 consecutive days. Forty-eight hours following cocaine exposure, rats were pretreated with AM251 (0, 10, or 100 g, i.c.v.) and tested in the EPM. AM251 produced an anxiogenic response at the highest dose, but reversed the behavioral anxiety induced by CRF and withdrawal from chronic cocaine in a dose-dependent manner. AM251 also increased plasma corticosterone levels, but did so irrespective of CRF treatment or cocaine preexposure. Our findings suggest that the anxiogenic effects of CRF and cocaine withdrawal are mediated, at least in part, by CB1 receptor transmission, and provide evidence in support of eCB-CRF interactions that are independent of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.

Clinical neuroproteomics aims to advance our understanding of disease and injury affecting the central and peripheral nervous systems through the study of protein expression and the discovery of protein biomarkers to facilitate diagnosis and treatment. The general premise of the biomarker field is that in vivo factors present in either tissue or circulating biofluids, reflect pathological changes, and can be identified and analyzed. This approach offers an opportunity to illuminate changes occurring at both the population and patient levels toward the realization of personalized medicine. This review is intended to provide research-driven clinicians with an overview of protein biomarkers of disease and injury for clinical use and to highlight methodology and potential pitfalls. We examine the neuroproteomic biomarker field and discuss the hallmarks and the challenges of clinically relevant biomarker discovery relating to central nervous system pathology. We discuss the issues in the maturation of potential biomarkers from discovery to Food and Drug Administration approval and review several platforms for protein biomarker discovery, including protein microarray and mass spectrometry-based proteomics. We describe the application of microfluidic technologies to the evolution of a robust clinical test. Finally, we highlight several biomarkers currently in use for cancer, ischemia, and injury in the central nervous system. Future efforts using these technologies will result in the maturation of existing and the identification of de novo biomarkers that could guide clinical decision making and advance diagnostic and therapeutic options for the treatment of neurological disease and injury.

The chemical warfare nerve agent, soman irreversibly inhibits acetylcholinesterase (AChE) leading to hypercholinergy and seizures which trigger glutamate toxicity and status epilepticus ultimately resulting in neuropathology and neurobehavioral deficits. The standard emergency treatment comprising of anticholinergic, AChE reactivator and anticonvulsant does not completely protect against soman toxicity. We have evaluated imidazenil, a new anticonvulsant imidazo benzodiazepine with high affinity and intrinsic efficacy at 5-, 2-, and 3- but low intrinsic efficacy at 1-containing GABA(A) receptors and is devoid of cardiorespiratory depression, sedative/hypnoitc and amnestic actions and does not elicit tolerance and dependence liabilities unlike diazepam, for protection against soman toxicity. Guinea pigs implanted with bipotential radiotelemetry probes for recording EEG and ECG were administered with 26 g/kg pyridostigmine bromide 30 min prior to 2 LD(50) soman exposure and 1 min later treated with a combination of 2mg/kg atropine sulfate and 25mg/kg 2-pralidoxime and various doses of imidazenil. Intramuscular administration of imidazenil, dose-dependently protected against 2 LD(50) of soman toxicity up to 1mg/kg. Further increase in the dose of imidazenil to 2.5mg/kg was less effective than 1mg/kg probably due to non-specific actions at sites other than GABA(A) receptors. Compared to vehicle group, 1mg/kg imidazenil treatment showed optimal increase in survival rate, reduction in behavioral manifestations and high power of EEG spectrum as well as neuronal necrosis. These data suggest that imidazenil is an effective anticonvulsant for medical countermeasure against soman-induced toxicity.
This report covers a millennium, from year 1000 when Sweden had only 0.4 million people until today's 9.4 million. In the 13th century, the first Swedish legal text about the mentally ill and the first hospital to treat them are documented. Control, care and cure of the ill have been shaped by social and cultural changes from time to time, e.g. King Gustav Vasa introduced a paradigm shift of care after the Reformation, when he altered Catholic buildings into state hospitals. He also ordered that medical texts should no longer be written in Latin but in Swedish. The first book dealing with mental illnesses was published in 1578. Laypersons ran the mental hospitals for centuries until the medical perspective and doctors were engaged in the 1800 s. To advance the hospital doctors' competence and skill, a Swedish Psychiatric Association was established in 1905. Severely psychotic patients could not be effectively treated until the introduction of chlorpromazine in the 1950s and there is still no cure available. Following the deinstitutionalization, from more than 35,000 beds 50 years ago down to about 4500 today, the request for outpatient treatment increased. Mandatory training in psychotherapies for all psychiatrists started in the 1970s. A major &quot;psychiatry reform&quot;, with the hope of improving the situation for the mentally ill, and to reduce the stigma, was introduced in Sweden in 1995. The historic long-term effect of the reform cannot yet be fully evaluated.
The Nordic countries include Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden as well the Faroe Islands, Greenland, Svalbard and land. The countries share much common history as well as common traits in their respective societies. As early as 1906, a Scandinavian Psychiatric Association was suggested. The first Nordic Psychiatric Congress was held in Copenhagen 1913. After the First World War, at the 6th Nordic Psychiatric Congress in Stockholm 1935, a Nordic Psychiatric Association was founded and it was decided that a Nordic Journal of Psychiatry should be founded. After the Second World War, at the 8th Nordic Psychiatric Congress in Copenhagen 1946, the Nordic Psychiatric Association was terminated. At this time, the most important task of the Association, to found a Nordic Journal of Psychiatry, had been achieved. After 1946, there has been a close cooperation between the Nordic countries but no common Nordic Psychiatric Association. Today, the Nordic Psychiatric Cooperation is active and ongoing. The 30th Nordic Psychiatric Congress is scheduled to be held in Troms, in 2012. The Nordic Journal of Psychiatry is publishing its 64 th volume. The Journal is indexed in the important international databases and the impact factor is increasing. The Joint Committee of the Nordic psychiatric associations has established itself as the owner of the Journal and the organizer of the congresses. There are also a series of Nordic cooperations in a series of different fields, such as the Scandinavian Societies of Biological Psychiatry, the Scandinavian College of Neuropsychopharmacology (SCNP), the bi-annual Nordic Psychoanalytical Congresses, the Scandinavian Psychoanalytic Review, the Nordic Association of Psychiatric Epidemiology, NAPE, and so on.

Energy deficit in lean or obese animals or humans stimulates appetite, reduces energy expenditure and possibly also decreases physical activity, thereby contributing to weight regain. Often overlooked in weight loss trials for obesity, however, is the effect of energy restriction on neuroendocrine status. Negative energy balance in lean animals and humans consistently inhibits activity of the hypothalamo-pituitary-thyroid, -gonadotropic and -somatotropic axes (or reduces circulating insulin-like growth factor-1 levels), while concomitantly activating the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis, with emerging evidence of similar changes in overweight and obese people during lifestyle interventions for weight loss. These neuroendocrine changes, which animal studies show may result in part from hypothalamic actions of orexigenic (e.g. neuropeptide Y, agouti-related peptide) and anorexigenic peptides (e.g. alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone, and cocaine and amphetamine-related transcript), can adversely affect body composition by promoting the accumulation of adipose tissue (particularly central adiposity) and stimulating the loss of lean body mass and bone. As such, current efforts to maximize loss of excess body fat in obese people may inadvertently be promoting long-term complications such as central obesity and associated health risks, as well as sarcopenia and osteoporosis. Future weight loss trials would benefit from assessment of the effects on body composition and key hormonal regulators of body composition using sensitive techniques.




Chronic central neuropathic pain after central nervous system injuries remains refractory to therapeutic interventions. A novel approach would be to target key intracellular signaling proteins that are known to contribute to continued activation by phosphorylation of kinases, transcription factors, and/or receptors that contribute to changes in membrane excitability. We demonstrate that one signaling kinase, calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII), is critical in maintaining aberrant dorsal horn neuron hyperexcitability in the neuropathic pain condition after spinal cord injury (SCI). After contusion SCI at spinal level T10, activated CaMKII (phosphorylated, pCaMKII) expression is significantly upregulated in the T7/8 spinal dorsal horn in neurons, but not glial cells, and in oligodendrocytes in the dorsal column in the same rats that displayed at-level mechanical allodynia. Furthermore, identified spinothalamic neurons demonstrated significant increases of pCaMKII after SCI compared to sham-treated control animals. However, neither astrocytes nor microglia showed pCaMKII expression in either sham-treated or SCI rats. To demonstrate causality, treatment of SCI rats with KN-93, which prevents CaMKII activation, significantly attenuated at-level mechanical allodynia and aberrant wide dynamic range neuronal activity evoked by brush, pressure, and pinch stimuli and a graded series of von Frey stimuli, respectively. Persistent CaMKII activation contributes to chronic central neuropathic pain by mechanisms that involve maintained hyperexcitability of wide dynamic range dorsal horn neurons. Furthermore, targeting key signaling proteins is a novel, useful therapeutic strategy for treating chronic central neuropathic pain.
Chronic compression of rat dorsal root ganglion (CCD) produced tactile allodynia accompanied with hyperexcitability of the myelinated A dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. The A DRG neuron hyperexcitability exhibits as bursting discharges in response to peripherally evoked action potentials (evoked bursting [EB]). The incidence of EB was significantly increased after chronic compression of DRG (CCD) (43.3%) vs control (13.3%). EB was maintained by oscillation of the membrane potential, and its duration was increased when the membrane potential was depolarized. EB was found to coexist in some neurons with spontaneous bursting (SB), but EB always occurred at a more negative membrane potential than SB. Afterdischarges of the wide dynamic range neurons of the dorsal horn in the spinal cord in response to electrical stimulation of A afferent nerve fibers were suppressed by blocking EB of the DRG neurons. CCD neurons with EB exhibited increased current density of persistent sodium current (I(Nap)) and hyperpolarization-activated cation current (I(h)) and decreased -dendrotoxin (-DTX) sensitive current (I(DTX)). The increased I(h) activated by afterhyperpolarization of peripheral afferent action potential was necessary for EB generation and a balance between I(DTX) and I(Nap) might be necessary for EB maintenance. This study may suggest a role of EB of myelinated DRG neurons in development of allodynia after nerve injury and a potential pharmaceutical therapy in treating neuropathic allodynia.
Stephen G Waxman speaks to Roshaine Gunawardana, Commissioning Editor: Stephen G Waxman is the Bridget Marie Flaherty Professor of Neurology, Neurobiology and Pharmacology; Director, Center for Neuroscience and Regeneration/Neurorehabilitation Research, Yale University School of Medicine and Veterans Affairs Medical Center, CT, USA.
Cesar Fernndez-de-las-Peas completed his Bachelor's degree in Physical Therapy in 2000, in Spain. He obtained his first PhD degree in Biomedical Sciences in 2007, under the supervision of Dr Lars Arendt-Nielsen at the Sensory-Motor Interaction Center at the University of Aalborg (Denmark). In 2008, he obtained his second PhD degree in Preventive Medicine, under the supervision of Drs Pareja and Cuadrado in Spain. He is the Head of the Division of the Department of Physical Therapy, Occupational Therapy, Rehabilitation and Physical Medicine at Universidad Rey Juan Carlos, Spain. He is also the group leader of the Pain Research Group at the same University. The research activities of his group are concentrated on neurosciences and assessment and management of pain. He has been invited as a Speaker to give lectures in more than 50 international and worldwide meetings with their related published abstracts/proceedings. He has published 170 publications in Journal Citation Reports' indexed journals, being the first author of approximately 100 in the top-ten journals of specialties such as Rehabilitation, Clinical Neurology, Pediatrics, Orthopedics, Sports Medicine or Anesthesiology. Most of his published articles concentrate on human pain research and the interaction between motor control and chronic pain. The most relevant topics of the articles are focused on neck pain, headache, carpal tunnel syndrome, lateral epicondylalgia, whiplash, breast cancer and neurophysiological effects of physical therapy. He has also published several chapters of textbooks and is the editor of five textbooks.
Patients with fibromyalgia must simultaneously cope with chronic pain, emotional distress, activity avoidance and disability. The majority of fibromyalgia patients are women. New interventions using information and communications technologies such as Internet applications and smart phones can be used for text-based communications between providers and patients with chronic pain. The aim of this qualitative study was to explore female patients' experiences of participating in a 4-week web-based home intervention after in-house multidimensional rehabilitation. The framework of the intervention was inspired by mindfulness-based cognitive behavioral therapy using daily diaries and situational feedback as tools. Interviews were made with seven women about their general experiences of participation, specific relationship with the therapist, communication, activity, emotions, and coping. The interviews were transcribed and analyzed using systematic text condensation. A main result was that informants experienced this follow-up program as consciousness expanding as well as both motivating and supportive. Another main result was their reported ambivalence in relation to: (1) using web-based technology; (2) experiencing feedback as challenging but positive; and (3) experiencing relationships of trust and detachment with the therapist. Web-based nursing stimulates a &quot;zone for reflection&quot; that may assist in the counseling and support of patients with chronic pain. However, this is a new area of research that needs to be further explored.
The use of naturally occurring plant-derived compounds for controlling insect pests remains an attractive alternative to potentially dangerous synthetic chemical compounds. One prospective plant-based compound, isoforms of the so-called jack bean urease (JBU) from the jack bean, Canavalia ensiformis, as well a derived peptide, Jaburetox-2Ec, have insecticidal effects on an array of insect species. In the Chagas' disease vector, Rhodnius prolixus, some of the physiological effects attributed to these urease isoforms include inhibition of serotonin (5-HT)-stimulated fluid secretion by the Malpighian tubules (MTs). Here, we investigated whether the effects of these exogenous urease isoforms were targeting the neuroendocrine network involved in the anti-diuretic hormone (RhoprCAPA-2) signaling cascade. We show that pharmacological agents known to interfere with eicosanoid metabolite biosynthesis do not affect RhoprCAPA-2 inhibition of 5-HT-stimulated fluid secretion by MTs. In addition, we demonstrate that RhoprCAPA-2 inhibition of MTs is independent of extracellular or intracellular calcium. Using a heterologous system for analysis of receptor activation, we show that neither JBU nor Jaburetox-2Ec are agonists of the anti-diuretic hormone receptor, RhoprCAPAr1. Finally, activation of the receptor using sub-maximal doses of the natural ligand, RhoprCAPA-2, was not influenced by the presence of either JBU or Jaburetox-2Ec indicating that the urease isoforms do not compete with RhoprCAPA-2 for binding and activation of RhoprCAPAr1. Taken together, these results suggest that at least two distinct mechanisms leading to inhibition of fluid secretion by MTs exist in R. prolixus and, unlike the urease-related effects, the eicosanoid metabolite pathway is not involved in RhoprCAPA-2 mediated anti-diuresis.
Many of the diverse functions of neuropeptides are still elusive. As they are ideally suited to modulate traditional signaling, their added actions are not always detectable under standard laboratory conditions. The search for function assignment to peptide encoding genes can therefore greatly benefit from molecular information. Specific molecular changes resulting from neuropeptide signaling may direct researchers to yet unknown processes or conditions, for which studying these signaling systems may eventually lead to phenotypic confirmation. Here, we applied gel-based proteomics after pdf-1 neuropeptide gene knockout in the model organism Caenorhabditis elegans. It has previously been described that pdf-1 null mutants display a locomotion defect, being slower and making more turns and reversals than wild type worms. The vertebrate functional homolog of PDF-1, vasocative intestinal peptide (VIP), is known to influence a plethora of processes, which have so far not been investigated for pdf-1. Because proteins represent the actual effectors inside an organism, proteomic analysis can guide our view to novel pdf-1 actions in the nematode worm. Our data show that knocking out pdf-1 results in alteration of levels of proteins involved in fat metabolism, stress resistance and development. This indicates a possible conservation of VIP-like actions for pdf-1 in C. elegans.

Several authors have shown that injections of the GABA(A) agonist muscimol into the medial shell region of the nucleus accumbens (AcbSh) result in large increases in food, but not water, intake. In previous studies we demonstrated that intra-AcbSh injections of either muscimol or of the indirect dopamine agonist amphetamine increase response output on a food-reinforced progressive ratio schedule. In the current experiment we extended these observations by examining the effects of muscimol and amphetamine injections on the performance of a water-reinforced progressive ratio task in mildly deprived animals. We found that muscimol did not affect the number of responses made in the water-reinforced task, even though a marked increase in responding was observed after amphetamine. Muscimol did, however, significantly increase food intake in the same animals. The results suggest that the enhancing effects of intra-AcbSh muscimol differ from those of amphetamine in that they are selective for food-reinforced behaviors.
Currently prescribed antidepressants affect the reuptake and/or metabolism of biogenic amines. Unfortunately for patients, these treatments require several weeks to produce significant symptom remission. However, recently it has been found that ketamine, a dissociative anesthetic agent that noncompetitively antagonizes NMDA (N-Methyl-d-aspartic acid) receptors, has rapid antidepressant effects at sub-anesthetic doses in clinically depressed patients. These findings indicate that modulation of the glutamatergic system could be an efficient way to achieve antidepressant activity. For this reason, other mechanisms influencing glutamatergic functioning have gained interest. For example, the metabotropic glutamate receptor 7 (mGluR7) allosteric agonist AMN082 (N,N'-dibenzyhydryl-ethane-1,2-diamine dihydrochloride) has been shown to be effective in the forced swim and tail-suspension test, behavioral assays sensitive to antidepressants. Here we extend the characterization of AMN082 by demonstrating its effects on differential reinforcement of low rates of responding (DRL)-30, another assay sensitive to antidepressants. Furthermore, we show the engagement of glutamatergic signaling by demonstrating the ability of the selective AMPA (2-amino-3-(5-methyl-3-oxo-1,2-oxazol-4-yl)propanoic acid) receptor antagonist NBQX (2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo[f]quinoxaline-2,3-dione) to reverse the effects of AMN082 in the tail suspension test. In contrast, NBQX failed to reverse the effects of imipramine in the same behavioral test. Finally, we report that behaviorally efficacious doses of AMN082 modulate phosphorylation of AMPA and NMDA receptor subunits in the hippocampus. These results suggest that the antidepressant-like effects of AMN082 are, at least in part, due to modulation of AMPA and NMDA receptor activity. Therefore, our findings confirm the hypothesis that mGluR7 could represent a novel target for treating depression.
In the present study, the possible effect of nitric oxide agents injected into the nucleus accumbens (NAc) in the presence or absence of nicotine on morphine state-dependent memory in adult male Wistar rats was investigated. As a model of memory, a step-through type inhibitory avoidance task was used. Post-training injection of morphine (4 and 6mg/kg) dose dependently induced the impairment of memory retention. Administration of morphine (4 and 6mg/kg) before retention induced state-dependent retrieval of the memory acquired under post-training morphine (6mg/kg) influence. Injection of nicotine before retention (0.25 and 0.5mg/kg) alone and nicotine (0.1, 0.25 and 0.5mg/kg) plus an ineffective dose of morphine (2mg/kg) reversed the post-training morphine-induced memory impairment. The amnesia elicited by morphine (6mg/kg) was also prevented by pre-retention intra-NAc administration of a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, l-NAME (0.24g/rat, intra-NAc). Interestingly, an ineffective dose of nicotine (0.1mg/kg) in combination with low doses of l-NAME (0.06 and 0.12g/rat, intra-NAc) synergistically improved memory performance impaired by morphine given after training. It is important to note that intra-NAc administration of l-NAME before retention impaired memory retrieval by itself. In contrast, pre-retention administration of l-arginine, a nitric oxide (NO) precursor (0.25 and 0.5g/rat, intra-NAc), which had no effect alone, prevented the nicotine reversal of morphine effect on memory. The results suggest a possible role for nitric oxide of nucleus accumbens in the improving effect of nicotine on the morphine-induced amnesia and morphine state-dependent memory.
A complex interaction of environmental, genetic and epigenetic factors combine with ageing to cause the most prevalent of movement disorders Parkinson's disease. Current pharmacological treatments only tackle the symptoms and do not stop progression of the disease or reverse the neurodegenerative process. While some incidences of Parkinson's disease arise through heritable genetic defects, the cause of the majority of cases remains unknown. Likewise, why some neuronal populations are more susceptible to neurodegeneration than others is not clear, but as the molecular pathways responsible for the process of cell death are unravelled, it is increasingly apparent that disrupted cellular energy metabolism plays a central role. Precise control of cellular calcium concentrations is crucial for maintenance of energy homeostasis. Recently, differential cellular expression of neuronal voltage-gated calcium channel (Ca(V)) isoforms has been implicated in the susceptibility of vulnerable neurons to neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease. Ca(V) channels are also involved in the synaptic plasticity response to the denervation that occurs in Parkinson's disease and following chronic treatment with anti-parkinsonian drugs. This review will examine the putative role neuronal Ca(V) channels have in the pathogenesis and treatment of Parkinson's disease.
We have synthesized in a 6-nitrodibenzofuranyl (NDBF) derivative of inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)) for efficient two-photon uncaging in living cells. As its hexakis acetoxymethyl ester, this caged compound may be applied at low concentration to the extracellular milieu to load the intact astrocytes in acutely isolated brain slices from the mouse cortex. Two-photon irradiation of single astrocytes evoked intracellular calcium signals that required 10% of the energy dosage compared to nitroveratyl (NV)-IP(3). Since NDBF-IP(3) has a 5-fold higher quantum yield than NV-IP(3), these data imply that photolysis of the new NDBF caged compound mobilized intracellular calcium about twice as efficiently as the NV cage.
Feinberg (2012) [8] suggests that science so far cannot &quot;reduce critical features of consciousness to neural processes.&quot; But this poses an unrealistic standard. If science required full reductive explanations, neither Newton nor Darwin would be remembered today, since neither gave a reductive account of gravity or heredity. Indeed, we do not have such full reductions today. Useful theories, like Darwin's, are often not reductionistic to biological cells like neurons, though they can offer explanations of basic puzzles. Even theoretical physics cannot explain mountain avalanches and oak trees at the level of fundamental particles. Yet physics is a widely admired model of scientific theory. Judging by more modest historical standards we are making steady progress on Feinberg's four basic questions.







Timing and dynamics of information in the brain is a hot field in modern neuroscience. The analysis of the temporal evolution of brain information is crucially important for the understanding of higher cognitive mechanisms in normal and pathological states. From the perspective of information dynamics, in this review we discuss working memory capacity, language dynamics, goal-dependent behavior programming and other functions of brain activity. In contrast with the classical description of information theory, which is mostly algebraic, brain flow information dynamics deals with problems such as the stability/instability of information flows, their quality, the timing of sequential processing, the top-down cognitive control of perceptual information, and information creation. In this framework, different types of information flow instabilities correspond to different cognitive disorders. On the other hand, the robustness of cognitive activity is related to the control of the information flow stability. We discuss these problems using both experimental and theoretical approaches, and we argue that brain activity is better understood considering information flows in the phase space of the corresponding dynamical model. In particular, we show how theory helps to understand intriguing experimental results in this matter, and how recent knowledge inspires new theoretical formalisms that can be tested with modern experimental techniques.

One of the great challenges to a science of consciousness is the inability to reduce critical features of consciousness to neural processes. In this paper I identify four neuroontologically irreducible features (NOIF) - referral of neural states, mental unity, qualia, and mental causation - defined as aspects of consciousness in which subjective experience is not wholly reducible to objectively observed or objectively understood neurons (ontological subjectivity). I next analyze the emergent and unique system properties of the neural hierarchy and argue that while the NOIF are indeed ontologically subjective, each of the NOIF individually can be explained by the unique architecture and functional properties of the neural hierarchy that lead to both emergent properties and their irreducibility in a manner that does not violate any known physical laws nor require any new physics or the application of physics to emergence or reduction beyond that normally applied to biology in general. I conclude that consciousness is a neurobiologically unique and local phenomenon that is specific to particular neural systems, a view that is consistent with both ontological subjectivity and biological naturalism. I call this position weakly emergent nonreductive physicalism or neurobiological naturalism.
Polymorphisms in the human catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene have been widely studied for their role in pain and analgesia. In this study, sensitivity to potassium iontophoresis, visual analog scale measurements for fixed twofold pain threshold stimulation and pain threshold changes induced by transcutaneous electrical acupoint stimulation (TEAS) were assessed in a population of healthy Chinese males. These results were correlated with the alleles of six single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) or diplotypes of common haplotypes designated as low pain sensitive, average pain sensitive, and high pain sensitive in the COMT gene of these subjects. Our results reveal that the alleles of each SNP are not significantly correlated with pain perception except for the rs4633 allele in the 2 Hz TEAS session (P &lt; 0.05). In addition, the six diplotypes of COMT haplotypes, which cover 92.5% of the Chinese population, are also not correlated with pain perception. Moreover, there were no significant differences in pain threshold changes induced by 2 and 100 Hz TEAS among the diplotypes of each SNP or the various haplotypes. These results suggest that COMT activity do not play a significant role in pain perception and TEAS-induced analgesia in the Chinese Han male population.
To evaluate the antitumoral efficacy of everolimus in pituitary carcinoma resistant to temozolomide, the correlation with mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling in the tumor and to present recent advances and future treatments of pituitary carcinomas. Pituitary carcinomas are rare and largely unresponsive to current treatment options. Recent reports on the antitumoral efficacy of temozolomide in some such patients are encouraging, yet most patients appear to show resistance to its actions. As a potential alternative, the mTOR inhibitor, everolimus, has been shown to potently inhibit pituitary cell proliferation highlighting mTOR inhibition as a promising therapeutic approach for pituitary carcinomas. We described the tumoral effects of a combination therapy with everolimus (5 mg/day) and octreotide (30 mg/month) and the mTOR signalling expression in a patient with pituitary ACTH carcinoma, compared to 17 other ACTH adenomas. Clinical and biochemical evaluation were performed every month, and imaging after 3 month of treatment. mTOR signaling was assessed by microarray expression analysis of each of the 18 adenoma tissues. Combined therapy failed to control pituitary tumor growth and ACTH secretion. Slight activation of mTOR signaling was found in all ACTH tumors alongside important variations between tumors. Low antitumor efficacy shown by everolimus might be explained by the weak activation of mTOR pathway in ACTH tumors. Everolimus treatment was inefficient at controlling secretion and tumor growth of one ACTH pituitary carcinoma. More clinical cases, with mTOR signalling expression analysis of the tumor, must be published before any conclusions can be drawn.
In humans, heterogeneity in the decline of hippocampal-dependent episodic memory is observed during aging. Rodents have been employed as models of age-related cognitive decline and the spatial water maze has been used to show variability in the emergence and extent of impaired hippocampal-dependent memory. Impairment in the consolidation of intermediate-term memory for rapidly acquired and flexible spatial information emerges early, in middle-age. As aging proceeds, deficits may broaden to include impaired incremental learning of a spatial reference memory. The extent and time course of impairment has been be linked to senescence of calcium (Ca) regulation and Ca-dependent synaptic plasticity mechanisms in region CA1. Specifically, aging is associated with altered function of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs), voltage-dependent Ca channels (VDCCs), and ryanodine receptors (RyRs) linked to intracellular Ca stores (ICS). In young animals, NMDAR activation induces long-term potentiation of synaptic transmission (NMDAR-LTP), which is thought to mediate the rapid consolidation of intermediate-term memory. Oxidative stress, starting in middle-age, reduces NMDAR function. In addition, VDCCs and ICS can actively inhibit NMDAR-dependent LTP and oxidative stress enhances the role of VDCC and RyR-ICS in regulating synaptic plasticity. Blockade of L-type VDCCs promotes NMDAR-LTP and memory in older animals. Interestingly, pharmacological or genetic manipulations to reduce hippocampal NMDAR function readily impair memory consolidation or rapid learning, generally leaving incremental learning intact. Finally, evidence is mounting to indicate a role for VDCC-dependent synaptic plasticity in associative learning and the consolidation of remote memories. Thus, VDCC-dependent synaptic plasticity and extrahippocampal systems may contribute to incremental learning deficits observed with advanced aging.

Schizophrenia (SZ) is a highly heritable disorder, with about 80% of the variance attributable to genetic factors. There is accumulating evidence that both common genetic variants with small effects and rare genetic lesions with large effects determine risk of SZ. As recently shown, thousands of common single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), each with small effect, cumulatively could explain about 30% of the underlying genetic risk of SZ. On the other hand, rare and large copy number variants (CNVs) with high but incomplete penetrance, variable in different individual, could explain about additional 30% of SZ cases. Although these rare CNVs frequently develop de novo, it is not clear whether they affect risk independently or via interaction with a polygenic liability in the background. Finally, the role of environmental risk factors has been well established in SZ. Environmental factors are rarely sufficient to cause SZ independently, but act in parallel or in synergy with the underlying genetic liability. Epigenetic misregulation of the genome and direct CNS injury are probably the main mechanism to mediate prenatal environmental effects (e.g., viruses, ethanol, or nutritional deficiency) whereas postnatal risk factors (e.g., stress, urbanicity, cannabis use) may also affect risk via use-based potentiation of vulnerable CNS pathways implicated in SZ. In this review, we outline a general theoretical background of epigenetic mechanisms involved in GxE interactions, and then discuss epigenetic and neurodevelopmental features of SZ based on available information from genetics, epigenetics, epidemiology, neuroscience, and clinical research. We argue that epigenetic model of SZ provides a framework to integrate a variety of diverse empirical data into a powerful etiopathogenetic synthesis. The promising future of this model is the possibility to develop truly specific prevention and treatment strategies for SZ.
Current initiatives such as the National Institute of Mental Health's Research Domain Criteria project aim to reorganize classification of mental disorders along neurobiological lines. Here, we describe how consideration of findings from psychiatric research employing two physiological measures with distinct neural substrates--the startle blink reflex and the error-related negativity (ERN)--can help to clarify relations among disorders entailing salient anxiety or depressive symptomatology. Specifically, findings across various studies and reviews reveal distinct patterns of association for both the startle blink reflex and the ERN with three key domains of psychopathology: (1) Fear (or phobic) disorders (distinguished by increased startle to unpleasant stimuli, but normal-range ERN). (2) Non-phobic anxiety disorders and negative affect (associated with increased ERN, increased startle across all types of emotional stimuli and increased baseline startle) and, more tentatively (3) Major depression (for which patterns of response for both startle and ERN appear to vary, as a function of severity and distinct symptomatology). Findings from this review point to distinct neurobiological indicators of key psychopathology domains that have been previously demarcated using personality and diagnostic data. Notably, these indicators exhibit more specificity in their relations with these three domains than has been seen in quantitative-dimensional models. Implications of these findings are discussed.
The goal of behavioral neuroscience is to map psychological concepts onto physiological and anatomical concepts and vice versa. The present paper reflects on some of the hidden obstacles that have to be overcome in order to find unique psychophysiological relationships. These are, among others: (1) the different status of concepts which are defined in the two domains (ontological subjectivity in psychology and ontological objectivity in physiology); (2) the distinct hierarchical levels to which concepts from the two domains may belong; (3) ambiguity of concepts, because-due to limited measurement resolution or definitional shortcomings-they sometimes do not cover unique states or processes; (4) ignored context dependencies. Moreover, it is argued that due to the gigantic number of states and state changes, which are possible in a nervous system, it seems unlikely that neuroscience can provide exact causal explanations and predictions of behavior. Rather, as in statistical thermodynamics the transition from the microlevel of explanations to the macrolevel is only possible with probabilistic uncertainty.
This review describes a case of convergence in the evolution of brain and cognition. Both mammals and birds can organize their behavior flexibly over time and evolved similar cognitive skills. The avian forebrain displays no lamination that corresponds to the mammalian neocortex; hence, lamination does not seem to be a requirement for higher cognitive functions. In mammals, executive functions are associated with the prefrontal cortex. The corresponding structure in birds is the nidopallium caudolaterale. Anatomic, neurochemical, electrophysiologic and behavioral studies show these structures to be highly similar, but not homologous. Thus, despite the presence (mammals) or the absence (birds) of a laminated forebrain, 'prefrontal' areas in mammals and birds converged over evolutionary time into a highly similar neural architecture. The neuroarchitectonic degrees of freedom to create different neural architectures that generate identical prefrontal functions seem to be very limited.
Studies have shown that female children, on average, consistently outperform male children in arithmetic. In the research reported here, 1,556 pupils (8 to 11 years of age) from urban and rural regions in the greater Beijing area completed 10 cognitive tasks. Results showed that girls outperformed boys in arithmetic tasks (i.e., simple subtraction, complex multiplication), as well as in numerosity-comparison, number-comparison, number-series-completion, choice reaction time, and word-rhyming tasks. Boys outperformed girls in a mental rotation task. Controlling for scores on the word-rhyming task eliminated gender differences in arithmetic, whereas controlling for scores on numerical-processing tasks (number comparison, numerosity estimation, numerosity comparison, and number-series completion) and general cognitive tasks (choice reaction time, Raven's Progressive Matrices, and mental rotation) did not. These results suggest that girls' advantage in arithmetic is likely due to their advantage in language processing.
Increasing evidence in humans and other animals suggests that testosterone (T) plays an important role in modulating emotion. We previously reported that T treatment in rhesus monkeys undergoing chemically induced hypogonadism results in increased watching time of videos depicting fights between unfamiliar conspecifics (Lacreuse et al., 2010). In the current study, we aimed to further investigate the effect of T manipulations on attention and memory for emotional stimuli in male rhesus monkeys. Six males (7 years old) were administered Depot Lupron to suppress endogenous T levels and treated with either testosterone enanthate (TE, 5 mg/kg) or oil, before crossing over to the alternate treatment. Animals were tested for 16 weeks on two computerized touchscreen tasks with both social and nonsocial emotional and neutral stimuli. The Dot-Probe task was used to measure attention, and the Delayed-Non-Matching-to-Sample task with a 1s delay (DNMS) was used to measure recognition memory for these stimuli. Performance on the two tasks was examined during each of four month-long phases: Baseline, Lupron alone, Lupron+TE and Lupron+oil. It was predicted that T administration would lead to increased attention to negative social stimuli (i.e., negative facial expressions of unfamiliar conspecifics) and would improve memory for such stimuli. We found no evidence to support these predictions. In the Dot-Probe task, an attentional bias towards negative social stimuli was observed at baseline, but T treatment did not enhance this bias. Instead, monkeys had faster response times when treated with T compared to oil, independently of the emotional valence or social relevance of stimuli, perhaps reflecting an enhancing effect of T on reward sensitivity or general arousal. In the DNMS, animals had better memory for nonsocial compared to social stimuli and showed the poorest performance in the recognition of positive facial expressions. However, T did not affect performance on the task. Thus, even though monkeys were sensitive to the social relevance and emotional valence of the stimuli in the two tasks, T manipulations had no effect on attention or memory for these stimuli. Because habituation to the stimuli may have mitigated the effect of treatment in the attentional task, we suggest that T may increase attentional biases to negative social stimuli only during early exposure to the stimuli with acute treatment or when stimuli are highly arousing (i.e., dynamically presented) with chronic treatment. In addition, the data suggest that T does not enhance working memory for emotional stimuli in young male macaques.









Previous studies demonstrated that concealed crime-related memories can be validly identified using the Concealed Information Test (CIT). However, its field applicability is still debated, and it is specifically unknown how emotional arousal during a crime would influence CIT results. In the current study, emotional arousal during a mock crime and the time delay between mock crime and CIT examination were manipulated. At the immediate and the delayed CIT occasion, central crime details were better remembered than peripheral ones and enhanced emotional arousal further reduced memory for peripheral information. Electrodermal, respiratory, and cardiovascular responses to central crime details were strong and CIT validity was unaffected by delaying the test when arousal was induced during the mock crime. These findings indicate that emotional arousal might facilitate the detection of concealed information some time after a crime occurred.
Information is stored in distributed cortical networks, but it is unclear how distributed stores are synthesized into a unified percept. Activation of local circuits in the gamma range (30&lt;&lt;80Hz), and distributed stores in the low theta range (3-5Hz) may underlie perceptual binding. Words have a crucial role in semantic memory. Within memory, the activation of distributed semantic stores is facilitated by conceptually related previous items, termed semantic priming. We sought to detect event-related brain oscillations (EROs) sensitive to semantic activation and priming. Here, we show that low theta evoked power and intertrial phase locking (4-5Hz) from 250-350msec over left hemisphere language areas was greater to related than to unrelated words. Theta band event-related oscillations over left hemisphere language areas may provide a brain signature for semantic activation across distributed stores being facilitated by semantic priming.

With single- and double-labeling immunofluorescence techniques, the distribution patterns and morphological characteristics of P2X(2)- and P2X(3)-immunoreactive nerve fiber terminals and neuronal bodies have been studied in the main circulatory system baroreceptors and the nodose and petrosal ganglia of rats. A high density of P2X(2)- and P2X(3)-immunoreactive nerve fiber terminals was detected in the carotid sinus. P2X(2)- and P2X(3)-immunoreactive nerve fiber terminals were also distributed widely in the aortic arch, atrium, vena cava, and ventricles. Almost all the P2X(2)-immunoreactive nerve fiber terminals were immunoreactive for P2X(3) receptors. P2X(2)- and P2X(3)-immunoreactive neuronal bodies were also detected in the nodose and petrosal ganglia, which are the sources of the P2X(2)- and P2X(3)-immunoreactive nerve terminals. P2X(2) and P2X(3) receptors were expressed in the same ganglionic neurons. These data indicate that extracellular ATP, via the homomeric P2X(2) and P2X(3) receptors, and heteromeric P2X(2/3) receptor in the sensory receptors of carotid sinus, aortic arch, atrium, and vena cava, may be involved in the regulation of systematic circulation blood pressure.

This longitudinal study investigated temporal auditory processing (frequency modulation and between-channel gap detection) and speech perception (speech-in-noise and categorical perception) in three groups of 6 years 3 months to 6 years 8 months-old children attending grade 1: (1) children with specific language impairment (SLI) and literacy delay (n = 8), (2) children with SLI and normal literacy (n = 10) and (3) typically developing children (n = 14). Moreover, the relations between these auditory processing and speech perception skills and oral language and literacy skills in grade 1 and grade 3 were analyzed. The SLI group with literacy delay scored significantly lower than both other groups on speech perception, but not on temporal auditory processing. Both normal reading groups did not differ in terms of speech perception or auditory processing. Speech perception was significantly related to reading and spelling in grades 1 and 3 and had a unique predictive contribution to reading growth in grade 3, even after controlling reading level, phonological ability, auditory processing and oral language skills in grade 1. These findings indicated that speech perception also had a unique direct impact upon reading development and not only through its relation with phonological awareness. Moreover, speech perception seemed to be more associated with the development of literacy skills and less with oral language ability.
The current study aimed to investigate temporal processing in Chinese children with Attention-Deficit-Hyperactivity Disorder(ADHD) using time production, time reproduction paradigm and duration discrimination tasks. A battery of tests specifically designed to measure temporal processing was administered to 94 children with ADHD and 100 demographically matched healthy children. A multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) and a repeated measure MANOVA indicated that children with ADHD were impaired in time processing functions. The results of pairwise comparisons showed that the probands with a family history of ADHD performed significantly worse than those without family history in the time production tasks and the time reproduction task. Logistic regression analysis showed duration discrimination had a significant role in predicting whether the children were suffering from ADHD or not, while temporal processing had a significant role in predicting whether the ADHD children had a family history or not. This study provides further support for the existence of a generic temporal processing impairment in ADHD children and suggests that abnormalities in time processing and ADHD share some common genetic factors.
To assess whether there are qualitatively deviant characteristics in the early vocalizations of children with Rett syndrome, we had 400 native Austrian-German speakers listen to audio recordings of vocalizations from typically developing girls and girls with Rett syndrome. The audio recordings were rated as (a) inconspicuous, (b) conspicuous or (c) not able to decide between (a) and (b). The results showed that participants were accurate in differentiating the vocalizations of typically developing children compared to children with Rett syndrome. However, the accuracy for rating verbal behaviors was dependent on the type of vocalization with greater accuracy for canonical babbling compared to cooing vocalizations. The results suggest a potential role for the use of rating child vocalizations for early detection of Rett syndrome. This is important because clinical criteria related to speech and language development remain important for early identification of Rett syndrome.


The diagnostic criteria for the attentional deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), were defined by the American Psychiatric Association in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders fourth version (DSM-IV) and World Health Organization in the ICD-10. The American Psychiatric Association used an internal validity analysis to select specific behavioral symptoms associated with the disorder and to build five cross-cultural criteria for its use in the categorical diagnosis. The DSM has been utilized for clinicians and researchers as a valid and stable approach since 1968. We did a systematic review of scientific literature in Spanish and English, aimed to identify the historical origin that supports ADHD as a psychiatric construct. This comprehensive review started exploring the concept of minimal brain dysfunction, hyper-activity, inattention, impulsivity since 1932 to 2011. This paper summarize all the DSM versions that include the definition of ADHD or its equivalent, and it point out the statistical and methodological approach implemented for defining ADHD as a valid epidemiological and psychometric construct. Finally the paper discusses some considerations and suggestions for the new versions of the manual.

For the past 40 years the primary purpose of therapeutics for Parkinson's disease (PD) has been to replace deficient dopamine (DA) in the nigrostriatal dopamine (NSD) system. Even in the presence of limited efficacy, abundant side effects and impoverished quality of life, the involvement of other systems in the aetiology and treatment of this disorder has been sorely neglected and the excessive use of DA replacement therapy (DART) continues on a global basis. Recent scientific work suggests that the retina plays a major role in NSD function and intimates light therapy in the management of PD. After a thorough review of historical evidence supporting this contention, a retrospective, open-label study on 129 PD patients, whereby they were monitored for a period extending for a few months to eight years, was carried out. Primary motor and non-motor symptoms were monitored using an objectified global rating scale and timed motor tests that were assessed at regular intervals for the duration of the study. Thirty-one patients with other neurological disorders (OND) served as controls to determine whether any therapeutic effects seen with light were generalizable across other conditions. Patients were classified as compliant (COM), semi-compliant (SCOM), or early quit (EQUIT; prematurely discontinued treatment). EQUIT patients showed deterioration, while the COM group improved on most parameters. The SCOM patients were not as good as the COM group. The OND group showed significant improvement in depression and insomnia, but exposure to light did not improve motor function. The total drug burden of PD patients maintained on light was less with fewer side effects than SCOM or EQUIT groups. These results confirm the value of the strategic application of light therapy with controlled doses of DART in PD and warrants further controlled investigation. That the symptomatic improvement continued as long patients remained in the program suggests that exposure to light, under a strict daily regimen, combined with controlled DART, actively slows or arrests the progressive degenerative process underlying PD.
Current governmental practices often use a method called weight of evidence (WoE) to integrate and weigh different sources of information in the process of reaching a decision. Recent advances in cognitive neuroscience have identified WoE-like processes in the brain, and we believe that these advances have the potential to improve current decision-making practices. In this article, we describe five specific areas where knowledge emerging from cognitive neuroscience may be applied to the challenges confronting decisionmakers who manage risks: (1) quantifying evidence, (2) comparing the value of different sources of evidence, (3) reaching a decision, (4) illuminating the role of subjectivity, and (5) adapting to new information. We believe that the brain is an appropriate model for structuring decision-making processes because the brain's network is designed for complex, flexible decision making, and because policy decisions that must ultimately depend on human judgment will be best served by methods that complement human abilities. Future discoveries in cognitive neuroscience will likely bring further applications to decision practice.


The aim was to learn how frail elderly people experienced becoming assistive device users and how assistive devices affected their independence in daily activities. Focus-group methodology was used, including people 80 and older with multiple health problems. Five group discussions were conducted with a total of 18 people including 14 women and four men. Each group met once, for 90-120 minutes, and all discussions were audiotaped. Two themes emerged: Confidence in knowledge and experience and getting used to assistive devices in daily activities. Confidence in knowledge and experience was formed by two categories of experiences from the prescription procedure: trust the expert and trust yourself, and to have confidence in having the right information about assistive devices. Getting used to assistive devices in daily activities was formed by five categories of ambivalent experiences when using assistive devices in daily activities: creates opportunities and limitations; provides security but also raises concerns; the need is seen as transient or permanent; the social environment both encourages and restricts; the physical environment both facilitates and complicates, with less extreme experiences in between. This study indicates that frail elderly people need specifically developed support in the process of becoming assistive device users.


Cannabis use is highly prevalent among people with schizophrenia, and coupled with impaired cognition, is thought to heighten the risk of illness onset. However, while heavy cannabis use has been associated with cognitive deficits in long-term users, studies among patients with schizophrenia have been contradictory. This article consists of 2 studies. In Study I, a meta-analysis of 10 studies comprising 572 patients with established schizophrenia (with and without comorbid cannabis use) was conducted. Patients with a history of cannabis use were found to have superior neuropsychological functioning. This finding was largely driven by studies that included patients with a lifetime history of cannabis use rather than current or recent use. In Study II, we examined the neuropsychological performance of 85 patients with first-episode psychosis (FEP) and 43 healthy nonusing controls. Relative to controls, FEP patients with a history of cannabis use (FEP + CANN; n = 59) displayed only selective neuropsychological impairments while those without a history (FEP - CANN; n = 26) displayed generalized deficits. When directly compared, FEP + CANN patients performed better on tests of visual memory, working memory, and executive functioning. Patients with early onset cannabis use had less neuropsychological impairment than patients with later onset use. Together, these findings suggest that patients with schizophrenia or FEP with a history of cannabis use have superior neuropsychological functioning compared with nonusing patients. This association between better cognitive performance and cannabis use in schizophrenia may be driven by a subgroup of &quot;neurocognitively less impaired&quot; patients, who only developed psychosis after a relatively early initiation into cannabis use.
Quality of life (QOL) has been recognized as a crucial domain of outcome in schizophrenia treatment, and yet its determinants are not well understood. Recent meta-analyses suggest that symptoms have only a modest relationship to QOL (Eack SM, Newhill CE. Psychiatric symptoms and quality of life in schizophrenia: a meta-analysis. Schizophr Bull. 2007;33:1225-1237). Individuals with schizophrenia show 1-2 SD deficits on measures of elementary neurocognition, and links between these deficits and objective measures of community functioning (eg, employment and independent living) are well established. While objective measures of community functioning and measures of QOL would appear to be closely related, studies investigating the ability of neurocognitive variables to predict QOL in individuals with schizophrenia have yielded conflicting results. One potential explanation for opposing findings in the schizophrenia literature is the interchangeable use of objective and subjective indices of QOL. This study used quantitative methods of meta-analysis to clarify the relationship between neurocognitive determinants of objective QOL (ie, observable, clinician-rated) and subjective QOL (ie, patient satisfaction) separately in individuals with schizophrenia. A total of 20 studies (10 objective and 10 subjective) consisting of 1615 clients were aggregated from relevant databases. Weighted effect size analysis revealed that there were small-moderate relationships (d  0.55) between crystallized verbal ability, working memory verbal list learning, processing speed, and executive function and objective indices of QOL. In contrast, results revealed either nonsignificant or inverse relationships for the vast majority of neurocognitive measures and measures of subjective QOL. Moderating variables and implications for future research and treatment development are discussed.
Little is known about how the biological stress response systems--the autonomic nervous system (ANS), the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, and the immune system--function during psychosis. Results of studies on the effect of stress on the immune and autonomic system in patients with schizophrenia are inconsistent. The present study investigates whether the stress response is impaired in medication-naive patients with a first episode of psychosis. Ten male patients with a first episode of psychosis and 15 controls were exposed to the stress of public speaking. Parameters of the ANS (heart rate and catecholamines), the HPA axis (plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone [ACTH] and cortisol), and the immune system (number and activity of natural killer [NK] cells) were measured. Peak responses were calculated to examine the relationship between stress-induced activation of the different systems. Subjective stress and anxiety before and during the task were assessed. Patients and controls displayed similar autonomic responses to acute stress. However, there was an impaired HPA axis response, slow onset and return of ACTH, and flattened cortisol response and a reduced increase in number NK cells and NK cell activity in patients with a first episode of psychosis. Furthermore, in patients, the relationship between the different stress response systems was weaker or absent compared with controls. These findings indicate that impairments in stress processing are associated with the endophenotype of psychosis and are not a result of illness progression or antipsychotic medication.
Social cognitive impairment in schizophrenia is common and associated with poor functional outcome. While correlations in the moderate range suggest that social cognition and neurocognition are separate but overlapping domains, less is known about whether intact neurocognition represents a &quot;necessary but not sufficient&quot; condition for intact social cognition, as has been suggested. In the present study we examined the following in a sample of 119 psychiatrically stable outpatients with schizophrenia: 1) correlations between multiple social cognitive measures and neurocognition, 2) the predictive value of neurocognitive domains in explaining social cognitive performance, and 3) the co-occurrence of social cognitive and neurocognitive impairment within participants. While  of participants showed intact overall neurocognition and impaired overall social cognition, only one participant had normal-range social cognition and impaired neurocognition. Results support the notion that normal range neurocognition is a necessary though not necessarily sufficient building block for good social cognitive performance.
Brain circuits involved in language processing have been suggested to be compromised in patients with schizophrenia. This does not only include regions subserving language production and perception, but also auditory processing and attention. We investigated resting state network connectivity of auditory, language and attention networks of patients with schizophrenia and hypothesized that patients would show reduced connectivity. Patients with schizophrenia (n = 45) and healthy controls (n = 30) underwent a resting state fMRI scan. Independent components analysis was used to identify networks of the auditory cortex, left inferior frontal language regions and the anterior cingulate region, associated with attention. The time courses of the components where correlated with each other, the correlations were transformed by a Fisher's Z transformation, and compared between groups. In patients with schizophrenia, we observed decreased connectivity between the auditory and language networks. Conversely, patients showed increased connectivity between the attention and language network compared to controls. There was no relationship with severity of symptoms such as auditory hallucinations. The decreased connectivity between auditory and language processing areas observed in schizophrenia patients is consistent with earlier research and may underlie language processing difficulties. Altered anterior cingulate connectivity in patients may be a correlate of habitual suppression of unintended speech, or of excessive attention to internally generated speech. This altered connectivity pattern appears to be present independent of symptom severity, and may be suggestive of a trait, rather than a state characteristic.
