Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) plays a central role in vasoproliferative diseases in the retina, however, other gene products modulate its effects. The angiopoietins are particularly important in this regard. Angiopoietin 2 (Ang2) collaborates with VEGF to stimulate neovascularization (NV) in some situations, but in other situations causes regression of NV. Ang2 also causes a transient increase in vascular density during retinal vascular development. In this study, we sought to determine if Ang1 has similar activities. The effects of Ang1 were tested in double transgenic mice with inducible expression of Ang1. Increased expression of Ang1 in the retina during retinal vascular development did not cause a detectable alteration in vascular density. Also, unlike Ang2, increased expression of Ang1 had no effect on established retinal or choroidal NV. However, when Ang1 expression was initiated simultaneously with that of VEGF, it strongly suppressed VEGF-induced NV and prevented retinal detachment. These data indicate that the timing of Ang1 expression is a critical determinate of its effects on VEGF-induced NV in the retina; it effectively blocks the initiation and progression of NV, but cannot reverse established NV or reduce leakage from NV. These data suggest that increased expression of Ang1 may be a good strategy for prophylaxis of retinal NV, but is unlikely to be effective as monotherapy of established NV.
Neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein (NAIP/BIRC1), the inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP) family member, suppresses neuronal cell death induced by a variety of insults, including cell death from ischemia and stroke. The goal of the present study was to develop an efficient method for identification of compounds with the ability to upregulate endogenous NAIP and to determine the effects on these compounds on the cellular response to ischemia. A novel NAIP-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)-based in vitro drug-screening system is established. Use of this system identified an antagonist of dopamine D4 receptor, termed L-745,870, with a potent NAIP upregulatory effect. L-745,870-mediated NAIP upregulation in neuronal and nonneuronal cultured cells resulted in decreased vulnerability to oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. Reducing NAIP expression via RNA interference techniques resulted in prevention of L-745,870-mediated protection from oxidative stress. Further, systemic administration of L-745,870 attenuated ischemia-induced damage of the hippocampal CA1 neurons and upregulated NAIP expression in the rescued hippocampal CA1 neurons in a gerbil model. These data suggest that the NAIP upregulating compound, L-745,870, has therapeutic potential in acute ischemic disorders and that our NAIP-ELISA-based drug screening may facilitate the discovery of novel neuroprotective compounds.
Two measures used in brain imaging are binding potential (BP) and the specific to nonspecific equilibrium partition coefficient (V(3)''). V(3)'' determined using the 5-HT(1A) ligand [(11)C]WAY-100635 is sensitive to changes in the free and nonspecific binding of the ligand in the reference region (V(2)). Healthy female volunteers have higher 5-HT(1A) BP but not V(3)'' compared with men, because V(2) is higher in women. While there could be several explanations for this observation, we hypothesized that women have more 5-HT(1A) receptors in the cerebellum. We explore the cerebellum to define a subregion that more accurately represents the free and nonspecific binding, potentially allowing the use of V(3)''. A quantitative autoradiogram in human brain using [(3)H]WAY-100635 identified a cerebellar subregion devoid of 5-HT(1A) receptors. In vivo 5-HT(1A) receptors were evaluated using [(11)C]WAY-100635 in 12 healthy women and 13 healthy men. Each subject had a metabolite-corrected arterial input function. The autoradiogram demonstrates the lowest concentration of 5-HT(1A) receptors in the cerebellar white matter (CW) and highest concentration in the cerebellar vermis (CV). The CW volume of distribution (V(T)) is lower than CV. Cerebellar white matter is adequately modeled by a one-tissue compartmental model, while a two-tissue model is necessary to model CV or the total cerebellum (CT). Women have a higher CW V(T) compared with men, suggesting a difference in V(2). Use of CW improves identifiability and time stability of BP in cortical regions. Cerebellar white matter might be a better reference region for use in future 5-HT(1A) studies using [(11)C]WAY-100635. With CW as a reference region, V(3)'' cannot be used to detect differences in 5-HT(1A) receptors between men and women, suggesting the need for arterial input functions to determine BP.
Non-dopaminergic neurons expressing individual complementary enzymes dopamine (DA) synthesis were shown to produce DA in cooperation [Ugrumov, M., Melnikova, V., Ershov, P., Balan, I., Calas A., 2002. Tyrosine hydroxylase- and/or aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase-expressing neurons in the rat arcuate nucleus: ontogenesis and functional significance. Psychoneuroendocrinology 27, 533-548; Ugrumov, M.V., Melnikova, V.I., Lavrentyeva, A.V., Kudrin, V.S., Rayevsky, K.S., 2004. Dopamine synthesis by non-dopaminergic neurons expressing individual complementary enzymes of the dopamine synthetic pathway in the arcuate nucleus of fetal rats. Neuroscience 124, 629-635]. This study was aimed at testing our hypothesis that the cooperative synthesis of DA in non-dopaminergic neurons is an adaptive reaction under functional insufficiency of the dopaminergic system. Functional insufficiency of the tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic system was provoked by 6-OHDA-induced degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the arcuate nucleus in adult rats. Bienzymatic (dopaminergic) neurons and monoenzymatic neurons expressing tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) or aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) were detected with a double-immunofluorescent technique on cryostat sections. The 6-OHDA-induced degeneration of dopaminergic neurons was accompanied by a significant increase of the number of monoenzymatic TH neurons and AADC neurons that appears to support our hypothesis. The reaction of bienzymatic and monoenzymatic neuron populations to the 6-OHDA administration occurred to be region-specific. The former disappeared in the dorsomedial region of the arcuate nucleus while the latter increased in the ventrolateral region. Thus, degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the arcuate nucleus of adult rats is accompanied by the expression of individual enzymes of DA synthesis in non-dopaminergic neurons that may be an adaptive reaction.
Gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) plasma membrane transporters (GATs) contribute to the modulation of GABA's actions and are implicated in neuropsychiatric diseases. In this study, the localization of GAT-3, the major glial GAT, was investigated in human cortex using immunocytochemical techniques. In prefrontal and temporal cortices, GAT-3 immunoreactivity (ir) was present throughout the depth of the cortex, both in puncta and in neurons. GAT-3-positive puncta were dispersed in the neuropil or closely related to cell bodies; neuronal staining was in perikarya, especially of pyramidal cells, and proximal dendrites. Electron microscopic studies showed that GAT-3 ir was in astrocytic processes as well as in neuronal elements. All GAT-3-positive neurons co-expressed heat shock protein 70. To test the possibility that the collection procedure of human samples induced the expression of GAT-3 in neurons which normally do not express it, we analyzed rat cortical tissue resected using the same procedure and found that numerous neurons are GAT-3-positive and that they co-express heat shock protein 70. Results show that in human cortex GAT-3 is expressed in astrocytic processes and in neurons and suggest that neuronal expression is related to the procedure used for collecting human samples.
In a retrospective study of 35 children (ages 8 months to 22 years; mean age 9 years) with intractable epilepsy, seizure frequency was determined before and after 12 months of zonisamide therapy. Charts were reviewed for seizure type (focal, generalized, or mixed), cognitive function (no special education versus special education), concomitant anticonvulsant medications, and the number of previous anticonvulsant drugs. Good to excellent seizure control (50-100% reduction) was attained in seven (54%) patients with generalized seizures, two (40%) patients with focal seizures, five (35%) patients with mixed seizures, and one (33%) patient with infantile spasms. In this group of children, the efficacy of zonisamide was comparable for focal, generalized, and mixed seizures. The efficacy of zonisamide was independent of cognitive status. Adverse effects were not associated with a higher mean dose. This could be attributable to different rates of metabolism or represent idiosyncratic responses to the medication. Our finding that those children taking the combination of zonisamide and levetiracetam had a significantly worse outcome than those on levetiracetam and a different drug warrants further study, both clinically and from the standpoint of mechanisms of action of zonisamide and levetiracetam and/or their pharmacodynamic interactions.
In a retrospective study of 59 children (ages 9 months to 23 years; mean age 11 years) with intractable epilepsy, seizure frequency was determined before and after 12 months of levetiracetam therapy. Charts were reviewed for seizure type (focal, generalized, or mixed), cognitive function (no special education versus special education), concomitant anticonvulsant medications (range 0-5), and the number of previous anticonvulsant drugs (range 1-12). Good to excellent seizure control (50-100% reduction) was attained in 6 (40%) patients with focal seizures, 16 (55%) patients with generalized seizures, and 8 (61%) patients with mixed seizures; these efficacy rates were not significantly different. The efficacy of levetiracetam was independent of cognitive status. Adverse effects were not associated with higher mean doses. This could be attributable to different rates of metabolism or represent idiosyncratic responses to the medication. Our finding that those children taking the combination of levetiracetam and zonisamide had a significantly worse outcome than those on levetiracetam and a different drug warrants further study, both clinically and from the standpoint of the mechanisms of action of levetiracetam and zonisamide and/or their pharmacodynamic interactions.
Neuropsychological impairments of English past tense processing inform a key debate in cognitive neuroscience concerning the nature of mental mechanisms. Dual-route accounts claim that regular past tense comprehension deficits reflect a specific impairment of morphological decomposition (e.g., jump + ed), disrupting the automatic comprehension of word meaning accessed via the verb stem (e.g., jump). Single-mechanism accounts claim that the deficits reflect a general phonological impairment that affects perception of regular past tense offsets but which might preserve normal activation of verb semantics. We tested four patients with regular past tense deficits and matched controls, using a paired auditory semantic priming/lexical decision task with three conditions: uninflected verbs (hope/wish), regular past tense primes (blamed/accuse), and irregular past tense primes (shook/tremble). Both groups showed significant priming for verbs with simple morphophonology (uninflected verbs and irregular past tenses) but the patients showed no priming for verbs with complex morphophonology (regular past tenses) in contrast to controls. The findings suggest that the patients are delayed in activating the meaning of verbs if a regular past tense affix is appended, consistent with a dual-route account of their deficit.
Humans can identify individual faces under different viewpoints, even after a single encounter. We determined brain regions responsible for processing face identity across view changes after variable delays with several intervening stimuli, using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging during a long-term repetition priming paradigm. Unfamiliar faces were presented sequentially either in a frontal or three-quarter view. Each face identity was repeated once after an unpredictable lag, with either the same or another viewpoint. Behavioral data showed significant priming in response time, irrespective of view changes. Brain imaging results revealed a reduced response in the lateral occipital and fusiform cortex with face repetition. Bilateral face-selective fusiform areas showed view-sensitive repetition effects, generalizing only from three-quarter to front-views. More medial regions in the left (but not in the right) fusiform showed repetition effects across all types of viewpoint changes. These results reveal that distinct regions within the fusiform cortex hold view-sensitive or view-invariant traces of novel faces, and that face identity is represented in a view-sensitive manner in the functionally defined face-selective areas of both hemispheres. In addition, our finding of a better generalization after exposure to a 3/4-view than to a front-view demonstrates for the first time a neural substrate in the fusiform cortex for the common recognition advantage of three-quarter faces. This pattern provides new insights into the nature of face representation in the human visual system.
Theories of human memory have led to conflicting views regarding the relationship between working memory (WM) maintenance and episodic long-term memory (LTM) formation. Here, we tested the prediction that WM maintenance operates in two stages, and that processing during the initial stage of WM maintenance promotes successful LTM formation. Results from a functional magnetic resonance imaging study showed that activity in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and hippocampus during the initial stage of WM maintenance was predictive of subsequent LTM performance. In a behavioral experiment, we demonstrated that interfering with processing during the initial stage of WM maintenance impaired LTM formation. These results demonstrate that processing during the initial stage of WM maintenance directly contributes to successful LTM formation, and that this effect is mediated by a network that includes the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and the hippocampus.
The barn owl, Tyto alba, extends its nictitating membrane (NM) in response to an air puff to the cornea or a mild para-orbital electrodermal shock. The NM extension habituated rapidly if the stimulus was repeated. Habituation was prevented by pairing the aversive stimulus with a sound. The sound stimulus did not, by itself, induce an NM extension. Repeated pairing of sound with the aversive stimulus caused the subjects to modify the duration of their NM extension, increasing the duration when exposed to longer aversive stimuli and decreasing in response to shorter stimuli. No transference of the response was seen from the aversive stimulus to the sound. The learned change in duration of the NM extension resisted extinction. This modification of the NM extension reflex resembles previous descriptions of primer-produced facilitation.

Fear-avoidance, an important model in the understanding of chronic pain, has not yet been studied in patients with burns. The purpose of this study was to investigate if recovered burn patients have fear-avoidance beliefs and to explore the association with psychological and somatic symptoms. Eighty-four recovered burn patients completed self-report questionnaires. The results showed that there were fear-avoidance beliefs, but not to a large extent. Beta coefficients from multiple regression analyses indicated a strong association between fear-avoidance and problems with work, heat sensitivity and arousal symptoms. The model was capable of explaining 73 per cent of the variance in fear-avoidance beliefs.
Minocycline, a tetracycline with anti-inflammatory properties, has been reported to down-regulate the activity of microglia, whose activation occurs in inflammatory and degenerative diseases of the central nervous system, such as multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease. In these disorders, a T cell component is also evident, and we have demonstrated previously that the interaction of activated T cells with microglia led to the substantial increase in tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) levels. Here, we report that minocycline decreases TNF-alpha levels produced in human T cell-microglia interaction. This effect is mediated by a direct action of minocycline on the activated T cells and on microglia, which resulted in the decreased ability of T cells to contact microglia. In correspondence, minocycline decreased the expression on T cells of the CD40 ligand (CD40L), a key molecule regulating the contact-mediated interaction of T cells with microglia. These results demonstrate that the mechanism of action of minocycline involves not only microglia but also T cells and their subsequent activation of microglia. The capacity of minocycline to down-regulate CD40L on T cells may provide a new means to target the CD40-CD40L pathway, which regulates several inflammatory processes.
Oxytocin (OT) plays a crucial role as a mediator of breast myoepithelial cell contraction, the process responsible for the ejection of milk during lactation, and is also involved in myoepithelial cell proliferation and postpartum mammary gland proliferation. Furthermore, although a number of breast cancer cells have oxytocin receptors (OTRs), it has been reported that OT stimulates, inhibits, or has no effect on cell proliferation. As these different effects seem to be mediated by different signaling pathways elicited by OTR stimulation, we here review the regulation of OTR signaling in different cell systems and discuss how understanding the molecular basis of receptor coupling specificity has become extremely important for understanding the role played by OTRs in regulating cell growth.
Heat stable (STa) enterotoxin from E. coli reduced fluid absorption in vivo in the perfused jejunum of the anaesthetized rat in Krebs-phosphate buffer containing lactate and glucose (nutrient buffer), in glucose saline and in glucose free saline. Bicarbonate ion enhanced fluid absorption of 98 +/- 7 (6) microl/cm/h was very significantly (P &lt; 0.0001) reduced by STa to 19 +/- 4 (6) microl/cm/h, but net secretion was not found. When impermeant MES substituted for bicarbonate ion, net fluid absorption of 29 +/- 3 (6) microl/cm/h was less (P &lt; 0.01) than the values for phosphate buffer and bicarbonate buffer. With STa in MES buffer, fluid absorption of 3 +/- 2 (6) microl/cm/h was less than (P &lt; 0.001) that in the absence of STa and not significantly different from zero net fluid absorption. E. coli STa did not cause net fluid secretion in vivo under any of the above circumstances. Neither bumetanide nor NPPB when co-perfused with STa restored the rate of fluid absorption. In experiments with zero sodium ion-containing perfusates, STa further reduced fluid absorption modestly by 20 microl/cm/h. Perfusion of ethyl-isopropyl-amiloride (EIPA) with STa in zero sodium ion buffers prevented the small increment in fluid entry into the lumen caused by STa, indicating that the STa effect was attributable to residual sodium ion and fluid uptake that zero sodium-ion perfusates did not eradicate. These experiments, using a technique that directly measures mass transport of fluid into and out of the in vivo proximal jejunum, do not support the concept that E. coli STa acts by stimulating a secretory response.
This study identifies the cuticular metathoracic structures in earless cockroaches that are the homologs to the peripheral auditory components in their sister taxon, praying mantids, and defines the nature of the cuticular transition from earless to eared in the Dictyoptera. The single, midline ear of mantids comprises an auditory chamber with complex walls that contain the tympana and chordotonal transduction elements. The corresponding area in cockroaches, between the furcasternum and coxae, has many socketed hairs arranged in discrete fields and the Nerve 7 chordotonal organ, the homolog of the mantis tympanal organ. The Nerve 7 chordotonal organ attaches at the apex of the lateral ventropleurite (LVp), which has the same shape and general structure as an auditory chamber wall. High-speed video shows that when the coxa moves toward the midline, the LVp rotates medially to stimulate socketed hairs, and also moves like a triangular hinge giving the chordotonal organ maximal in-out stimulation. Formation of the mantis auditory chamber from the LVp and adjacent structures would involve only enlargement, a shift toward the midline, and a mild rotation. Almost all proprioceptive function would be lost, which may constitute the major cost of building and maintaining the mantis ear. Isolation from leg movement dictates the position of the mantis ear in the midline and the rigid frame, formed by the cuticular knobs, which protects the chordotonal organs.
Latinos appear to be relatively protected against suicidal behavior, but the factors that mediate this effect are not known. Some protective factors may be related to cultural constructs that provide a buffer against suicidal behavior in the face of psychiatric illness. We sought to determine whether the Reasons for Living Inventory (RFLI) might capture protective factors against suicidal behavior in Latinos and non-Latinos. Patients with major depression, bipolar disorder, or schizophrenia were interviewed regarding their depressive symptomatology and lifetime history of suicidal behavior. The RFLI, which measures protective factors against suicidal acts, was also administered. Multivariate analyses were used to assess the relationship between suicide measures, ethnicity, and selected clinical and demographic variables. Although Latinos and non-Latinos did not differ significantly in attempter status (attempter/nonattempter), number of attempts, or suicide intent, Latinos reported significantly less suicidal ideation and made less lethal attempts. On the RFLI, Latinos scored significantly higher on subscales regarding survival and coping beliefs, responsibility to family, and moral objections to suicide, possibly reflective of cultural norms endorsed by Latino groups. Multivariate analyses suggested that although being Latino was independently associated with less suicidal ideation, other suicidal behaviors held a stronger relationship to moral objections to suicide and survival and coping skills than to ethnicity. Self-identification as Latino may be associated with espousing cultural constructs that mediate protective effects against suicidal behavior. Constructs identified in the RFLI may protect Latinos from acting on suicidal thoughts, affecting moral objections to suicide and survival and coping beliefs. Further studies to elucidate the impact of these factors on suicidal behavior and their relationship to specific cultural constructs would be of interest.

Proper development of dendrites is essential for the establishment of neuronal circuitry. The elaboration of the dendritic tree is a highly dynamic and regulated process, which involves the formation of new branches as well as the maintenance or elimination of pre-existing branches. This review describes recent advances in our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of activity-dependent dendritic development. Neuronal activity triggers calcium-mediated signaling events that affect the structural components of dendrites and adhesion molecules. These calcium-induced signaling pathways also target nuclear transcription factors thereby controlling expression of genes required for dendritic development. Thus, a coordinated response to calcium-regulated signaling pathways mediates activity-dependent dendritic development.
The highly complex geometry of dendritic trees is crucial for neural signal integration and the proper wiring of neuronal circuits. The morphogenesis of dendritic trees is regulated by innate genetic factors, neuronal activity, and external molecular cues. How each of these factors contributes to dendritic maturation has been addressed in studies of the developing nervous systems of animals ranging from insects to mammals. This article reviews our current knowledge and understanding of the role of afferent input in the establishment of the architecture of mature dendritic trees, using insect neurons as models. With these model systems and using quantitative morphometry, it is possible to define the contributions of intrinsic and extrinsic factors in dendritic morphogenesis of identified neurons and to evaluate the impact of dendritic maturation on the integration of identified neurons into functional circuits subserving identified behaviors. The commonly held view of dendritic morphogenesis is that general structural features result from genetic instructions, whereas fine connectivity details rely mostly on substrate interactions and functional activity. During early dendritic maturation, dendritic growth cone formation produces new branches at all dendritic roots. The second phase is growth cone independent and afferent input dependent, during which branching is limited to high order distal dendrites. During the third phase, activity-dependent synaptic maturation occurs with limited or subtle remodeling of branching.
Dendritic spines are small protrusions off the dendrite that receive excitatory synaptic input. Spines vary in size, likely correlating with the strength of the synapses they form. In the developing brain, spines show highly dynamic behavior thought to facilitate the formation of new synaptic contacts. Recent studies have illuminated the numerous molecules regulating spine development, many of which converge on the regulation of actin filaments. In addition, interactions with glial cells are emerging as important regulators of spine morphology. In many cases, spine morphogenesis, plasticity, and maintenance also depend on synaptic activity, as shown by recent studies demonstrating changes in spine dynamics and maintenance with altered sensory experience.
Most neurons have elaborate dendritic trees that receive tens of thousands of synaptic inputs. Because postsynaptic responses to individual synaptic events are usually small and transient, the integration of many synaptic responses is needed to depolarize most neurons to action potential threshold. Over the past decade, advances in electrical and optical recording techniques have led to new insights into how synaptic responses propagate and interact within dendritic trees. In addition to their passive electrical and morphological properties, dendrites express active conductances that shape individual synaptic responses and influence synaptic integration locally within dendrites. Dendritic voltage-gated Na(+) and Ca(2+) channels support action potential backpropagation into the dendritic tree and local initiation of dendritic spikes, whereas K(+) conductances act to dampen dendritic excitability. While all dendrites investigated to date express active conductances, different neuronal types show specific patterns of dendritic channel expression leading to cell-specific differences in the way synaptic responses are integrated within dendritic trees. This review explores the way active and passive dendritic properties shape synaptic responses in the dendrites of central neurons, and emphasizes their role in synaptic integration.
Dendrites are equipped with a plethora of voltage-gated ion channels that greatly enrich the computational and storage capacity of neurons. The excitability of dendrites and dendritic function display plasticity under diverse circumstances such as neuromodulation, adaptation, learning and memory, trauma, or disorders. This adaptability arises from alterations in the biophysical properties or the expression levels of voltage-gated ion channels-induced by the activity of neurotransmitters, neuromodulators, and second-messenger cascades. In this review we discuss how this plasticity of dendritic excitability could alter information transfer and processing within dendrites, neurons, and neural networks under physiological and pathological conditions.
Computational methods have been part of neuroscience for many years. For example, models developed with these methods have provided a theory that helps explain the action potential. More recently, as experimental patch-electrode techniques have revealed new biophysics related to dendritic function and synaptic integration, computational models of dendrites have been developed to explain and further illuminate these results, and to predict possible additional behavior. Here, a collection of computational models of dendrites is reviewed. The goal is to help explain how such computational techniques work, some of their limitations, and what one can hope to learn about dendrites by modeling them.
The aetiology of schizophrenia is complex and the pathological mechanisms involved are still not fully understood. The aim of this project was to gain insight into the underlying molecular changes occurring in schizophrenia through the analysis of gene expression. Using suppression subtractive hybridization to isolate differentially expressed genes in superior temporal cortex (BA22), we detected one prominent sequence with reduced expression in schizophrenia and represented in at least nine clones. This was then selected for further validation. This 190-bp partial transcript showed identity to part of the Dickkopf-3 (Dkk3) gene sequence. Differential expression was initially confirmed in BA22 by slot blot hybridization where expression was decreased by 35% (p &lt; 0.026). These results were further authenticated in a larger panel (12 control and 11 schizophrenia cases) using SYBR Green I real-time quantitative RT-PCR, in which a 41% decrease in expression of Dkk3 mRNA in schizophrenia was obtained (p &lt; 0.012). Furthermore, using in situ hybridization, Dkk3 mRNA was shown to be abundantly expressed in cortical neurones, with prominent expression in layers II/III and V/VI of BA22. Dkk3 belongs to a novel family of Dkk proteins, which have been shown to be potent inhibitors of the neurodevelopmental wingless (Wnt) signalling pathway, and is therefore a putative candidate for further investigation into the aetiology of schizophrenia.
Previous studies have shown that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation results in production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in hippocampal area CA1. In addition, application of ROS to hippocampal slices has been shown to result in activation of ERK in area CA1. To determine whether these events were linked causally, we investigated whether ROS are required for NMDA receptor-dependent activation of ERK. In agreement with previous studies, we found that treatment of hippocampal slices with NMDA resulted in activation of ERK in area CA1. The NMDA receptor-dependent activation of ERK was either blocked or attenuated by a number of antioxidants, including the general antioxidant N-acetyl-L-cysteine (L-NAC), the superoxide-scavenging enzyme superoxide dismutase (SOD), the membrane-permeable SOD mimetic Mn(III) tetrakis (4-benzoic acid) porphyrin (MnTBAP), the hydrogen peroxide-scavenging enzyme catalase, and the catalase mimetic ebselen. The NMDA receptor-dependent activation of ERK also was blocked by the NADPH oxidase inhibitor diphenylene iodonium (DPI) and was absent in mice that lacked p47(phox), one of the required protein components of NADPH oxidase. Taken together, our results suggest that ROS production, especially superoxide production via NADPH oxidase, is required for NMDA receptor-dependent activation of ERK in hippocampal area CA1.
There is evidence that in sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) immunological mechanisms may be involved in the pathophysiology of the disease. We tested whether purified IgG from ALS patients induce cell death in rat mixed primary spinal cord cultures and compared this with the effect of IgG purified from patients with Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) or from healthy donors. Treatment with ALS-IgG increases caspase-3 apoptosis when compared with control IgG or with GBS-IgG, but does not induce death by necrosis. Because ALS is characterized by the selective loss of motor neurones, we next assessed the differential effect of ALS-IgG on motor neurones or astrocytes. We showed, semiquantitatively, that motor neurones are more susceptible to apoptosis when cultures were treated with ALS-IgG compared with control-IgG. In conclusion, we have demonstrated in primary spinal cord cultures that IgG from patients with ALS induces apoptosis selectively in motor neurones, and that the caspase-3 pathway is involved. This suggests that immunological mechanisms may contribute to the selective loss of motor neurones in ALS.
Although it is well established that RhoA signaling pathways play key roles in regulating neuronal morphology, their involvement in other aspects of neuronal function has received little attention. Recent studies have elucidated a novel intracellular signaling pathway used by RhoA to elicit activation of serum response factor (SRF)-mediated transcription. In this pathway, activation of RhoA triggers nuclear translocation of the SRF co-activator, megakaryocytic acute leukemia (MAL). In assessing whether RhoA regulates transcription in neurons via this pathway, we have found that a constitutively active form of Tech (transcript-enriched in cortex and hippocampus), a RhoA guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) that is expressed in forebrain neurons, stimulates SRF reporter activity in extracts of primary cortical cultures and induces nuclear translocation of MAL in cortical neurons. Both of these responses appear to be mediated by Tech's activation of RhoA as they are not mimicked by a mutant Tech construct lacking RhoA GEF activity and are blocked by C3 transferase, a selective inhibitor of RhoA. Furthermore, Tech-induced increases in SRF activity are suppressed by a dominant negative MAL construct. These findings demonstrate that RhoA signaling pathways are able to regulate transcription in neurons by triggering translocation of the SRF co-activator MAL.
Humans and laboratory animals remain highly vulnerable to relapse to cocaine-seeking after prolonged periods of withdrawal from the drug. It has been hypothesized that this persistent cocaine relapse vulnerability involves drug-induced alterations in glutamatergic synapses within the mesolimbic dopamine reward system. Previous studies have shown that cocaine self-administration induces long-lasting neuroadaptations in glutamate neurons of the ventral tegmental area and nucleus accumbens. Here, we determined the effect of cocaine self-administration and subsequent withdrawal on glutamate receptor expression in the amygdala, a component of the mesolimbic dopamine system that is involved in cocaine seeking and craving induced by drug-associated cues. Rats were trained for 10 days to self-administer intravenous cocaine (6 h/day) or saline (a control condition) and were killed after one or 30 withdrawal days. Basolateral and central amygdala tissues were assayed for protein expression of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptor subunits (GluR1 and GluR2) and the NMDA receptor subunits (NR1, NR2A and NR2B). In the basolateral amygdala, GluR1 but not GluR2 levels were increased on days 1 and 30, NR2A levels were increased on day 1, and NR2B levels were decreased on day 30 of withdrawal from cocaine. In the central amygdala, GluR2 but not GluR1 levels were increased on days 1 and 30, NR1 levels were increased on day 30 and NR2A or NR2B levels were not altered after withdrawal from cocaine. These results indicate that cocaine self-administration and subsequent withdrawal induces long-lasting and differential neuroadaptations in basolateral and central amygdala glutamate receptors.
Caspases, a cysteine proteinase family, are required for the initiation and execution phases of apoptosis. It has been suggested that caspase 7, an apoptosis executioner implicated in cell death proteolysis, is redundant to the main executioner caspase 3 and it is generally believed that it is not present in the brain or present in only minute amounts with highly restricted activity. Here we report evidence that caspase 7 is up-regulated and activated after traumatic brain injury (TBI) in rats. TBI disrupts homeostasis resulting in pathological apoptotic activation. After controlled cortical impact TBI of adult male rats we observed, by semiquantitative real-time PCR, increased mRNA levels within the traumatized cortex and hippocampus peaking in the former about 5 days post-injury and in the latter within 6-24 h of trauma. The activation of caspase 7 protein after TBI, demonstrated by immunoblot by the increase of the active form of caspase 7 peaking 5 days post-injury in the cortex and hippocampus, was found to be up-regulated in both neurons and astrocytes by immunohistochemistry. These findings, the first to document the up-regulation of caspase 7 in the brain after acute brain injury in rats, suggest that caspase 7 activation could contribute to neuronal cell death on a scale not previously recognized.
Neuroleptics are thought to exert their anti-psychotic effects by counteracting a hyper-dopaminergic transmission. Here, we have examined the dopaminergic status of STOP (stable tubule only polypeptide) null mice, which lack a microtubule-stabilizing protein and which display neuroleptic-sensitive behavioural disorders. Dopamine transmission was investigated using both behavioural analysis and measurements of dopamine efflux in different conditions. Compared to wild-type mice in basal conditions or following mild stress, STOP null mice showed a hyper-locomotor activity, which was erased by neuroleptic treatment, and an increased locomotor reactivity to amphetamine. Such a behavioural profile is indicative of an increased dopaminergic transmission. In STOP null mice, the basal dopamine concentrations, measured by quantitative microdialysis, were normal in both the nucleus accumbens and the striatum. When measured by electrochemical techniques, the dopamine efflux evoked by electrical stimulations mimicking physiological stimuli was dramatically increased in the nucleus accumbens of STOP null mice, apparently due to an increased dopamine release, whereas dopaminergic uptake and auto-inhibition mechanisms were normal. In contrast, dopamine effluxes were slightly diminished in the striatum. Together with previous results, the present study indicates the association in STOP null mice of hippocampal hypo-glutamatergy and of limbic hyper-dopaminergy. Such neurotransmission defects are thought to be central to mental diseases such as schizophrenia.
Primary cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs) require depolarizing extracellular potassium for their survival. Removal of depolarizing potassium triggers CGN apoptosis that requires induction of Bim, a BH3-only Bcl-2 family member. Bim is classically thought to promote apoptosis by neutralizing pro-survival Bcl-2 proteins. To determine if this is the principal function of Bim in CGNs, we contrasted Bim-mediated apoptosis to neuronal death induced by HA14-1, a BH3-domain mimetic that antagonizes Bcl-2 and Bcl-x(L). HA14-1 elicited CGN apoptosis characterized by caspase 3 and 9 activation, cytochrome c release, conformational activation of Bax, and mitochondrial depolarization. HA14-1 provoked CGN apoptosis in the absence of Bim induction and negative regulators of Bim transcription did not prevent HA14-1-induced cell death. However, the antioxidant glutathione and its precursor, N-acetyl-l-cysteine, suppressed HA14-1-induced apoptosis. Similarly, apoptosis induced by either a structurally distinct Bcl-2/Bcl-x(L) inhibitor (compound 6) or Bcl-2 antisense oligonucleotides was diminished by glutathione. In contrast, antioxidants had no effect on CGN apoptosis provoked by either removal of depolarizing potassium or overexpression of a GFP-Bim fusion protein, two models of Bim-dependent death. These data show that antagonism of Bcl-2/Bcl-x(L) function elicits oxidative stress-dependent CGN apoptosis that is mechanistically distinct from Bim-mediated cell death. These results further indicate that, although Bcl-2/Bcl-x(L) antagonism is sufficient to induce neuronal apoptosis, Bim likely promotes neuronal death by interacting with additional proteins besides Bcl-2/Bcl-x(L).
Ghrelin is an orexigenic peptide made both in the periphery and in the central nervous system. Relatively little is known about the factors that regulate ghrelin secretion. Because both ghrelin and glucocorticoids are increased during fasting, we hypothesised that ghrelin secretion from the stomach is stimulated by glucocorticoids. Plasma ghrelin concentrations were determined by radioimmunoassay in fed and fasted adrenalectomised (ADX) and sham-operated rats. Fasting plasma ghrelin concentrations were significantly increased in ADX relative to sham rats and were normalised by glucocorticoid replacement. Several lines of evidence suggest that the orexigenic action of ghrelin is mediated through neuropeptide Y (NPY)/agouti-related peptide (AgRP) neurones. Because ADX reduces the orexigenic actions of NPY and AgRP, we hypothesised that ADX would also reduce the orexigenic action of ghrelin. Food intake was assessed in ADX and sham rats following an intra-third-ventricular injection of either saline or ghrelin (1, 5 or 10 microg in 2 microl). ADX rats were equally sensitive to the orexigenic action of ghrelin compared to sham rats. Given that ghrelin has been shown to stimulate glucocorticoid secretion, the current data imply the existence of a regulatory feedback loop whereby glucocorticoids inhibit further ghrelin secretion. The results also suggest that, unlike the orexigenic effects of NPY and AgRP, the ability of ghrelin to stimulate food intake is maintained in ADX rats.
When energy intake is restricted in mammals, there are neuroendocrine adjustments in the secretion of reproductive and metabolic hormones to reallocate energy for vital functions. In the present study, we investigated whether there were differences in the luteinising hormone (LH), growth hormone (GH) and cortisol responses to a 48-h fast in adult gonad-intact male and female rhesus macaques. In both male and female macaques, blood glucose levels were significantly lower in fasted than in control studies, and levels were higher in males than in females. Male rhesus monkeys had significantly lower (P &lt; 0.01) mean serum LH levels after a 48-h fast than under fed conditions and this was attributable primarily to a decrease in the amount of LH released during each secretory episode. In fasted females, serum LH levels were significantly greater (P &lt; 0.05) than during the fed conditions but no differences were found in pulse amplitude or in the number of pulses. Almost twice as many GH pulses were observed in both males and females during fasting but there was no difference in either mean serum GH levels or pulse amplitude between control and fasted studies. A typical diurnal profile in cortisol levels was observed in both sexes and both experimental conditions. Under control conditions, male macaques released less cortisol than females, and although fasting increased mean cortisol levels in both males and females, only the males shown a significant rise over levels observed in control studies. The changes in plasma LH and cortisol levels in fasted rhesus macaques are similar to those observed in humans and suggest that gonadotrophin and corticotrophin secretion are more resistant to short-term energy deprivation in female than in male primates.


Expression of T cell immunoglobulin- and mucin-domain-containing molecules (TIMs) can be used as T helper (Th) differentiation markers in the human and mouse. We examined the expression of TIM-1 and -3 mRNAs in rat MBP(63-88)-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). TIM-3 expression was upregulated in the spinal cord during EAE and following antigen restimulation of the encephalitogenic TCRBV8S2+ population. Interestingly, TIM-3 expression was also detected by in situ hybridization in resident cells of the nervous system. TIM-1 was expressed in B cells but not in resident CNS cells and TIM-1 mRNA levels in spinal cord were unchanged throughout the course of EAE. These results support the notion that TIM-3 can also be used as a Th1 differentiation marker in the rat. However, expression of TIM-1 and -3 is not restricted solely to T cells and the presence of TIM-3 in resident CNS cells may indicate a role for this molecule in the interaction between the nervous and immune systems.
Capsaicin-mediated depletion of neuropeptides in the skin was previously shown to abolish a dinitrocholorobenzene (DNCB)-induced contact sensitivity (CS) response. To understand the basis for this disruption, we explored whether nerve fibres innervating the draining lymph node (LN) could be involved. As expected, removal of the draining LN after DNCB sensitisation abolished the CS response. Furthermore, the CS response could be abolished by destroying the nerve fibres in the draining LN and could be restored by providing the LN with the neuropeptide substance P. The size of the CS response restored by substance P was dose dependent. The response was also inhibited by exposing the lymph node to a neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist which blocks binding of substance P. The results suggest that an afferent signal from the skin via the sympathetic arm of the central nervous system evokes an efferent signal to the LN which combines to regulate the CS response. The efferent signal may serve to control or release from the LN primed effector lymphocytes into the circulation.
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), the most common form among motoneuron diseases, is characterized by a progressive neurodegenerative process involving motor neurons in the motor cortex, brain stem and spinal cord. Sporadic (SALS) accounts for the majority of patients but in about 10% of ALS cases the disease is inherited (FALS), usually as an autosomal dominant trait. In the present study we show the results of a referred based multicenter study on the distribution of SOD1 gene mutations in the largest cohort of Italian ALS patients described so far. Two hundred and sixty-four patients (39 FALS and 225 SALS) of Italian origin were studied. In 7 out of 39 FALS patients we found the following SOD1 gene mutations: i) a new G12R missense mutation in exon 1, found in a patient with a slowly progressive disease course; ii) the G41S mutation, in four unrelated patients with rapidly progressive course complicated with cognitive decline in two of them; iii) the L114F mutation, in a patient with a slowly progressive phenotype; iv) the D90A mutation, in a heterozygous patient with atypical phenotype. In addition, in one SALS patient a previously reported synonymous variant S59S was identified. In 17 (3 FALS and 14 SALS) out of 264 patients (6.4 %) the polymorphism A--&gt;C at position 34 of intron 3 (IVS3: + 34 A--&gt;C) was found, and in one FALS patient a novel variant IVS3 + 62 T--&gt;C was identified. The frequency of SOD1 gene mutations (17.9 %) in FALS cases was comparable with that found in other surveys with a similar sample size of ALS cases. No SOD1 gene mutations have been identified in SALS cases. Within FALS cases, The most frequent mutation was the G41S identified in four FALS.
Regional brain iron levels of two patients with haemochromatosis and severe restless legs syndrome (RLS) were assessed using R2' magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) sequences in both patients and in nine healthy controls. R2' relaxation rates in the patients were decreased in the substantia nigra, red nucleus, and pallidum when compared with the controls. These results indicate that local brain iron deficiency may occur in patients with haemochromatosis and suggest a role for brain iron metabolism in the pathophysiology of RLS.




Regeneration of peripheral nerve involves an essential contribution by Schwann cells (SCs) in collaboration with regrowing axons. We examined such collaboration between new axons and Schwann cells destined to reform peripheral nerve trucks in a regeneration chamber bridging transected rat sciatic nerves. There was a highly intimate &quot;dance&quot; between axons that followed outgrowing and proliferating SCs. Axons without SCs only grew short distances and almost all axon processes had associated SC processes. When regeneration chambers were infused through an external access port with local mitomycin, a mitosis inhibitor, SC proliferation, migration and subsequent axon regrowth were dramatically reduced. Adding laminin to mitomycin did not reverse this regenerative lag and indicated that SCs provide more than laminin synthesis alone. Laminin infused alone supplemented endogenous laminin and facilitated first SC then axon regrowth. &quot;Wrong way&quot; misdirected axons were associated with misdirected SC processes and were more numerous in bridges exposed to mitomycin, but were fewer in laminin supplemented bridges. Later, by 21 days, there was myelinated axon repopulation of regenerative bridges but those exposed to mitomycin alone at early time points had substantial impairments in axon investment. Reforming peripheral nerve trucks involves a very close and intimate relationship between axons and SCs that must proliferate and migrate, facilitated by laminin.
The purpose of this study was to examine if a delay in rehabilitative motor training after spinal cord injury affects functional motor recovery. We studied a skilled motor task in which rats traversed a raised horizontal ladder and we quantified errors in accurate stepping, i.e., foot slips between rungs. After lesions to the dorsal quadrant of the thoracic (T8) spinal cord that aimed to unilaterally sever the corticospinal and rubrospinal tracts, rats were re-trained to walk across the ladder, either immediately after injury or after a 3-mo delay. Before training, the error rate in accurate stepping of the affected hindlimb was similar in the immediately (69.4 +/- 5.3%) and delay (62.7 +/- 4.1%; means +/- SE)-trained animals (not significantly different), suggesting that accurate stepping did not improve spontaneously if rats were not exposed to the ladder. After a 3-wk course of training (30 runs across the ladder per day, 5 day/wk), improvements in accurate stepping performance were greater if training was implemented immediately after injury. On average, immediately trained animals improved stepping performance by 61.5 +/- 28.2%, whereas the delay trained group improved by only 34.9 +/- 28.8% (significantly different). The degree of damage to the corticospinal and rubrospinal tracts was very similar in the two groups of animals, indicating that differences in lesion size did not contribute to the differences in performance improvement. Animals with large lesions to the corticospinal and rubrospinal tracts (&gt;70%) displayed poor recovery from training (especially for delay-trained animals), suggesting that these two pathways were important in mediating improvements in accurate stepping. In addition, recovery of stepping-like reflexes appeared not to contribute to the recovery of accurate stepping given that the time course of reflex recovery was not related to the time course of recovery of accurate stepping. We conclude that training of a skilled motor task that relies on descending control is more beneficial when initiated immediately after a partial spinal cord injury.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is commonly used to activate or inactivate specific cortical areas in a noninvasive manner. Because of technical constraints, the precise effects of TMS on cortical circuits are difficult to assess experimentally. Here, this issue is investigated by constructing a detailed model of a portion of the thalamocortical system and examining the effects of the simulated delivery of a TMS pulse. The model, which incorporates a large number of physiological and anatomical constraints, includes 33,000 spiking neurons arranged in a 3-layered motor cortex and over 5 million intra- and interlayer synaptic connections. The model was validated by reproducing several results from the experimental literature. These include the frequency, timing, dose response, and pharmacological modulation of epidurally recorded responses to TMS (the so-called I-waves), as well as paired-pulse response curves consistent with data from several experimental studies. The modeled responses to simulated TMS pulses in different experimental paradigms provide a detailed, self-consistent account of the neural and synaptic activities evoked by TMS within prototypical cortical circuits.
The thalamus relays sensory information to cortex, but this information may be influenced by excitatory feedback from cortical layer VI. The full importance of this feedback has only recently been explored, but among its possible functions are influences on the processing of sensory features, synchronization of thalamic firing, and transitions in response mode of thalamic relay cells. Uncontrolled, corticothalamic feedback has also been implicated in pathological thalamic rhythms associated with certain neurological disorders. We have found a form of presynaptic inhibition of corticothalamic synaptic transmission that is mediated by a Group II metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) and activated by high-frequency corticothalamic activity. We tested putative retinogeniculate and corticogeniculate synapses for Group II mGluR modulation within the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the ferret thalamus. Stimulation of optic-tract fibers elicited paired-pulse depression of excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs), whereas stimulation of the optic radiations elicited paired-pulse facilitation. Paired-pulse responses were subsequently used to characterize the pathway of origin of stimulated synapses. Group II mGluR agonists (LY379268 and DCG-IV) applied to thalamic neurons under voltage-clamp conditions reduced the amplitude of corticogeniculate EPSCs. Stimulation with high-frequency trains produced a facilitating response that was reduced by Group II mGluR agonists, but was enhanced by the selective antagonist LY341495, revealing a presynaptic, mGluR-mediated reduction of high-frequency corticogeniculate feedback. Agonist treatment did not affect EPSCs from stimulation of the optic tract. NAAG (reported to be selective for mGluR3) was ineffective at the corticogeniculate synapse, implicating mGluR2 in the observed effects. Our data are the first to show a synaptically elicited form of presynaptic inhibition of corticothalamic synaptic transmission that is mediated by presynaptic action of mGluR2. This presynaptic inhibition may partially mute sensory feedback and prevent reentrant excitation from initiating abnormal thalamic rhythms.
Peripheral denervation causes significant changes in the organization of developing or adult primary somatosensory cortex (S1). However, the basic mechanisms that underlie reorganization are not well understood. Most attention has been focused on possible synaptic mechanisms associated with reorganization. However, another important determinant of cortical circuit function is the intrinsic membrane properties of neurons in the circuit. Here we document changes in the intrinsic properties of pyramidal neurons in cortical layer 2/3 in adult rat primary somatosensory cortex (S1) after varying durations of forepaw denervation. Denervation of the forepaw induced a rapid and sustained shift in the location of the border between the forepaw and lower jaw representations of adult S1 (reorganization). Coronal slices from the reorganized region were maintained in vitro and the intrinsic properties of layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons of S1 were determined using whole cell recordings. In general, passive membrane properties were not affected by denervation; however, a variety of active properties were. The most robust changes were increases in the amplitudes of the fast and medium afterhyperpolarization (AHP) and an increase in the interval between action potentials (APs). Additional changes at some durations of denervation were observed for the AP threshold. These observations indicate that changes in intrinsic properties, mostly reflecting a decrease in overall excitation, may play a role in changes in cortical circuit properties during reorganization in adult S1, and suggest a possible role for AHPs in some of those changes.
Episodic memory supports conscious remembrance of everyday experience. Prior functional neuroimaging data indicate that episodic encoding during phonological task performance is correlated with activation in bilateral posterior ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (pVLPFC), although uncertainty remains regarding whether these prefrontal regions make necessary contributions to episodic memory formation. Using functional MRI data to guide application of single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (spTMS), this study examined the necessity of left and right pVLPFC for episodic encoding (as expressed through subsequent memory performance). To assess the timing of critical computations, pVLPFC function was transiently disrupted at different poststimulus onset times while subjects made syllable decisions about visually presented familiar and unfamiliar words; subsequent memory for these stimuli was measured. Results revealed that left pVLPFC disruption during encoding of familiar words impaired subsequent memory, expressed as a decline in recognition confidence, with disruption being maximal at 380 ms after stimulus onset. In contrast, right pVLPFC disruption facilitated subsequent memory for familiar words, expressed as an increase in medium confidence recognition, with this facilitation being maximal at 380 ms. Finally, phonological (syllable) decision accuracy was facilitated by right pVLPFC disruption, with this effect being maximal at 340 ms, but was unaffected by left pVLPFC disruption. These findings suggest that left pVLPFC mechanisms onset between 300 and 400 ms during phonological processing of words, with these mechanisms appearing necessary for effective episodic encoding. In contrast, disruption of correlated mechanisms in right pVLPFC facilitates encoding, perhaps by inducing a functional shift in the mechanisms engaged during learning.
During standing posture, the soleus muscles acts to control sway in the anteroposterior (AP) direction. The soleus muscles bilaterally share a common function during standing tasks. We sought to determine whether common descending inputs, as evidenced by the synchronization of bilateral motor unit pairs, were employed as a strategy to control this common function. Single motor units were recorded from the soleus muscles in subjects who stood on adjacent force platforms for 5 min with their eyes open or closed. While standing with the eyes open, only 4/39 bilateral motor unit pairs showed significant synchronization. Similarly, only 3/36 motor unit pairs were significantly synchronized during the eyes closed task. The low incidence of synchronization was observed despite a high correlation in the amount of sway in the AP direction between legs in both the eyes open and eyes closed tasks (rho = 0.80 and rho = 0.83, respectively). When the extent of synchronization was assessed between pairs of motor units within the same leg with the eyes open, 10/12 pairs were synchronized. Furthermore, when pairs of soleus motor units were recorded both bilaterally and unilaterally during voluntary isometric ankle plantarflexion, only 4/30 bilateral pairs showed significant synchronization, whereas 19/24 unilateral pairs had significant synchronization. In this study, there was little evidence of the existence of synchronization between bilateral soleus motor unit pairs in either postural tasks or voluntary isometric contractions. In cases in which bilateral synchronization was observed, it was considerably weaker than the synchronization of motor units within a single soleus muscle. The results of this study reveal that it is rather uncommon for bilateral soleus motoneurons to receive common descending synaptic inputs, whereas two motoneurons within a single soleus muscle do.
To compare and contrast the neural mechanisms that contribute to vestibular perception and action, we measured vestibuloocular reflexes (VOR) and perceptions of tilt and translation. We took advantage of the well-known ambiguity that the otolith organs respond to both linear acceleration and tilt with respect to gravity and investigated the mechanisms by which this ambiguity is resolved. A new motion paradigm that combined roll tilt with inter-aural translation (&quot;Tilt&amp;Translation&quot;) was used; subjects were sinusoidally (0.8 Hz) roll tilted but with their ears above or below the rotation axis. This paradigm provided sinusoidal roll canal cues that were the same across trials while providing otolith cues that varied linearly with ear position relative to the earth-horizontal rotation axis. We found that perceived tilt and translation depended on canal cues, with substantial roll tilt and inter-aural translation perceptions reported even when the otolith organs measured no inter-aural force. These findings match internal model predictions that rotational cues from the canals influence the neural processing of otolith cues. We also found horizontal translational VORs that varied linearly with radius; a minimal response was measured when the otolith organs transduced little or no inter-aural force. Hence, the horizontal translational VOR was dependent on otolith cues but independent of canal cues. These findings match predictions that translational VORs are elicited by simple filtering of otolith signals. We conclude that internal models govern human perception of tilt and translation at 0.8 Hz and that high-pass filtering governs the human translational VOR at this same frequency.
To investigate the neural mechanisms that humans use to process the ambiguous force measured by the otolith organs, we measured vestibuloocular reflexes (VORs) and perceptions of tilt and translation. One primary goal was to determine if the same, or different, mechanisms contribute to vestibular perception and action. We used motion paradigms that provided identical sinusoidal inter-aural otolith cues across a broad frequency range. We accomplished this by sinusoidally tilting (20 degrees, 0.005-0.7 Hz) subjects in roll about an earth-horizontal, head-centered, rotation axis (&quot;Tilt&quot;) or sinusoidally accelerating (3.3 m/s2, 0.005-0.7 Hz) subjects along their inter-aural axis (&quot;Translation&quot;). While identical inter-aural otolith cues were provided by these motion paradigms, the canal cues were substantially different because roll rotations were present during Tilt but not during Translation. We found that perception was dependent on canal cues because the reported perceptions of both roll tilt and inter-aural translation were substantially different during Translation and Tilt. These findings match internal model predictions that rotational cues from the canals influence the neural processing of otolith cues. We also found horizontal translational VORs at frequencies &gt;0.2 Hz during both Translation and Tilt. These responses were dependent on otolith cues and match simple filtering predictions that translational VORs include contributions via simple high-pass filtering of otolith cues. More generally, these findings demonstrate that internal models govern human vestibular &quot;perception&quot; across a broad range of frequencies and that simple high-pass filters contribute to human horizontal translational VORs (&quot;action&quot;) at frequencies above approximately 0.2 Hz.
A key feature of human recollection is the ability to remember details of the context in which events were experienced, as well as details of the events themselves. Previous studies have implicated a number of regions of prefrontal cortex in contextual recollection, but the role of anterior prefrontal cortex has so far resisted detailed characterization. We used event-related functional MRI (fMRI) to contrast recollection of two forms of contextual information: 1) decisions one had previously made about stimuli (task memory) and 2) which of two temporally distinct lists those stimuli had been presented in (list memory). In addition, a retrieval cue manipulation permitted evaluation of the stage of the retrieval process in which the activated regions might be involved. The results indicated that anterior prefrontal cortex responded significantly more during recollection of task than list context details. Furthermore, activation profiles for lateral and medial aspects of anterior prefrontal cortex suggested differing roles in recollection. Lateral regions seem to be more involved in the early retrieval specification stages of recollection, with medial regions contributing to later stages (e.g., monitoring and verification).
Recent neurophysiological experiments have led to a promising &quot;biased competition hypothesis&quot; of the neural basis of attention. According to this hypothesis, attention appears as a sometimes nonlinear property that results from a top-down biasing effect that influences the competitive and cooperative interactions that work both within cortical areas and between cortical areas. In this paper we describe a detailed dynamical analysis of the synaptic and neuronal spiking mechanisms underlying biased competition. We perform a detailed analysis of the dynamical capabilities of the system by exploring the stationary attractors in the parameter space by a mean-field reduction consistent with the underlying synaptic and spiking dynamics. The nonstationary dynamical behavior, as measured in neuronal recording experiments, is studied by an integrate-and-fire model with realistic dynamics. This elucidates the role of cooperation and competition in the dynamics of biased competition and shows why feedback connections between cortical areas need optimally to be weaker by a factor of about 2.5 than the feedforward connections in an attentional network. We modeled the interaction between top-down attention and bottom-up stimulus contrast effects found neurophysiologically and showed that top-down attentional effects can be explained by external attention inputs biasing neurons to move to different parts of their nonlinear activation functions. Further, it is shown that, although NMDA nonlinear effects may be useful in attention, they are not necessary, with nonlinear effects (which may appear multiplicative) being produced in the way just described.
Increasing evidence suggests that the steroid hormone testosterone (T) enhances libido and decreases depression. Even a single administration of T (0.5 mg sublingually) in healthy young women is sufficient to enhance physiological sexual responsiveness. Such physiological evidence is not yet available for the link between T and depression. Recent research has revealed that lowered functional connectivity in a specific cortico-cortical pathway may be a sensitive physiological index for depression. This pathway, comprised of the left prefrontal and right parietal cortex, has been named a cortical depression circuit. In the present study, a single dose of T was administered to healthy young women to investigate the effects on the functional connectivity in this cortico-cortical depression circuit. It was hypothesized that administration of T would lead to an increase of functional connectivity. In a double-blind placebo-controlled, crossover design, fourteen healthy females received (sublingually) a single dose of 0.5 mg T or placebo in a randomly assigned fashion. Three hours after drug administration the functional coupling between the left prefrontal and right parietal cortex was established by measuring the interhemispheric electroencephalogram (EEG) coherence for the different frequency bands. Compared to placebo, T administration significantly increased the functional connectivity in the sigma (1-3 Hz) frequency range between the left prefrontal and right parietal cortex. Reductions in interhemispheric coherence in the sigma frequency range have been observed in clinically depressed patients. Thus the present findings may provide a first insight into the neurobiological mechanism by which T decreases depression. The fact that only a single dose of T was able to induce the effect in healthy female subjects suggests that the mechanism is highly sensitive. A feasible application of T treatment in the struggle against depression is discussed.
Green fluorescent protein (GFP) transgenic zebrafish technology has been employed to directly visualize and analyze dynamic developmental processes, such as cell migration and morphogenesis. Stable transgenic zebrafish that express GFP in oligodendrocytes can be a valuable tool to visualize complex myelination processes in vivo, as well as to conduct rapid mutagenesis screens for defective myelination mutants. We investigated whether two myelin gene promoters, the zebrafish P0 promoter and the mouse proteolipid protein (PLP) promoter, drive GFP expression in zebrafish oligodendrocytes. Transiently, both promoters drive enhanced GFP (EGFP) expression in morphologically identifiable oligodendrocytes, premyelinating oligodendrocytes, and possible oligodendrocyte precursors. We have established a stable transgenic zebrafish line, tg(plp:EGFP) zebrafish, at the F1 generation, which expresses enhanced GFP (EGFP) driven by the mouse PLP promoter. In this transgenic line, EGFP-expressing cells are visually detectable around 24-hr postfertilization (hpf), and later at 54 hpf, these cells start exhibiting the clear morphologic characteristics of oligodendrocytes. Shortly afterward, EGFP-expressing oligodendrocytes establish a ventral dominant distribution pattern throughout the central nervous system. This transgenic zebrafish line is likely to serve as a useful tool, in which normal myelination as well as abnormal myelination can be recorded under time-lapse confocal microscopy. Furthermore, it has the potential to greatly facilitate mutagenesis screening for novel dysmyelinating mutants.
Isolation of the fourth ventricle is occasionally observed after shunt treatment of the lateral ventricles for obstructive panventricular hydrocephalus. Of the various surgical options currently available, placement of shunts in the fourth ventricle has remained as the mainstay of treatment. These shunts are difficult to place, however, and have been associated with higher complication rates. With the advent of neuroendoscopic techniques, the treatment of this condition has shifted from shunt therapy to endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) and aqueductal reconstruction. The authors report on four patients (age range 11-28 years old) who had undergone fourth ventricular shunt placement earlier in childhood to treat panventricular hydrocephalus and who presented with an isolated fourth ventricle (IFV) during the follow-up period. All patients underwent magnetic resonance imaging to identify the extent of the stenosed aqueduct. Symptoms improved in all and the size of the fourth ventricle decreased as well, indicating a functioning stent. The ETV failed in two patients, however, and they required placement of a ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunt. Aqueductal stenting with an ETV or a VP shunt is a promising option in the management of IFVs.
In this report the authors describe a patient in whom a symptomatic carotid-cavernous fistula developed 8 months after percutaneous balloon compression of the trigeminal ganglion. The fistula involved a branch of the external carotid artery and was cured with microcatheter embolization.
Biotin affects the abundance of mRNA coding for approximately 10% of genes expressed in human-derived hepatocarcinoma (HepG2) cells. Here, we determined whether effects of biotin on gene expression are associated with changes in the abundance of distinct proteins in cell signaling and structure. HepG2 cells were cultured in media containing the following concentrations of biotin: 0.025 nmol/L (denoted &quot;deficient&quot;), 0.25 nmol/L (&quot;physiological&quot; = control), and 10 nmol/L (&quot;pharmacological&quot;) for 10 d before harvesting. The abundance of 1009 proteins from whole-cell extracts was quantified by using high-throughput immunoblots. The abundance of 44 proteins changed by at least 25% in biotin-deficient and biotin-supplemented cells compared with physiological controls. One third of these proteins participate in cell signaling. Specifically, proteins associated with receptor tyrosine kinase-mediated signaling were identified as targets of biotin; the abundance of these proteins was greater in biotin-deficient cells than in controls. This was associated with increased DNA-binding activities of the transcription factors Fos and Jun, and increased expression of a reporter gene driven by activator protein (AP)1-binding elements in biotin-deficient cells compared with physiological controls. The abundance of selected signaling proteins was not paralleled by the abundance of mRNA, suggesting that biotin affects expression of these genes at a post-transcriptional step. Additional clusters of biotin-responsive proteins were identified that play roles in cytoskeleton homeostasis, nuclear structure and transport, and neuroscience. This study is consistent with the existence of clusters of biotin-responsive proteins in distinct biological processes, including signaling by Fos/Jun; the latter might mediate the proinflammatory and antiapoptotic effects of biotin deficiency.


In the present study we describe the in vitro pharmacological characterization of the nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) receptor (NOP) ligand Ac-RYYRWK-NH2 and the synthesis and biological evaluation of 13 Trp5 substituted Ac-RYYRWK-NH2 analogs. Results indicate that Ac-RYYRWK-NH2 behaves as a highly potent and selective partial agonist at the NOP receptors and that the whole indole moiety of the Trp5 side chain is not required, being a phenyl-ethyl side chain already sufficient for maintaining high potency.
The vanilloid receptor transient receptor potential type V1 (TRPV1) integrates responses to multiple stimuli, such as capsaicin, acid, heat, and endovanilloids and plays an important role in the transmission of inflammatory pain. Here, we report the identification and in vitro characterization of A-425619 [1-isoquinolin-5-yl-3-(4-trifluoromethyl-benzyl)-urea], a novel, potent, and selective TRPV1 antagonist. A-425619 was found to potently block capsaicin-evoked increases in intracellular calcium concentrations in HEK293 cells expressing recombinant human TRPV1 receptors (IC50 = 5 nM). A-425619 showed similar potency (IC50 = 3-4 nM) to block TRPV1 receptor activation by anandamide and N-arachidonoyl-dopamine. Electrophysiological experiments showed that A-425619 also potently blocked the activation of native TRPV1 channels in rat dorsal root ganglion neurons (IC50 = 9 nM). When compared with other known TRPV1 antagonists, A-425619 exhibited superior potency in blocking both naive and phorbol ester-sensitized TRPV1 receptors. Like capsazepine, A-425619 demonstrated competitive antagonism (pA2 = 2.5 nM) of capsaicin-evoked calcium flux. Moreover, A-425619 was 25- to 50-fold more potent than capsazepine in blocking TRPV1 activation. A-425619 showed no significant interaction with a wide range of receptors, enzymes, and ion channels, indicating a high degree of selectivity for TRPV1 receptors. These data show that A-425619 is a structurally novel, potent, and selective TRPV1 antagonist.
The vanilloid receptor 1 (VR1, TRPV1), which is a member of the transient receptor potential (TRP) superfamily, is highly localized on peripheral and central processes of nociceptive afferent fibers. Activation of TRPV1 contributes to the pronociceptive effects of capsaicin, protons, heat, and various endogenous lipid agonists such as anandamide and N-arachidonoyl-dopamine. A-425619 [1-isoquinolin-5-yl-3-(4-trifluoromethyl-benzyl)urea] is a novel potent and selective antagonist at both human and rat TRPV1 receptors. In vivo, A-425619 dose dependently reduced capsaicin-induced mechanical hyperalgesia (ED50 = 45 micromol/kg p.o.). A-425619 was also effective in models of inflammatory pain and postoperative pain. A-425619 potently reduced complete Freund's adjuvant-induced chronic inflammatory pain after oral administration (ED50 = 40 micromol/kg p.o.) and was also effective after either i.t. administration or local injection into the inflamed paw. Furthermore, A-425619 maintained efficacy in the postoperative pain model after twice daily dosing p.o. for 5 days. A-425619 also showed partial efficacy in models of neuropathic pain. A-425619 did not alter motor performance at the highest dose tested (300 micromol/kg p.o.). Taken together, the present data indicate that A-425619, a potent and selective antagonist of TRPV1 receptors, effectively relieves acute and chronic inflammatory pain and postoperative pain.
Functional 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3 (5-HT3) receptors can be formed by 5-HT3A subunits alone or in combination with the 5-HT3B subunit, but only the 5-HT3A receptor has been previously studied with respect to the modulation by volatile anesthetics and n-alcohols. Using two-electrode voltage-clamp, we show for the first time the modulation of heteromeric human (h)5-HT3AB receptors, expressed in Xenopus oocytes, by a series of n-alcohols and halogenated volatile anesthetics. At twice their anesthetic concentration, compounds having a molecular volume of less than 110 A3 enhanced submaximal 5-HT-evoked current. Compounds larger than 110 A3 inhibited submaximal 5-HT-evoked current. In experiments examining 5-HT concentration-response relationships, chloroform and butanol caused a slight decrease in the 5-HT EC50. Sevoflurane and octanol inhibited 5-HT-evoked current at all 5-HT concentrations tested but had no effect upon the 5-HT EC50. Compared with previous data on homomeric h5-HT3A receptors, the presence of the h5-HT3B subunit reduces the enhancement of h5-HT3 receptors by smaller halogenated volatile anesthetics and n-alcohols. In summary, these results suggest that heteromeric h5-HT3AB receptors are modulated by halogenated volatile anesthetics at clinically relevant concentrations, in addition to n-alcohols, suggesting that these receptors may be another physiological target for these compounds. The modulation is dependent upon the molecular volume of the compound, further supporting the concept of an anesthetic binding pocket of limited volume common on other Cys-loop ligand-gated ion channels. Incorporation of the 5-HT3B subunit alters either the anesthetic binding site or the allosteric interactions between anesthetic binding and channel opening.
Previously reported pharmacological studies using the imidazole-containing histamine H3 receptor ligands GT-2331 (Cipralisant) and proxyfan resulted in a range of classifications (antagonist, agonist, and protean) for these compounds. We examined the role that the signaling system, with particular emphasis on the type of G protein, had on the pharmacology observed for H3 ligands. Ligands were assessed using assays measuring neurotransmitter release, cAMP, and guanosine 5'-O-(3-[35S]thio)triphosphate ([35S]GTPgammaS) binding. Whereas clobenpropit and ciproxifan were consistently antagonists, GT-2331, proxyfan, and imetit exhibited differential activity. Although GT-2331 and proxyfan exhibited little agonist activity in neurotransmitter release assays, both demonstrated full agonism relative to (R)-alpha-methylhistamine in cAMP assays. In [35S]GTPgammaS binding assays, GT-2331 and proxyfan demonstrated partial agonism. Imetit showed full agonism in most assays, but it was slightly less efficacious in a neurotransmitter release assay and in [35S]GTPgammaS binding at the human H3 receptor. To further examine these ligands, we coexpressed G alpha16 or chimeric G alpha q/i5 in human embryonic kidney cells expressing the human H3 receptor and assayed intracellular calcium and cAMP levels. GT-2331, proxyfan, and imetit demonstrated full agonism in all assays of cAMP activity. However, in cells expressing G alpha16, they exhibited minimal agonism in calcium mobilization assays, whereas imetit showed partial agonism. When G alpha q/i5 was used, the activity of both GT-2331 and proxyfan increased, whereas imetit became a full agonist. These results demonstrate that GT-2331 and proxyfan's differential pharmacology at the H3 receptor depends on the type of G protein used and provide indirect evidence for differential ligand-bound active states that mediate signaling by the H3 receptor.
Previously, we reported that the GABA(A) receptor antagonist picrotoxin also antagonizes serotonin (5-HT)3 receptors and that its effects are subunit-dependent. Here, we sought to identify amino acids involved in picrotoxin inhibition of 5-HT3 receptors. Mutation of serine to alanine at the transmembrane domain 2 (TM2) 2' position did not affect picrotoxin (PTX) sensitivity in murine 5-HT3A receptors. However, mutation of the 6' TM2 threonine to phenylalanine dramatically reduced PTX sensitivity. Mutation of 6' asparagine to threonine in the 5-HT3B subunit enhanced PTX sensitivity in heteromeric 5-HT3A/3B receptors. Introduction of serine (native to the human 3B subunit) at the 6' position also increased PTX sensitivity, suggesting a species-specific effect. Mutation of the 7' leucine to threonine in 5-HT3A receptors increased PTX sensitivity roughly 10-fold, comparable with that observed in GABA(A) receptors, and also conferred distinct gating kinetics. The equivalent mutation in the 3B subunit (i.e., 7' valine to threonine) had no impact on PTX sensitivity in 5-HT3A/3B receptors. Interestingly, [3H]ethynylbicycloorthobenzoate ([3H]EBOB), a high-affinity ligand to the convulsant site in GABA(A) receptors, did not exhibit specific binding in 5-HT3A receptors. The structurally related compound, tert-butylbicyclophosphorothionate (TBPS), which potently inhibits GABA(A) receptors, did not inhibit 5-HT3 currents. Our results indicate that the TM2 6' residue is a common determinant of PTX inhibition of both 5-HT3 and GABA(A) receptors and demonstrate a role of the 7' residue in PTX inhibition. However, lack of effects of EBOB and TBPS in 5-HT3A receptors suggests that the functional domains in the two receptors are not equivalent and underscores the complexity of PTX modulation of LGICs.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is a neuropeptide associated with the integration of the physiological and behavioral responses to stress. Recently, CRF1 receptor antagonists have been shown to decrease cocaine self-administration and inhibit stress-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior. The exact mechanisms underlying this effect are not clear. Based on the large amount of literature demonstrating an association between dopaminergic neurotransmission and reward-related behavior, the aim of the present study was to examine the effects of acute versus chronic CRF1 receptor blockade on mesencephalic dopamine (DA) neuron activity (determined by in vivo extracellular recordings) and extracellular DA levels in the nucleus accumbens (Acb) (using in vivo microdialysis). In addition, the effect of CRF1 receptor antagonism on cocaine-induced DA overflow in the Acb was examined and correlated with DA neuron activity in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Acute (but not chronic) CRF1 receptor blockade by CRA-0450 [1-[8-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-2-methylquinolin-4-yl]-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-4-carboxamide benzenesulfonate] was found to significantly increase DA neuron population activity without affecting burst firing, average firing rate, or Acb DA levels. In addition, both acute and chronic CRF1 receptor antagonism significantly reduced cocaine-stimulated DA overflow in the Acb, and this reduction was correlated with an attenuated cocaine-induced inhibition of DA population activity. Taken as a whole, these data demonstrate that, although DA neuron population activity exhibits tolerance to chronic CRF1 receptor antagonism (by CRA-0450), tolerance does not develop to the selective inhibition of cocaine-induced DA release (in the Acb) and, as such, may be beneficial in the treatment of cocaine addiction.
Prolonged exposure of cultured hippocampal slices to CX614 [2H,3H,6aH-pyrrolidino[2'',1''-3',2']1,3-oxazino[6',5'-5,4]-benzo[e]1,4-dioxan 10-one], a positive alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor (AMPAr) modulator, decreases receptor response to synaptic stimulation, an effect that could reflect reduced receptor expression. The present study investigates this down-regulation and its underlying mechanisms using cultured rat hippocampal slices. Chronic treatment with CX614 gradually reduced levels of glutamate receptor (GluR)1 and GluR2/3 AMPAr subunits and of their anchoring proteins synapse-associated protein 97 (SAP97) and glutamate receptor interacting protein 1 (GRIP1) through 48 h. Decline in SAP97 and GRIP1 levels was associated with increased abundance of lower molecular weight bands, suggesting degradation of these proteins. CX614 effects were partially reversible after drug removal. GluR1 and GluR2/3 down-regulation and their slow recovery were associated with similar changes in SAP97 and GRIP1 levels. Treatment with CX614 for 48 h significantly reduced AMPAr mRNA levels in hippocampus, whereas 8-h exposure did not. Blockade of ionotropic glutamate receptors prevented CX614-induced decrease in AMPAr subunits and mRNA, with regional selectivity, although an AMPAr blocker was more efficacious than an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blocker. Blockade of calpain activity reduced CX614-induced degradation of SAP97 and GRIP1 and prevented decreases in AMPAr subunit but not mRNA levels. Treatment with CX614 alone or in combination with glutamate receptor blockers or calpain inhibitor III did not modify lactate dehydrogenase release into culture medium, implying the absence of cell toxicity. We conclude that CX614-induced AMPAr protein loss is primarily mediated by AMPAr activation and involves calpain-dependent proteolysis of SAP97 and GRIP1. CX614-induced suppression of AMPAr gene expression is, however, calpain-independent, and all these effects are not associated with cell damage.
Microdialysis was used to determine the in vivo processes contributing to extracellular glutamate levels in the prefrontal cortex of rats. Reverse dialysis of a variety of compounds proved unable to decrease basal levels of extracellular glutamate, including Na+ and Ca2+ channel blockers, cystine/glutamate exchange (x(c)-) antagonists, and group I (mGluR1/5) and group II (mGluR2/3) metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonists or antagonists. In contrast, extracellular glutamate was elevated by blocking Na+-dependent glutamate uptake (X(AG)-) with DL-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate (TBOA) and stimulating group I mGluRs with (R,S)-3,5-dihydroxy-phenylglycine (DHPG). The accumulation of extracellular glutamate produced by blocking X(AG)- was completely reversed by inhibiting system x(c)- with 4-carboxyphenylglycine (CPG), but not by Na+ and Ca2+ channel blockers. Because CPG also inhibits group I mGluRs, two additional group I antagonists were examined, LY367385 [(+)-2-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine] and (R,S)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA). Whereas LY367385 also reduced TBOA-induced increases in extracellular glutamate, AIDA did not. In contrast, all three group I antagonists reversed the increase in extracellular glutamate elicited by stimulating mGluR1/5. In vitro evaluation revealed that similar to CPG, LY367385 inhibited x(c)- and that stimulating or inhibiting mGluR1/5 did not directly affect [3H]glutamate uptake via x(c)- or X(AG)-. These experiments reveal that although inhibiting x(c)- cannot reduce basal extracellular glutamate in the prefrontal cortex, the accumulation of extracellular glutamate after blockade of X(AG)- arises predominately from x(c)-. The accumulation of glutamate elicited by mGluR1/5 stimulation does not seem to result from modulating X(AG)-, x(c)-, or synaptic glutamate release.

The blood glucose-lowering hormone glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) stimulates cAMP production, promotes Ca2+ influx, and mobilizes an intracellular source of Ca2+ in pancreatic beta cells. Here we provide evidence that these actions of GLP-1 are functionally related: they reflect a process of Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release (CICR) that requires activation of protein kinase A (PKA) and the Epac family of cAMP-regulated guanine nucleotide exchange factors (cAMPGEFs). In rat insulin-secreting INS-1 cells or mouse beta cells loaded with caged Ca2+ (NP-EGTA), a GLP-1 receptor agonist (exendin-4) is demonstrated to sensitize intracellular Ca2+ release channels to stimulatory effects of cytosolic Ca2+, thereby allowing CICR to be generated by the uncaging of Ca2+ (UV flash photolysis). This sensitizing action of exendin-4 is diminished by an inhibitor of PKA (H-89) or by overexpression of dominant negative Epac. It is reproduced by cell-permeant cAMP analogues that activate PKA (6-Bnz-cAMP) or Epac (8-pCPT-2'-O-Me-cAMP) selectively. Depletion of Ca2+ stores with thapsigargin abolishes CICR, while inhibitors of Ca2+ release channels (ryanodine and heparin) attenuate CICR in an additive manner. Because the uncaging of Ca2+ fails to stimulate CICR in the absence of cAMP-elevating agents, it is concluded that there exists in beta cells a process of second messenger coincidence detection, whereby intracellular Ca2+ release channels (ryanodine receptors, inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) receptors) monitor a simultaneous increase of cAMP and Ca2+ concentrations. We propose that second messenger coincidence detection of this type may explain how GLP-1 interacts with beta cell glucose metabolism to stimulate insulin secretion.
Vasodilatation produced by stimulation of preganglionic neurones in lumbar and sacral pathways to pelvic ganglia was studied using an in vitro preparation of guinea-pig uterine artery and associated nerves in a partitioned bath allowing selective drug application to the ganglia or artery. Arterial diameter was monitored using real time video imaging. Vasodilatations produced by hypogastric nerve stimulation (HN; 300 pulses, 10 Hz) were significantly larger and longer in duration than with pelvic nerve stimulation (N = 18). Stimulation of ipsilateral lumbar splanchnic nerves or ipsilateral third lumbar ventral roots also produced prolonged vasodilatations. Blockade of ganglionic nicotinic receptors (0.1-1 mM hexamethonium) delayed the onset and sometimes reduced the peak amplitude of dilatations, but slow dilatations persisted in 16 of 18 preparations. These dilatations were not reduced further by 3 microM capsaicin applied to the artery and ganglia, or ganglionic application of 1 microM hyoscine, 30-100 microM suramin or 10 microM CNQX. Dilatations were reduced slightly by ganglionic application of NK1 and NK3 receptor antagonists (SR140333, SR142801; 1 microM), but were reduced significantly by bathing the ganglia in 0.5 mM Ca2+ and 10 mM Mg2+. Intracellular recordings of paracervical ganglion neurones revealed fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in all neurones on HN stimulation (300 pulses, 10 Hz), and slow EPSPs (3-12 mV amplitude) in 25 of 37 neurones. Post-stimulus action potential discharge associated with slow EPSPs occurred in 16 of 37 neurones (firing rate 9.4 +/- 1.5 Hz). Hexamethonium (0.1-1 mM) abolished fast EPSPs. Hexamethonium and hyoscine (1 microM) did not reduce slow EPSPs and associated post-stimulus firing in identified vasodilator neurones (with VIP immunoreactivity) or non-vasodilator paracervical neurones. These results demonstrate a predominantly sympathetic origin of autonomic pathways producing pelvic vasodilatation in females. Non-cholinergic mediators of slow transmission in pelvic ganglia produce prolonged firing of postganglionic neurones and long-lasting dilatations of the uterine artery. This mechanism would facilitate maintenance of pelvic vasodilatation on stimulation of preganglionic neurones during sexual activity.
Individuals who volunteer as control subjects for clinical studies are regularly screened for Axis I diagnoses, but seldom screened for Axis II disorders. This study examined the relative rates of Axis II diagnoses among 341 volunteers passing an initial telephone screen for entry into biological research studies. Axis I and II diagnoses by DSM-IV were assigned by best estimate after structured clinical interview, and subjects were categorized into one of three groups based on their diagnostic profiles: (1) volunteers without lifetime Axis I or II diagnoses (&quot;healthy controls&quot;), (2) personality-disordered volunteers without any history of Axis I pathology, and (3) personality-disordered volunteers with past (but not current) Axis I pathology. The results revealed a high prevalence of personality disorders (44.4%) among these volunteers. Several clinically relevant self-report inventories were used to demonstrate important characterological differences between the three comparison groups. Although inventory results demonstrated multiple differences between all three groups, most scales revealed differences between healthy controls and the two personality-disordered groups (with or without lifetime Axis I diagnoses), suggesting that most of the variance was accounted for by the presence or absence of an Axis II disorder, not a past Axis I disorder. These results suggest that personality-disordered volunteers may bias a control group due to the infrequent screening for Axis II disorders among volunteers for medical and psychiatric research. Implications are discussed for routine Axis II screening of volunteers for research with specific diagnostic instruments.
The locus coeruleus is the largest cluster of noradrenaline-producing neurons in the brain and has been involved in regulating attention. The neurotransmitter system contributes to the initiation and maintenance of forebrain activity as well as modulation of the collection and processing of sensory information. This makes locus coeruleus a target of interest in the study of possible structural changes in the brains of subjects with chronic schizophrenia. Uniform sampling and optical disectors were used for estimation of total neuron numbers and the rotator principle for estimation of mean cell volume. This study estimated the bilateral total number of pigmented neurons in the locus coeruleus of schizophrenic and control subjects and found no difference between the two; schizophrenic subjects have 37,400 (coefficient of variation=CV=SD/mean=0.28), control subjects have 35,500 (CV=0.19), p=0.64. The average volume of the cell perikaryon of pigmented neurons was measured in both groups and showed a significant larger cell volume in the locus coeruleus of schizophrenic compared to control subjects; mean locus coeruleus cell volume was 58,400 microm(3) (CV=0.31) in schizophrenic subjects, which is 55% larger than the 37,600 microm(3) (CV=0.33) found in control subjects, a difference of 20,800 microm(3) (p=0.009). The fixation time was significantly longer for the schizophrenic brains with an average of 169 months compared to 88 months for the control brains. No relation was found between total numbers or geometric mean volume of the pigmented cells and fixation time.
Single doses of the traditional herbal treatment Panax ginseng have recently been shown to elicit cognitive improvements in healthy young volunteers. The mechanisms by which ginseng improves cognitive performance are not known. However, they may be related to the glycaemic properties of some Panax species. Using a double-blind, placebo-controlled, balanced crossover design, 30 healthy young adults completed a 10 min test battery at baseline, and then six times in immediate succession commencing 60 min after the day's treatment (placebo, 200mg G115 or 400mg G115). The 10 min battery comprised a Serial Threes subtraction task (2 min); a Serial Sevens task (2 min); a Rapid Visual Information Processing task (5 min); then a 'mental fatigue' visual analogue scale. Blood glucose was measured prior to each day's treatment, and before, during and after the post-dose completions of the battery. Both the 200mg and 400mg treatments led to significant reductions in blood glucose levels at all three post-treatment measurements (p 0.005 in all cases). The most notable behavioural effects were associated with 200mg of ginseng and included significantly improved Serial Sevens subtraction task performance and significantly reduced subjective mental fatigue throughout all (with the exception of one time point in each case) of the post-dose completions of the 10 min battery (p 0.05). Overall these data suggest that Panax ginseng can improve performance and subjective feelings of mental fatigue during sustained mental activity. This effect may be related to the acute gluco-regulatory properties of the extract.
Although increasing evidence suggests that anatomically defined subpopulations of serotonergic neurons have unique stress-related functional properties, the topographical distribution of the serotonergic neurons involved in responses to stress-related stimuli have not been well-defined. Inspiration of air containing elevated concentrations of carbon dioxide (CO(2); hypercarbic gas exposure) at high concentrations activates both hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and sympathetic responses in rats and humans. In order to determine the effects of acute hypercarbic gas exposure on subpopulations of topographically organized serotonergic neurons, conscious adult male rats were placed in flow cages and exposed to either atmospheric air or increasing environmental CO2 concentrations (from baseline concentrations up to 20% CO2) for 5min. The presence of immunoreactivity for the protein product of the immediate-early gene c-fos was used as a measure, at the single cell level, of functional cellular responses within subpopulations of serotonergic, noradrenergic and adrenergic neurons. Rats exposed to hypercarbic gas had increased numbers of c-Fos/tryptophan hydroxylase immunoreactive (ir) and c-Fos/tyrosine hydroxylase-ir neurons in specific topographically organized subdivisions of brainstem nuclei, compared to control rats. Within serotonergic cell groups (B1-B9), the most striking effects occurred in a subpopulation of large, multipolar serotonergic neurons within the ventrolateral periaqueductal grey and ventrolateral part of the dorsal raphe nucleus, a region implicated in serotonin-dependent suppression of stress-induced sympathetic outflow and serotonin-dependent inhibition of 'fight or flight' behaviour. These findings have important implications for understanding the role of serotonergic systems in the modulation of stress-related physiology and behaviour and stress-related neuropsychiatric disorders.





During the last decade, ''medical professionalism'' has been scrutinized as a consequence of pressures from within and outside the health sciences professions. In response, professional organizations have reviewed ethical principles and developed explicit guidelines for the behavior of their members. Medical educators have revised undergraduate curricula with a view to supporting the development and maintenance of these essential professional behaviors. This article outlines perspectives on professionalism before describing the evolution of personal and professional development curricula in undergraduate health science education. While the bulk of data on personal and professional development in the health sciences has come from human medicine, the principles are being recognized as applying to the breadth of the health professions. In the veterinary profession, the dyad of the physician-patient relationship of human medicine is expanded to the triad of the veterinarian-patient-client relationship, and this brings with it an added set of professional relationships and responsibilities. In order to be faithful to the primary literature and not expand beyond the various authors' data and conclusions, this article is presented principally in the terms of human medical education. For those in veterinary education, it is hoped that the inferences and applications will be readily apparent. In this article, challenges associated with defining content and educational methods are outlined, as well as selection criteria for medical school and promoting the value of PPD to students. Approaches to assessment, implementation, and evaluation of PPD curricula are also discussed. Two case studies are presented. The article concludes with suggestions for curriculum development.
To clarify the mechanisms leading to the development of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in some recipients of pituitary-derived human growth hormone (hGH), we investigated the effects of repeated injections of low prion doses in mice. The injections were performed, as in hGH-treated children, by a peripheral route at short intervals and for an extended period. Twelve groups of 24 mice were intraperitoneally inoculated one, two, or five times per week for 200 days with 2 x 10(-5) to 2 x 10(-8) dilutions of brain homogenate containing the mouse-adapted C506M3 scrapie strain. Sixteen control mice were injected once a week for 200 days with a 2 x 10(-4) dilution of normal brain homogenate. Of mice injected in a single challenge with a scrapie inoculum of a 2 x 10(-4), 2 x 10(-5), or 2 x 10(-6) dilution, 2/10, 1/10, and 0/10 animals developed scrapie, respectively. Control mice remained healthy. One hundred thirty-five of 135 mice injected with repeated prion doses of a 2 x 10(-5) or 2 x 10(-6) dilution succumbed to scrapie. Of mice injected with repeated scrapie doses of a 2 x 10(-7) or 2 x 10(-8) dilution, 52/59 and 38/67 animals died of scrapie, respectively. A high incidence of scrapie was observed in mice receiving repeated doses at low infectivity, whereas there was no disease in mice that were injected once with the same doses. Repeated injections of low prion doses thus constitute a risk for development of prion disease even if the same total dose inoculated in a single challenge does not induce the disease.

The adaptation of saccadic eye movements to environmental changes occurring throughout life is a good model of motor learning and motor memory. Numerous studies have analyzed the behavioral properties and neural substrate of oculomotor learning in short-term saccadic adaptation protocols, but to our knowledge, none have tested the persistence of the oculomotor memory. In the present study, the double-step target protocol was used in five human subjects to adaptively decrease the amplitude of reactive saccades triggered by a horizontally-stepping visual target. We tested the amplitude of visually guided saccades just before and at different times (up to 19 days) after the adaptation session. The results revealed that immediately after the adaptation session, saccade amplitude was significantly reduced by 22% on average. Although progressively recovering over days, this change in saccade gain was still statistically significant on days 1 and 5, with an average retention rate of 36% and 19%, respectively. On day 11, saccade amplitude no longer differed from the pre-adaptation value. Adaptation was more effective and more resistant to recovery for leftward saccades than for rightward ones. Lastly, modifications of saccade gain related to adaptation were accompanied by a decrease of both saccade duration and peak velocity. A control experiment indicated that all these findings were specifically related to the adaptation protocol, and further revealed that no change in the main sequence relationships could be specifically related to adaptation. We conclude that in humans, the modifications of saccade amplitude that quickly develop during a double-step target adaptation protocol can remain in memory for a much longer period of time, reflecting enduring plastic changes in the brain.
The present study investigated the hypothesis that both nicotinic acetylcholinergic receptors (nAChRs) and glutamate receptors (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptors (AMPARs) and N-methyl-d-aspartate glutamate receptors (NMDARs)) are involved in fear conditioning, and may modulate similar processes. The effects of the nAChR antagonist mecamylamine administered alone, the AMPAR antagonist NBQX administered alone, and the NMDAR antagonist MK-801 administered alone on cued fear conditioning, contextual fear conditioning, and latent inhibition of cued fear conditioning were examined. In addition, the effects of coadministration of either mecamylamine and NBQX or mecamylamine and MK-801 on these behaviors were examined. Consistent with previous studies, neither mecamylamine nor NBQX administered alone disrupted any of the tasks. However, coadministration of mecamylamine and NBQX disrupted both contextual fear conditioning and latent inhibition of cued fear conditioning. In addition, coadministration of mecamylamine with a dose of MK-801 subthreshold for disrupting either task disrupted both contextual fear conditioning and latent inhibition of cued fear conditioning. Coadministration of mecamylamine and NBQX, and coadministration of mecamylamine with a dose of MK-801 subthreshold for disrupting fear conditioning had little effect on cued fear conditioning. These results suggest that nAChRs and glutamate receptors may support similar processes mediating acquisition of contextual fear conditioning and latent inhibition of fear conditioning.
Convergent data suggest dissociated roles for the lateral (LA) and basolateral (BLA) amygdaloid nuclei in fear conditioning, depending on whether a discrete conditioned stimulus (CS)-unconditional stimulus (US) or context-US association is considered. Here, we show that pretraining inactivation of the BLA selectively impaired conditioning to context. In contrast, inactivation of the LA disrupted conditioning to the discrete tone CS, but also either impaired or enhanced contextual conditioning, depending on whether the context was in the foreground or in the background. Hence, these findings refine the current model of the amygdala function in emotional learning by showing that the BLA and the LA not only differentially contribute to elemental and context-US association, but also promote, through their interaction, the most relevant of these two associations.
The present experiments examined the effects of injecting glucose into the dorsal hippocampus or dorsolateral striatum on learning rates and on strategy selection in rats trained on a T-maze that can be solved by using either a hippocampus-sensitive place or striatum-sensitive response strategy. Percentage strategy selection on a probe trial (P(crit)) administered after rats achieved criterion (nine of 10 correct choices) varied by group. All groups predominately exhibited a response strategy on a probe trial administered after overtraining, i.e., after 90 trials. In experiment 1, rats that received intrahippocampal glucose injections showed enhanced acquisition of the T-maze and showed increased use of response solutions at P(crit) compared with that of unimplanted and artificial cerebral spinal fluid (aCSF)-treated groups. These findings suggest that glucose enhanced hippocampal functions to accelerate the rate of learning and the early adoption of a response strategy. In experiment 2, rats that received intrastriatal glucose injections exhibited place solutions early in training and reached criterion more slowly than did aCSF controls, with learning rates comparable to those of unoperated and operated-uninjected controls. Relative to unoperated, operated-uninjected and glucose-injected rats, rats that received intrastriatal aCSF injections showed enhanced acquisition of the T-maze and increased use of response solutions at P(crit). The unexpected enhanced acquisition seen after striatal aCSF injections suggests at least two possible interpretations: (1) aCSF impaired striatal function, thereby releasing competition with the hippocampus and ceding control over learning to the hippocampus during early training trials; and (2) aCSF enhanced striatal functioning to facilitate striatal-sensitive learning. With either interpretation, the results indicate that intrastriatal glucose injections compensated for the aCSF-induced effect. Finally, enhanced acquisition regardless of treatment was accompanied by rapid adoption of a response solution for the T-maze.
A sequence for the acquisition of high-resolution T1 maps, based on magnetization-prepared multislice fast low-angle shot (FLASH) imaging, is presented. In contrast to similar methods, no saturation pulses are used, resulting in an increased dynamic range of the relaxation process. Furthermore, it is possible to acquire data during all relaxation delays because only slice-selective radiofrequency (RF) pulses are used for inversion and excitation. This allows for a reduction of the total acquisition time, or scanning with a reduced bandwidth, which improves the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). The method generates quantitative T1 maps with an in-plane resolution of 1 mm, slice thickness of 4 mm, and whole-brain coverage in a clinically acceptable imaging time of about 19 s per slice. It is shown that the use of off-center RF pulses does not result in imperfect inversion or magnetization transfer (MT) effects. In addition, an improved fitting algorithm based on smoothed flip angle maps is presented and tested successfully.
We report a case of a 12 year old girl who presented with cord compression. Imaging studies demonstrated an extradural spinal tumour in the lower thoracic and upper lumbar levels. Histology confirmed the diagnosis of schwannoma while associated findings suggested the possibility of Neurofibromatosis Type I.
Neoplastic transformation appears to be a multi-step process in which the normal controls of cell proliferation and cell-cell interaction are lost, thus transforming normal cells into cancer. The tumorigenic process involves the interplay between oncogenes and tumour suppressor genes. In this study, we have selected the ras family, c-myc and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) genes to detect whether their abnormalities are associated with the expression and progression of glioma cases in Malay patients. We have used the polymerase chain reaction-single stranded conformation polymorphism followed by direct sequencing for the study. For the ras gene family, we screened the point mutations in codons 12 and 61 of the H-, K-, and N-ras gene; for EGFR and c-myc, we analyzed only the exon 1 in glioma samples. In mutational screening analyses of the ras family, c-myc and EGFR gene, there was no mobility shift observed in any tumour analyzed. All patterns of single stranded conformation polymorphism (SSCP) band observed in tumour samples were normal compared to those in normal samples. The DNA sequencing results in all high-grade tumours showed that all base sequences were normal. All 48 patients survived after five years of treatment. In simple logistic regression analysis, variables which were found to be significant were hemiplegia (p=0.047) and response radiotherapy (p=0.003). Hemiplegics were 25 times more likely to have high pathological grade compared to those without. Patients with vascular involvement were 5.5 times more likely to have higher pathological grade. However, these findings were not significant in multivariate analysis. Patients who had radiotherapy were nearly 14 times more likely to have higher pathological grade. Multivariate analysis revealed that patients with hemiplegia were more likely to have higher pathological grade (p= 0.008). Those with higher pathological grading were 80 times more likely to have radiotherapy (p=0.004).

In the past decades, much evidence has confirmed that neurogenesis occurs in the adult brain and that neural stem cells reside in the adult central nervous system, overturning the long-held dogma that we are born with a certain number of nerve cells and that the brain cannot generate new neurons and renew itself. In the adult brain, neurogenesis occurs mainly in two areas: the hippocampus and the subventricular zone, and self-renewing, multipotent neural stem cells have been isolated and characterized in vitro from various regions of the adult central nervous system. Though significant advances have been made in this field of research, the identification and function of neural stem cells in the adult central nervous system remain the source of debate and controversy. Neurogenesis is modulated by several normal and pathologic conditions, suggesting the involvement of the hippocampus and the subventricular zone in a broad range of functions, and that environmental stimuli and pathological conditions may have long-term consequences on the architecture and functioning of the central nervous system. Neurogenesis is involved in processes such as learning, memory, and depression, and may also be involved in regenerative attempts after injuries to the central nervous system. However, the contribution of neurogenesis to these phenomena remains to be elucidated. Neural stem cells also hold the promise to cure a broad range of neurological diseases and injuries. Cell therapeutic interventions may involve both cell transplantation and the stimulation of endogenous neural progenitor cells.
The deposition of aggregated amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides in the brain as senile plaques is a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Several lines of evidence indicate that fibrillar and, in particular, soluble aggregates of these 40- and 42-residue peptides are important in the etiology of AD. Recent studies also stress that amyloid aggregates are polymorphic and that a single polypeptide can fold into multiple amyloid conformations. Here we review our recent reports that Abeta(1-40) in vitro can form soluble aggregates with predominant beta-structures that differ in stability and morphology. One class of aggregates involved soluble Abeta protofibrils, prepared by vigorous overnight agitation of monomeric Abeta(1-40) in low ionic strength buffers. These aggregates were quite stable and disaggregated to only a limited extent on dilution. A second class of soluble Abeta aggregates was generated at polar-nonpolar interfaces. Aggregation in a two-phase system of buffer over chloroform occurred more rapidly than in buffer alone. In buffered 2% hexafluoroisopropanol (HFIP), microdroplets of HFIP were formed and the half-time for aggregation was less than 10 minutes. Like Abeta protofibrils, these interfacial aggregates showed increased thioflavin T fluorescence and were rich in beta-structure by circular dichroism. However, electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy revealed very different morphologies. The HFIP aggregates formed initial globular clusters that progressed over several days to soluble fibrous aggregates. When diluted out of HFIP these aggregates initially were very unstable and disaggregated completely within 2 minutes. However, their stability increased as they progressed to fibers. It is important to determine whether similar interfacial Abeta aggregates are produced in vivo.
Coronoid hyperplasia is a rare condition which is macroscopically characterized by an increase in the dimensions of the coronoid process resulting from an abnormal bony elongation of histologically normal bone. Unilateral cases are more frequent than bilateral ones and can recognize a number of etiological factors, such as exostoses, osteochondroma, traumatic events, inflammatory reactions, neoplasia and manifestations secondary to other pathologies. Etiopathogenesis of bilateral forms has not yet been clarified: in the literature hints to both developmental and endocrine abnormalities are present, and a familiar pattern of inheritance has been evidenced. The poor specificity of signs and symptoms associated with coronoid hyperplasia, which are similar to those of other more frequent forms of temporomandibular disorders, present some problems of differential diagnosis. An accurate assessment must be based on a clinical and anamnestical approach aiming at the identification of pathognomonic clinical symptoms. Considering its limits (such as the possible presence of artefacts and image distortions), orthopantomography has a poor diagnostic usefulness. In this case, magnetic resonance (MR) allowed to evaluate disk-condyle relationship, but it could be also useful to evaluate post-operative complications. In the case of coronoid hyperplasia, the computed tomography (CT) is fundamental for a correct differential diagnosis. CT also allows surgical planning due to its accuracy to detect coronoid process volume and morphology. The present case report is an example of the need for a correct differential diagnosis between the different types of temporomandibular disorders, and it also lends support to the importance of requesting modern imaging techniques during the diagnostic process of the rare or complex cases.

The transcription factor ATF5 is expressed in cells of the embryonic and neonatal ventricular zone/subventricular zone (VZ/SVZ), and must be down-regulated for their differentiation into neurons and astrocytes. Here, we show that ATF5 plays a major role in directing oligodendrocyte development. ATF5 is expressed by oligodendrocyte precursors but is absent from mature oligodendroglia. Constitutively expressed ATF5 maintains SVZ cells and O4(+) oligodendrocyte precursors in cycle and inhibits their differentiation into oligodendrocytes in vitro and in vivo. In contrast, ATF5 loss-of-function (LOF; produced by a dominant-negative form of the protein) accelerates oligodendrocyte differentiation of O4(+) cells in vitro and of SVZ cells in vivo. Significantly, the accelerated oligodendrocyte differentiation promoted by ATF5 LOF in vivo results in aberrant migration. Thus, appropriately regulated expression of ATF5 is required for proper expansion of oligodendroglial progenitors as well as for their timely differentiation. Regulation of oligodendrocyte, astrocyte, and neuronal differentiation indicates that ATF5 operates as a general regulator of the timing of differentiation, independent of cell lineage.
Ceramide accumulates in neurons during various disorders associated with acute or chronic neurodegeneration. In these studies, we investigated the mechanisms of ceramide-induced apoptosis in primary cortical neurons using exogenous C(2) ceramide as well as inducing endogenous ceramide accumulation using inhibitors of glucosylceramide synthetase. Ceramide induced the translocation of certain, but not all, pro-apoptotic mitochondrial proteins: cytochrome c, Omi, SMAC, and AIF were released from the mitochondria, whereas Endonuclease G was not. Ceramide also selectively altered the phosphorylation state of members of the MAPK superfamily, causing dephosphorylation of ERK1/2 and hyperphosphorylation of p38 MAP kinases, but not affecting the phosphorylation of JNK or ERK5. Inhibitors of the p38 MAP kinase pathway (SB-202190 or SB-203580) and an inhibitor of the ERK1/2 pathway (U0126) reduced ceramide-induced neuronal death. These p38 and ERK1/2 inhibitors appear to block ceramide-activated apoptotic signaling upstream of the mitochondria, as they attenuated mitochondrial release of cytochrome c, Omi, AIF, and SMAC, as well as reducing ceramide-induced caspase-3 activation.
Intracellular calcium increase is an early key event triggering ischemic neuronal cell damage. The role of T-type voltage-gated calcium channels in the neuronal response to ischemia, however, has never been studied. Using an in vitro model of ischemia-induced delayed cell death in rat organotypic hippocampal slice cultures, we show that T-type calcium channels inhibitors drastically reduce ischemic cell damage. Immunostaining studies reveal the existence of Ca(V)3.1 and Ca(V)3.2 types of low-voltage-activated calcium channels in rat organotypic hippocampal cultures. Low extracellular calcium (100 nM) or increase of intracellular calcium buffering ability by BAPTA-acetoxymethyl ester significantly reduced ischemia-induced neuronal damage. Pharmacological inhibition of the T-type calcium current by mibefradil, kurtoxin, nickel, zinc, and pimozide during the oxygen-glucose deprivation episode provided a significant protection against delayed neuronal death. Mibefradil and nickel exerted neuroprotective effects, not only if administrated during the oxygen-glucose deprivation episode but also in conditions of postischemic treatment. These data point to a role of T-type calcium currents in ischemia-induced, calcium-mediated neuronal cell damage and suggest a possible new pharmacological approach to stroke treatment.
Large conductance Ca2+ -activated K+ (BK) channel activity and its potentiation by ethanol are both critically modulated by bilayer phosphatidylserine (PS), a phospholipid involved in membrane-bound signaling. Whether PS is uniquely required for ethanol to modify channel activity is unknown. Furthermore, the structural determinants in membrane phospholipid molecules that control alcohol action remain to be elucidated. We addressed these questions by reconstituting BK channels from human brain (hslo) into bilayers that contained phospholipids differing in headgroup size, charge, and acyl chain saturation. Data demonstrate that ethanol potentiation of hslo channels is blunted by conical phospholipids but favored by cylindrical phospholipids, independently of phospholipid charge. As found with ethanol action, basal channel activity is higher in bilayers containing cylindrical phospholipids. Basal activity and its ethanol potentiation in bilayers containing phosphatidylcholine, however, are not as robust as in those containing PS. These results are best interpreted as resulting from the relief of bilayer stress caused by inclusion of cylindrical phospholipids, with this relief being synergistically evoked by molecular shape and negative headgroup charge. Present findings suggest that hslo gating structures targeted by ethanol are accessible to sense changes in bilayer stress. In contrast, hslo unitary conductance is significantly higher in bilayers that contain negatively charged phospholipids independently of molecular shape, a result that is likely to be dependent on an interaction between anionic phospholipids and deep channel residues coupled to the selectivity filter.
Heat shock proteins (HSPs) represent a group of highly conserved intracellular proteins that participate in protective adaptation against cellular stress. We evaluated the neuroprotective role of the 70-kDa HSP (HSP70) and the 90-kDa HSP (HSP90) at the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), the medullary origin of sympathetic vasomotor tone, during fatal endotoxemia. In Sprague-Dawley rats maintained under propofol anesthesia, Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide (30 mg/kg, i.v.) induced a decrease (phase I), followed by an increase (phase II; &quot;pro-life&quot; phase) and a secondary decrease (phase III; &quot;pro-death&quot; phase) in the power density of the vasomotor component of systemic arterial pressure spectrum, along with progressive hypotension or bradycardia. Proteomic and Western blot analyses revealed that whereas HSP70 expression in the RVLM was significantly augmented during phases I and II and returned to baseline during phase III endotoxemia, HSP90 protein expression remained constant. The increase in HSP70 level was significantly blunted on pretreatment with microinjection of the transcription inhibitor actinomycin D or protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide into the bilateral RVLM. Functional blockade of HSP70 in the RVLM by an anti-HSP70 antiserum or prevention of synthesis by an antisense hsp70 oligonucleotide exacerbated mortality or potentiated the cardiovascular depression during experimental endotoxemia, alongside significantly reduced nitric-oxide synthase (NOS) I or protein kinase G (PKG) level or augmented NOS II or peroxynitrite level in the RVLM. We conclude that whereas HSP90 is ineffective, de novo synthesis of HSP70 in the RVLM may confer neuroprotection during fatal endotoxemia by preventing cardiovascular depression via enhancing the sympathoexcitatory NOS I/PKG signaling pathway and inhibiting the sympathoinhibitory NOS II/peroxynitrite cascade in the RVLM.
Uptake by the dopamine transporter (DAT) is the primary pathway for the clearance of extracellular dopamine (DA) and consequently for regulating the magnitude and duration of dopaminergic signaling. Amphetamine (AMPH) has been shown to decrease simultaneously DAT cell-surface expression and [(3)H]DA uptake. We have shown that insulin and its subsequent signaling through the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-dependent pathway oppose this effect of AMPH by promoting increased cell-surface expression. Here, we used human embryonic kidney 293 cells stably expressing the human DAT (hDAT cells) to investigate the downstream cellular components important for this effect of insulin. Akt is a protein kinase effector immediately downstream of PI3K. Both overexpression of a dominant-negative mutant of Akt (K179R) and the addition of 1-(5-chloronaphthalene-1-sulfonyl)-1H-hexahydro-1,4-diazepine HCl (ML9), a pharmacological inhibitor of Akt, decreased cell-surface expression of DAT, suggesting a role of basal Akt signaling in the homoeostasis of DAT. Moreover, expression of a constitutively active Akt mutant reduced the ability of AMPH to decrease hDAT cell-surface expression as well as [(3)H]DA uptake. In contrast, overexpression of K179R blocked the ability of insulin to oppose AMPH-induced reduction of hDAT cell-surface expression and [(3)H]DA uptake, as did ML9. Our data demonstrate that hDAT cell-surface expression is regulated by the insulin signaling pathway and that Akt plays a key role in the hormonal modulation of AMPH-induced hDAT trafficking and in the regulation of basal hDAT cell-surface expression.
Association between attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and the 10-repeat allele of the dopamine transporter gene (DAT1) has been reported in independent clinical samples using a categorical clinical definition of ADHD. The present study adopts a quantitative trait loci (QTL) approach to examine the association between DAT1 and a continuous measure of ADHD behaviours in a general-population sample, as well as to explore whether there is an independent association between DAT1 and performance on neuropsychological tests of attention, response inhibition, and working memory. From an epidemiological sample of 872 boys aged 6-11 years, we recruited 58 boys scoring above the 90th percentile for teacher reported ADHD symptoms (SWAN ADHD scale) and 68 boys scoring below 10th percentile for genotyping and neuropsychological testing. A significant association was found between the DAT1 homozygous 10/10-repeat genotype and high-scoring boys (chi(2)square=4.6, P&lt;0.03; odds ratio=2.4, 95% CI 1.1-5.0). Using hierarchical linear regression, a significant independent association was found between the DAT1 10/10-repeat genotype and measures of selective attention and response inhibition after adjusting for age, IQ, and ADHD symptoms. There was no association between DAT1 and any component of working memory. Furthermore, performance on tasks of selective attention although associated with DAT1 was not associated with SWAN ADHD high scores after controlling for age and IQ. In contrast, impairment on tasks that tapped sustained attention and the central executive component of working memory were found in high-scoring boys after adjusting for age and IQ. The results suggest that DAT1 is a QTL for continuously distributed ADHD behaviours in the general population and the cognitive endophenotype of response inhibition.
Genetic influences on behavior are complex and, as such, the effect of any single gene is likely to be modest. Neuroimaging measures may serve as a biological intermediate phenotype to investigate the effect of genes on human behavior. In particular, it is possible to constrain investigations by prior knowledge of gene characteristics and by including samples of subjects where the distribution of phenotypic variance is both wide and under heritable influences. Here, we use this approach to show a dissociation between the effects of two dopamine genes that are differentially expressed in the brain. We show that the DAT1 gene, a gene expressed predominantly in the basal ganglia, preferentially influences caudate volume, whereas the DRD4 gene, a gene expressed predominantly in the prefrontal cortex, preferentially influences prefrontal gray matter volume in a sample of subjects including subjects with ADHD, their unaffected siblings, and healthy controls. This demonstrates that, by constraining our investigations by prior knowledge of gene expression, including samples in which the distribution of phenotypic variance is wide and under heritable influences, and by using intermediate phenotypes, such as neuroimaging, we may begin to map out the pathways by which genes influence behavior.
Homeostatic interactions between dopamine and glutamate are central to the normal physiology of the basal ganglia. This relationship is altered in Parkinsonism and in levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID), resulting in an upregulation of corticostriatal glutamatergic function. Kynurenic acid (KYNA), a tryptophan metabolite with antagonist activity at ionotropic glutamate receptors and the capability to inhibit glutamate release presynaptically, might therefore be of therapeutic value in LID. To evaluate this hypothesis, we used a pharmacological tool, the kynurenine 3-hydroxylase inhibitor Ro 61-8048, which raises KYNA levels acutely. Ro 61-8048 was tested in MPTP cynomolgus monkeys with a stable parkinsonian syndrome and reproducible dyskinesias after each dose of levodopa. Serum and CSF concentrations of KYNA and its precursor kynurenine increased dose-dependently after Ro 61-8048 administration, alone or in combination with levodopa. Coadministration of Ro 61-8048 with levodopa produced a moderate but significant reduction in the severity of dyskinesias while maintaining the motor benefit. These results suggest that elevation of KYNA levels through inhibition of kynurenine 3-hydroxylase constitutes a promising novel approach for managing LID in Parkinson's disease.
Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) influences cytotoxicity, translocating to the nucleus during apoptosis. Here we report a signalling pathway in which nitric oxide (NO) generation that follows apoptotic stimulation elicits S-nitrosylation of GAPDH, which triggers binding to Siah1 (an E3 ubiquitin ligase), nuclear translocation and apoptosis. S-nitrosylation of GAPDH augments its binding to Siah1, whose nuclear localization signal mediates translocation of GAPDH. GAPDH stabilizes Siah1, facilitating its degradation of nuclear proteins. Activation of macrophages by endotoxin and of neurons by glutamate elicits GAPDH-Siah1 binding, nuclear translocation and apoptosis, which are prevented by NO deletion. The NO-S-nitrosylation-GAPDH-Siah1 cascade may represent an important molecular mechanism of cytotoxicity.
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection causes chronic liver diseases and is a global public health problem. Detailed analyses of HCV have been hampered by the lack of viral culture systems. Subgenomic replicons of the JFH1 genotype 2a strain cloned from an individual with fulminant hepatitis replicate efficiently in cell culture. Here we show that the JFH1 genome replicates efficiently and supports secretion of viral particles after transfection into a human hepatoma cell line (Huh7). Particles have a density of about 1.15-1.17 g/ml and a spherical morphology with an average diameter of about 55 nm. Secreted virus is infectious for Huh7 cells and infectivity can be neutralized by CD81-specific antibodies and by immunoglobulins from chronically infected individuals. The cell culture-generated HCV is infectious for chimpanzee. This system provides a powerful tool for studying the viral life cycle and developing antiviral strategies.
Insight into how glutamatergic synapses form in vivo is important for understanding developmental and experience-triggered changes of excitatory circuits. Here, we imaged postsynaptic densities (PSDs) expressing a functional, GFP-tagged glutamate receptor subunit (GluR-IIA(GFP)) at neuromuscular junctions of Drosophila melanogaster larvae for several days in vivo. New PSDs, associated with functional and structural presynaptic markers, formed independently of existing synapses and grew continuously until reaching a stable size within hours. Both in vivo photoactivation and photobleaching experiments showed that extrasynaptic receptors derived from diffuse, cell-wide pools preferentially entered growing PSDs. After entering PSDs, receptors were largely immobilized. In comparison, other postsynaptic proteins tested (PSD-95, NCAM and PAK homologs) exchanged faster and with no apparent preference for growing synapses. We show here that new glutamatergic synapses form de novo and not by partitioning processes from existing synapses, suggesting that the site-specific entry of particular glutamate receptor complexes directly controls the assembly of individual PSDs.
The function of the multi-PDZ domain scaffold protein GRIP1 (glutamate receptor interacting protein 1) in neurons is unclear. To explore the function of GRIP1 in hippocampal neurons, we used RNA interference (RNAi) to knock down the expression of GRIP1. Knockdown of GRIP1 by small interfering RNA (siRNA) in cultured hippocampal neurons caused a loss of dendrites, associated with mislocalization of the GRIP-interacting proteins GIuR2 (AMPA receptor subunit), EphB2 (receptor tyrosine kinase) and KIF5 (also known as kinesin 1; microtubule motor). The loss of dendrites by GRIP1-siRNA was rescued by overexpression of the extracellular domain of EphB2, and was phenocopied by overexpression of the intracellular domain of EphB2 and extracellular application of ephrinB-Fc fusion proteins. Neurons from EphB1-EphB2-EphB3 triple knockout mice showed abnormal dendrite morphogenesis. Disruption of the KIF5-GRIP1 interaction inhibited EphB2 trafficking and strongly impaired dendritic growth. These results indicate an important role for GRIP1 in dendrite morphogenesis by serving as an adaptor protein for kinesin-dependent transport of EphB receptors to dendrites.
Stimuli can be discriminated without being consciously perceived and can be preferred without being remembered. Here we report a subject with a previously unknown dissociation of abilities: a strong behavioral preference for the taste of sugar over saline, despite a complete failure of recognition. The pattern of brain damage responsible for the dissociation suggests that reliable behavioral choice among tastes can occur in the absence of the gustatory cortex necessary for taste recognition.
Considerable progress has been made in our understanding of the neurobiological mechanisms of the placebo effect, and most of our knowledge originates from the field of pain and analgesia. Today, the placebo effect represents a promising model that could allow us to shed new light on mind-body interactions. The mental events induced by placebo administration can activate mechanisms that are similar to those activated by drugs, which indicates a similarity between psychosocial and pharmacodynamic effects. These new neurobiological advances are already changing our conception of how clinical trials and medical practice must be viewed and conducted.
Acute pain and emotion are processed in two forebrain networks, and the cingulate cortex is involved in both. Although Brodmann's cingulate gyrus had two divisions and was not based on any functional criteria, functional imaging studies still use this model. However, recent cytoarchitectural studies of the cingulate gyrus support a four-region model, with subregions, that is based on connections and qualitatively unique functions. Although the activity evoked by pain and emotion has been widely reported, some view them as emergent products of the brain rather than of small aggregates of neurons. Here, we assess pain and emotion in each cingulate subregion, and assess whether pain is co-localized with negative affect. Amazingly, these activation patterns do not simply overlap.
GABA(A) (gamma-aminobutyric acid type A) receptors mediate most of the 'fast' synaptic inhibition in the mammalian brain and are targeted by many clinically important drugs. Certain naturally occurring pregnane steroids can potently and specifically enhance GABA(A) receptor function in a nongenomic (direct) manner, and consequently have anxiolytic, analgesic, anticonvulsant, sedative, hypnotic and anaesthetic properties. These steroids not only act as remote endocrine messengers, but also can be synthesized in the brain, where they modify neuronal activity locally by modulating GABA(A) receptor function. Such 'neurosteroids' can influence mood and behaviour in various physiological and pathophysiological situations, and might contribute to the behavioural effects of psychoactive drugs.
In neuroimaging studies of human cognitive abilities, brain activation patterns that include regions that are strongly interactive in response to experimental task demands are of particular interest. Among the existing network analyses, partial least squares (PLS; McIntosh, 1999; McIntosh, Bookstein, Haxby, &amp; Grady, 1996) has been highly successful, particularly in identifying group differences in regional functional connectivity, including differences as diverse as those associated with states of awareness and normal aging. However, we address the need for a within-group model that identifies patterns of regional functional connectivity that exhibit sustained activity across graduated changes in task parameters. For example, predictions of sustained connectivity are commonplace in studies of cognition that involve a series of tasks over which task difficulty increases (Baddeley, 2003). We designed ordinal trend analysis (OrT) to identify activation patterns that increase monotonically in their expression as the experimental task parameter increases, while the correlative relationships between brain regions remain constant. Of specific interest are patterns that express positive ordinal trends on a subject-by-subject basis. A unique feature of OrT is that it recovers information about functional connectivity based solely on experimental design variables. In particular, there is no requirement by OrT to provide either a quantitative model of the uncertain relationship between functional brain circuitry and subject variables (e.g., task performance and IQ) or partial information about the regions that are functionally connected. In this letter, we provide a step-by-step recipe of the computations performed in the new OrT analysis, including a description of the inferential statistical methods applied. Second, we describe applications of OrT to an event-related fMRI study of verbal working memory and H(2)15O-PET study of visuo-motor learning. In sum, OrT has potential applications to not only studies of young adults and their cognitive abilities, but also studies of normal aging and neurological and psychiatric disease.
We discuss an idea for collecting data in a relatively efficient manner. Our point of view is Bayesian and information-theoretic: on any given trial, we want to adaptively choose the input in such a way that the mutual information between the (unknown) state of the system and the (stochastic) output is maximal, given any prior information (including data collected on any previous trials). We prove a theorem that quantifies the effectiveness of this strategy and give a few illustrative examples comparing the performance of this adaptive technique to that of the more usual nonadaptive experimental design. In particular, we calculate the asymptotic efficiency of the information-maximization strategy and demonstrate that this method is in a well-defined sense never less efficient--and is generically more efficient--than the nonadaptive strategy. For example, we are able to explicitly calculate the asymptotic relative efficiency of the staircase method widely employed in psychophysics research and to demonstrate the dependence of this efficiency on the form of the psychometric function underlying the output responses.
The snowflake plot is a scatter plot that displays relative timings of three neurons. It has had rather limited use since its introduction by Perkel, Gerstein, Smith, and Tatton (1975), in part because its triangular coordinates are unfamiliar and its theoretical properties are not well studied. In this letter, we study certain quantitative properties of this plot: we use projections to relate the snowflake plot to the cross-correlation histogram and the spike-triggered joint histogram, study the sampling properties of the plot for the null case of independent spike trains, study a simulation of a coincidence detector, and describe the extension of this plot to more than three neurons.
The senescence-accelerated mouse (SAMP8) is an animal model of aging that displays an array of circadian rhythm disruptions as early as 7 months of age. The present study explored the physiological basis for age-related changes in circadian rhythms by measuring c-Fos immunostaining. Cellular activity in the SCN &quot;core&quot; and &quot;shell&quot; was examined for 2-, 7-, and 12-month-old SAMP8 at circadian times (CTs) 2 and 14. Consistent with previous studies in rats, we observed higher levels of cellular activity at CT2 than at CT14, and higher levels of activity in the &quot;shell&quot; than in the &quot;core&quot; of the SCN. However, there was no effect of age on the pattern of cellular activity in either the &quot;core&quot; or the &quot;shell&quot; of the SCN. These results are discussed in the context of current research on spontaneous and light-induced c-Fos expression in the SCN of rodents.
Aged rats perform poorly on spatial learning tasks, a cognitive impairment which has been linked to the failure of hippocampal networks to fully encode changes in the external environment [Barnes CA, Suster MS, Shen J, McNaughton BL. Multistability of cognitive maps in the hippocampus of old rats. Nature 1997;388(6639):272-5; Wilson IA, Ikonen S, Gureviciene I, McMahan RW, Gallagher M, Eichenbaum H, et al. Cognitive aging and the hippocampus: how old rats represent new environments. J Neurosci 2004;24(15):3870-8]. To examine whether the impairment in hippocampal processing extends to conditions in which self-motion provides the cues for environmental change, we have analyzed spatial firing patterns of hippocampal pyramidal neurons in young and aged rats, as well as in young rats with selective cholinergic lesions, another model of cognitive aging. The rats walked between two visually identical environments, pitting self-motion cues that indicated environmental change against visual inputs that indicated no differences between environments. Our results indicated that place cells in both aged and cholinergic-lesioned rats were equally likely as those of young rats to create new spatial representations in the second compartment. These findings suggest that the hippocampal network of aged rats is able to process changes in internally generated cues without rigidity, but that incomplete processing of external landmark cues may lead to impaired spatial learning.
To address controversies regarding the effect of age on the hippocampus, volumes of hippocampus and a comparison structure, temporal cortex, were measured on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in 84 healthy men and 44 healthy women (20-85 years). Neither men nor women showed significant correlations between hippocampal volumes and age, despite significant age-related decline in temporal volumes. Absence of hippocampus age relationships endured when restricting analyses to older individuals (&gt; or =50 years) and considering menopause and hormone replacement therapy.
Emotional and arousing treatments given shortly after learning enhance delayed memory retrieval in animal and human studies. Positive affect and reward induced prior to a variety of cognitive tasks enhance performance, but their ability to affect memory consolidation has not been investigated before. Therefore, we investigated the effects of a small, non-contingent, intrinsic or extrinsic reward on delayed memory retrieval. Participants (n=108) studied and recalled a list of 30 affectively neutral, imageable nouns. Experimental groups were then given either an intrinsic reward (e.g., praise) or an extrinsic reward (e.g., US 1 dollar). After a one-week delay, participants' retrieval performance for the word list was significantly better in the extrinsic reward groups, whether the reward was expected or not, than in controls. Those who received the intrinsic reward performed somewhat better than controls, but the difference was not significant. Thus, at least some forms of arousal and reward, even when semantically unrelated to the learned material, can effectively modulate memory consolidation. These types of treatments might be useful for the development of new memory intervention strategies.
Operant conditioning of aerial respiratory behaviour and its consolidation into long-term memory in Lymnaea has been previously studied in both intact, freely moving snails and in in vitro preparations made from previously trained snails. Here, we show in previously untrained semi-intact in vitro Lymnaea preparations that aerial respiratory behaviour can also be operantly conditioned. Neither yoked control nor 'run-down' control procedures in these in vitro preparations result in an alteration of aerial respiratory behaviour. Memory in the operantly trained semi-intact preparations persists for at least 1h after training. Intracellular recordings made from RPeD1, one of the 3-CPG neurons and the neuron that initiates CPG activity; show that there are specific changes in central excitatory input to this neuron concurrent with learning and its consolidation into memory. In addition following the acquisition of learning and its consolidation into memory the ability of RPeD1 and VI/J neurons when depolarized to cause a pneumostome opening is significantly decreased. Thus, previously untrained in vitro semi-intact preparations can be used to study changes in neuronal activity in a neuron known to be both necessary for the behaviour and for memory formation.

Ammonia is a neurotoxin that is implicated in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy due to acute and chronic liver failure. However, its relation to neurological damage and brain edema is poorly understood. During the last decades, it has been the prevailing hypothesis that an osmotic disturbance induced by the astrocytic accumulation of glutamine leads to brain edema. However, various findings are at variance with this hypothesis. The present review will discuss: (a) correlation of ammonia with encephalopathy and brain edema in HE; (b) glutamine synthesis and astrocyte swelling; (c) glutamine synthesis and the glutamine-cycle: relation to brain energy metabolism; (d) glutamine synthesis and the glutamate-glutamine cycle and its relation to anaplerotic activity; (e) evidence favouring the &quot;glutamine hypothesis&quot;; (f) evidence contradicting the &quot;glutamine hypothesis&quot;; (g) glutamine synthesis and osmoregulation; (h) glutamine synthesis in chronic liver failure; (i) impaired brain energy metabolism in acute liver failure (ALF) and its relation to astrocytic glutamine synthesis. Taken together, the precise role of glutamine in the development of brain edema in ALF remains unclear. Astrocytic changes due to glutamine accumulation may lead secondarily to effects on brain energy metabolism. However, the relation between impaired energy metabolism and glutamine accumulation has not been well established. It is noteworthy that no single biochemical factor appears to be responsible for the many symptoms of HE. For example, brain glutamine accumulation and low-grade brain edema occur in chronic liver failure (CLF) suggesting common mechanisms are responsible for the neurological dysfunction in CLF and ALF. Recent NMR spectroscopic studies have provided considerably new information in this area. Future NMR studies using the stable isotope 13C may be useful in the study of the dynamics of brain metabolism in patients with ALF so as to better elucidate the precise role of glutamine accumulation and of glutamine-independent components to brain edema in ALF.
Ammonia is a key factor in the pathogenesis of encephalopathies associated with liver failure. A direct effect of ammonia on GABAergic neurotransmission was proposed as a mechanism that may explain its neurotoxic effect on the basis of electrophysiological and biochemical studies performed in animal models of liver failure. In the present study, we investigated using a radiometric assay the effect of ammonia on the binding of GABA-A receptor ligands to membranes from normal human brains. Ammonium tartrate significantly decreased the maximal binding of [3H]flunitrazepam to well-washed frontal cortical membranes (366+/-63 fmol/mg protein in absence of ammonia versus 294.1+/-51 fmol/mg protein in presence of 2 mM ammonia; p&lt;0.05). The efficacy of the effects of ammonia was within the millimolar range (IC50=4.8 mM). This effect was not seen in cerebellum or hippocampus. Ammonia exposure decreased the maximal binding of [3H]flumazenil (284.9+/-24.2 fmol/mg protein in absence of ammonia versus 146.4+/-15.6 fmol/mg protein in presence of 2 mM ammonia; p&lt;0.01). This effect was seen with a greater potency (Imax=32.4%) and a lower IC50 (0.1 mM). Inhibition of [3H]flumazenil binding was significant in all brain regions. The apparent ammonia-induced decrease of [3H]flunitrazepam and [3H]flumazenil binding was due to a decrease in the binding affinities of these ligands for the benzodiazepine site. In contrast, ammonium tartrate exposure did not cause significant changes to the binding of [3H]muscimol in any brain region. These findings demonstrate that ammonia interacts negatively with components of the benzodiazepine-associated site at the GABA-A receptor complex in human brain in contrast to previous reports in the rat, and thus, does not support the notion that ammonia directly activates the GABA-A receptor complex resulting in increased GABAergic neurotransmission in human hepatic encephalopathy. These findings also suggest that positron emission tomography studies in cirrhotic patients using [11C]flumazenil may be underestimating GABA-A receptor sites depending upon the degree of hyperammonemia of the patient.
Due to its three-dimensional folding pattern, the human neocortex poses a challenge for accurate co-registration of grouped functional brain imaging data. The present study addressed this problem by employing three-dimensional continuum-mechanical image-warping techniques to derive average anatomical representations for co-registration of functional magnetic resonance brain imaging data obtained from 10 male first-episode schizophrenia patients and 10 age-matched male healthy volunteers while they performed a version of the Tower of London task. This novel technique produced an equivalent representation of blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) response across hemispheres, cortical regions, and groups, respectively, when compared to intensity average co-registration, using a deformable Brodmann area atlas as anatomical reference. Somewhat closer association of Brodmann area boundaries with primary visual and auditory areas was evident using the gyral pattern average model. Statistically-thresholded BOLD cluster data confirmed predominantly bilateral prefrontal and parietal, right frontal and dorsolateral prefrontal, and left occipital activation in healthy subjects, while patients' hemispheric dominance pattern was diminished or reversed, particularly decreasing cortical BOLD response with increasing task difficulty in the right superior temporal gyrus. Reduced regional gray matter thickness correlated with reduced left-hemispheric prefrontal/frontal and bilateral parietal BOLD activation in patients. This is the first study demonstrating that reduction of regional gray matter in first-episode schizophrenia patients is associated with impaired brain function when performing the Tower of London task, and supports previous findings of impaired executive attention and working memory in schizophrenia.
The differential diagnosis of parkinsonian disorders can be challenging, especially early in the disease course. PET imaging with [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) has been used to identify characteristic patterns of regional glucose metabolism in patient cohorts with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD), as well as variant forms of parkinsonism such as multiple system atrophy (MSA), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), and corticobasal degeneration (CBGD). In this study, we assessed the utility of FDG PET in the differential diagnosis of individual patients with clinical parkinsonism. 135 parkinsonian patients were referred for FDG PET to determine whether their diagnosis could be made accurately based upon their scans. Imaging-based diagnosis was obtained by visual assessment of the individual scans and also by computer-assisted interpretation. The results were compared with 2-year follow-up clinical assessments made by independent movement disorders specialists who were blinded to the original PET findings. We found that blinded computer assessment agreed with clinical diagnosis in 92.4% of all subjects (97.7% early PD, 91.6% late PD, 96% MSA, 85% PSP, 90.1% CBGD, 86.5% healthy control subjects). Concordance of visual inspection with clinical diagnosis was achieved in 85.4% of the patients scanned (88.4% early PD, 97.2% late PD, 76% MSA, 60% PSP, 90.9% CBGD, 90.9% healthy control subjects). This study demonstrates that FDG PET performed at the time of initial referral for parkinsonism accurately predicted the clinical diagnosis of individual patients made at subsequent follow-up. Computer-assisted methodologies may be particularly helpful in situations where experienced readers of FDG PET images are not readily available.
In vivo study of white matter microstructural integrity through magnetic resonance diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) permits examination of degradation of axonal circuitry that may underlie functional decline of frontally-based processes in normal adult aging. Determination of the pattern of age-related degradation of white matter microstructure requires quantitative comparison of the rostral-caudal and superior-inferior extents of the brain's white matter. To date, this has not been accomplished, probably because of significant artifacts from spatial distortion and poor signal resolution that precludes accurate analysis in prefrontal and inferior brain regions. Here, we report a profile analysis of the integrity of white matter microstructure across the supratentorium and in selected focal regions using DTI data collected at high-field strength (3 T), with isotropic voxel acquisition, and an analysis based on a concurrently-acquired field map to permit accurate quantification of artifact-prone, anterior and inferior brain regions. The groups comprised 10 younger and 10 older individuals; all were high functioning, highly educated, and in excellent health. The DTI profile analysis revealed a robust frontal distribution of low white matter anisotropy and high bulk mean diffusivity in healthy older compared with younger adults. In contrast to frontal fiber systems, posterior systems were largely preserved with age. A second analysis, based on focal samples of FA, confirmed that the age-related FA decline was restricted to frontal regions, leaving posterior and inferior brain regions relatively intact. The selective decline of anterior anisotropy with advancing age provides evidence for the potential of a microstructural white matter mechanism for the commonly observed decline in frontally-based functions.
A probabilistic framework is presented that enables image registration, tissue classification, and bias correction to be combined within the same generative model. A derivation of a log-likelihood objective function for the unified model is provided. The model is based on a mixture of Gaussians and is extended to incorporate a smooth intensity variation and nonlinear registration with tissue probability maps. A strategy for optimising the model parameters is described, along with the requisite partial derivatives of the objective function.



Due to the homology between human chromosome 21 and mouse chromosome 16, trisomy 16 mice are considered animal models of Down syndrome (DS). Abnormal hippocampal synaptic plasticity and behavior have been reported in the segmental trisomy 16 Ts65Dn mouse. In the Ts1Cje DS mouse model, which has a shorter triplicated chromosomal segment than Ts65Dn, more subtle hippocampal behavioral deficits have been reported. In this study, we investigated CA1 hippocampal synaptic plasticity, long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD) in the Ts1Cje mouse. Field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) were recorded from the CA1 area of in vitro hippocampal slices from the Ts1Cje mouse and diploid controls, LTP was induced by a single tetanizing train pulse (1 s) at 100 Hz and LTD by a 900-pulse train at 1 Hz. We report for the first time that compared to diploid controls, the hippocampus from the Ts1Cje mouse had a smaller LTP and an increased LTD. The changes are less dramatic than had been reported previously for the Ts65Dn mouse. Furthermore, in the Ts1Cje mouse trains of pulses at both 20 Hz and 100 Hz produced a decrease in the evoked fEPSPs over the length of the train in comparison to diploid fEPSPs. These findings suggest that genes from Ts1Cje chromosome, including GIRK2 potassium channel, contribute to abnormal short- and long-term plasticity.
2-[4-(3,4-Dimethylphenlyl)piperazin-1-ylmethyl]-1H benzoimidazole (A-381393) was identified as a potent dopamine D4 receptor antagonist with excellent receptor selectivity. [3H]-spiperone competition binding assays showed that A-381393 potently bound to membrane from cells expressing recombinant human dopamine D4.4 receptor (Ki=1.5 nM), which was 20-fold higher than that of clozapine (Ki=30.4 nM). A-381393 exhibited highly selective binding for the dopamine D4.4 receptor (&gt;2700-fold) when compared to D1, D2, D3 and D5 dopamine receptors. Furthermore, in comparison to clozapine and L-745870, A-381393 exhibits better receptor selectivity, showing no affinity up to 10 microM for a panel of more than 70 receptors and channels, with the exception of moderate affinity for 5-HT2A (Ki=370 nM). A-381393 potently inhibited the functional activity of agonist-induced GTP-gamma-S binding assay and 1 microM dopamine induced-Ca2+ flux in human dopamine D4.4 receptor expressing cells, but not in human dopamine D2L or D3 receptor cells. In contrast to L-745870, A-381393 did not exhibit any significant intrinsic activity in a D4.4 receptor. In vivo, A-381393 has good brain penetration after subcutaneous administration. A-381393 inhibited penile erection induced by the selective D4 agonist PD168077 in conscious rats. Thus, A-381393 is a novel selective D4 antagonist that will enhance the ability to study dopamine D4 receptors both in vitro and in vivo.
In the rat brain, gamma-hydroxybutyric-acid (GHB) increases the concentrations of 3alpha-hydroxy,5alpha-pregnan-20-one (allopregnanolone, 3alpha,5alpha-THP) and 3alpha,21-dihydroxy,5alpha-pregnan-20-one (allotetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone/3alpha,5alphaTHDOC), two neurosteroids acting as positive allosteric modulators of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptors. This study was aimed at assessing whether neurosteroids play a role in GHB-induced loss of righting reflex (LORR). Basal and GHB-stimulated brain concentrations of endogenous 3alpha,5alpha-THP and 3alpha,5alpha-THDOC were analyzed in two rat lines, GHB-sensitive (GHB-S) and GHB-resistant (GHB-R), selectively bred for opposite sensitivity to GHB-induced sedation/hypnosis. Basal neurosteroid concentrations were similar in brain cortex of the two rat lines. However, in male GHB-S rats, administration of GHB (1000 mg/kg, i.p., 30 min) increased brain cortical concentrations of 3alpha,5alpha-THP and 3alpha,5alpha-THDOC 7- and 2.5-fold, respectively, whilst male GHB-R animals displayed only a 4- and 2-fold increase, respectively. In GHB-S rats this increase lasted up to 90 min and declined 180 min following GHB administration, a time course that matches LORR onset and duration. In contrast, in GHB-R rats, which failed to show GHB-induced LORR, brain cortical 3alpha,5alpha-THP and 3alpha,5alpha-THDOC had returned to control values within 90 min. At onset of LORR, a similar increase in brain cortical levels of 3alpha,5alpha-THP and 3alpha,5alpha-THDOC (2-3-fold) was observed in GHB-S female rats and in the few female GHB-R rats that lost the righting reflex after GHB administration, but not in female GHB-R rats failing to show LORR. Sub-hypnotic doses (7.5 and 12.5 mg/kg, i.p.) of pregnanolone, administered 10 min before GHB, dose-dependently facilitated the expression of GHB-induced LORR in GHB-R male rats. These results suggest that the GHB-induced increases of brain 3alpha,5alpha-THP and 3alpha,5alpha-THDOC concentrations are implicated in the eliciting of the sedative/hypnotic action of GHB.
Brain serotonin 5-HT(7) receptors are known to be expressed in neurons and astrocytes. We now report the presence of these receptors in a third type of cell, microglial cells. 5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), 5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT), 5-methoxytryptamine (5-MeOT) and 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) induced concentration-dependent stimulations of cAMP accumulation in the human microglial MC-3 cell line. The maximal effect of 5-HT was 3.4+/-0.3-fold stimulation (mean+/-S.E.M., n=5) above basal levels. The rank order of agonist potency (pEC50 values) was 5-CT (7.09)&gt;5-HT (6.13)&gt;or=5-MeOT (5.78)&gt;8-OH-DPAT (ca. 5). The effect of 5-CT was inhibited in a concentration-dependent manner by the selective 5-HT7 receptor antagonist SB-269970 (pA2 value 9.03). Western blot analysis revealed the presence of immunoreactive bands corresponding to the human 5-HT7 receptor in extracts of MC-3 cells. The presence of two splice variants of the 5-HT7 receptor (5-HT7(a/b)) was visualized by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis with specific primers. In real-time PCR studies, the mRNA for interleukin-6 (IL-6) was found to be increased by 2.5-fold in MC-3 cells after 1 h incubation with 5-CT (1 microM) and this effect was fully blocked by the 5-HT7 receptor antagonist SB-269970 (1 microM). These data show that functional 5-HT7 receptors are present in human microglial MC-3 cells, suggesting that they are involved in neuroinflammatory processes.
Twenty-one cases of a vegetative state (VS) caused by various kinds of brain damage were evaluated neurologically and electrophysiologically three months after brain injury. These cases were treated by deep brain stimulation (DBS) therapy, and followed up for over 10 years. The mesencephalic reticular formation was selected as a target in two cases, and the thalamic centre median-parafascicular (CM-pf) complex was selected as a target in the other 19 cases. Eight of the 21 patients emerged from the VS, and became able to obey verbal commands. However, they remained in a bedridden state except for one case. DBS therapy may be useful for allowing patients to emerge from a VS, if the candidates are selected according to appropriate neurophysiological criteria. A special neurorehabilitation system may be necessary for emergence from the bedridden state in the treatment of VS patients. Further, DBS therapy is expected to provide a useful method in minimally conscious state (MCS) patients to achieve consistent discernible behavioural evidence of consciousness, and emergence from the bedridden state.
This paper reviews the possible usefulness of electroencephalogram (EEG) and evoked potential (EP) recording in vegetative and poorly-responsive patients. There is a marked inter-individual EEG and EP variability, which reflects the state heterogeneity. Four clinical applications are described: (1) the identification of primary midbrain dysfunction--and, therefore, a possible reversibility--in post-traumatic states; (2) the identification of the permeability of sensory channels; (3) quantitative follow-up; and (4) individual assessment of cognitive functions and/or consciousness. Regarding this last issue, the loss of primary cortical EPs, although rarely observed, constitutes one major argument against consciousness. Conversely, cognitive EPs definitely proved the persistence of cognitive functions in several vegetative patients. Whether these cognitive functions are conscious or not remains a matter of debate.
The evaluation of patients after severe brain injury is a complex process for the clinician, even with the information provided by a detailed neurological examination. The clinical examination often does not provide sufficient information to fully evaluate these patients due to several factors. Limited and inconsistent motor responses may obscure expression of greater cognitive capacities. More importantly, evaluation of the functional integrity of the cerebral cortical, thalamic and basal ganglia system is poorly indicated by the clinical examination in many patients. Neurophysiological studies provide a complementary set of objective data for evaluating brain-injured patients, as well as predicting and following the course of their recovery. This additional information can be of great importance since vegetative patients may be difficult to distinguish clinically from those in the minimally conscious state. This is important because the latter category of patients may have a significantly better prognosis for recovery in the initial phase of injury. Electrodiagnostic and imaging studies can help the practitioner to determine the degree of preserved and recovering neurological function. In this review we will assess the various neurophysiological studies currently at our disposal to evaluate and follow the clinical course of patients who have suffered severe brain injuries.
The condition commonly referred to as the persistent vegetative state (PVS) or vegetative state (VS) generates tremendous confusion among health care professionals. Muddled and nihilistic views of very severe brain injury have hampered efforts to improve the diagnosis and treatment of patients thought to be in the VS. Significant obstacles to diagnostic clarity arise from multiple sources including imprecise terminology and conflation of the concepts of &quot;behaviour&quot; and &quot;awareness&quot;. Failure to employ effective, uniform protocols of assessment and rehabilitation contributes to inadequate treatment of these extremely vulnerable patients. Despite diagnostic and prognostic difficulties, courts across the globe have accepted medical opinion as persuasive evidence for life-support withdrawal. A new outlook on severe brain injury is needed, with greater clarity and standardisation of assessment and care. Best practices in assessment and rehabilitation must be incorporated along with new developments in cognitive neuroscience and neuroimaging. Such a rehabilitative view will encourage intellectual curiosity towards improved quality of care for patients with severe brain injury. Attaining high levels of accuracy depends upon reaching a clearer understanding of the nature of human consciousness itself, of the condition, and of the patient's potential for full or partial recovery.
Alcoholism comorbidity is highly prevalent in individuals infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Each condition is known to affect brain structure, function, and metabolism, but the combined effects on the brain have only recently been considered. Single-voxel, proton MR spectroscopy (MRS) has yielded sensitive measures of early brain deterioration in the progression of HIV, but has limited coverage of neocortex, whereas MRS imaging (MRSI) can simultaneously interrogate large regions of cortex. Included were 15 men with HIV+alcoholism, nine men with HIV alone, eight men with alcoholism alone (abstinent for 3-17 months), and 23 controls. The two HIV groups were matched in T-cell count and were not demented; the two alcoholism groups were relatively matched in lifetime alcohol consumption. We used MRSI with a variable-density spiral sequence to quantify major proton metabolites--N-acetylaspartate (NAA), creatine (Cr), and choline (Cho)-in the superior parietal-occipital cortex. Metabolites were expressed in absolute units and as the NAA/Cr ratio. Significant group effects were present for NAA and Cr. Only the HIV+alcoholism group was significantly affected, exhibiting a 0.8 SD deficit in NAA and a 1.0 SD deficit in Cr. The deficits were not related to highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) status. Neither HIV infection nor alcoholism independently resulted in parietal-occipital cortical metabolite abnormalities, yet each disease carried a liability that put affected individuals at a heightened risk of neuronal compromise when the diseases were compounded. Further, the use of absolute measures revealed deficits in NAA and Cr that would have gone undetected if these metabolites were expressed as a ratio.
Dopamine plays a role in the pathophysiology of depression and therapeutic effects of antidepressants but the contribution of individual D(2)-like receptor subtypes (D(2), D(3), D(4)) to depression is not known. We present evidence that activation of D(2)/D(3), but not D(4) receptors, can affect the outcome in the rat forced swim test (FST). Nomifensine, a dopamine uptake inhibitor (7, 14, and 28 micromol/kg); quinpirole, a D(2)-like receptor and agonist (0.4, 1.0, and 2.0 micromol/kg); PD 12,8907, a preferential D(3) receptor agonist (0.17, 0.35, and 0.7 micromol/kg); PD 168077 (0.1, 0.3, and 1.0 micromol/kg) and CP 226269 (0.3, 1.0, and 3.0 micromol/kg), both selective D(4) receptor agonists, were administered s.c. 24, 5, and 0.5/1 h before testing. Nomifensine, quinpirole at all doses and PD 128907 at the highest dose decreased immobility time in FST. PD 168077 and CP 226269 had no effect on the model. To further clarify what type of dopamine receptors were involved in the anti-immobility effect of quinpirole, we tested different antagonists. Haloperidol, a D(2)-like receptor antagonist (0.27 micromol/kg), completely blocked the effect of quinpirole; A-437203 (LU-201640), a selective D(3) receptor antagonist (17.46 micromol/kg), showed a nonsignificant trend to attenuate the effect of the low dose of quinpirole, and L-745,870, a selective D(4) receptor antagonist (1.15 micromol/kg), had no effect. The pharmacological selectivity of the compounds tested suggests that the antidepressant-like effects of quinpirole are most likely mediated mainly by D(2) and to a lesser extent by D(3) but not D(4) receptors.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a genetic neurodegenerative disorder. Since identification of the disease-causing gene in 1993, a number of genetically modified animal models of HD have been generated. The first transgenic mouse models, R6/1 and R6/2 lines, were established 8 years ago. The R6/2 mice have been the best characterized and the most widely used model to study pathogenesis of HD and therapeutic interventions. In the present review, we especially focus on the characteristics of R6 transgenic mouse models and, in greater detail, describe the different therapeutic strategies that have been tested in these mice. We also, at the end, critically assess the relevance of the HD mouse models compared with the human disease and discuss how they can be best used in the future.
Animal models of traumatic brain injury (TBI) are used to elucidate primary and secondary sequelae underlying human head injury in an effort to identify potential neuroprotective therapies for developing and adult brains. The choice of experimental model depends upon both the research goal and underlying objectives. The intrinsic ability to study injury-induced changes in behavior, physiology, metabolism, the blood/tissue interface, the blood brain barrier, and/or inflammatory- and immune-mediated responses, makes in vivo TBI models essential for neurotrauma research. Whereas human TBI is a highly complex multifactorial disorder, animal trauma models tend to replicate only single factors involved in the pathobiology of head injury using genetically well-defined inbred animals of a single sex. Although such an experimental approach is helpful to delineate key injury mechanisms, the simplicity and hence inability of animal models to reflect the complexity of clinical head injury may underlie the discrepancy between preclinical and clinical trials of neuroprotective therapeutics. Thus, a search continues for new animal models, which would more closely mimic the highly heterogeneous nature of human TBI, and address key factors in treatment optimization.
Identification of the mechanisms of damage to neurons is an important task in contemporary neuroscience and is of enormous importance in medicine. This report compares two models of neuron damage due to hyperexcitation induced by kainic acid and pilocarpine, using two lines of mice, C57BL/6J and FVB/NJ. Neuron damage was more marked in FVB mice, though lethality was greater in C57BL mice. The levels of convulsive activity were not significantly different. Kainic acid had greater tropism for the hippocampus than pilocarpine. Hsp-70 and Egr-1 expression was not significantly different in C57BL and FVB mice. Analysis of the isolated mitochondrial fraction showed that free radical production was different in these mouse lines; this may be one of the reasons for the differential resistance of neurons to hyperexcitation.
This study was undertaken to evaluate the changes in cytokine levels in response to orofacial deep tissue inflammation. Inflammation was induced by injecting complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA, 0.05 ml 1:1 oil/saline suspension) into the masseter of the male Sprague-Dawley rat under brief halothane anesthesia. At 30 min, 5 h and 24 h after CFA injection (n = 3-4/time point), tissues were dissected from masseter and total proteins isolated. Rat Cytokine Antibody Array 1.1 (RayBiotech) coated with 19 specific cytokine antibodies were probed with protein samples and the relative cytokine levels were compared. Compared to saline-injected rats, there were significant increases (p &lt; 0.05-0.01) in the levels of seven cytokines in the masseter tissue after CFA, including interleukin (IL)-1beta (5 h), IL-6 (5 h), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (5 h), monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (5 h, 24 h), cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant-2 and -3 (5 h, 24 h), and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (5 h, 24 h). All 19 cytokines were detected in the blood samples, but they did not show significant changes after inflammation. Masseter hyperalgesia and allodynia occurred at 30 min and persisted at 5-24 h after inflammation, as assessed by probing the skin above the masseter with von Frey filaments. The present results indicate selective localized cytokine responses to masseter inflammation. Although different cytokines exist in the blood, their levels did not mirror, nor did not appear to depend on, the local cytokine levels. The findings provide specific targets for further studying the involvement of cytokines in orofacial inflammation and hyperalgesia.
This study reports an analysis of the Contingent Negative Variation (CNV) recorded on the human scalp during the comparison of a test duration with a previously memorized duration. Results show that CNV activity peaks at the end of the memorized duration, and that its slope varies inversely with the length of this duration. These features of CNV activity are similar to those of climbing neuronal activity observed through intracerebral recordings in animals, and suggest that both activities reflect how the brain encodes the timing of an upcoming event. These results also show that the time-course of the CNV in timing tasks is compatible with a pacemaker-accumulator model of temporal processing.
C31, consisting of 31 amino acid residues, is generated from the carboxyl terminal fragments (CTFs) of amyloid precursor protein (APP). It has been shown that C31 causes apoptosis in neurons and is present in brains of Alzheimer disease (AD) patients. Using whole-cell patch clamp techniques, we investigated effects of C31 on voltage-gated calcium channel (VGCC) currents and the protective effects of beta-estradiol on PC12 cells. The results demonstrated that C31 induced a significant increase of the VGCC currents in PC12 cells, which was blocked by beta-estradiol. These results suggest that modulation of intracellular calcium levels by VGCC may in part be involved in C31 induced neuronal death associated with AD.
Virtually all patients with Down's syndrome develop Alzheimer disease (AD) during their life; thus, it is extremely important to investigate potential determinants of AD in this population. Previous studies found an association of DS with -48C/T presenilin-1 and with the -850 tumor necrosis factor-alpha, two polymorphisms of genes involved in amyloid beta modulation In this study, we evaluated whether the insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE), a protease involved in the degradation of endogenous brain-derived Abeta peptides, is involved in DS-related AD. To this end, 287 DS patients were compared with 251 apparently healthy controls, in order to assess the association between DS and two single nucleotide polymorphisms located on the introns 14 and 24 of the IDE gene. The comparison of allele and genotype distribution between cases and controls showed no evidence for an association with regard to IDE polymorphism, for both the SNPs (i.e., IDE 185 and IDE 199). In conclusion, the findings of our study suggest that the two IDE polymorphisms considered in the analysis do not appear to play a major role in DS-related AD.
Norepinephrine (NE) has been reported to modulate neuronal excitability and act as endogenous anticonvulsant. In the present study we used NE transporter knock-out mice (NET-KO), which are characterized by high levels of extracellular NE, to investigate the role of endogenous NE in seizure susceptibility. Seizure thresholds for cocaine (i.p.), pentylenetetrazol (i.v.) and kainic acid (i.v.) were compared in NET-KO, heterozygous (NET-HT) and wild type (NET-WT) female mice. The dose-response curve for cocaine-induced convulsions was significantly shifted to the right in NET-KO mice, indicating higher seizure thresholds. The threshold doses of pentylenetetrazol that induced clonic and tonic seizures were also significantly higher in NET-KO when compared to NET-WT mice. Similarly, NET-KO mice displayed higher resistance to convulsions engendered by kainic acid. For all drugs tested, the response of NET-HT mice was always intermediate. These data provide further support for a role of endogenous NE in the control of seizure susceptibility.
Excessive synchronisation of basal ganglia activity at frequencies &lt; 30 Hz is a hallmark of the parkinsonian state, and may contribute to bradykinesia. Accordingly, we electrically stimulated chronically implanted subthalamic macroelectrodes in 10 Parkinson's disease patients, after overnight withdrawal of anti-parkinsonian medication. We compared the effects of stimulation at 0, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, and ca. 130 Hz by measuring kinesia time (KT) in a tapping task. Although the effects of direct stimulation were small, frequency-response curves demonstrated local peaks at 5-10 Hz and at 20-25 Hz, superimposed upon an overall tendency for KT to reduce with increasing stimulation frequency. This is consistent with the hypothesis that spontaneous activities in these bands might promote bradykinesia.



Poland syndrome is characterized by congenital and unilateral absence of the pectoralis major muscle and ipsilateral upper limb anomalies. Identified patients also may include other disorders. We report a 15-year-old Caucasian woman with a unilateral hypoplasia of the breast and nipple, ipsilateral chest wall depression deformity, pectoralis major muscle agenesis, and severe hirsutism (Ferriman-Gallwey score: 21) without extremity anomaly. She had regular menses, and no hormonal abnormality and family history of hirsutism. Therefore, she was considered as a case of idiopathic hirsutism. This is the first case report of hirsutism in a patient with Poland syndrome.
Though autopsy studies demonstrated 5% metastasis to the brain, clinical presentation of a central nervous system metastasis from gallbladder cancer is rare. We report a case of a 72-year-old woman who initially presented with a solitary brain metastasis from an adenocarcinoma of the gallbladder, which was diagnosed pre-operatively as glioblastoma multiforme. This is the second of such a case in the English literature. We emphasize the importance of including metastasis in the differential diagnosis of single intracranial tumor for proper planning of patient management.
Spontaneous cerebrospinal fluid fistula secondary to clival defect is a very rare condition. Only 2 cases are reported previously in the literature. We report a case of clival defect in a young male patient presenting with spontaneous cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea which failed detection by conventional CT and MRI. The patient was referred to our center after failed anterior cranial fossa repair. Thorough radiological investigations successfully detected the defect in the posterior wall of the sphenoid sinus 5 mm distal to the posterior limit of the floor of the sella just on the midline. The fistula was managed successfully through an endonasal transsphenoidal approach. We present the case reviewing the literature concerning the pathophysiology of spontaneous cerebrospinal fluid fistula through the sphenoid sinus.
This study indicates the cellular and ultrastructural changes of the thigh muscle and sural nerve biopsies of a patient intoxicated as a result of isoniazid intake for tuberculosis treatment. The observation of the relative degradation of myelination and fibre type II groups was apparent. The regular concentric layers of the myelin sheath were destroyed. There was a consistent increase in irregular vacuolization and membranous structures in the axon and the cytoplasm of the Schwan cells. It is concluded that poisoning cannot be attributed solely to the axonal degradation but also to the direct toxic effect of the drug.
Neurocysticercosis is a disease endemic in pork breeding societies. It exhibits itself by the sudden development of seizures in an apparently healthy individual, a rather nonspecific symptom. In its own cultural circles, diagnosis is easy because of the higher incidence and prevalence of the ailment. However in cultures whose religion excludes the breeding of pork, such as Islamic countries, diagnosis depends on an often forgotten spiritual history, which we believe may have a place as the fourth epidemiologic criterion in the revised diagnostic criteria for neurocysticercosis.





Neurosurgical patients are at great risk for venous thromboembolism. Thromboprophylaxis is either with unfractionated heparin or low molecular weight heparin (LMWH). In neurosurgery, this is a matter of debate because of fear from bleeding. Few randomized studies show that chemical prophylaxis is safe after elective neurosurgeries. Prophylaxis with gradual elastic stocking and venous pump may be affective but there are not enough studies and trials examining their efficacy. Larger trials are needed to examine the safety of unfractionated heparin versus LMWH in neurosurgical patients including head injury patients.
Mechanical embolectomy in acute ischemic stroke employs the use of novel endovascular devices to revascularize occluded intracerebral arteries. Devices like the Merci Retiever and other endovascular snares, laser thrombectomy and rheolytic/obliterative microcatheters, intracranial balloon angioplasty and stenting, and intra-arterial and transcranial ultrasound-enhanced chemical thrombolysis are intended to improve tissue rescue and diminish reperfusion hemorrhage while broadening the population eligible for therapy. Patient selection with MRI- and CT-based stroke protocols can detect tissue at risk and may obviate the classic limitations of the stroke therapeutic time window. These devices are being developed and modified at a rapid pace, requiring mounting endovascular expertise, and are being used successfully alone or in conjunction with chemical thrombolysis with relative safety.
Cystic acoustic neuromas are less frequent than solid ones and present different clinical and radiological features. Cystic schwannomas are larger, show a shorter clinical history and a different risk of postoperative complications. This study was designed to compare surgical results and complications of solid and cystic vestibular schwannomas of matching size operated upon via either a retrosygmoid or a translabyrinthine approach. The study included 80 patients presenting with grade III and IV acoustic vestibular schwannomas referred to the Neurosurgical and ENT team in the Department of Neuroscience of Torino, Italy. Twenty-six were cystic and 54 were solid tumours. Clinical history, surgical results and complications were compared between the two groups. In cystic tumors, rapid clinical worsening is common, due to sudden expansion of cystic elements. Tighter adherences are found between cystic tumours and nervous elements (particularly brainstem and possibly facial nerve), once compared to solid ones. Operative morbidity appears to be higher in cystic tumours. A wait and see policy should not to be applied to patients with cystic tumours. Careful technique, possibly sharp dissection, to divide the tumour adherences from the nervous tissue must be employed, in order to avoid lesions on brainstem veins and traction on a thin facial nerve. Severe complications may be caused by the excessive efforts to dissect brainstem adherences.







PARALIGN is a rapid and sensitive similarity search tool for the identification of distantly related sequences in both nucleotide and amino acid sequence databases. Two algorithms are implemented, accelerated Smith-Waterman and ParAlign. The ParAlign algorithm is similar to Smith-Waterman in sensitivity, while as quick as BLAST for protein searches. A form of parallel computing technology known as multimedia technology that is available in modern processors, but rarely used by other bioinformatics software, has been exploited to achieve the high speed. The software is also designed to run efficiently on computer clusters using the message-passing interface standard. A public search service powered by a large computer cluster has been set-up and is freely available at www.paralign.org, where the major public databases can be searched. The software can also be downloaded free of charge for academic use.
Sucralose is a non-nutritive halogenated sucrose derivative that has been described by humans as tasting predominately sweet with little or no aftertaste. In this study we examined the preference for sucralose in adult male Sprague Dawley rats. A standard 24 hr two-bottle test was used to compare a wide range of sucralose concentrations (0.0003-10g/L; 0.8 M-25 mM) with water. The rats did not prefer sucralose to water at low concentrations (0.0003-0.3 g/L) and avoided sucralose at high concentrations (1-10g/L). Although there are many similarities in the taste preference of humans, mice, and rats, these results suggest that male rats do not prefer sucralose and avoid it at high concentrations. An awareness of the potential species differences in preference testing for novel sweeteners is critical for the taste and nutritional research communities.

It has been suggested that high levels of axial aberration or specific patterns of peripheral refraction could play a role in myopia development. Possible mechanisms involving high levels of retinal image blur caused by axial aberrations include form deprivation through poor retinal image quality in distance vision, enhanced accommodative lags favouring compensatory eye growth, and an absence of adequate directional cues to guide emmetropization. In addition, in initially emmetropic eyes, hyperopia in the retinal periphery may result in local compensatory eye growth, which induces axial myopia. Evidence in support of these ideas is reviewed and it is concluded that, for any fixed pupil diameter, evidence for higher levels of axial aberration in myopes in comparison with other refractive groups is weak, making involvement of axial aberrations in myopization through image degradation at the fovea unlikely. If, however, some potential myopes had unusually large pupil diameters, their effective aberration levels and associated retinal blur would be larger than those of the rest of the population. There is stronger evidence in favour of differences in patterns of peripheral refraction in both potential and existing myopes, with myopes tending to show relative hyperopia in the periphery. These differences appear to be related to a more prolate eyeball shape. Longitudinal studies are required to confirm whether the retinal defocus associated with the peripheral hyperopia can cause patterns of eyeball growth which lead to axial myopia.
The effect of exposure time on maximum acceptable dose (MAD) for avoidance of ultraviolet radiation B (UVRB)-induced cataract was investigated. Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into 5 exposure time groups: 7.5, 15, 30, 60, and 120 min. Each exposure time group was divided into 5 dose subgroups: 0, 1, 2, 4, and 8 kJ/m2. The rats were unilaterally exposed to UVR around 300 nm. One week after the exposure, macroscopic structure was recorded and lens forward light scattering was measured. MAD for avoidance of UVRB-induced cataract was estimated based on the dose-response function. MAD for avoidance of UVRB-induced cataract for 7.5, 15, 30, 60, and 120 min exposures was estimated to be 2.0, 1.4, 1.9, 1.8 and 2.2 kJ/m2, respectively. In the exposure time domain 7.5-120 min, MAD for avoidance of UVRB-induced cataract depends on exposure time.
The pathophysiological mechanisms of orofacial deep-tissue pain is still unclear. Previously, P2X receptors (P2XR) in sensory neurons have been shown to play a role in the signal transduction of cutaneous pain. We investigated the functional significance of P2X3R in relation to orofacial deep-tissue pain caused by monoarthritis of the temporomandibular joint (TMJ). Monoarthritis was induced by the injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) into the unilateral TMJ of the rat. The pain associated with monoarthritis was assessed by the pressure pain threshold (PPT), which was defined as the amount of pressure required to induce vocalization. Fifteen days after CFA-treatment, changes in PPT were examined after injection of P2XR agonists or antagonists into the TMJ. The number of cells expressing P2X3R in trigeminal ganglia (TG) was investigated by immunohistochemistry. Inflamed TMJ showed a continuous decline in PPT during the experimental period (P&lt;0.001). Injection of alpha,beta-meATP, an agonist of P2X1,3,2/3R, dramatically reduced the bilateral PPTs of both inflamed and non-inflamed TMJs (P&lt;0.01) although beta,gamma-me-l-ATP, a selective agonist of P2X1R, did not. The decreased PPTs of inflamed TMJ were reversed either by PPADS, an antagonist of P2X1,2,3,5,1/5,4/5R, or by TNP-ATP, an antagonist of P2X1,3,2/3,1/5R. Immunohistochemically, the number of P2X3R-positive cells increased in the small cell group in TG (P&lt;0.01), whereas there was no change in medium or large cell groups after the CFA-injection. Retrograde tracing confirmed that TMJ neurons in the TG exhibited P2X3R immunoreactivity. Our results suggested that P2X3R plays an important role in orofacial pressure pain caused by monoarthritis of TMJ.
NR1 is an essential component of functional NMDA receptors and can be activated by phosphorylation. It is suggested that phosphorylation of NR1 (pNR1) contributes to central sensitization after intradermal capsaicin injection. The present study investigates whether increases of spinal pNR1 are correlated to central sensitization and thus pain behaviors in neuropathic pain. Neuropathic rats were produced by L5 spinal nerve ligation, mechanical thresholds of the paw were measured, and then the L4/5 spinal cords and the nucleus gracilis (NG) were removed and immunostained for pNR1. The results showed that the number of pNR1-immunoreactive neurons was significantly increased in the ipsilateral cord, at 3, 7, and 28 days after nerve ligation and these increases coincide with mechanical allodynia. The increase of pNR1-immunoreactive neurons in the NG was observed only at 28 days after the nerve ligation. Western blot analyses confirmed the significant increase of pNR1 protein in spinal dorsal horn after nerve ligation. A protein kinase A inhibitor, H89, moderately reversed mechanical allodynia in 7 day neuropathic rats. Many pNR1-immunoreactive neurons were identified as projection neurons by retrograde tracer. The data suggest that PKA mediated NMDA receptor phosphorylation plays an important role in spinal nerve ligation induced neuropathic pain.
Pain and cachexia are two of the most debilitating aspects of rheumatoid arthritis. Despite that, the mechanisms by which they are mediated are not well understood. We provide evidence that nerve growth factor (NGF), a secreted regulatory protein that controls neuronal survival during development, is a key mediator of pain and weight loss in auto-immune arthritis. Function blocking antibodies to NGF completely reverse established pain in rats with fully developed arthritis despite continuing joint destruction and inflammation. Likewise, these antibodies reverse weight loss while not having any effect on levels of the pro-cachectic agent tumor necrosis factor (TNF). Taken together, these findings argue that pathological joint pain and joint destruction are mechanistically independent processes and that NGF regulates an alternative cachexia pathway that is independent or downstream of TNF.
It is now understood that the mechanisms leading to neuronal cell death after cardiac arrest (CA) are highly complex. A well established fact in this field is that neurons continue to die over days and months after ischemia. It has been suggested that decreases in electrophysiological activities precede the morphologic deterioration in postischemic CA1 neurons and that this deterioration may be one cause for delayed cell death. The link between synaptic dysfunction and cardiac arrest is evident by the fact that about 50% of long-term survivors of cardiac arrest exhibit impaired mental abilities, manifested as learning impairment, memory disturbance. Since PKC is known to be a key player in synaptic function and has been implicated in promoting cell death after cerebral ischemia, it is a logical candidate as a modulator of synaptic derangements after CA. In this review, we provide an overview of synaptic dysfunction following CA and the putative role of PKC on this dysfunction.
Both clinical and laboratory studies demonstrate that seizures early in life can result in permanent behavioral abnormalities and enhance epileptogenicity. In experimental rodent models, the consequences of seizures are dependent upon age, etiology, seizure duration, and frequency. Recurrent seizures in immature rats result in long-term adverse effects on learning and memory. These behavioral changes are paralleled by changes in brain connectivity, dendritic morphology, excitatory and inhibitory receptor subunits, ion channels, and neurogenesis. These changes can occur in the absence of cell loss. Although impaired cognitive function and brain changes have been well documented after early onset seizures, the mechanisms of seizure-induced injury remain unclear. Recent studies have demonstrated abnormalities in single cell function that parallel behavioral changes.

The authors describe the MRI findings of a primary orbital Ewing's sarcoma in a 5-year-old boy, who underwent an extensive tumour surgery as these findings were mistaken for more chemoresistant sarcomas such as rhabdomyosarcoma. This case illustrates the fact that MR findings of primary orbital Ewing's sarcoma may be different from those of Ewing's sarcoma present elsewhere in the body. An accurate preoperative diagnosis may therefore result in a more conservative approach and prove extremely useful in such tumours.
We demonstrate that the human sorbin polypeptide is generated via splicing of an alternative transcript from the ArgBP2 gene locus. Previous studies have demonstrated that the central 139 amino acid region of the porcine sorbin polypeptide exhibits 95% homology to part of the human ArgBP2 protein. Yet neither the sorbin N- nor C-terminus has been identified in ArgBP2 or any other protein to date. Using computational analysis, we locate the sorbin N- and C-termini in the human ArgBP2 gene locus, and demonstrate that they are spliced to the 5' and 3' ends of the 95% homologous region. In addition, several sequence anomalies were identified in the putative human sorbin cDNA (AF396457). Thus, a revised human sorbin nucleotide sequence is proposed.
The efficacy of central leptin therapy on weight homeostasis through various phases of reproduction, pregnancy outcome and postnatal, prepubertal and pubertal growth of offspring was assessed. Enhanced leptin transgene expression after a single intracerebroventricular injection of recombinant adeno-associated virus vector encoding the leptin gene (rAAV-lep) decreased calorie intake and weight in adult nulliparous female rats. rAAV-lep treated rats conceived normally, displayed unremarkable pregnancy rate, parturition and delivered normal sized litters. Significantly lower weight was maintained through gestation, lactation, and post-lactation periods. The maintenance of a modest weight reduction was accompanied by voluntarily reduced calorie intake, increased thermogenic energy expenditure, decreased adiposity as reflected by drastically reduced leptin levels, and suppressed insulin and insulin-like growth factor 1 levels through lactation and post-lactation in rAAV-lep treated dams. The offspring at birth weighed significantly less than those of controls and this lower weight range was sustained during postnatal, prepubertal, pubertal and adult (3 months old) periods, contemporaneous with metabolic circulating hormones in the normal range. For the first time we show the persistent efficacy of central leptin gene therapy to suppress weight gain through all phases of reproduction, lactation and post-lactation in dams and reveal the potential imprinting link to producing lower weight in the F1 generation.
The choroid plexus (CP), i.e., the blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier (BCSFB) interface, is an epithelial boundary exploitable for drug delivery to brain. Agents transported from blood to lateral ventricles are convected by CSF volume transmission (bulk flow) to many periventricular targets. These include the caudate, hippocampus, specialized circumventricular organs, hypothalamus, and the downstream pia-glia and arachnoid membranes. The CSF circulatory system normally provides micronutrients, neurotrophins, hormones, neuropeptides, and growth factors extensively to neuronal networks. Therefore, drugs directed to CSF can modulate a variety of endocrine, immunologic, and behavioral phenomema; and can help to restore brain interstitial and cellular homeostasis disrupted by disease and trauma. This review integrates information from animal models that demonstrates marked physiologic effects of substances introduced into the ventricular system. It also recapitulates how pharmacologic agents administered into the CSF system prevent disease or enhance the brain's ability to recover from chemical and physical insults. In regard to drug distribution in the CNS, the BCSFB interaction with the blood-brain barrier is discussed. With a view toward translational CSF pharmacotherapy, there are several promising innovations in progress: bone marrow cell infusions, CP encapsulation and transplants, neural stem cell augmentation, phage display of peptide ligands for CP epithelium, CSF gene transfer, regulation of leukocyte and cytokine trafficking at the BCSFB, and the purification of neurotoxic CSF in degenerative states. The progressively increasing pharmacological significance of the CP-CSF nexus is analyzed in light of treating AIDS, multiple sclerosis, stroke, hydrocephalus, and Alzheimer's disease.
Functional gastrointestinal disorders, including irritable bowel syndrome and functional dyspepsia, are highly prevalent disorders affecting approximately one in four people in Western societies. This article reviews examples of the role of pharmacogenomics in the safety and efficacy of medications used in the management of such disorders. These include variations in the effects of medications metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes (e.g., 2D6 and 2C19), and the effects of genetic polymorphisms in the promoter of the serotonin transporter protein, which influence the response to alosetron in patients with diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome. These observations suggest that pharmacogenomics will introduce a new era in pharmacotherapeutics in gastroenterology.
Male CD-1 mice were administered interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and bacterial endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide, LPS) and subsequently tested in the tail suspension test (TST), the Porsolt forced swim test (FST), and in the open field. IL-1beta (100, 300 and 1000 ng/mouse) injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) 90 min before the test induced a dose-dependent increase in the time spent immobile in the TST and the time spent floating in the FST. These responses were statistically significant only at the higher doses of IL-1beta (300 and 1000 ng). Nevertheless, all three doses of IL-1beta significantly decreased line crossings and rears in the open field and depressed food intake and body weight. Very similar effects were induced by LPS. Doses of 1 and 5 mug i.p. increased immobility time in the TST and floating time in the FST, but the same doses strongly depressed locomotor activity and body weight. These results indicate that both IL-1beta and LPS can induce depression-like effects in the TST and the FST. However, the doses necessary to induce these changes reduced feeding and activity in an open field, so that the effects observed in the FST and TST could be attributed to a general reduction in locomotor activity. Thus the results obtained in these two animal tests commonly used to test antidepressant properties do not provide strong support for an IL-1 hypothesis of depression.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) is a measure of sensorimotor gating that is deficient in schizophrenia. In rats, administration of the serotonin-1A (5-HT1A) receptor agonist, 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), causes a disruption of PPI. It is unclear whether this effect is due to the activation of pre- or post-synaptic 5-HT1A receptors, however pre-synaptic receptors located in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) may play a role. Our previous research showed that castrated rats have a reduced sensitivity to 8-OH-DPAT-induced disruptions of PPI. Therefore, in , male Sprague-Dawley rats were sham-operated or castrated and micro-injected with 8-OH-DPAT directly into the DRN. In , male rats were sham-operated or received a selective serotonergic, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine lesion of the DRN. 8-OH-DPAT was injected subcutaneously in these rats. In both sham-operated and castrated rats, a micro-injection of 8-OH-DPAT into the DRN did not disrupt PPI. Instead, in castrated rats, 8-OH-DPAT treatment tended to increase PPI. A DRN lesion caused a significant reduction in 5-HT content in the frontal cortex (70% reduction), striatum (69%) and ventral hippocampus (76%). In both sham-operated and DRN-lesioned rats, systemic 8-OH-DPAT significantly disrupted PPI. Taken together, these data suggest that the disruption of PPI observed in rats with systemic 8-OH-DPAT treatment is predominantly due to an activation of post-synaptic, rather than pre-synaptic, 5-HT1A receptors.
In Experiment 1, we assessed the effects of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) on locomotor activity in pubescent male and female Long-Evans rats. Thirty-nine day old rats were injected ip with 10 mg/kg of MDMA (ambient temperature 25 degrees C) three times at 2 h intervals. Initially, females showed greater locomotor activation by the drug than males, however after the second injection, males showed greater hyperlocomotion. After the third injection, 3 of 10 females and all of the males died. In the surviving females, we observed serotonin depletion in cortex and hippocampus, but catecholaminergic markers were unaltered. In Experiment 2, male and female rats were repeatedly injected with saline or 2, 5 or 10 mg/kg MDMA and body temperature was measured (ambient temperature 21.5 degrees C). After the third injection of 10 mg/kg MDMA, the MDMA-induced hyperthermia was greater in males than in females (about +0.8 degrees C); at the lower dose, no difference was observed. Probably because of the lower ambient temperature, only 1 female and 2 males succumbed to the MDMA treatment, and MDMA induced less serotonin depletion than in the first experiment, with no difference between females and males. Thus, pubescent males appear to be more sensitive than females to locomotor and hyperpyretic effects of MDMA. This sex-dependent effect, which is at variance with previously reported dimorphisms in psychostimulant effects, is discussed in terms of possible differences in dopamine D1 and D2 receptors at pubescence, or other factors related to drug metabolism.
Working memory impairments in the n-back task in schizophrenia have been linked to sustained deficiency in mesocortical dopamine function. More recently, abnormalities in the cholinergic system have also been documented in schizophrenia, with cortical reductions in both nicotinic and muscarinic receptors. While the cholinergic hypothesis of memory is well established, the role of cholinergic receptors in modulating n-back working memory is not known. We investigated the effects of selective and simultaneous muscarinic and nicotinic antagonism on spatial and object n-back working memory performance. The study was a double-blind, placebo-controlled repeated-measures design in which 12 healthy subjects were tested under four acute treatment conditions; placebo (P), mecamylamine (M), scopolamine (S) and mecamylamine+scopolamine (MS). Muscarinic antagonism with scopolamine significantly impaired both object and spatial n-back working memory, whereas nicotinic antagonism with mecamylamine had little effect. Simultaneous antagonism of both muscarinic and nicotinic receptors produced greater impairments in both object and spatial n-back working memory performance than muscarinic or nicotinic antagonism alone. These results suggest that: (1) both muscarinic and nicotinic receptors may functionally interact to synergistically modulate n-back working memory, and (2) that n-back working memory impairments in schizophrenia may in part be due to reductions in both muscarinic and nicotinic receptors.
The use of exogenously administered cholinesterases as bioscavengers of highly toxic organophosphorus nerve agents is a viable prophylactic against this threat. To use this strategy, cholinesterases must provide protection without disrupting behavior when administered alone. To assess behavioral safety, the acoustic startle reflex and prepulse inhibition (PPI) of C57BL/6J mice were investigated following administration of human plasma-derived butyrylcholinesterase (HuBChE). Two hours before testing, four groups of mice (n=10 per group) were pretreated with saline or HuBChE (2000 U, ip). Fifteen minutes before testing, subjects received either saline or the carbamate physostigmine (0.4 mg/kg, sc). Mice exposed to physostigmine exhibited a significant attenuation of the startle reflex, an increased time to peak startle amplitude, and significantly increased PPI. This effect was partially mitigated in mice pretreated with HuBChE. HuBChE alone did not change startle behavior or PPI significantly compared to saline controls. The circulatory time-course of butyrylcholinesterase was assessed in a separate group of mice and revealed levels approximately 600 times the physiological norm 2-4 h post administration. Thus, HuBChE does not appear to significantly alter startle or PPI behavior at a dose 30-fold higher than that estimated to be necessary for protection against 2LD50 of soman in humans.
An inhibited temperament can be manifested as simple shyness or as social phobia and is perhaps related to the extreme social dysfunction often accompanying schizophrenia. Here, we present a methodology for selecting subjects and testing changes in social attraction in an animal model of behavioral timidity. In Experiment 1, randomly selected female rats were chronically administered either vehicle only, the conventional neuroleptic haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg) or atypical drugs sulpiride (65 mg/kg) or clozapine (18 mg/kg). The animals were tested over 3 weeks for changes in attraction to a social stimulus. Findings revealed a statistically significant decrease in social investigation in the haloperidol treated animals compared to controls but no significant differences among the other groups. Experiment 2 employed pretests to select behaviorally timid (BT) animals. Only female rats having little initial attraction to unfamiliar non-social and social stimuli were chosen to serve as subjects for the experiment using the same drug exposure regiments and behavioral measures used in experiment 1. Results with pre-selected BT animals indicated that clozapine treated animals significantly increased social investigation whereas chronic exposure to either sulpiride or haloperidol groups did not increase social investigation. Indeed, haloperidol appears to have magnified avoidance of social contact. That there were minimal differences between drug groups on a measure of non-social general activity points to the beneficial increases in investigation from clozapine being specific to social inhibition. Conclusions are that timidity may involve aspects of the serotonergic system uniquely influenced by clozapine, and the animal model of the second experiment may prove useful for studies of the biological underpinnings of behavioral timidity.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) activation plays a role in the pathogenesis of various cardiovascular and inflammatory diseases. At the same time, PARP activation is also relevant for the ability of cells to repair injured DNA. Thus, depending on the circumstances, pharmacological inhibitors of PARP may be able to attenuate ischemic and inflammatory cell and organ injury or may be able to enhance the cytotoxicity of antitumor agents. Both aspects of the &quot;double-edged sword&quot; role of PARP can be exploited for the experimental therapy of disease. As several classes of PARP inhibitors move towards clinical development, or have already entered the stage of clinical trials, we expect that in the upcoming few years, clinical proof of PARP inhibitors' therapeutic effect will be obtained in human disease. In the current short overview, we summarize the pros and cons and challenges with respect to the clinical use of PARP inhibitors, the expected clinical outcomes and potential risks. It appears that on the cytoprotective aspect of PARP, acute, life-threatening diseases (myocardial infarction, cardiopulmonary bypass in high-risk patients, and other, severe forms of ischemia-reperfusion to other organs including stroke and thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair) may represent some of the prime development indications. In the context of inhibition of DNA repair, combination of PARP inhibitors with certain antitumor agents (for example temozolomide) in patients with tumors with extremely poor prognosis are expected to provide the initial clinical results. Development of PARP inhibitors for additional indications (e.g. chronic use for the therapy of neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation, or diabetic complications) may be more challenging because of the unknown potential long-term side effects of PARP inhibitors.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerases (PARP) constitute a family of enzymes involved in the regulation of many cellular processes such as DNA repair, gene transcription, cell cycle progression, cell death, chromatin functions and genomic stability. Among the 18 members identified so far, PARP-1 and PARP-2 are the only proteins stimulated by DNA strand breaks and implicated in the repair of DNA injury. Therefore, these molecules have been exploited as potential targets for the development of pharmacological strategies to increase the antitumor efficacy of chemotherapeutic agents, which induce DNA damage. PARP inhibitors have been shown to restore sensitivity of resistant tumors to methylating agents or topoisomerase I inhibitors, drugs presently used for the treatment of primary and secondary brain tumors or malignancies refractory to standard chemotherapy. Interestingly, PARP inhibitors may also provide protection from the untoward effects exerted by certain anticancer drugs, which cause oxidative stress and consequent PARP overactivation. The aim of this article is to provide a brief overview of the recent literature on preclinical studies with the specific and potent inhibitors newly synthesized.

Mitochondrial dysfunction has been well established to occur in Parkinson's disease (PD) and appears to play a role in the pathogenesis of the disorder. A key component of the mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) is coenzyme Q(10), which not only serves as the electron acceptor for complexes I and II of the ETC but is also an antioxidant. In addition to being crucial to the bioenergetics of the cell, mitochondria play a central role in apoptotic cell death through a number of mechanisms, and coenzyme Q(10) can affect certain of these processes. Levels of coenzyme Q(10) have been reported to be decreased in blood and platelet mitochondria from PD patients. A number of preclinical studies in in vitro and in vivo models of PD have demonstrated that coenzyme Q(10) can protect the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. A phase II trial of coenzyme Q(10) in patients with early, untreated PD demonstrated a positive trend for coenzyme Q(10) to slow progressive disability that occurs in PD.
Dipropyltryptamine (DPT) is a synthetic indolealkylamine first characterized in the 1960s. Largely forgotten since the discovery of multiple serotonin receptor subtypes, some of the properties of DPT at the cloned human 5-HT1a receptor are described here. When [3H]8-OH-DPAT is bound to the receptor, DPT inhibits the interaction with an IC50 of 0.1 micromol/l. This interaction is shown to be competitive when double-reciprocal plots of the DPT/agonist interaction are analyzed. DPT's effects in the signal transduction system are complex. While DPT alone (0.1-1,000 micromol/l) activates Gi when both cAMP and gamma-S-GTP incorporation are measured, in the presence of 5-HT (0.1-10 micromol/l), DPT blocks the agonist effect. In combination, the findings suggest that DPT is a moderate affinity partial agonist at the human 5-HT1a receptor. These results provide evidence that DPT has potential as a versatile experimental tool at 5-HT1a receptors.
We study the phenomenon of spatial coherence resonance in a two-dimensional model of excitable media with FitzHugh-Nagumo local dynamics. In particular, we show that there exists an optimal level of additive noise for which an inherent spatial scale of the excitable media is best pronounced. We argue that the observed phenomenon occurs due to the existence of a noise robust excursion time that is characteristic for the local dynamics whereby the diffusion constant, representing the rate of diffusive spread, determines the actual resonant spatial frequency. Additionally, biological implications of presented results in the field of neuroscience are outlined.
This is the first of a projected series of canonic reviews covering all invertebrate muscle literature prior to 2005 and covers muscle genes and proteins except those involved in excitation-contraction coupling (e.g., the ryanodine receptor) and those forming ligand- and voltage-dependent channels. Two themes are of primary importance. The first is the evolutionary antiquity of muscle proteins. Actin, myosin, and tropomyosin (at least, the presence of other muscle proteins in these organisms has not been examined) exist in muscle-like cells in Radiata, and almost all muscle proteins are present across Bilateria, implying that the first Bilaterian had a complete, or near-complete, complement of present-day muscle proteins. The second is the extraordinary diversity of protein isoforms and genetic mechanisms for producing them. This rich diversity suggests that studying invertebrate muscle proteins and genes can be usefully applied to resolve phylogenetic relationships and to understand protein assembly coevolution. Fully achieving these goals, however, will require examination of a much broader range of species than has been heretofore performed.
The responsiveness of the Ten-Meter Walking Test (10 MWT) for assessing the walking ability of patients with hemiparesis in the acute phase was evaluated. To put this into perspective, the responsiveness of two other measures, the Berg Balance Scale (BBS) and the Motricity Index (MI) were evaluated as well. Nineteen patients with hemiparesis due to stroke or cerebral tumour in the acute phase were recruited to this study. To measure its responsiveness, the 10 MWT was performed three times a week, and the BBS and the MI performed twice a week. The responsiveness of all tests was computed using the Effect Sizes (ES) and Standardized Response Means (SRM). The ES for the 10 MWT was 1.17 and the SRM was 1.68. The ES and SRM of the BBS were 0.59 and 0.99. The ES and SRM of the MI were 0.27 and 0.96. The results of this study indicate that the 10 MWT is a responsive assessment tool, and appears to be more responsive than other commonly used tests.
Essential oils are a major active constituent found in many Chinese medicinal herbs. Here, we demonstrate that two components of essential oils, carvacrol and eugenol, dose-dependently trigger intracellular Ca2+ mobilization in Jurkat T-cells and THP-1 monocytic cells. Both carvacrol and eugenol are also capable of stimulating the active phosphorylation of the p38 subgroup of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) in both cell types. However, carvacrol selectively activated the ERK subgroup in Jurkat T-cells, and stimulated the JNK subgroup in THP-1 monocytic cells. Eugenol treatment was not linked to ERK or JNK activation in either cell type. EC50 values for the induction of Ca2+ mobilization and MAPK activation were around 10 - 30 microM for both carvacrol and eugenol. Our results suggest that these essential oil components may act as effective agents to modulate the functions of immuno-responsive cells via different intracellular signaling pathways.
When only a small number of points of light attached to the torso and limbs of a moving organism are visible, the animation correctly conveys the animal's activity. Here we report that newly hatched chicks, reared and hatched in darkness, at their first exposure to point-light animation sequences, exhibit a spontaneous preference to approach biological motion patterns. Intriguingly, this predisposition is not specific for the motion of a hen, but extends to the pattern of motion of other vertebrates, even to that of a potential predator such as a cat. The predisposition seems to reflect the existence of a mechanism in the brain aimed at orienting the young animal towards objects that move semi-rigidly (as vertebrate animals do), thus facilitating learning, i.e., through imprinting, about their more specific features of motion.

Cognitive behaviour requires complex context-dependent processing of information that emerges from the links between attentional perceptual processes, working memory and reward-based evaluation of the performed actions. We describe a computational neuroscience theoretical framework which shows how an attentional state held in a short term memory in the prefrontal cortex can by top-down processing influence ventral and dorsal stream cortical areas using biased competition to account for many aspects of visual attention. We also show how within the prefrontal cortex an attentional bias can influence the mapping of sensory inputs to motor outputs, and thus play an important role in decision making. We also show how the absence of expected rewards can switch an attentional bias signal, and thus rapidly and flexibly alter cognitive performance. This theoretical framework incorporates spiking and synaptic dynamics which enable single neuron responses, fMRI activations, psychophysical results, the effects of pharmacological agents, and the effects of damage to parts of the system to be explicitly simulated and predicted. This computational neuroscience framework provides an approach for integrating different levels of investigation of brain function, and for understanding the relations between them. The models also directly address how bottom-up and top-down processes interact in visual cognition, and show how some apparently serial processes reflect the operation of interacting parallel distributed systems.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of agomelatine (S 20098) to accelerate reversal of the neuroendocrinological, behavioural and cyclical changes seen in a transgenic mouse model of the neuroendocrine characteristics of depression. The effects of agomelatine were assessed in transgenic mice with low glucocorticoid receptor (GR) function, after acute stress or induced phase shift, and compared to desipramine and melatonin. Mice were injected 2 h before the onset of the dark period with agomelatine (10 mg/kg, i.p.), desipramine (10 mg/kg, i.p.), melatonin (10 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle (hydroxy-ethyl-cellulose (HEC) 1%) each day for 21 to 42 days. Agomelatine was effective in reversing the transgenic mouse behavioural changes noted in the Porsolt forced swim test as well as in the elevated plus maze. Both the number of open arm entries and the total time spent in open arms of the elevated plus maze is greatly increased in transgenic mice. The mean time spent in open arms is exquisitely sensitive to reversal by agomelatine and desipramine. Agomelatine also markedly accelerated readjustment of circadian cycles of temperature and activity following an induced phase shift. This action of agomelatine was superior to that of melatonin while desipramine was without effect. The accelerating effect of agomelatine was particularly notable if treatment was started 3 weeks prior to the induced phase shift. Agomelatine treatment did not cause any major change in corticosterone or adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) concentrations nor in vasopressin (AVP), corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), GR and mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) mRNAs levels, which make it unlikely that the mechanism of agomelatine action is related to hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis changes. The present study shows that agomelatine displays some characteristics of antidepressant drug action in the transgenic mouse model, effects that could be partially related to its chronobiotic properties.
This review addresses the relationship between modifications in membrane phospholipid composition (MPC) and alterations in dopaminergic, serotonergic and cholinergic neurotransmitter systems in schizophrenia. The main evidence in support of the MPC hypothesis of schizophrenia comes from post-mortem and platelet studies, which show that in schizophrenia, certain omega-3 and omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) levels are reduced. Furthermore, examination of several biochemical markers suggests abnormal fatty acid metabolism may be present in schizophrenia. Dietary manipulation of MPC with polyunsaturated fatty acid diets has been shown to affect densities of dopamine, serotonin and muscarinic receptors in rats. Also, supplementation with omega-3 fatty acids has been shown to improve mental health rating scores, and there is evidence that the mechanism behind this involves the serotonin receptor complex. This suggests that a tight relationship exists between essential fatty acid status and normal neurotransmission, and that altered PUFA levels may contribute to the abnormalities in neurotransmission seen in schizophrenia.
The development of novel, atypical antipsychotics has been welcomed due to their lower incidence of extrapyramidal side effects. However, as with all pharmacotherapy, patient response is often varied and these novel compounds are not without their own side effect profile, most notably weight gain. Inter-individual variations in response to drug treatment are, in part, due to polymorphisms of the genes encoding drug targets. The importance of the serotonin system in psychiatric symptomatology and several side effects of antipsychotic drugs is well established. Thus genetic polymorphisms of two central 5-HT receptors (5-HT2A and 2C), at which many of the newer antipsychotic drugs act, are prime candidates for pharmacogenetic analysis of the effects of these drugs in the treatment of schizophrenia. To date, much work has focussed on the 5-HT2A receptor subtype. However, pharmacological evidence and recent molecular genetic studies would suggest a role for the 5-HT2C receptor in the consequences of antipsychotic treatment, particularly in relation to the development of both drug-induced dyskinesias and weight gain. This review briefly examines the pharmacology and physiology of the 5HT2C receptor in the context of its genetics, with discussion of known polymorphisms of this receptor gene and its promoter region. Associations between these polymorphisms and the development of schizophrenia, the symptom responses to antipsychotic treatment and side effects of such treatment, notably tardive dyskinesia and weight gain, are assessed and related to the presumed functionality of these polymorphisms. Such studies clearly demonstrate the potential of pharmacogenetics in optimising treatment for the individual patient.

The authors reviewed recent quantitative genetic research on learning disabilities that led to the conclusion that genetic diagnoses differ from traditional diagnoses in that the effects of relevant genes are largely general rather than specific. This research suggests that most genes associated with common learning disabilities--language impairment, reading disability, and mathematics disability--are generalists in 3 ways. First, genes that affect common learning disabilities are largely the same genes responsible for normal variation in learning abilities. Second, genes that affect any aspect of a learning disability affect other aspects of the disability. Third, genes that affect one learning disability are also likely to affect other learning disabilities. These quantitative genetic findings have far-reaching implications for molecular genetics and neuroscience as well as psychology.
Male wild house mice selectively bred for long and short attack latency (LAL and SAL, respectively) were previously shown to respond differently to chronic sensory contact stress with another SAL male. In the present study, it was investigated whether the genotype of the opponent played a role in the differential stress response of LAL and SAL mice. To this end, a LAL or SAL male was housed either under standard conditions (i.e. with a female), single, or in sensory contact with another LAL or SAL male for a period of 5 days. This period was chosen in order to study stress response adaptations. Although social isolation (singly housed) already induced changes in some physiological markers, in particular in LAL mice, the highest number of stress-induced changes was observed in LAL and SAL males living opposite a male of the other genotype. This was indicated in LAL mice by higher corticosterone levels, adrenal hypertrophy, and reduced seminal vesicle weight, and in SAL mice by higher ACTH levels and adrenal hypertrophy. Some mechanisms through which LAL and SAL mice could perceive each other as being different are proposed in the discussion, but it remains unclear why these mice show a differential stress response depending on the genotype of the opponent. In conclusion, it was demonstrated that a psychosocial stressor triggered line-specific changes in LAL and SAL mice, which were shown to be determined by the genotype of the stressor. These results open a new avenue to investigate mechanisms underlying genotypic-dependent stress responses.
Ghrelin is generally influenced by energy balance status and is inversely associated with body mass index (BMI), being reduced in simple obesity, notable exception being Prader Willi syndrome, and elevated in several conditions of undernutrition, including anorexia nervosa (AN). Interestingly, ghrelin levels have also been found elevated in patients with bulimia nervosa (BN) in spite of normal BMI. In humans, intravenous (iv) ghrelin administration induces endocrine (increase in GH, PRL, ACTH and cortisol) and metabolic (increase in glucose and decrease in insulin) effects as well as an increase in appetite and food intake. In AN, ghrelin administration surprisingly leads to a decreased GH response and absence of glycemic variations but normal PRL, ACTH and insulin response. This pattern would reflect a decrease in sensitivity to ghrelin or, alternatively, the metabolic status of AN. To further clarify the function of ghrelin in eating disorders, the endocrine and metabolic response to acute iv ghrelin (1.0 microg/kg) was studied in seven young women with purging BN (BW, BMI, mean+/-SEM: 20.3+/-0.5 kg/m2). Circulating total ghrelin levels were also measured. The results in BW were compared to those recorded in a group of nine healthy women (HW; BMI 22.3+/-2.5 kg/m2). The GH response to ghrelin in BW overlapped with that in HW. Ghrelin administration also led to a similar increase in PRL, ACTH, cortisol and glucose levels in the two groups. Insulin levels were not significantly modified by ghrelin administration in either group. The overlapping endocrine and metabolic response to ghrelin in the two groups occurred with regard to circulating total ghrelin levels which were higher in BW than in HW. In conclusion, BN, a condition of ghrelin hypersecretion, is connoted by a normal endocrine and metabolic response to exogenous ghrelin administration.
Some psychiatrists anticipate a revolution in psychiatric nosology, on the basis of emerging data from genetics and genomics. There are, however, good empirical and conceptual reasons to resist any such revolution. Basing an understanding of psychiatric entities on one of multiple biological (not to mention sociocultural and psychological) considerations is a specious method of approaching the project of psychiatric taxonomy. A classification system that lacks sufficient consensus on the phenomenology of those classified cannot be adequately buttressed by exclusively genetic accounts. This paper advocates a more diversely informed nosology that, in turn, fosters attention to broader diagnostic considerations. We explore more plausible ways in which genetics and genomics, in conjunction with neuroscience and other biological disciplines, can help to shape diagnostic classification in psychiatry. There are, of course, differing views on the degree of prominence that genetics should take in psychiatric diagnosis and classification. We outline these accounts in illustration of this continuum. Drawing on Wimsatt's work on robustness analysis, we dismiss optimistic scenarios about the potential nosological advantages of psychiatric genetics and genomics, and offer a novel defense of realism about psychiatric entities. We also briefly sketch an integrative methodology for psychiatric research and classification.
Being descendants of the Kraepelinian nosology, DSM-IV and ICD-10 rely largely on the internal cohesion of the clinical picture and the pattern of course and outcome as validating criteria of the definitions of mental disorders. The majority of the research diagnostic criteria are provisional and should be extensively tested against empirical evidence. The crucial issue is whether psychiatric disorders, as currently defined in DSM-IV and ICD-10, are clearly separated from one another and from normality. Options for future revisions of the classifications include categorical typologies, dimensional models and empirically derived prototypes. The advantages and disadvantages of each option are outlined, highlighting the need for new research focusing on these critical issues.
To deal effectively with the understanding, description and classification of mental morbid conditions, we must address the intricate concept of disease, illness or disorder in mental health. To do so, one needs to consider biological, psychological and social frameworks. These levels of analysis can offer avenues for greater understanding of the bases of illness as well as better ways of formulating its description and classification. Conceptual, epistemological and empirical data analyses are relevant and necessary. All these efforts should be aimed at serving and advancing the main purposes of classification and diagnosis, the chief encompassing one being enhancement of clinical care and public health. Although no definition of mental disorder may strictly embrace every condition of concern, some flexible definitional guidelines within a biopsychosocial framework may be helpful for advancing psychiatric nosology.




How objects are represented and processed in the brain remains a key issue in cognitive neuroscience. We have developed a conceptual structure account in which category-specific semantic deficits emerge due to differences in the structure and content of concepts rather than from explicit divisions of conceptual knowledge in separate stores. The primary claim is that concepts associated with particular categories (e.g., animals, tools) differ in the number and type of properties and the extent to which these properties are correlated with each other. In this review, we describe recent neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies in which we have extended our theoretical account by incorporating recent claims about the neuroanatomical basis of feature integration and differentiation that arise from research into hierarchical object processing streams in nonhuman primates and humans. A clear picture has emerged in which the human perirhinal cortex and neighbouring anteromedial temporal structures appear to provide the neural infrastructure for making fine-grained discriminations among objects, suggesting that damage within the perirhinal cortex may underlie the emergence of category-specific semantic deficits in brain-damaged patients.
With each cell division, telomeres progressively shorten until they reach a critical length, at which point the cells enter cellular senescence. Microglia, a non-neuronal cell type residing within the central nervous system (CNS), play vital roles in maintaining neuronal function, health, and survival in both the normal and pathological CNS. A recent article described an increased incidence of microglial cytoplasmic structural abnormalities (i.e., swelling, twisted and shortened processes, and fragmentation) and dystrophy occurring in the cerebral cortex of human brains with age. These results suggest that microglial dystrophy may be a result of, or contribute to, their senescence, which in turn may impair their neuron-sustaining functions and ultimately lead to neuronal cell death.

All multiple sclerosis (MS) patients should have their treatment profile carefully evaluated as to disease control, optimal therapy, and adverse side effects at every clinical visit, with the goal of safely minimizing disease activity. There is a general consensus among clinicians that therapy should be initiated early in the course of the disease and should be continued indefinitely unless disease activity continues, intolerable side effects develop, patient transitions to a primary progressive course, or more effective and safer drugs become available. Patients for whom treatment is delayed should be seen at least every 6 months, and therapy should be initiated if new disease activity is found. Magnetic resonance imaging is the most practical laboratory test currently available for monitoring ongoing tissue injury and is useful when evaluating the efficacy of a given therapy. Four immunomodulators and 2 immunosuppressants are currently approved for the treatment of relapsing or secondary progressive forms of MS; in addition, various immunosuppressive or immunomodulating drugs have been used off-label, alone or in combination, in clinical practice. Many issues remain to be resolved in attempting to modulate disease activity in MS patients. Consequently, the art of medicine and clinical judgment become important aspects of MS patient care.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are post-transcriptional regulators participating in biological processes ranging from differentiation to carcinogenesis. We developed a rational probe design algorithm and a sensitive labelling scheme for optimizing miRNA microarrays. Our microarray contains probes for all validated miRNAs from five species, with the potential for drawing on species conservation to identify novel miRNAs with homologous probes. These methods are useful for high-throughput analysis of micro RNAs from various sources, and allow analysis with limiting quantities of RNA. The system design can also be extended for use on Luminex beads or on 96-well plates in an ELISA-style assay. We optimized hybridization temperatures using sequence variations on 20 of the probes and determined that all probes distinguish wild-type from 2 nt mutations, and most probes distinguish a 1 nt mutation, producing good selectivity between closely-related small RNA sequences. Results of tissue comparisons on our microarrays reveal patterns of hybridization that agree with results from Northern blots and other methods.
Thirty-nine young adult participants performing the visual and tactile n-back working memory task were compared. In the visual task, letters were presented on a computer screen and in the tactile task, plastic letters embedded on a board were explored tactually. The amount of incorrect responses increased with increasing memory load in both tasks, but was significantly lower in the visual task. Subgrouping the participants with extreme performances into &quot;skilled&quot; and &quot;poor&quot; performers showed that the best performance was found among &quot;skilled&quot; visual performers, and the worst one among &quot;poor&quot; tactile performers. There was more interindividual variation among tactile than visual performance. We conclude that tactile working memory capacity, measured here by letter recognition and letter memory, is generally more limited and shows more variability than visual memory in normal sighted participants.
Cannabis use is associated with poor outcome in existing schizophrenia and may precipitate psychosis in individuals with preexisting liability. To investigate the overall effect size and consistency of the association between cannabis and psychosis, a meta-analysis from prospective studies was carried out. The pooled odds ratio was 2.1 (95% CI: 1.7-2.5) and could not be explained by confounding or reverse causality. Evidence suggests that cannabis is a component cause in the development and prognosis of psychosis, in which mechanisms of gene-environment interaction are most likely to explain this association. Potential new methods to directly link genetic liability to the effects of cannabis are discussed.
In a prior US study, schizophrenia vulnerability was associated with higher risk of initiating daily smoking after 20 years of age. A survival analysis of onset age of daily smoking compared 290 controls with 250 consecutive DSM-IV schizophrenia patients from outpatient facilities at an urban catchment area in Spain. After controlling for gender and education, the cumulative hazard curves for smoking initiation age of controls and schizophrenia patients were significantly different. After age 20, smoking initiation rates were higher in all schizophrenia patients (and in 107 schizophrenia patients who started daily smoking at least 5 years before illness onset).
Schizophrenia is associated with severe neurocognitive deficits that constitute a core feature of the disorder. Deficits have been most extensively studied in relationship to higher-order processes. This study evaluated the integrity of early visual processing in order to evaluate the overall pattern of visual dysfunction in schizophrenia. Steady-state visual-evoked potentials (ssVEPs) were recorded over the occipital cortex (Oz) in patients with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder (N=26) and in age-matched comparison volunteers (N=22). Two stimuli were used: windmill-dartboard and partial-windmill, which are contrast-reversing ( approximately 4 Hz), radial patterns with dominant low spatial-frequency content. Each stimulus was presented for 1 min. Fourier analysis was performed on the ssVEP data to extract the relevant temporal frequency (i.e., harmonic) components. Magnitude-squared coherence (MSC) was computed to estimate the relative signal level for each frequency component. The patients showed reduced amplitude and coherence of second harmonic responses in both conditions, but intact first harmonic responses in the windmill-dartboard condition. This finding of a differential deficit may indicate a significant loss in the magnocellular pathway, which contributes to the generation of the second harmonic component under these conditions. Early sensory deficits may lead to impairments in subsequent stages of processing.

A newly found transcription factor-DREAM can bind specifically with downstream regulatory element of genes, such as PPD, Hrk and c-Fos, and repress gene expression. It represents the first known Ca2+ binding protein to function as a DNA-binding transcription regulator. This provides a new mechanism of Ca2+ dependent regulation of gene expression in addition to protein kinase/phosphatase signaling pathway. In fact, DREAM, calsenilin and KChIP3, which are identified by different laboratories, are the same protein. So DREAM is a multifunctional protein, including PS interacting protein, Kv4 regulatory protein and transcription factor. The distribution, function and regulation of DREAM, as well as relationship between DREAM and pain, are reviewed in the present article.







Recent studies have shown that the novel dopamine (DA) D3 receptor antagonists SB-277011A and NGB 2904 inhibit cocaine- and/or stress-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior. The present study sought to determine if SB-277011A, NGB 2904, or BP-897 (a mixed D3 agonist/antagonist) similarly inhibit cocaine-associated cue-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior. Long-Evans rats were allowed to self-administer cocaine. Each cocaine infusion was paired with discrete conditioned cue-light and tone. Subsequently, drug-seeking (i.e., lever-pressing) behavior was extinguished in the absence of cocaine and cocaine-associated cues. Rats were then tested for cue-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking. We found that cocaine-associated cues evoked robust reinstatement of lever-pressing. Acute intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of SB-277011A (6, 12, or 24 mg/kg) produced a dose-dependent inhibition of cue-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior by 35, 65, and 85%, respectively, compared to vehicle-treated animals. Acute i.p. administration of NGB 2904 (0.1, 1.0, or 5.0 mg/kg) produced a 45, 30, and 70% inhibition of cue-induced reinstatement, respectively, compared to vehicle-treated animals. Acute i.p. administration of either 0.1 or 1 mg/kg of BP 897 did not produce a significant effect on cue-induced reinstatement, whereas a dose of 3 mg/kg produced a 70% inhibition of cue-induced reinstatement. These findings, combined with previous data, suggest that DA D3 receptor antagonism may underlie the inhibitory effects of SB-277011A and NGB 2904 on cocaine cue-induced reinstatement, while the effects of BP 897 may involve D3 and non-D3 receptor mechanisms.
Using mice with a targeted disruption of the adenosine A1 receptor (A1R), we examined the role of A1Rs in hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), long-term depression (LTD), and memory formation. Recordings from the Shaffer collateral-CA1 pathway of hippocampal slices from adult mice showed no differences between theta burst and tetanic stimulation-induced LTP in adenosine A1 receptor knockout (A1R-/-), heterozygote (A1R+/-), and wildtype (A1R+/+) mice. However, paired pulse facilitation was impaired significantly in A1R-/- slices as compared to A1R+/+ slices. LTD in the CA1 region was unaffected by the genetic manipulation. The three genotypes showed similar memory acquisition patterns when assessed for spatial reference and working memory in the Morris water maze tasks at 9 months of age. However, 10 months later A1R-/- mice showed some deficits in the 6-arm radial tunnel maze test. The latter appeared, however, not due to memory deficits but to decreased habituation to the test environment. Taken together, we observe normal spatial learning and memory and hippocampal CA1 synaptic plasticity in adult adenosine A1R knockout mice, but find modifications in arousal-related processes, including habituation, in this knockout model.
Endocannabinoids, which are typically released by principal cells in response to prolonged depolarization, act as retrograde messengers to inhibit synaptic transmission. A recent study shows that in a specific subtype of cortical interneuron, endocannabinoids released under similar circumstances can also act cell-autonomously. Here, endocannabinoids endow these neurons with a memory of their own activity in the form of a long-term change in excitability.
The nervous system contains a toolbox of motor programs in the brainstem and spinal cord--that is, neuronal networks designed to handle the basic motor repertoire required for survival, including locomotion, posture, eye movements, breathing, chewing, swallowing and expression of emotions. The neural mechanisms responsible for selecting which motor program should be recruited at a given instant are the focus of this review. Motor programs are kept under tonic inhibition by GABAergic pallidal neurons (the output nuclei of the basal ganglia). The motor programs can be relieved from pallidal inhibition through activation of striatal neurons at the input stage of the basal ganglia. It is argued that the striatum has a prominent role in selecting which motor program should be called into action.
Neuronal Ca2+-sensor (NCS) proteins constitute a subfamily of closely related EF-hand Ca2+-binding proteins that are expressed mainly in neurons or retinal photoreceptor cells. A variety of different neuronal functions have been attributed to these proteins. However, important new discoveries indicate that these proteins also have key roles in pathological processes of disease. Thus, a 'darker side' of NCS protein signaling has become evident in some CNS disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia, and in cancer. In this article, I will provide an overview of the current, and rapidly expanding, knowledge of how this important family of proteins might be involved in various major CNS diseases, the proposed role of NCS proteins in pathophysiological signaling and the development of pharmacological tools and novel research strategies.
The paper is dedicated to Academician Oleksandr Volodymyrovych Palladin (1895-1972), a founder of neurochemical school in Ukraine. The problem of biochemistry of the nervous system has been developed in Ukraine since the 20's of the 20th century. Theoretical principles and prospects of development of the basic trends in neurochemistry were stated for the first time in the paper by O. V. Palladin--the first work in biochemistry of the nervous system in Ukraine--&quot;Biochemistry of the Brain and Psychochemistry&quot;, published in the journal &quot;Nauka v Ukraine&quot; (&quot;Science in Ukraine&quot;) in 1922. Researches in neurochemistry have been carried out systematically since 1925 at the Ukrainian Biochemical Institute founded and headed by O. V. Palladin (O. V. Palladin Institute of Biochemistry, now). During the following period of half a century O.V. Palladin and his disciples made original works in the field of chemical topography of the nervous system, functional neurochemistry, in particular, in the field of protein and nitrous, lipid, nucleic metabolism, transmembrane transport of ions and metabolites, etc. Results of long-term investigations were reported at numerous international physiological and biochemical congresses, All-Union and Ukrainian biochemical conferences, seminars and have acquired the world fame. O. V. Palladin's great deserts in development of biochemistry of the nervous system were recognized and he was proclaimed a &quot;patriarch&quot; of the world neurochemistry at the first congress of the International Neurochemical Society in Strassburg (1967) and awarded a Gold Medal--one of the four delivered at the Second Congress of this Society in Milan (1969).
Visual responses to stimulation at high temporal frequency are generally considered to result from signals that avoid light adaptive gain adjustment, simply reflecting linear summation of luminance. Under conditions of high photopic illuminance, the center of the receptive field of the cat X-cell has been shown to expand in size when stimulated at high temporal frequency, raising the possibility that there is spatiotemporal interaction in luminance summation. Here we show that this expansion maintains constant the product of the center's luminance summing area and the temporal period of luminance modulation, implying that spatial and temporal integration of luminance can be traded for one another by the X-cell center. As such the X-cell has a spatiotemporal window for luminance integration that fuses the classical concepts of a spatial window of luminance integration (Ricco's Law) with a temporal window of luminance integration (Bloch's Law). We were interested to determine whether this tradeoff between spatial and temporal summation of luminance occurs also at lower light levels, where the temporal-frequency bandwidth of the X-cell is narrower. We found that it does not. Center radius does not expand with temporal frequency under either low photopic or scotopic conditions. These results are discussed within the context of the known retinal circuitry that underlies the X-cell center for photopic and scotopic conditions.
The present study describes the relationships between mosaic regularity, intercellular spacing, and packing of horizontal cells across a two-fold variation in horizontal cell density in four strains of mice. We have tested the prediction that mosaic patterning is held constant across variation in density following our recent demonstration that intercellular spacing declines as density increases, by further examination of that dataset: Nearest-neighbor and Voronoi-domain analyses were conducted on multiple fields of horizontal cells from each strain, from which their respective regularity indices were calculated. Autocorrelation analysis was performed on each field, from which the density recovery profile was generated, and effective radius and packing factor were calculated. The regularity indexes showed negative correlations with density rather than being held constant, suggesting that the strong negative correlation between intercellular spacing and density exceeded that required to produce a simple scaling of the mosaic. This was confirmed by the negative correlation between packing factor and density. These results demonstrate that the variation in the patterning present in the population of horizontal cells across these strains is a consequence of epigenetic mechanisms controlling intercellular spacing as a function of density.
Forty years ago R.W. Rodieck introduced the Difference-of-Gaussians (DOG) model, and this model has been widely used by the visual neuroscience community to quantitatively account for spatial response properties of cells in the retina and lateral geniculate nucleus following visual stimulation. Circular patches of drifting gratings are now regularly used as visual stimuli when probing the early visual system, but for this stimulus type the mathematical evaluation of the DOG-model response is significantly more complicated than for moving bars, full-field drifting gratings, or circular flashing spots. Here we derive mathematical formulas for the DOG-model response to centered circular patch gratings. The response is found to be given as the difference between two summed series, where each term in the series involves the confluent hypergeometric function. This function is available in commonly used mathematical software, and the results should thus be readily applicable. Example results illustrate how a strong surround suppression in area-summation curves for iso-luminant circular spots may be reversed into a surround enhancement for circular patch gratings. They also show that the spatial-frequency response changes from band-pass to low-pass when going from the full-field grating situation to the situation where the patch covers only the receptive-field center.
In this special issue of Visual Neuroscience , we present a series of papers to honor the life and career of Robert William Rodieck, who passed away at his home in Seattle on September 30, 2003. Rodieck held the E.K. Bishop Professorship in Ophthalmology at the University of Washington Medical Center from 1978-1997. Known to everyone as &quot;Bob,&quot; he leaves behind an intellectual legacy often admired by his colleagues and friends for its scope, intensity, and empathy for what was beautiful in the object of his studies.
The relationship between part shape and location is not well elucidated in current theories of object recognition. Here we investigated the role of shape and location of object parts on recognition, using a classification priming paradigm with novel 3D objects. In Experiment 1, the relative displacement of two parts comprising the prime gradually reduced the priming effect. In Experiment 2, presenting single-part primes in locations progressively different from those in the composite target had no effect on priming. In Experiment 3, manipulating the relative position of composite prime and target strongly affected priming. Finally, in Experiment 4 the relative displacement of single-part primes and composite targets did influence response time. Together, these findings are best interpreted in terms of a hybrid theory, according to which conjunctions of shape and location are explicitly represented at some stage of visual object processing.

The development of the serotonergic (5HT) and dopaminergic (DA) systems may contribute to the onset of psychotic disorders during late adolescence and early adulthood. Previous studies in our laboratory have suggested that these systems may compete for functional territory on neurons during development, as lesions of the serotonergic system at postnatal day 5 (P5) result in an increase in the density of dopaminergic fibers in rat medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). In the present study, the dopaminergic system of P5 rats was lesioned with intracisternal injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). Quantification of serotonin-immunoreactivity (5HT-IR) in mPFC at adulthood (P70) revealed a significant decrease in fiber density within layers II and III of the Cg3 subdivision of mPFC in lesioned rats compared to sham controls. We propose that the decrease in serotonergic fibers in mPFC in response to a neonatal depletion of dopamine may be due to the loss of a trophic effect of this system on 5HT neurons and/or fibers during development. Taken together with previous findings, our data suggest that there may be an &quot;inverse trophic&quot; relationship between the cortical DA and 5HT systems whereby dopamine facilitates the ingrowth of 5HT fibers, while serotonin suppresses the ingrowth of DA fibers. We present a model based on neurotrophic interactions at the cortical and brainstem levels that could potentially explain these unexpected results.
The Fragile-X mental retardation syndrome is the leading form of inherited mental retardation. Dendritic analysis in a mouse model (FraX) found abnormal pruning in somatosensory cortex. To further characterize dendritic abnormalities and assess their occurrence in other brain regions, we examined mitral cells in FraX mice olfactory bulbs. FraX mice exhibited dendritic abnormalities consistent with somatosensory cortex, suggesting that deficient pruning is found in multiple brain regions.
A model of the ribbon synapse was developed to replicate both pre- and postsynaptic functions of this glutamatergic juncture. The presynaptic portion of the model is rich in anatomical and physiological detail and includes multiple release sites for each ribbon based on anatomical studies of presynaptic terminals, presynaptic voltage at the terminal, the activation of voltage-gated calcium channels and a calcium-dependent release mechanism whose rate varies as a function of the calcium concentration that is monitored at two different sites which control both an ultrafast, docked pool of vesicles and a release ready pool of tethered vesicles. The postsynaptic portion of the program models diffusion of glutamate and the physiological properties of glutamatergic neurotransmission in target cells. We demonstrate the behavior of the model using the retinal bipolar cell to ganglion cell ribbon synapse. The model was constrained by the anatomy of salamander bipolar terminals based on the ultrastructure of these synapses and presynaptic contacts were placed onto realistic ganglion cell morphology activated by a range of ribbon synapses (46-138). These inputs could excite the cell in a manner consistent with physiological observations. This model is a comprehensive, first-generation attempt to assemble our present understanding of the ribbon synapse into a domain that permits testing our understanding of this important structure. We believe that with minor modifications of this model, it can be fine tuned for other ribbon synapses.
The activity state of neuronal networks can be characterized by the spatial-temporal grouping of their action potentials given a sufficiently large simultaneous recording sample. A sequence of action potentials (spike train) often has high frequency spike episodes that are generally called bursts. However, bursts are difficult to quantify and require operational definitions that reflect the type of activity and the interest of the experimenter. This paper presents a simple method for defining bursts as strings of spikes with only two parameters: a minimum number of spikes per burst and a maximum interspike interval. These two values represent a simple parameterization that is adequate for the description of temporal grouping in spike trains. Because this method has a minimal computation time, it allows implementation of burst analysis in real-time, including statistical changes in burst variables, histograms of burst types, and patterns in combinations of burst variables.


Administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) produces a fever response often precipitated by the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines in the CNS. This pro-inflammatory cascade has traditionally been regarded as a transitory event that, with a non-replicating antigen such as LPS, would subside within a few hours. We present data showing that central and peripheral levels of IL-1 were substantially elevated as much as 48 h after LPS in some structures. In order to explore other aspects of the sickness response that might follow a similarly protracted time course, rats were implanted with telemetry probes and injected (i.p.) with 0, 10 or 100 mug/kg of LPS and left undisturbed for 96 h. Rats injected with LPS evinced a polyphasic fever with intermediate temperature peaks at approximately 5 and 8 h. Although the fever appeared to subside during the first night cycle, more detailed analysis confirmed that it was masked by the circadian rise in core temperature during the dark cycle and actually persisted for approximately 36 h following LPS. In contrast, LPS produced a transient suppression of social interaction that was no longer evident 24 h after LPS. Finally, we report that prior LPS produced a sensitized fever response to social conflict 48 h later. Taken together, these results suggest that acute administration of LPS results in a protracted fever response and increased IL-1 that persist for at least 24-48 h, and that LPS may render certain aspects of the stress response to a sensitized state.
Performance measures of impulsiveness offer great promise for assessing this trait in clinical and experimental studies. However, little is known about their relative superiority or inferiority to standard cognitive performance measures as correlates of this trait. In this study, 58 healthy volunteers completed a self-rating of impulsiveness (Barratt Impulsiveness Scale) and a battery of neuropsychological tests. The test battery included measures of reaction time, attention, memory, fluency, and executive function, as well as two performance measures of impulsiveness--Time Estimation and a Go-No Go task. Self-ratings correlated moderately with a number of these test scores, but many correlations became non-significant after adjustment for age and education. Correlations with the Go-No Go task, verbal fluency, executive function measures (Trails B), and tasks requiring decision-making against time (Choice Reaction Time, Reaction Time to Paired Words and Paired Faces Memory Tasks, and response bias on the Continuous Performance Test) remained significant. Performance on the Go-No Go task was the strongest correlate of self-rated impulsiveness. The findings suggest that once general demographic or ability factors are accounted for, specialized performance tasks requiring decision-making and response organization under time pressure provide the most effective means of assessing this behavioral trait.
Retrograde synaptic signaling by endogenous cannabinoids (endocannabinoids) is a recently discovered form of neuromodulation in the brain. In the basolateral amygdala (BLA), endocannabinoid signaling has been implicated in learning and memory, specifically in extinction of aversive memories. To examine retrograde endocannabinoid signaling in this brain region, BLA neurons were freshly isolated using an enzyme-free procedure. These isolated neurons retain attached functional excitatory and inhibitory synaptic boutons. Spontaneous GABAergic IPSCs (sIPSCs) were isolated from these freshly isolated neurons and a 4 s step of depolarization from -60 to 0 mV produced suppression of sIPSC frequency and amplitude. A similar depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition (DSI) was observed in neurons in BLA slices. DSI in the single-cell preparation was abolished by the CB1 receptor antagonist N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-iodophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide, and DSI duration was shortened in the presence of 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl) pyridine, an mGluR5 (metabotropic glutamate receptor 5) antagonist. The initial decrease in sIPSCs induced by the DSI procedure was greatly attenuated in recordings with 20 mm BAPTA containing postsynaptic internal solution, but a delayed-onset decrease was observed under this recording condition. A CB1 agonist decreased sIPSC frequency and amplitude, whereas CB1 antagonists increased these responses. The antagonist-induced increase was abolished in 20 mm BAPTA-filled cells. These data provide solid evidence for retrograde endocannabinoid signaling in the BLA and also indicate that this retrograde signaling requires only a postsynaptic neuron and attached synaptic boutons.
Reelin is a secreted protein that regulates brain layer formation during embryonic development. Reelin binds several receptors, including two members of the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor family, the apolipoprotein E receptor 2 (ApoER2) and the very-low-density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR). Despite the high level of expression of Reelin and ApoER2 in the postnatal brain, their functions in the adult CNS remain elusive. Here, using electrophysiological, immunocytochemical, and biochemical approaches in cultured postnatal hippocampal neurons, we show that Reelin controls the change in subunit composition of somatic NMDA glutamate receptors (NMDARs) during maturation. We found that maturation is characterized by the gradual decrease of the participation of NR1/2B receptors to whole-cell NMDAR-mediated currents. This maturational change was mirrored by a timely correlated increase of both Reelin immunoreactivity in neuronal somata and the amount of secreted Reelin. Chronic blockade of the function of Reelin with antisense oligonucleotides or the function-blocking antibody CR-50 prevented the decrease of NR1/2B-mediated whole-cell currents. Conversely, exogenously added recombinant Reelin accelerated the maturational changes in NMDA-evoked currents. The maturation-induced change in NMDAR subunits also was blocked by chronic treatment with an inhibitor of the Src kinase signaling pathway or an antagonist of the LDL receptors, but not by inhibitors of another class of Reelin receptor belonging to the integrin family. Consistent with these results, immunocytochemistry revealed that NR1-expressing neurons also expressed ApoER2 and VLDLR. These data reveal a new role for Reelin and LDL receptors and reinforce the idea of a prominent role of extracellular matrix proteins in postnatal maturation.
The hippocampus is a center for learning and memory that receives abundant cholinergic innervation and richly expresses nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). Nicotinic mechanisms acting on the hippocampus influence attention, learning, and memory. During Alzheimer's dementia, nAChRs and cholinergic innervation decline in the hippocampus. Using mouse hippocampal slices, we examined the potential diversity of nAChR influences at the Schaffer collateral synapse onto CA1 pyramidal neurons. When nAChR currents were elicited locally at those excitatory synapses, various outcomes were possible depending on the relationship between the nAChR-mediated excitation and mild electrical stimulation. When mild presynaptic stimulation coincided with or preceded nAChR-induced action potentials by 1-5 s, then long-term potentiation was induced. However, if the nAChR-induced action potentials fell within 1 s before the electrical stimulation, then long-term depression resulted. Outside of these time frames, the mismatch of nAChR activity and stimulation led to short-term potentiation. The results indicate that nAChRs may have various influences over excitatory events in the hippocampus. Ongoing nAChR activity likely modulates the impact of glutamate transmission and alters the probabilities for various forms of synaptic plasticity. The fine network of cholinergic fibers running through the hippocampus forms synaptic contacts onto pyramidal cells, granule cells, and interneurons, ensuring continual modulatory influence by nicotinic mechanisms throughout the hippocampal complex. Disruption of events such as those described here may contribute to the deficits associated with the decline of nicotinic cholinergic functions during degenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's dementia.
The basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) are involved importantly in the processing and encoding of emotionally salient learned associations. Here, we examined the possible role of the mPFC in the acquisition and encoding of emotional associative learning at the behavioral and single-neuron level. A subpopulation of neurons in the mPFC that received monosynaptic and orthodromic inputs from the BLA demonstrated strong associative responding to odors paired previously with footshock by increasing spontaneous activity and bursting activity. This occurred specifically in response to postconditioning presentations of the footshock-paired odors but not to odors presented in the absence of footshock. In contrast, mPFC neurons that failed to respond to BLA stimulation showed no associative responding. Systemic or intra-mPFC blockade of dopamine (DA) D4 receptors prevented this emotional associative learning in neurons of the mPFC and blocked the expression of olfactory conditioned fear. These results demonstrate that individual neurons in the mPFC that receive a functional input from the BLA actively encode emotional learning and that this process depends on DA D4 receptor stimulation in the mPFC.
Neuropsychological research on the neural basis of behaviour generally posits that brain mechanisms will ultimately suffice to explain all psychologically described phenomena. This assumption stems from the idea that the brain is made up entirely of material particles and fields, and that all causal mechanisms relevant to neuroscience can therefore be formulated solely in terms of properties of these elements. Thus, terms having intrinsic mentalistic and/or experiential content (e.g. 'feeling', 'knowing' and 'effort') are not included as primary causal factors. This theoretical restriction is motivated primarily by ideas about the natural world that have been known to be fundamentally incorrect for more than three-quarters of a century. Contemporary basic physical theory differs profoundly from classic physics on the important matter of how the consciousness of human agents enters into the structure of empirical phenomena. The new principles contradict the older idea that local mechanical processes alone can account for the structure of all observed empirical data. Contemporary physical theory brings directly and irreducibly into the overall causal structure certain psychologically described choices made by human agents about how they will act. This key development in basic physical theory is applicable to neuroscience, and it provides neuroscientists and psychologists with an alternative conceptual framework for describing neural processes. Indeed, owing to certain structural features of ion channels critical to synaptic function, contemporary physical theory must in principle be used when analysing human brain dynamics. The new framework, unlike its classic-physics-based predecessor, is erected directly upon, and is compatible with, the prevailing principles of physics. It is able to represent more adequately than classic concepts the neuroplastic mechanisms relevant to the growing number of empirical studies of the capacity of directed attention and mental effort to systematically alter brain function.
The neuron doctrine represents nerve cells as polarized structures that contact each other at specialized (synaptic) junctions and form the developmental, functional, structural and trophic units of nervous systems. The doctrine provided a powerful analytical tool in the past, but is now seldom used in educating neuroscientists. Early observations of, and speculations about, sites of neuronal communication, which were made in the early 1860s, almost 30 years before the neuron doctrine was developed, are presented in relation to later accounts, particularly those made in support of, or opposition to, the neuron doctrine. These markedly differing accounts are considered in relation to limitations imposed by preparative and microscopical methods, and are discussed briefly as representing a post-Darwinian, reductionist view, on the one hand, opposed to a holistic view of mankind as a special part of creation, on the other. The widely misunderstood relationship of the neuron doctrine to the cell theory is discussed, as is the degree to which the neuron doctrine is still strictly applicable to an analysis of nervous systems. Current research represents a 'post-neuronist' era. The neuron doctrine provided a strong analytical approach in the past, but can no longer be seen as central to contemporary advances in neuroscience.
Chemical inhibition of neurons in the nucleus accumbens shell (AcbSh) elicits intense, behaviorally specific, feeding in satiated rats. We have demonstrated previously that this treatment activates a number of brain regions, most significantly the lateral hypothalamus (LH). This activation could be elicited through a direct neural connection with the AcbSh or secondarily through changes in autonomic activity, stress, or circulating levels of orexigenic or satiety factors. In the present study, we used the immunohistochemical localization of Fos protein to map neuronal activation after unilateral muscimol injections into the AcbSh to determine whether AcbSh-mediated Fos expression remains lateralized in the circuit and whether secondary systemic changes in the rat can be excluded as primary factors in the activation of downstream component nuclei. Rats receiving only saline injections exhibited very little Fos immunoreactivity. In contrast, unilateral injections of muscimol into the AcbSh consistently increased Fos expression in several brain regions. Three distinct patterns of expression were observed. Fos synthesis in the LH was increased only on the side of the brain ipsilateral to the muscimol injection. Fos expression remained primarily ipsilateral to the injection site in the septohypothalamic, paraventricular hypothalamic (PVN), paratenial thalamic, and lateral habenular nuclei, and medial substantia nigra, but was increased bilaterally in the piriform cortex, supraoptic nucleus, central nucleus of the amygdala, and nucleus of the solitary tract. Smaller numbers of Fos-immunoreactive cells were seen unilaterally in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, medial ventral pallidum, arcuate nucleus, and ventral tegmental area and bilaterally in the supraoptic and tuberomammillary nuclei. The labeling in the LH, PVN, and other unilaterally labeled structures provides evidence that these brain regions are components of an AcbSh-mediated neural circuit and suggests that they may be involved in the expression of AcbSh-mediated feeding behavior.
Recently, this laboratory provided evidence that interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), an immune and brain-derived cytokine, microinjected into the medial hypothalamus, potentiates defensive rage behavior in the cat elicited from the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG), and that such effects are blocked by a 5-HT2 receptor antagonist. Since this finding represents the first time that a brain cytokine has been shown to affect defensive rage behavior, the present study replicated and extended these findings by documenting the specific potentiating role played by IL-1beta Type 1 receptor (IL-1RI), and the anatomical relationship between IL-1beta and 5-HT2 receptors in the medial hypothalamus. IL-1beta (10 ng) microinjected into the medial hypothalamus induced two separate phases of facilitation, one at 60 min and another at 180 min, post-injection. In turn, these effects were blocked with pretreatment of the selective IL-1 Type I receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) (10 ng), demonstrating the selectivity of the effects of IL-1beta on medial hypothalamic neurons upon PAG-elicited defensive rage behavior. The next stage of the study utilized immunohistochemical methods to demonstrate that IL-1beta and 5-HT2 receptors were present on the same neurons within regions of the medial hypothalamus where IL-1beta and the IL-1beta receptor antagonists were administered. This provided anatomical evidence suggesting a relationship between IL-1RI and 5-HT2 receptors in the medial hypothalamus that is consistent with the previous pharmacological observations in our laboratory. The overall findings show that activation of IL-1RI in the medial hypothalamus potentiates defensive rage behavior in the cat and that these effects may also be linked to the presence of 5-HT2 receptors on the same groups of neurons in this region of hypothalamus.


Although there are clear interactions between circadian rhythms and drug addiction, mechanisms for such interactions remain unknown. Here we establish a role for the Clock gene in regulating the brain's reward circuit. Mice lacking a functional Clock gene display an increase in cocaine reward and in the excitability of dopamine neurons in the midbrain ventral tegmental area, a key brain reward region. These phenotypes are associated with increased expression and phosphorylation of tyrosine hydroxylase (the rate-limiting enzyme in dopamine synthesis), as well as changes in several genes known to regulate dopamine activity in the ventral tegmental area. These findings demonstrate the involvement of a circadian-associated gene, Clock, in regulating dopamine function and cocaine reward.
The modern concept of neurogenesis in the adult brain is predicated on the premise that multipotent glial cells give rise to new neurons throughout life. Although extensive evidence exists indicating that this is the case, the transition from glial to neuronal phenotype remains poorly understood. A unique monolayer cell-culture system was developed to induce, expose, and recapitulate the entire developmental series of events of subventricular zone (SVZ) neurogenesis. We show here, using immunophenotypic, ultrastructural, electrophysiological, and time-lapse analyses, that SVZ-derived glial fibrillary acidic protein(low)/A2B5+/nestin+ candidate founder cells undergo metamorphosis to eventually generate large numbers of fully differentiated interneuron phenotypes. A model of postnatal neurogenesis is considered in light of known embryonic events and reveals a limited developmental potential of SVZ stem/progenitor cells, whereby ancestral cells in both embryonic and postnatal/adult settings give rise to glia and GABAergic interneurons.
The mammalian medial vestibular nucleus (MVe) receives input from all vestibular endorgans and provides extensive projections to the central nervous system. Recent studies have demonstrated projections from the MVe to the circadian rhythm system. In addition, there are known projections from the MVe to regions considered to be involved in sleep and arousal. In this study, afferent and efferent subcortical connectivity of the medial vestibular nucleus of the golden hamster (Mesocricetus auratus) was evaluated using cholera toxin subunit-B (retrograde), Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (anterograde), and pseudorabies virus (transneuronal retrograde) tract-tracing techniques. The results demonstrate MVe connections with regions mediating visuomotor and postural control, as previously observed in other mammals. The data also identify extensive projections from the MVe to regions mediating arousal and sleep-related functions, most of which receive immunohistochemically identified projections from the lateral hypothalamic hypocretin (orexin) neurons. These include the locus coeruleus, dorsal and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei, dorsal raphe, and lateral preoptic area. The MVe itself receives a projection from hypocretin cells. CTB tracing demonstrated reciprocal connections between the MVe and most brain areas receiving MVe efferents. Virus tracing confirmed and extended the MVe afferent connections identified with CTB and additionally demonstrated transneuronal connectivity with the suprachiasmatic nucleus and the medial habenular nucleus. These anatomical data indicate that the vestibular system has access to a broad array of neural functions not typically associated with visuomotor, balance, or equilibrium, and that the MVe is likely to receive information from many of the same regions to which it projects.
The adult rat posterodorsal medial amygdala (MePD) is sexually dimorphic in regional volume and neuronal soma size, both of which are larger in males than in females. This sexual dimorphism is entirely dependent on adult circulating levels of testicular androgens, and both androgen and estrogen treatment can masculinize MePD structure. We examined male rats that are rendered androgen-insensitive by the testicular feminization mutation (tfm) of the androgen receptor (AR) gene to determine how a dysfunctional AR affects this and other brain sexual dimorphisms. In adult wild-type rats, the MePD in males had a greater regional volume, rostrocaudal extent, and soma size than in females. In genetic males, defective ARs affected some but not all of these indices: MePD volume and soma size in tfm males were intermediate between those of wild-type males and females, but the rostrocaudal extent of the MePD was unaffected by the mutation, being as great in tfm males as in wild-type males. Regional volume and soma size in the suprachiasmatic nucleus was reduced in tfm males compared with wild-type males, suggesting that AR normally affects this region in male rats. Interestingly, whereas volume of the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area was unaffected by the tfm allele, soma size in this region was reduced in tfm males compared with wild-type males. Although estrogen receptor activation has been shown to be vital for masculinization of the rodent brain, our results indicate that ARs also contribute to this process in several brain regions.
The intergeniculate leaflet (IGL), homolog of the primate pregeniculate nucleus, modulates circadian rhythms. However, its extensive anatomical connections suggest that it may regulate other systems, particularly those for visuomotor function and sleep/arousal. Here, descending IGL-efferent pathways are identified with the anterograde tracer, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin, with projections to over 50 brain stem nuclei. Projections of the ventral lateral geniculate are similar, but more limited. Many of the nuclei with IGL afferents contribute to circuitry governing visuomotor function. These include the oculomotor, trochlear, anterior pretectal, Edinger-Westphal, and the terminal nuclei; all layers of the superior colliculus, interstitial nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus, supraoculomotor periaqueductal gray, nucleus of the optic tract, the inferior olive, and raphe interpositus. Other target nuclei are known to be involved in the regulation of sleep, including the lateral dorsal and pedunculopontine tegmentum. The dorsal raphe also receives projections from the IGL and may contribute to both sleep/arousal and visuomotor function. However, the locus coeruleus and medial vestibular nucleus, which contribute to sleep and eye movement regulation and which send projections to the IGL, do not receive reciprocal projections from it. The potential involvement of the IGL with the sleep/arousal system is further buttressed by existing evidence showing IGL-efferent projections to the ventrolateral preoptic area, dorsomedial, and medial tuberal hypothalamus. In addition, the great majority of all regions receiving IGL projections also receive input from the orexin/hypocretin system, suggesting that this system contributes not only to the regulation of sleep, but to eye movement control as well.
Voltage-gated Ca2+ channels of the N-, P/Q-, and R-type and G protein inwardly rectifying K+ channels (GIRK) are modulated via direct binding of G proteins. The modulation is mediated by G protein betagamma subunits. By using electrophysiological recordings and fluorescence resonance energy transfer, we characterized the modulatory domains of the G protein beta subunit on the recombinant P/Q-type channel and GIRK channel expressed in HEK293 cells and on native non-L-type Ca2+ currents of cultured hippocampal neurons. We found that Gbeta2 subunit-derived deletion constructs and synthesized peptides can either induce or inhibit G protein modulation of the examined ion channels. In particular, the 25-amino acid peptide derived from the Gbeta2 N terminus inhibits G protein modulation, whereas a 35-amino acid peptide derived from the Gbeta2 C terminus induced modulation of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels and GIRK channels. Fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) analysis of the live action of these peptides revealed that the 25-amino acid peptide diminished the FRET signal between G protein beta2gamma3 subunits, indicating a reorientation between G protein beta2gamma3 subunits in the presence of the peptide. In contrast, the 35-amino acid peptide increased the FRET signal between GIRK1,2 channel subunits, similarly to the Gbetagamma-mediated FRET increase observed for this GIRK subunit combination. Circular dichroism spectra of the synthesized peptides suggest that the 25-amino acid peptide is structured. These results indicate that individual G protein beta subunit domains can act as independent, separate modulatory domains to either induce or inhibit G protein modulation for several effector proteins.
The intervibrissal fur-evoked activity in the rat somatosensory cortex was investigated using high-resolution optical imaging with a voltage-sensitive dye. The optical imaging revealed that the intervibrissal fur representation forms a U-shaped band around the borders of the posteromedial barrel subfield (PMBSF), and that this representation is characterized by a rostral-to-caudal somatotopic organization. When GABA(A)-mediated inhibition was partially suppressed by treatment with bicuculline, stimulation of the intervibrissal fur elicited spreading of an excitation wave in an area outside the PMBSF. The spreading wave propagated in both directions along the aforementioned U-shaped band of cortex, but barely invaded the center of the PMBSF. These imaging results suggest a distinct subdivision of cortex adjacent to, but outside, the PMBSF in the rat somatosensory cortex; this region receives input from intervibrissal fur, and seems to process its sensory information through well-developed local horizontal connections.
Signaling by heterotrimeric GTP-binding proteins (G proteins) drives numerous cellular processes. The number of G protein molecules activated by a single membrane receptor is a determinant of signal amplification, although in most cases this parameter remains unknown. In retinal rod photoreceptors, a long-lived photoisomerized rhodopsin molecule activates many G protein molecules (transducins), yielding substantial amplification and a large elementary (single-photon) response, before rhodopsin activity is terminated. Here we report that the elementary response in olfactory transduction is extremely small. A ligand-bound odorant receptor has a low probability of activating even one G protein molecule because the odorant dwell-time is very brief. Thus, signal amplification in olfactory transduction appears fundamentally different from that of phototransduction.

Acute stress suppresses pain by activating brain pathways that engage opioid or non-opioid mechanisms. Here we show that an opioid-independent form of this phenomenon, termed stress-induced analgesia, is mediated by the release of endogenous marijuana-like (cannabinoid) compounds in the brain. Blockade of cannabinoid CB(1) receptors in the periaqueductal grey matter of the midbrain prevents non-opioid stress-induced analgesia. In this region, stress elicits the rapid formation of two endogenous cannabinoids, the lipids 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) and anandamide. A newly developed inhibitor of the 2-AG-deactivating enzyme, monoacylglycerol lipase, selectively increases 2-AG concentrations and, when injected into the periaqueductal grey matter, enhances stress-induced analgesia in a CB1-dependent manner. Inhibitors of the anandamide-deactivating enzyme fatty-acid amide hydrolase, which selectively elevate anandamide concentrations, exert similar effects. Our results indicate that the coordinated release of 2-AG and anandamide in the periaqueductal grey matter might mediate opioid-independent stress-induced analgesia. These studies also identify monoacylglycerol lipase as a previously unrecognized therapeutic target.



Decision making often involves choosing between small, short-term rewards and large, long-term rewards. All animals, humans included, discount future rewards--the present value of delayed rewards is viewed as less than the value of immediate rewards. Despite its ubiquity, there exists considerable but unexplained variation between species in their capacity to wait for rewards--that is, to exert patience or self-control. Using two closely related primates--common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus)--we uncover a variable that may explain differences in how species discount future rewards. Both species faced a self-control paradigm in which individuals chose between taking an immediate small reward and waiting a variable amount of time for a large reward. Under these conditions, marmosets waited significantly longer for food than tamarins. This difference cannot be explained by life history, social behaviour or brain size. It can, however, be explained by feeding ecology: marmosets rely on gum, a food product acquired by waiting for exudate to flow from trees, whereas tamarins feed on insects, a food product requiring impulsive action. Foraging ecology, therefore, may provide a selective pressure for the evolution of self-control.
Morphine dependence is associated with long-term adaptive changes in the brain that involve gene expression. Different behavioral effects of morphine are mediated by different brain regions, for example, the locus ceruleus (LC), a noradrenergic nucleus, is implicated in physical dependence and withdrawal, whereas the ventral tegmental area (VTA), a dopaminergic nucleus, contributes to rewarding and locomotor responses to the drug. However, the global changes in gene expression that occur in these brain regions after morphine exposure and during withdrawal remain unknown. Using DNA microarray analysis in both mice and rats, we now characterize gene expression changes that occur in these brain regions with chronic morphine and antagonist-precipitated withdrawal. In the LC, numerous genes display common regulation between mouse and rat, including tyrosine hydroxylase, prodynorphin, and galanin. Furthermore, we identify clusters of genes that are regulated similarly by chronic morphine and by withdrawal, as well as clusters that show opposite regulation under these two conditions. Interestingly, most gene expression changes that occur in the VTA in response to chronic morphine are different from those seen in the LC, but the gene expression patterns in the two brain regions are very similar after withdrawal. In addition, we examined two genes (prodynorphin and FK506 binding protein 5) that are strongly regulated by chronic morphine or morphine withdrawal in the LC for their role in regulating withdrawal-associated behaviors. Inhibition of either protein profoundly affects withdrawal responses, demonstrating that the genes identified in this study have important functional roles in mediating opiate-induced behaviors.
Controversy exists regarding the relative roles of thalamic versus intracortical inputs in shaping the response properties of cortical neurons. In the whisker-barrel system, this controversy centers on the mechanisms determining the receptive fields of layer IV (barrel) neurons. Whereas principal whisker-evoked responses are determined by thalamic inputs, the mechanisms responsible for adjacent whisker (AW) responses are in dispute. Here, we took advantage of the fact that lesions of the spinal trigeminal nucleus interpolaris (SpVi) significantly reduce the receptive field size of neurons in the ventroposterior thalamus. We reasoned that if AW responses are established by these thalamic inputs, brainstem lesions would significantly reduce the receptive field sizes of barrel neurons. We obtained extracellular single unit recordings from barrel neurons in response to whisker deflections from control rats and from rats that sustained SpVi lesions. After SpVi lesions, the receptive field of both excitatory and inhibitory barrel neurons decreased significantly in size, whereas offset/onset response ratios increased. Response magnitude decreased only for inhibitory neurons. All of these findings are consistent with the hypothesis that AW responses are determined primarily by direct thalamic inputs and not by intracortical interactions.
The superior colliculus (SC) is a midbrain structure that plays a central role in the integration of information from different sensory modalities and the generation of orienting responses. Its normal function is thought to be governed by a strictly held balance between excitation and inhibition. This hypothesis was tested by recording from the same single units in the SC of cats before the injection of anesthetics, while anesthetics took effect, and after the injections during recovery. Sodium pentobarbital and ketamine, two agents commonly used in sensory physiology, were used. The results show a plethora of dose-dependent and nonlinear effects: the magnitude of evoked responses, receptive field properties, first spike latency, and bimodal integration were affected by both anesthetics in all units tested. Notably, prominent facilitation was observed at low levels of anesthesia, and inhibitory responses were changed into excitatory. Overall, the results challenge a fundamental tenet of sensory physiology: anesthesia, while decreasing single-unit responsiveness, leaves unaltered basic physiological properties.
Allocentric place memory may serve to specify the context of events stored in human episodic memory. Recently, our laboratory demonstrated that, analogous to event-place associations in episodic memory, rats could associate, within one trial, a specific food flavor with an allocentrically defined place in an open arena. Encoding, but not retrieval, of such flavor-place associations required hippocampal NMDA receptors; retrieval depended on hippocampal AMPA receptors. This might have partly reflected the contributions of these receptors to encoding and retrieval of one-trial place, rather than flavor-place, memory. Therefore, the present study developed a food-reinforced arena paradigm to study encoding and retrieval of one-trial allocentric place memory in rats; memory relied on visuospatial information and declined with increasing retention delay, still being significant after 6 h, the longest delay tested (experiments 1 and 2). Hippocampal infusion of the NMDA receptor antagonist d-AP-5 blocked encoding without affecting retrieval; hippocampal infusion of the AMPA receptor antagonist CNQX impaired retrieval (experiment 3). Finally, we confirmed that the d-AP-5 infusions selectively blocked induction of long-term potentiation, a form of synaptic plasticity, whereas CNQX impaired fast excitatory transmission, at perforant-path dentate gyrus synapses in the dorsal hippocampus in vivo (experiment 4). Our results support that encoding, but not retrieval, of one-trial allocentric place memory requires the NMDA receptor-dependent induction of hippocampal synaptic plasticity, whereas retrieval depends on AMPA receptor-mediated fast excitatory hippocampal transmission. The contributions of hippocampal NMDA and AMPA receptors to one-trial allocentric place memory may be central to episodic memory and related episodic-like forms of memory in rats.
Perfusion of acute hippocampal slices with stimulatory buffers has long been known to induce rhythmic, large amplitude, synchronized spontaneous neuronal bursting in areas CA1 and CA3. The characteristics of this model of neuronal hyperexcitability were investigated in this study, particularly with respect to the activity of antiepileptic drugs and compounds representing novel mechanisms of analgesic action. Toward that end, low Mg(2+)/high K(+)-induced spontaneous activity was quantified by a virtual instrument designed for the digitization and analysis of bursting activity. Uninterrupted streams of extracellular field potentials were digitized and analyzed in 10-s sweeps, yielding four quantified parameters of neuronal hyperexcitability. Following characterization of the temporal stability of low Mg(2+)/high K(+)-induced hyperexcitability, compounds representing a diversity of functional mechanisms were tested for their effectiveness in reversing this activity. Of the four antiepileptic drugs tested in this model, only phenytoin proved ineffective, while valproate, gabapentin and carbamazepine varied in their potencies, with only the latter drug proving to be completely efficacious. In addition, three investigational compounds having analgesic potential were examined: ZD-7288, a blocker of HCN channels; EAA-090, an NMDA antagonist; and WAY-132983, a muscarinic agonist. Each of these compounds showed strong efficacy by completely blocking spontaneous bursting activity, along with potency greater than that of the antiepileptic drugs. These data indicate that pharmacological agents with varying mechanisms of action are able to block low Mg(2+)/high K(+)-induced hyperexcitability, and thus this model may represent a useful tool for identifying novel agents and mechanisms involved in epilepsy and neuropathic pain.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by involuntary choreiform movements, neuropsychiatric disturbances and cognitive decline. The hyperkinetic phenomenology has commonly been attributed to a disturbance of the basal ganglia function, mainly the neostriatum, but its pathophysiology mechanisms remain unclear. Activity-dependent long-term changes in synaptic efficacy, such as long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), are widely considered to be the cellular models for acquisition and storage of information in neuronal networks. Both LTP and LTD have been described at the corticostriatal pathway and they might be probably involved not only in physiological motor behavior processing but also in disease states affecting that pathway. Systemic injection of 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) induces excitotoxic striatal lesions and abnormal movements in rodents, resembling those seen in HD. We examined synaptic plasticity in dorsolateral striatum slices prepared from both control and 3-NP-treated rats by recording extracellular field potentials. Our results reinforce the idea that both forms of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity can be recorded at the dorsolateral region of striatum by the same stimulating protocol in control rats and suggest that 3-NP-induced striatal lesions may be associated with suppression of LTD expression in the sensorimotor striatum.
It has been proposed that in order to increase the salience of sensations with an external cause, sensations that are predictable based on one's own actions are attenuated [1 and 2]. This may explain why self-imposed tickle [3 and 4] or constant forces [5] are perceived as less intense than the same stimuli externally imposed. Here, subjects used their right index finger to tap a force sensor mounted above their left index finger. When a motor generated a tap on the left finger synchronously with the right tap, simulating contact between the fingers, the perception of force in the left finger was attenuated compared to the same tap experienced during rest. Attenuation gradually reduced as the left tap was either delayed or advanced relative to the active right tap. However, no attenuation was seen to left taps triggered by right-finger movements that stopped above or passed wide of the sensor. We conclude that there is a window of sensory attenuation that is broadly temporally tuned and centered on the time at which the fingers would normally make contact. That is, predictive tactile sensory attenuation is linked to specific external events arising from movement rather than to the movement per se.

Brain extracellular space (ECS) forms hindered pathways for molecular diffusion in chemical signaling and drug delivery. Hindrance is quantified by the tortuosity lambda; the tortuosity obtained from simulations using uniformly spaced convex cells is significantly lower than that measured experimentally. To attempt to account for the difference in results, this study employed a variety of ECS models based on an array of cubic cells containing open rectangular cavities that provided the ECS with dead-space microdomains. Monte Carlo simulations demonstrated that, in such ECS models, lambda can equal or exceed the typical experimental value of about 1.6. The simulations further revealed that lambda is relatively independent of cavity shape and the number of cavities per cell. It mainly depends on the total ECS volume fraction alpha, the cavity volume fraction alpha(c), and whether the cavity is located at the center of a cell face or formed at the junction of multiple cells. To describe the results from the different ECS models, an expression was obtained that related lambda to alpha, alpha(c), and an empirical exit factor beta that correlated with the ease with which a molecule could leave a cavity and its vicinity.
In humans, drug-associated stimuli can provoke heroin relapse during abstinence. In rats, cues paired with heroin self-administration reinstate heroin seeking in a relapse model. The neurobiological mechanisms involved in this reinstatement, however, are largely unknown. Here, we determined the effect of LY379268, an mGluR2/3 agonist that decreases evoked glutamate release, on cue-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking. Systemic injections of LY379268 attenuated reinstatement of heroin seeking induced by exposure to a discrete tone-light cue that was previously paired with heroin infusions during self-administration training. In contrast, LY379268 had no effect on heroin self-administration. Results indicate that glutamate plays an important role in cue-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking and suggest that mGluR2/3 agonists should be considered for the treatment of opiate relapse.
More neurons are recruited into the hippocampus of adult black-capped chickadees in the fall than at other times of year. To determine whether declining photoperiod and photorefractoriness are cues stimulating this neuronal recruitment; we examined three groups of chickadees receiving bromodeoxyuridine injections 10 days before being killed: one group was photostimulated with long days (15L), a second group was held on 15L until photorefractory and another group was held on 15L until photorefractory, then moved to short days (8L). Measures of neurogenesis revealed no significant differences in hippocampal neuronal recruitment. However, neuronal recruitment was increased in the hyperpallium apicale of photostimulated birds. These results suggest that declining photoperiod per se is not a major factor regulating enhanced neuronal recruitment to the hippocampus in the fall.
In voltage-clamp, uncompensated series resistance results in steady-state voltage errors that scale with the amplitude of the elicited current and are often correctable offline. However, while investigating mechanoelectric transduction currents at hair cells' resting potential, voltage-gated calcium channels and calcium-activated potassium channels (BK) were activated in voltage-clamp by displacing the sensory hair bundle. This resulted from steady-state voltage errors (&lt;1.5 mV) induced by series resistance changing the holding potential. Thus, uncompensated series resistance, interacting with an elicited current, resulted in a voltage error that could induce the erroneous activation of other currents. This error is not correctable offline. Recognizing this type of error is critical when investigating multiple voltage-dependent conductances with steep voltage dependence.
We compared onset latencies for characteristic frequency pure tone and broadband noise responses in AI and posterior belt regions of the auditory cortex in awake macaques. We found that (1) in AI, responses to characteristic frequency tones and broadband noise have similar latencies, (2) in belt regions, characteristic frequency tone and broadband noise latencies differ significantly; broadband noise latencies are shorter, while characteristic frequency tone latencies are longer than corresponding values in AI, (3) for both pure tone and broadband noise responses in AI, latency decreases with increasing characteristic frequency and (4) despite a similar inverse relationship of tone latency and local characteristic frequency in belt areas, broadband noise latencies are uniformly short, and appear unrelated to local characteristic frequency. Dissociation of broadband noise and pure tone latencies may reflect the use of parallel anatomical routes into belt regions.
In the midbrain, the epithalamus comprises the habenular nuclei and the pineal gland. Based on evidence including imaging studies in schizophrenia patients, several investigators have postulated that dysfunction of this structure is causally involved in symptoms of schizophrenia. Recently, we showed that bilateral habenula lesions in the rat induced some schizophrenia-like behavioural changes, namely memory and attention impairments, but unaltered social interaction in a brief encounter and prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the startle reflex. Here, the possible involvement of the pineal gland in the same behaviours was assessed, by examining them in two series of experiments. In the first, these behaviours were examined in pinealectomized rats compared to sham-operated controls. In the second, they were examined in rats with combined lesion of habenula plus pinealectomy compared to sham-operated controls, to examine whether pinealectomy induced further deficits when combined with habenula damage. Lesions of habenula were confirmed histologically and neurochemically by reduction of choline acetyltransferase in the interpeduncular nucleus. Pinealectomy was confirmed post mortem by careful visual inspection. Pinealectomy induced no deficits in any test, while combined lesions led to the same pattern of deficits as previously observed after habenula lesion, i.e. marked memory impairment in the Morris water maze without affecting the amount of social interaction or PPI of the startle reflex. Thus, loss of pineal function causes no deficits in these behaviours and does not alter the qualitative pattern of deficits resulting from habenula damage.
This study was based on the higher prevalence of anxiety disorders in women than in men, and on the finding that early adverse experiences are a major risk factor for the development of anxiety disorders later in life. The object of this study was to investigate in rats, the sensitivities of the light-enhanced startle (LES) and fear-potentiated startle (FPS) paradigms to sex differences and to determine the effects of maternal separation (MS) on the baseline startle magnitude and potentiated startle response in these paradigms. Pups in the MS group were separated daily from their mother for 180 min/day from postnatal day 2 (PND2) to PND14. Control litters remained undisturbed. The adult male and female progeny were tested in the FPS and LES. As predicted, females showed a significantly greater potentiation of startle than males in the FPS, and a strong trend towards greater startle potentiation in the LES. Contrary to predictions, MS had no effect on startle potentiation in the FPS and severely disrupted LES in female, but not male rats. The observed sex differences add to the validity of the FPS and LES as animal paradigms of fear and anxiety. The findings indicate that these paradigms can be used to study the biological basis of sex differences in fear and anxiety. In contrast, the effects of MS on startle potentiation argue against the idea that MS provides a robust model for the predicted influences of early adverse effects on these startle potentiation measures of fear and anxiety.
Until recently, there was a lack of selective radioligands for the subtypes of metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors. [(3)H]LY354740 ((+)-2-aminobicyclo[3,1,0]hexane-2,6-dicarboxylic acid), a selective agonist for group II receptors (mGlu2 and -3, which are negatively coupled to cAMP production), has now been used to map their brain distribution and abundance by in vitro binding and quantitative radioautography. The selective cation dependence of its binding allowed the discrimination between mGlu2 and mGlu3 receptor labeling. Thus, in the presence of Ca(2+) and Mg(2+) ions, the agonist bound selectively to mGlu2 receptors as evidenced by: 1) the correlative distribution and abundance of binding sites (highest in the lacunosum moleculare of the hippocampus and lowest in white matter) with mGlu2 receptor mRNA and protein revealed by in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunohistochemistry, respectively; 2) its selective pharmacology; and 3) the distribution of LY354740-stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding (25-97% above basal, according to the brain region), revealing G protein-coupled receptor coupling to G(i) proteins. Nonspecific binding (in the presence of 10 muM DCG-IV, a group II-selective, mGlu2-preferring, receptor agonist) was &lt;10% of total. In adjacent sections, the distribution of binding sites for [(3)H]DCG-IV was very similar. This extensive study paves the way for investigations of the regional expression and regulation of mGlu2 receptors in human CNS diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, which may reveal their functional roles and identify potential therapeutic drug targets. Indeed, it has recently been demonstrated (Higgins et al. [2004] Neuropharmacology 46:907-917) that pharmacological manipulation of mGlu2 receptors influences cognitive performance in the rodent.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptor subtypes 1 and 2 have been implicated in rodent models of anxiety, but much less is known about the CRF system and social behavior. Both corticosterone and central CRF receptors modulate pair bonding in the monogamous prairie vole. Using receptor autoradiography, we mapped CRFR(1) and CRFR(2) in the brains of two monogamous vole species, the prairie vole and pine vole, and two promiscuous vole species, the meadow vole and montane vole. We found markedly different patterns of brain CRFR(1) and CRFR(2) binding among the four species, including species differences in the olfactory bulb, nucleus accumbens, lateral septum, hippocampus, laterodorsal thalamus, cingulate cortex, superior colliculus, and dorsal raphe. Interestingly, we also observed striking sex differences in voles: CRFR(2) binding was higher in the encapsulated bed nucleus of the stria terminalis in males than females for all four vole species. These results suggest possible sites of action for CRF-induced facilitation of pair bond formation in prairie voles, as well as potential sex differences in the CRF modulation of pair bonding. Further examination of CRF receptors in vole species may reveal a novel role for CRF in social behavior. Ultimately, our results identify several brain regions with conserved CRF receptor patterns across rodent and primate species, in contrast to several brain regions with phylogenetically plastic CRF receptor patterns, and have interesting implications for the evolution of CRF receptor patterns and behavior.


Using expressed sequence tag (EST) data for genomewide studies requires thorough understanding of the nature of the problems that are related to handling these sequences. We investigated how EST clustering performs when the genome is used as guidance as compared to pairwise sequence alignment methods. We show that clustering with the genome as a template outperforms sequence similarity methods used to create other EST clusters, such as the UniGene set, in respect to the extent ESTs originating from the same transcriptional unit are separated into disjunct clusters. Using our approach, approximately 80% of the RefSeq genes were represented by a single EST cluster and 20% comprised of two or more EST clusters. In contrast, approximately 25% of all RefSeq genes were found to be represented by a single cluster for the UniGene clustering method. The approach minimizes the risk for overestimations due to the amount of disjunct clusters originating from the same transcript. We have also investigated the quality of EST-data by aligning ESTs to the genome. The results show how many ESTs are not adequately trimmed in respect of vector sequences and low quality regions. Moreover, we identified important problems related to ESTs aligned to the genome using BLAT, such as inferring splice junctions, and explained this aspect by simulations with synthetic data. EST-clusters created with the method are available upon request from the authors.
Epidemiological studies suggest that the treatments of anti-inflammatory agents and anti-oxidants slow the progress of neurological diseases. Lignans are anti-oxidants and phytoestrogens found in a variety of plants. In this study, we investigated the neuroprotective effect of macelignan on glutamate-induced neurotoxicity and reactive oxygen species (ROS) in murine hippocampal HT22 cell line. Macelignan significantly attenuated the ROS production and neurotoxicity induced by glutamate in HT22 cell. Also, the properties of macelignan as an anti-inflammatory agent were investigated in microglials activation by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). It potently suppressed the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 and inducible nitric oxide synthase, that consequently resulted in the reduction of nitric oxide in LPS-treated microglial cells. It also significantly suppressed the production of pro-inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-6. These results suggest that macelignan possesses therapeutic potentials against neurodegenerative diseases with oxidative stress and neuroinflammation.
The novel small GTPases Rin and Rit are close relatives of Ras, and recent studies show that they play a role in mediating neuronal differentiation. However, the direct effectors of Rin and Rit have yet to be fully characterized. Here we showed that Rin and Rit directly bind to the PDZ domain of PAR6, a cell polarity-regulating protein, in a GTP-dependent manner both in vivo and in vitro. Moreover, Rin and Rit can form a ternary complex consisting of PAR6 and Rac/Cdc42, members of the Rho family of small GTPases modulating cell growth and polarity. This ternary complex synergistically potentiates cell transformation in NIH3T3 cells, and the interaction between Rin/Rit and the PDZ domain of PAR6 is important for this effect. These results suggest that the Rin/Rit-PAR6-Rac/Cdc42 ternary complex may work physiologically in the cells, such as in tumorigenesis.
Adenosine 5'-triphosphate is known to function as a potent extracellular messenger producing its effects via a distinct family of cell surface receptors. Different receptor subtypes have been shown to modulate different cellular functions such as proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis. We investigated the functional expression and proliferative action of metabotropic P2Y receptors in human melanoma tissue and cells. Expression of functional P2Y1, P2Y2 and P2Y6 receptor subtypes was established by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, immunohistochemistry and intracellular calcium measurements using a Fluorometric Imaging Plate Reader. Incubation of A375 melanoma cells with the P2Y1 receptor-selective agonist 2-methylthioadenosine-5-diphosphate caused a decrease in cell number which was dose-dependent, whereas incubation with the P2Y2 receptor agonist uridine triphosphate caused a dose-dependent increase in cell number. The action of extracellular nucleotides on P2Y receptors was shown to mediate the growth of melanomas and the P2Y1 receptor is a putative target for melanoma therapy.
Placebo analgesia and reward processing share several features. For instance, expectations have a strong influence on the subsequent emotional experience of both. Recent imaging data indicate similarities in the underlying neuronal network. We hypothesized that placebo analgesia is a special case of reward processing and that placebo treatment could modulate emotional perception in the same way as does pain perception. The behavioral part of this study indicates that placebo treatment has an effect on how subjects perceive unpleasant pictures. Furthermore, event-related fMRI demonstrated that the same modulatory network, including the rostral anterior cingulate cortex and the lateral orbitofrontal cortex, is involved in both emotional placebo and placebo analgesia. These effects were correlated with the reported placebo effect and were predicted by the amount of treatment expectation induced on a previous day. Thus, the placebo effect may be considered to be a general process of modulation induced by the subjects' expectations.
NCAM 180 isoform null neuromuscular junctions are unable to effectively mobilize and exocytose synaptic vesicles and thus exhibit periods of total transmission failure during high-frequency repetitive stimulation. We have identified a highly conserved C-terminal (KENESKA) domain on NCAM that is required to maintain effective transmission and demonstrate that it acts via a pathway involving MLCK and probably myosin light chain (MLC) and myosin II. By perfecting a method of introducing peptides into adult NMJs, we tested the hypothesized role of proteins in this pathway by competitive disruption of protein-protein interactions. The effects of KENESKA and other peptides on MLCK and MLC activation and on failures in both wild-type and NCAM 180 null junctions supported this pathway, and serine phosphorylation of KENESKA was critical. We propose that this pathway is required to replenish synaptic vesicles utilized during high levels of exocytosis by facilitating myosin-driven delivery of synaptic vesicles to active zones or their subsequent exocytosis.
Retinal rod and cone pigments consist of an apoprotein, opsin, covalently linked to a chromophore, 11-cis retinal. Here we demonstrate that the formation of the covalent bond between opsin and 11-cis retinal is reversible in darkness in amphibian red cones, but essentially irreversible in red rods. This dissociation, apparently a general property of cone pigments, results in a surprisingly large amount of free opsin--about 10% of total opsin--in dark-adapted red cones. We attribute this significant level of free opsin to the low concentration of intracellular free 11-cis retinal, estimated to be only a tiny fraction (approximately 0.1 %) of the pigment content in red cones. With its constitutive transducin-stimulating activity, the free cone opsin produces an approximately 2-fold desensitization in red cones, equivalent to that produced by a steady light causing 500 photoisomerizations s-1. Cone pigment dissociation therefore contributes to the sensitivity difference between rods and cones.
Abnormal folding of alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) is thought to lead to neurodegeneration and the characteristic symptoms of Lewy body disease (LBD). Since previous studies suggest that immunization might be a potential therapy for Alzheimer's disease, we hypothesized that immunization with human (h)alpha-syn might have therapeutic effects in LBD. For this purpose, halpha-syn transgenic (tg) mice were vaccinated with halpha-syn. In mice that produced high relative affinity antibodies, there was decreased accumulation of aggregated halpha-syn in neuronal cell bodies and synapses that was associated with reduced neurodegeneration. Furthermore, antibodies produced by immunized mice recognized abnormal halpha-syn associated with the neuronal membrane and promoted the degradation of halpha-syn aggregates, probably via lysosomal pathways. Similar effects were observed with an exogenously applied FITC-tagged halpha-syn antibody. These results suggest that vaccination is effective in reducing neuronal accumulation of halpha-syn aggregates and that further development of this approach might have a potential role in the treatment of LBD.
c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation is linked to the aberrant cell death in several neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. The sequence similarity among the JNK isoforms and fellow MAP kinase family member p38 has rendered the challenge of producing JNK3-specific inhibitors difficult. Using the crystal structure of JNK3 complexed with JNK inhibitors, potential compound-interacting amino acid residues were mutated to the corresponding residues in p38. The effects of these mutations on the kinetic parameters with three compounds were examined: a JNK3- (vs. p38-) selective inhibitor (SP 600125); a p38-selective inhibitor (Merck Z); and a potent combined JNK3 and p38 inhibitor (Merck Y). The data confirm the role of the JNK3 residues Ile-70 and Val-196 in both inhibitor and ATP-binding. Remarkably, the Ile-70-Val and Val-196-Ala mutations caused an increase and decrease, respectively, in the binding affinity of the p38-specific compound, Merck Z, of 10-fold. The Ile-70-Val effect may be due to the increased capacity of the active site to accommodate Merck Z, whereas the Val-196-Ala mutant may induce an unfavourable conformational change. Conservative mutations of the Asn-152 and Gln-155 residues inactivated the JNK3 enzyme, possibly interfering with protein folding in a critical hinge region of the protein.


Neural crest cells migrate along two discrete pathways within the trunk of developing embryos. In the chick, early migrating crest cells are confined to a ventral pathway medial to the dermamyotome while later cells migrate on a dorsal pathway lateral to the dermamyotome. Here we show that Slits are expressed in the dermamyotome, that early migrating crest cells express the Slit receptors Robo 1 and Robo 2, that Slit2 repels migrating crest cells in an in vitro assay, and that the misexpression of a dominant-negative Robo1 receptor induces a significant fraction of early crest cells to migrate ectopically in the dorso-lateral pathway. These findings suggest that Slits, most likely those expressed in the dermamyotome, help to confine the migration of early crest cells to the ventral pathway.
Protein serine/threonine phosphorylation is a significant component of the intracellular signal that together with tyrosine phosphorylation regulates several processes, including cell-cycle progression, muscle contraction, transcription, and neuronal signaling. Cross-talk between phosphoserine/threonine- and phosphotyrosine-mediated pathways is not yet well understood. In this study we found that peroxynitrite, a physiological oxidant formed by the fast radical-radical reaction between the nitric oxide and the superoxide anion, induced tyrosine phosphorylation of the serine/threonine protein phosphatase 1alpha (PP1alpha) in human erythrocytes through activation of src family kinases. We have previously shown in mouse red cells that upregulation of the src kinase fgr phosphorylates PP1alpha, acting as an upstream negative regulator of PP1alpha, and downregulates K-Cl cotransport. Here we found that PP1alpha is a selective substrate of peroxynitrite-activated fgr and that tyrosine phosphorylation of PP1alpha corresponds to an inhibition of its enzymatic activity. Despite fgr activation and PP1alpha downregulation, peroxynitrite stimulated in a dose-dependent fashion the function of the K-Cl cotransporter. In an attempt to understand the mechanism of K-Cl cotransport activation, we found that the effect of peroxynitrite is completely reversed by dithriothreitol, suggesting that peroxynitrite acts as an oxidizing agent by an SH-dependent and PP1alpha-independent mechanism. These findings highlight a novel function of peroxynitrite in regulating the intracellular signal transduction pathways involving serine/threonine phosphorylation and the functional role of proteins that are targets of these phosphatases.
The influences of IgA hinge length and composition on its susceptibility to cleavage by bacterial IgA1 proteases were examined using a panel of IgA hinge mutants. The IgA1 proteases of Streptococcus pneumoniae, Streptococcus sanguis strains SK4 and SK49, Neisseria meningitidis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, and Haemophilus influenzae cleaved IgA2-IgA1 half hinge, an Ab featuring half of the IgA1 hinge incorporated into the equivalent site in IgA1 protease-resistant IgA2, whereas those of Streptococcus mitis, Streptococcus oralis, and S. sanguis strain SK1 did not. Hinge length reduction by removal of two of the four C-terminal proline residues rendered IgA2-IgA1 half hinge resistant to all streptococcal IgA1 metalloproteinases but it remained sensitive to cleavage by the serine-type IgA1 proteases of Neisseria and Haemophilus spp. The four C-terminal proline residues could be substituted by alanine residues or transferred to the N-terminal extremity of the hinge without affect on the susceptibility of the Ab to cleavage by serine-type IgA1 proteases. However, their removal rendered the Ab resistant to cleavage by all the IgA1 proteases. We conclude that the serine-type IgA1 proteases of Neisseria and Haemophilus require the Fab and Fc regions to be separated by at least ten (or in the case of N. gonorrhoeae type I protease, nine) amino acids between Val(222) and Cys(241) (IgA1 numbering) for efficient access and cleavage. By contrast, the streptococcal IgA1 metalloproteinases require 12 or more appropriate amino acids between the Fab and Fc to maintain a minimum critical distance between the scissile bond and the start of the Fc.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) are considered to have widespread therapeutic possibilities on account of their ability to provide large numbers of cells whilst retaining multi-potentiality. Application to human demyelinating diseases requires improved understanding of the signalling requirements underlying the generation of oligodendrocytes from NSCs. During development, spinal cord oligodendrocyte precursors (OPCs) originate from the ventral, but not dorsal neuroepithelium due to the regulatory effects of the morphogen Sonic hedgehog (Shh). The developing human spinal cord shows comparable ventral-dorsal gradient of oligodendrocyte differentiation potential to the embryonic rodent spinal cord. In contrast expanded human neural precursors derived from both isolated ventral or dorsal cultures show a reduced capacity to generate oligodendrocytes, whereas comparable rodent cultures demonstrate a marked increase in oligodendrocyte formation by a hedgehog independent pathway. Inter-species difference in the capacity of neural precursors to generate oligodendrocytes emphasises the need for greater study of human derived stem cell populations.
Axonal degeneration is a prominent pathological feature in multiple sclerosis observed over a century ago. The gradual loss of axons is thought to underlie irreversible clinical deficits in this disease. The precise mechanisms of axonopathy are poorly understood, but likely involve excess accumulation of Ca ions. In healthy fibers, ATP-dependent pumps support homeostasis of ionic gradients. When energy supply is limited, either due to inadequate delivery (e.g., ischemia, mitochondrial dysfunction) and/or excessive utilization (e.g., conduction along demyelinated axons), ion gradients break down, unleashing a variety of aberrant cascades, ultimately leading to Ca overload. During Na pump dysfunction, Na can enter axons through non-inactivating Na channels, promoting axonal Na overload and depolarization by allowing K egress. This will gate voltage-sensitive Ca channels and stimulate reverse Na-Ca exchange, leading to further Ca entry. Energy failure will also promote Ca release from intracellular stores. Neurotransmitters such as glutamate can be released by reverse operation of Na-dependent transporters, in turn activating a variety of ionotropic and metabotropic receptors, further exacerbating overload of cellular Ca. Together, this Ca overload will inappropriately stimulate a variety of Ca-dependent enzyme systems (e.g., calpains, phospholipases), leading to structural and functional axonal injury. Pharmacological interruption at key points in these interrelated injury cascades (e.g., at voltage-gated Na channels or AMPA receptors) may confer significant neuroprotection to compromised central axons and supporting glia. Such agents may represent attractive adjuncts to currently available immunomodulatory therapies.
Inflammation and neurodegeneration characterize multiple sclerosis, as well as many other diseases of the central nervous system (CNS). The understanding of the molecular pathways that regulate these processes is of fundamental importance for the development of new therapies. Nerve lesions paradigms in animals can serve as important tools to dissect central features of human CNS disease and by using these models certain key regulators have also been identified. However, our knowledge of how aspects of neurodegeneration and CNS inflammation are regulated on a genomic level is very limited. Such knowledge may help to unravel disease mechanisms. By using a standardized nerve trauma model, ventral root avulsion (VRA), in a series of inbred rat strains we here demonstrate a potent genetic regulation of the degree of neuron death and glial activation. Genome wide mapping of these phenotypes in experimental rat strain crosses identifies several quantitative trait loci (QTLs) controlling nerve lesion-induced nerve cell death, local T cell accumulation and expression of MHC class II on microglia. This approach may lead to the identification of evolutionary conserved genetic polymorphisms in key controlling genes, which can serve as prime candidates for association studies in several human CNS diseases.
Action potentials in pyramidal neurons are typically followed by an afterdepolarization (ADP), which in many cells contributes to intrinsic burst firing. Despite the ubiquity of this common excitable property, the responsible ion channels have not been identified. Using current-clamp recordings in hippocampal slices, we find that the ADP in CA1 pyramidal neurons is mediated by an Ni2+-sensitive calcium tail current. Voltage-clamp experiments indicate that the Ni2+-sensitive current has a pharmacological and biophysical profile consistent with R-type calcium channels. These channels are available at the resting potential, are activated by the action potential, and remain open long enough to drive the ADP. Because the ADP correlates directly with burst firing in CA1 neurons, R-type calcium channels are crucial to this important cellular behavior, which is known to encode hippocampal place fields and enhance synaptic plasticity.
The cerebropontocerebellar mossy fiber system is a major CNS sensorimotor pathway. We used a double-retrograde axonal tracing technique (red and green beads) to chart in rats the pontocerebellar projection to different electrophysiologically defined climbing fiber zones in the posterior lobe (face-receiving A2 zone and forelimb- and hindlimb-receiving parts of the C1 zone in the paramedian lobule and copula pyramidis, respectively). Individual cortical injection sites were verified as located in a given zone by mapping the pattern of cell labeling in the inferior olive, whereas labeled cells in the pontine nuclei were mapped using computer-aided three-dimensional reconstruction techniques. A number of topographical differences were found for the pontine projection to the individual zones. Projections to the A2 zone were bilateral, whereas to both parts of the C1 zone, the inputs were mainly contralateral. Furthermore, the A2 (face), C1 (forelimb), and C1 (hindlimb) zone projections were centered in progressively more caudal parts of the pontine nuclei with little or no overlap between them. The areas occupied by cell labeling for each zone corresponded closely to territories in the pontine nuclei shown previously to receive projections from somatotopically equivalent regions of the somatosensory cortex. This precise cerebropontocerebellar topography, defined by climbing fiber somatotopy, is a new principle of organization for linking somatosensory and cerebellar cortices. The convergence of direct and indirect sensory projections is likely to have important implications for cerebellar cortical processing.

In the present paper we propose a novel method for the identification and modeling of neural networks using extracellular spike recordings. We create a deterministic model of the effective network, whose dynamic behavior fits experimental data. The network obtained by our method includes explicit mathematical models of each of the spiking neurons and a description of the effective connectivity between them. Such a model allows us to study the properties of the neuron ensemble independently from the original data. It also permits to infer properties of the ensemble that cannot be directly obtained from the observed spike trains. The performance of the method is tested with spike trains artificially generated by a number of different neural networks.

Local field potentials (LFP) are bioelectric signals recorded from the brain that reflect neural activity in a high temporal resolution. Separating background activity from that evoked by specific somato-sensory input is a matter of great clinical relevance in neurology. The coherence function is a spectral coefficient that can be used as a detector of periodic responses in noisy environments. Auditory steady-state responses to amplitude-modulated tones generate periodic responses in neural networks that may be accessed by means of coherence between the stimulation signal and the LFP recorded from the auditory pathway. Such signal processing methodology was applied in this work to evaluate in vivo, anaesthetized Wistar rats, activation of neural networks due to single carrier sound stimulation frequencies, as well as to evaluate the effect of different modulating tones in the evoked responses. Our results show that an inappropriate choice of sound stimuli modulating frequencies can compromise coherence analysis, e.g. misleading conclusions due to mathematical artefact of signal processing. Two modulating frequency correction protocols were used: nearest integer and nearest prime number. The nearest prime number correction was successful in avoiding spectral leakage in the coherence analysis of steady-state auditory response, as predicted by Monte Carlo simulations.
Sustained proton activation of native ASIC channels in primary sensory neurons or HEK293 cells leads to a reduction in the peak amplitude of transient inward currents and the progressive development of a persistent component, which hinders titration experiments in pharmacological studies. Here we report that extracellular trypsin applied for 5 min at 10-45 microg/ml and/or a short exposure to high Ca2+ (75 mM for less than 1 min) alleviate the persistent component, improving reproducibility of acid-elicited transients. Selectivity measurements performed in current clamp mode, in essentially bi-ionic conditions, prove that these two treatments decrease hASIC1a permeability for divalent but not for monovalent cations, producing a significant change in P(Na)/P(Ca) from 8.2+/-2.1 (mean+/-S.D.) to 26.0+/-7.8 (trypsin) or 24.5+/-11.1 (high Ca2+). The slope conductance of the unit inward Ca2+ transient was also lowered from 5.7 to 2.7 pS after trypsin.
We describe a method for mounting tissue sections onto slides that is faster and especially useful for those sections too thin or too large to be mounted easily by conventional methods. We have devised a chamber system for mounting tissue sections onto slides under buffer solution. Because of the buoyancy of sections in the buffer solution and the elimination of fluid surface tension, it is easy to move, turn, unfold, and spread even quite large or thin tissue sections. In-solution-mounting in this chamber also greatly reduces the force of the brush tip used to maneuver sections onto the slide, thus resulting in less damage to the tissue sections. This chamber greatly facilitates mounting multiple tissue sections onto a single slide. The new method is applicable to protocols that stain tissue sections either before (e.g. cytochrome oxidase) or after (e.g. cresyl violet) section mounting.
The H-reflex may be a useful measure to examine the lower extremity muscles activation and inhibition following an injury. Recording the vastus medialis H-reflex amplitudes in healthy subjects while standing or lying during varied knee flexion angles may establish a reference for comparison for patients with ACL injury. Vastus medialis and soleus H-reflexes were recorded from 14 healthy subjects while lying and standing during 0, 30, 45, and 60 degrees knee flexion. EMG unit was used to electrically stimulate the tibial and femoral nerves (using 0.5 ms pulses at 0.2 pps of H-maximum amplitude) and to record four traces of the soleus and vastus medialis H-wave and one trace of the M-wave peak-to-peak amplitudes. Repeated measures three-way ANOVAs were calculated with the global alpha=0.05. Results showed that (1) the average soleus H-reflex amplitude was significantly less during standing than lying across all knee flexion conditions, (2) the average vastus medialis H-reflex amplitudes showed no measurable significant differences between neutral standing compared with lying, (3) the average vastus medialis H-reflex amplitudes were significantly greater during standing knee flexion conditions (30, 45, and 60 degrees ) than lying or neutral standing, and (4) there were no differences between soleus and vastus medialis H-reflex amplitudes during lying across all knee flexion conditions. Data from H/M ratio follow the same pattern of H-amplitude. Recording the vastus medialis H-reflex amplitude during standing and knee flexion may be a reflective of the knee function. It is more specific than the soleus H-reflex because it reflects the changes in the excitability of the quadriceps motoneurons acting directly around the knee joint.
Maintaining a stable physiologic state is essential when studying animal models of epilepsy with simultaneous electroencephalograph (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) or EEG and magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). To achieve and maintain such stability in rats in the MRI environment, a minimally invasive but comprehensive system was developed to monitor body temperature, heart rate, blood pressure, blood oxygen saturation and end-tidal CO2 (ETCO2) of expired gas. All physiologic parameters were successfully monitored in Sprague-Dawley rats without interfering with EEG recordings during simultaneous fMRI and MRS studies. Body temperature, heart rate, blood pressure, blood oxygen saturation, and ETCO2, were maintained between 36.5 and 37.5 degrees C, 250-450 beats/min, 136+/-17 mmHg, &gt;90%, and 20-35 mmHg, respectively for 6-8 h under inhalational anesthesia. This set-up could be extended to study in vivo applications in other laboratory animals with only minor modifications.
Low-density cultures of embryonic rat hippocampal neurons have been widely used to investigate localization and function of neuronal proteins using immunocytochemistry and electrophysiology. These cultures provide a relatively homogeneous population of hippocampal pyramidal neurons and interneurons compared to post-natal mixed neuron/glial cultures from hippocampus, cerebral cortex, and cerebellum. However, the limited quantity of neurons and the difficulty in harvesting adequate amounts makes biochemical analyses of endogenous neuronal proteins in these low-density cultured neurons difficult. Here, we provide detailed methods to prepare cultures of embryonic rat hippocampal neurons suitable for biochemical analyses of both endogenously and exogenously expressed proteins. The procedures described here are also suitable for comprehensive studies of expression, localization, post-translational modification, and function of neuronal proteins in the same neuronal culture system.
In a hippocampal brain slice two types of stimulating electrodes [single (SE) or monopolar and parallel bipolar (PE)] were used to determine the optimal protocol for single pulse microstimulation. We show that even for a constant-current power source the amplitude of stimulating current (SC) is not constant, especially for short pulse widths (PW) (&lt;200 micros). Recording the stimulating current and computing the amount of electric charge that is passed through the microelectrode gives the best estimate of the strength of electrical stimulation. For SE the evoked response is obstructed for a time interval larger than three times the PW. The stimulus artifact (SA) substantially decreases when a PE is used. The orientation of the stimulating current relative to the position of the targeted fibers (Schaffer collaterals) was controlled when using a PE. The use of PEs allowed the accurate recording of the physiological response that contains three clearly defined peaks. Stimulation can be elicited at PW as short as 30 micros when the main current is capacitive. The charge needed to elicit physiological responses was in the range of 1-40 nC (the lower values for the PE) suggesting that use of PEs is most advantageous for well-controlled microstimulation studies in brain slices.
Use of DNA microarrays in neuroscience have been limited to rough screening purposes, mainly because the reliability and sensitivity of available arrays are not high enough. Because only a few hundred to one thousand genes are usually found to change expression levels in most experiments, we attempted to develop a more quantitative array by the following strategies: 1) limit the genes to those relevant to the experimental system, 2) design oligonucleotide probes of specified molecular properties so that more stringent hybridization conditions can be employed, 3) place six spots per probe on one slide and use multiple normalization genes, and 4) use a new type of gold-coated slide with higher S/N ratio. Genes involved in the construction and functioning of the synapse were selected from the literature as well as experimentally by comparing cerebella from hypothyroid and control mice at postnatal day 15 (P15). Although the number of genes covered was not yet large (172 genes), the custom array &quot;Synaptoarray&quot; thus constructed was capable of detecting +/-20% difference in gene expression ratios. Analysis of the postnatal development of the mouse cerebellum by using Synaptoarray demonstrated a general expression pattern with a peak at P7, followed by a decline at P15 and a partial recovery after P21. P10 clearly marked the end of the initial growth stage and a major transcriptional turning point in this system. This result suggests that such a custom array should be useful in monitoring perturbations to the normal developmental program.
Lead (Pb) persists as an environmental toxicant despite aggressive environmental and occupational regulation. Neurotoxicological effects of acute Pb poisoning range from subtle cognitive deficits, to clumsiness and ataxia, to coma and seizures. In adult neurotoxicity, reductions of blood Pb levels are often associated with reversal of clinical signs. In children, however, the effects are more likely to endure, with even low levels of chronic Pb exposure correlating with decreasing IQ. These persistent effects likely result from neurodevelopmental insults, such as altered cell survival or maturation, although the mechanisms have not been fully defined. In the present study we define the effects of moderate-level Pb exposure on mammalian neurogenesis using a well-characterized cortical precursor model. Gestational day 14.5 rat cerebral cortical precursor cells were cultured in defined media and cell number, precursor proliferation, apoptosis, and neuritic process outgrowth were assessed following exposure to a range of Pb acetate concentrations. Surprisingly, whereas a concentration of 30 microg/ml Pb acetate was acutely toxic to neurons, concentrations between 1 and 10 microg/ml Pb acetate (approximately 3 microM and 30 microM Pb, respectively) increased cell number: 10 times as many cells exposed to 10 microg/ml Pb were present on day 4 as compared to control. The increase in cell number was not a result of increased proliferation, however, as DNA synthesis did not increase. Rather, Pb exposure maintained the survival of cortical precursors, as the progressive apoptosis occurring under control conditions was markedly reduced by the metal. Additionally, neuritic process initiation and outgrowth increased in a concentration-dependent manner, with processes four times as abundant on day 1 and twice as long on day 2. These results suggest that brief exposure to lead during neurogenesis directly affects cell survival and process development, potentially altering cortical arrangement. Consequently, alterations in neural circuitry may underlie some of the neurological effects of Pb exposure during brain development.
Parkinson's disease is characterized by the progressive degeneration of midbrain dopaminergic neurons. Several studies have examined the effects of the dopaminergic neurotrophins growth/differentiation factor 5 (GDF5) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) on these neurons in vitro. However, there is little information regarding their effects on astroglial cells. Here, the effects of GDF5 and GDNF on dopaminergic neuronal and astroglial survival and differentiation in embryonic rat midbrain cultures were examined. Both GDF5 and GDNF enhanced the survival and differentiation of dopaminergic neurons. GDF5 significantly increased the survival of astroglial cells, whereas GDNF had no significant effect on these cells. The possible involvement of astroglia in the dopaminergic neurotrophic effect induced by GDF5 was investigated by examining the effect of GDF5 on the survival of dopaminergic neurons in glia-depleted midbrain cultures. There was no significant difference between the survival of dopaminergic neurons in glia-depleted cultures treated with GDF5 and that in mixed cell cultures treated with GDF5, suggesting that GDF5 acts directly on dopaminergic neurons in exerting its neurotrophic effect. GDF5 and GDNF have been established as potent neurotrophic factors for dopaminergic neurons. However, the effects of adding a combination of these neurotrophins to midbrain cultures have not been previously examined. The present study found that combined treatment with GDF5 and GDNF significantly increased the survival of dopaminergic neurons in cultures compared with that in cultures treated with either neurotrophin alone. This was an additive effect, indicating that these neurotrophins act on separate subpopulations of dopaminergic neurons.
In the immature hippocampus, the so-called 'giant depolarizing potentials' (GDPs) are network-driven synaptic events generated by the synergistic action of glutamate and GABA. Here we tested the hypothesis that ATP, a widely distributed neurotransmitter, directly contributes to the network activity during the first postnatal week. We found that in CA3 pyramidal cells, in the presence of the adenosine antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX), ATP produced a transient facilitation of GDPs followed by a depressant effect. A similar biphasic effect was produced by blockade of the ectoATPase activity with 6-N,N-diethyl-D-beta,gamma-dibromomethylene ATP (ARL-67156). The effects of exogenous and endogenous ATP on GDPs were prevented by the P2X receptor antagonist pyridoxal phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid (PPADS). On pyramidal cells, ATP upregulated spontaneous action-potential-dependent GABA(A)-mediated synaptic events (GABA-SPSPs), suggesting a network-driven effect. Recordings from interneurones allowed comparison of ATP effects on GABAergic and glutamatergic synaptic activity. While ATP depressed GABA-SPSPs via metabotropic P2Y(1) receptors, it up- and downregulated glutamatergic SPSPs via PPADS-sensitive receptors. Thus, ATP exerts an excitatory action on CA3 pyramidal cells via facilitation of GDPs and SPSPs. This excitatory drive is propagated to pyramidal cells by interneurons that represent the 'common pathway' for generation of GDPs and SPSPs. Our results show that ATP operating via distinct P2X and P2Y receptors directly contributes to modulate network activity at the early stages of postnatal development.
It is well established that the main intrinsic electrophysiological properties of thalamocortical relay cells, production of a low threshold burst upon release from hyperpolarized potential and production of a train of single spikes following stimulation from depolarized potentials, can be readily modelled using a single compartment. There is, however, another less well explored intrinsic electrophysiological characteristic of relay cells for which models have not yet accounted: at somatic potentials near spike threshold, relay cells produce a fast ragged high threshold oscillation in somatic voltage. Optical [Ca(2+)] imaging and pharmacological tests indicate that this oscillation correlates with a high threshold Ca(2+) current in the dendrites. Here we present the development of a new compartment model of the thalamic relay cell guided by the simultaneous constraints that it must produce the familiar regular spiking relay mode and low threshold rebound bursts which characterize these cells, as well as the less-studied fast oscillation occurring at near-threshold somatic potentials. We arrive at a model cell which is capable of the production of isolated high threshold Ca(2+) spikes in distal branch segments, driven by a rapidly inactivating intermediate threshold Ca(2+) channel. Further, the model produces the low threshold spike behaviour of the relay cell without requiring high T-current density in the distal dendritic segments. The results thus support a new picture of the dendritic tree of relay cells which may have implications for the manner in which thalamic relay cells integrate descending input from the cortex.


Retrieving category associates (e.g., FRUIT-ORANGE) may induce forgetting other category members (e.g., FRUIT-BANANA), a phenomenon known as retrieval-induced forgetting (RIF). We designed 2 experiments to examine the role of RIF in the associative memory impairment of schizophrenia (SZ). Subjects studied 36 category-exemplar pairs, generated from 6 categories composed of 6 members each. For half of the studied category-exemplar pairs, subjects practiced retrieval by completing word stems, followed by a delayed category-cued recall on all of the practiced and unpracticed items. Experiment 1 used unrelated category exemplars-pairs (e.g., FRUIT-ORANGE, METALS-IRON), whereas experiment 2 included related category exemplar pairs (e.g., COTTON-SHIRT, LEATHER-SKIRT). SZ showed reduced associative memory but normal RIF for unrelated categories used in experiment 1. For experiment 2, SZ showed a significant decline in associative memory for related but not unrelated category-exemplars in comparison to controls. Results suggested faulty specificity/distinctiveness for encoding and retrieval, but not abnormal RIF in the associative memory disturbance of SZ.
The present study examined the roles of NR2A and NR2B subunit-containing NMDA receptors in the mediation of the sedative/hypnotic effects of ethanol in mice. The ability of the competitive NMDA antagonist, CGP-37849 (0, 1, or 3 mg/kg), and the NR2B-selective antagonist, Ro 25-6981 (0, 3, or 10 mg/kg), to alter (3 g/kg) ethanol-induced sleep time was measured in C57BL/6J mice and NR2A knockout (KO) mice. The results show that pretreatment with either antagonist significantly potentiated the sedative/hypnotic effects of ethanol in C57BL/6J mice. These effects were not significantly altered in NR2A KO mice. Basal sleep time responses to ethanol were also normal in NR2A KO mice. These findings confirm a major role for NMDA receptors in the acute intoxicating actions of ethanol and provide tentative support for a prepotent role of the NR2B subunit in these effects.
The psychoactive properties of the hallucinogen LSD have frequently been attributed to high affinity interactions with serotonin 5HT2 receptors in brain. Possible effects of LSD on dopamine D2/3 receptor availability have not previously been investigated in living brain. Therefore, we used PET to map the binding potential (pB) of [11C]raclopride in brain of three pigs, first in a baseline condition, and again at 1 and 4 h after administration of LSD (2.5 microg/kg, i.v.). There was a progressive treatment effect in striatum, where the pB was significantly reduced by 19% at 4 h after LSD administration. Concomitant maps of cerebral blood flow did not reveal significant changes in perfusion during this interval. Subsequent in vitro studies showed that LSD displaced [3H]raclopride (2 nM) from pig brain cryostat sections with an IC50 of 275 nM according to a one-site model. Fitting of a two-site model to the data suggested the presence of a component of the displacement curves with a subnanomolar IC50, comprising 20% of the total [3H]raclopride binding. In microdialysis experiments, LSD at similar and higher doses did not evoke changes in the interstitial concentration of dopamine or its acidic metabolites in rat striatum. Together, these results are consistent with a direct interaction between LSD and a portion of dopamine D2/3 receptors in pig brain, possibly contributing to the psychopharmacology of LSD.

At the zinc-enriched mossy fiber synapses from hippocampal CA3 area, electrical or chemical stimulation evokes zinc release from glutamatergic synaptic vesicles that may cause different pre- or postsynaptic actions. Besides zinc that can be co-localized with glutamate and GABA, the mossy fibers contain a very high density of ATP-sensitive potassium channels that are activated by zinc. We have investigated the possibility that intensely released zinc inhibits presynaptic calcium changes and consequently zinc and glutamate release. The studies were made combining optical recording of fast presynaptic calcium and zinc signals, using the fluorescent indicators Fura-2 and N-(6-methoxy-8-quinolyl)-para-toluenesulfonamide, respectively, with measurements of field potentials. We have observed that strong tetanic stimulation caused posttetanic depressions of electrically induced presynaptic calcium and zinc signals and of synaptic responses, the depressions being blocked by zinc chelators. These results suggest that endogenously released zinc has an inhibitory role, mediated by presynaptic ATP-sensitive potassium channels and/or presynaptic calcium channels, that leads to the depression of zinc and glutamate release.
Much evidence has been accumulated that the increased expression of calbindin D-28k (CB) is involved in the blockade of calcium-evoked excitotoxicity in cerebral ischemia. We investigated the expression of CB in the basal lamina of microvessels in the ventral horn of the rabbit spinal cord after transient spinal cord ischemia. Spinal cord sections at the level of L7 were immunostained using monoclonal antibody raised against CB at light and electron microscopic levels. CB immunoreactivity was detected in the basal lamina of microvessels at 30 min after ischemic insult. By 3 h after ischemia, CB immunoreactivity was increased in the basal lamina of the microvessels. CB immunoreactivity began to decrease at 6 h after ischemia and nearly disappeared at 48 h after ischemic insult. For calcium detection in the blood vessels of spinal cord, we conducted an alizarin red staining. Alizarin red reactivity was detected in some microvessels at 3 h after ischemic insult. Our results suggest that the ectopic expression of CB in the microvascular basal laminae may be associated with the buffering of calcium in the endothelial cells of microvessels after ischemic damage.


Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1) and CREB have many CNS actions including sleep regulation and hippocampal-dependent learning. CREB acts in part via CREB-binding protein (CBP). We thus determined whether IL-1 could induce CBP gene expression. Initially, cultured hippocampal cells were treated with IL-1 and differential display reverse transcription was used to identify up- and down-regulated genes. We then sequenced rat CBP. Of the IL-1-upregulated genes, CBP and adenine nucleotide translocator-1 (ANT-1) were investigated in vivo. In these experiments, IL-1 was given to rats intraventricularly and sacrificed 2 h later; both CBP and ANT-1 transcripts were upregulated in the cerebral cortex and hypothalamus. We conclude that rat CBP shares many of the functional domains as human and murine CBP and that IL-1 upregulates genes previously associated with learning and sleep.
NMDA receptors may play a crucial role in nerve cell death following subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Changes in NMDA receptor-mediated transmission appear before neuronal death in rodent models of transient ischemia, and NMDA receptor function is known to be dependent on subunit composition. Here, we have investigated whether mRNA expression of the NMDA receptor subunits is altered in the hippocampal formation 3-5 h following experimental SAH, and correlated these early alterations to subsequent delayed cell death. SAH was induced by intraluminal perforation of the internal carotid artery intracranially, and cerebral blood flow (CBF) was bilaterally monitored by laser-Doppler flowmetry. Early changes in NMDA receptor subunit mRNA and early nerve cell death were analyzed at 3-5 h after SAH, and delayed nerve cell death was analyzed at 2-7 days after SAH. Duration of ipsilateral CBF reduction below 30% of baseline (CBF30) was predictive of ipsilateral delayed nerve cell death in the CA1 2-7 days after SAH. At CBF30 &gt; 9 min, we found downregulation of mRNA for NR2A, NR2B, and NR3B at 3-5 h after SAH, whereas the levels of NR1 mRNA were unaffected. The downregulation of NR2A and NR2B mRNA may result in a reduced NMDA receptor function. Such reduction may be sufficient to provide neuroprotection in the dentate gyrus, where no cell death appears, but insufficient to rescue neurons in the hippocampus proper following SAH.
A number of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), are characterized by intraneuronal accumulation of the tau protein. Some forms of FTDP-17 are caused by mutations in the tau gene affecting exon 10 splicing. Therefore, dysregulation of tau pre-mRNA splicing may be a contributing factor to sporadic tauopathies. To address this question, we devised a real-time RT-PCR strategy based on the use of a single fluorogenic probe to evaluate the ratio between tau isoforms containing or lacking exon 10 (4R/3R ratio) in post-mortem brain samples. We found a two- to six-fold increase in the 4R/3R ratio in cases of FTDP-17 linked to a splice site mutation, hence confirming the validity of the strategy. The difference in the 4R/3R ratio in the superior temporal and superior frontal gyri between AD and control brains was not statistically significant. Similarly, there was no significant difference in the 4R/3R ratio between Pick's disease cases and controls, indicating that the predominance of tau3R protein in PiD reflects post-translational modifications of specific isoforms. This study indicates that post-translational events are likely to be the main factors controlling tau isoform composition in sporadic tauopathies and highlights the benefit of quantitative RT-PCR in the assessment of splicing abnormalities in tauopathies.
Two brain receptors for apolipoprotein E (apoE), the apoE receptor 2 (apoEr2) and the very low density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLr), are important in neuronal migration during development. Using a series of tagged constructs, we found that these two receptors undergo extracellular cleavages to release secreted forms of the receptors and intramembranous cleavages to degrade the C-terminal fragments. Release of the extracellular domains was blocked by an inhibitor of metalloproteinases and increased by PMA. Accumulation of the intracellular domain was increased by the presence of an inhibitor of gamma-secretase. ApoE binding to these receptors caused increased release of the extracellular domain and accumulation of the intracellular domains; similar increases in receptor proteolytic domains were observed from endogenous apoEr2 after treatment of primary neurons or rat hippocampus with an apoE-derived peptide. The human apoE isoforms promoted proteolysis to different degrees, with apoE2 resulting in a greater accumulation of the C-terminal fragments of apoEr2 compared with apoE4. These effects of apoE on receptor proteolysis were mediated by the ligand binding domain of the receptor. Similar promotion of receptor cleavage was seen with two other ligands, reelin and activated alpha2-macroglobulin. We suggest that signaling promoted by these receptors depends in part on these regulated proteolytic events.



In the adult mammalian brain, neuronal turnover continues to replenish cells in existing neuronal circuits, such as those involved either in odor discrimination or in learning and memory, throughout life. With age, however, the capacity for neurogenesis diminishes and these functions become impaired. Neuronal turnover is a two-step process, which first generates excess neuronal progenitors and then eliminates all but the few that differentiate into fully functional neurons. This process requires a fine balance between cell proliferation and cell death. Altered activity of the tumor suppressor p53 can upset this balance by affecting the rate of cell proliferation, but not the rate of cell death, in neurogenic regions of the adult brain. Genetically engineered mice in which p53 activity is increased demonstrate that premature loss of neurogenic capacity is linked to accelerated organismal aging.
Extensive studies on mice with total or partial disruption of either connexin43 (Cx43) or connexin32 (Cx32) have detected only subtle changes in central nervous system structure, growth, development, or function. We have used high density cDNA arrays to analyze the regulation, control, and coordination of the abundances of 7446 distinct transcripts in four brains, each of Cx43 null (K43), Cx43 heterozygous (H43), and Cx32 null (K32) mice as compared to the brains of wildtype (W) mice. The use of multiple samples allowed the determination of the statistical significance of gene regulation. Significantly regulated genes encoded proteins of all functional categories, extending beyond those that might be expected to depend on junctional communication. Moreover, we found a high degree of similarity between genes regulated in the K43 and H43 brains and a remarkable overlap between gene regulation in brains of K43 and K32. The regulated genes in both K43 and H43 brains showed an outstanding inverse coordination with the levels of expression of Cx43 in W brain, indicating that the regulated genes are largely predictable from their co-variance with Cx43 in the wildtype samples. These findings lead to the hypothesis that connexin expression may represent a central node in the regulation of gene expression patterns in brain.
Gap junctions were initially described morphologically, and identified as semi-crystalline arrays of channels linking two cells. This suggested that they may represent an amenable target for electron and X-ray crystallographic studies in much the same way that bacteriorhodopsin has. Over 30 years later, however, an atomic resolution structural solution of these unique intercellular pores is still lacking due to many challenges faced in obtaining high expression levels and purification of these structures. A variety of microscopic techniques, as well as NMR structure determination of fragments of the protein, have now provided clearer and correlated views of how these structures are assembled and function as intercellular conduits. As a complement to these structural approaches, a variety of mutagenic studies linking structure and function have now allowed molecular details to be superimposed on these lower resolution structures, so that a clearer image of pore architecture and its modes of regulation are beginning to emerge.
The activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) by growth factors, cytokines, and cellular stress can prevent apoptosis, but the underlying mechanism is unknown. Here we provide evidence for an action of NF-kappaB on calcium signaling that accounts for its anti-apoptotic function. Embryonic fibroblasts lacking the transactivating subunit of NF-kappaB RelA (p65) exhibit enhanced inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)) receptor-mediated calcium release and increased sensitivity to apoptosis, which are restored upon re-expression of RelA. The size of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium pool and the number of IP(3) receptors per cell are decreased in response to stimuli that activate NF-kappaB and are increased when NF-kappaB activity is suppressed. The selective antagonism of IP(3) receptors blocks apoptosis in RelA-deficient cells, whereas activation of NF-kappaB in normal cells leads to decreased levels of the type 1 IP(3) receptor and decreased calcium release. Overexpression of Bcl-2 normalizes ER calcium homeostasis and prevents calcium-mediated apoptosis in RelA-deficient cells. These findings establish an ER calcium channel as a pivotal target for NF-kappaB-mediated cell survival signaling.
RIC-3 has been identified as a molecule essential for the recruitment of functional nicotinic acetylcholine receptors composed of alpha7, but it exhibits inhibitory effects on alpha4beta2 or alpha3beta4 receptors. In this study, we investigated the role of RIC-3 in the recruitment of 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3A (5-HT(3A)) receptors to the cell surface. Although RIC-3 is not essential for the surface transport of 5-HT(3A) receptors, we found that its presence enhances both receptor transport and function in a concentration-dependent manner. RIC-3 is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum, as evidenced by co-localization with the chaperone molecule, binding protein (BiP). RIC-3 is not detected at significant levels on the cell surface when expressed alone or in the presence of 5-HT(3A). RIC-3 and 5-HT(3A) show a low level interaction that is transient (&lt;4 h). That RIC-3 can interact with an endoplasmic reticulum-retained 5-HT(3A) construct, combined with the transient interaction observed and lack of significant surface-expressed RIC-3, suggests that RIC-3 may play a role in 5-HT(3A) receptor folding, assembly, or transport to the cell surface.
To study synapse formation by neuroligins, we co-cultured hippocampal neurons with COS cells expressing wild type and mutant neuroligins. The large size of COS cells makes it possible to test the effect of neuroligins presented over an extended surface area. We found that a uniform lawn of wild type neuroligins displayed on the cell surface triggers the formation of hundreds of uniformly sized, individual synaptic contacts that are labeled with neurexin antibodies. Electron microscopy revealed that these artificial synapses contain a presynaptic active zone with docked vesicles and often feature a postsynaptic density. Neuroligins 1, 2, and 3 were active in this assay. Mutations in two surface loops of neuroligin 1 abolished neuroligin binding to neurexin 1beta, a presumptive presynaptic binding partner for postsynaptic neuroligins, and blocked synapse formation. An analysis of mutant neuroligins with an amino acid substitution that corresponds to a mutation described in patients with an autistic syndrome confirmed previous reports that these mutant neuroligins have a compromised capacity to be transported to the cell surface. Nevertheless, the small percentage of mutant neuroligins that reached the cell surface still induced synapse formation. Viewed together, our data suggest that neuroligins generally promote artificial synapse formation in a manner that is associated with beta-neurexin binding and results in morphologically well differentiated synapses and that a neuroligin mutation found in autism spectrum disorders impairs cell-surface transport but does not completely abolish synapse formation activity.
Intraplantar injection of melittin, a major toxic peptide of whole bee venom, has been proved to cause alteration in both behavioral and spinal neuronal responses in rats. To see whether extracellular signaling-regulated kinases (ERK) in the spinal cord dorsal horn are activated and involved in induction and maintenance of persistent ongoing nociception, pain hypersensitivity and inflammation, three doses of U0126 (1,4-diamino-2,3-dicyano-1, 4-bis-[o-aminophenylmercapto]butadiene), a widely used specific MAP kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitor, were administered through chronic intrathecal catheterization prior to or after intraplantar injection of melittin. We found that: (1) the induction of melittin-induced persistent spontaneous nociception (PSN), mechanical and heat hypersensitivity could be suppressed by U0126 in a dose-related manner; (2) specific inhibition of ERK pathway suppressed the maintenance of melittin-induced PSN and heat hypersensitivity, while established mechanical hypersensitivity could not be reversed; and (3) intrathecal administration of U0126 had no effects on peripheral inflammation induced by melittin. This result suggests that spinal ERK pathway might be a common factor involved in inducing and maintaining pathophysiological processes of ongoing pain and heat hyperalgesia, while the role of ERK pathway in generation of the mechanical hypersensitivity is not consistent and remains to be further clarified.
Ethanol consumption affects levels of endogenous opioids as well as opioid receptors in both animals and humans. We studied the expression of delta (delta) and mu (mu) opioid receptors (ORs) in brain sections of adult male Sprague-Dawley rats after 2 weeks of consuming ethanol in a liquid diet, with comparisons to sections from pair-fed control animals. Immunohistochemical staining for the ORs, using selective antibodies, and quantitation of confocal images, revealed increased expression of delta-ORs in hippocampal CA1 of the chronic ethanol-treated rats. In contrast, mu-ORs decreased in their expression after ethanol treatment in multiple brain areas, including cortex, hippocampus, midbrain colliculi, striatum and nucleus accumbens. The alterations in immunoreactive OR expression may be related to reduced functional coupling of the ORs to G-proteins, as found in prior studies in several brain regions, using the same chronic ethanol diet protocol. Changes in OR expression and functional coupling in the CNS may be factors in ongoing ethanol consumption and tolerance.
A single session of foot shock stress produces stable and long lasting sensitization of behavioral, hormonal and intestinal motility responses to novel stressful stimuli in laboratory rats. This is reflected in increased expression of the activity marker protein Fos in brain areas involved, following an external stressor. We present data from awake, freely moving rats in which a silicone balloon was surgically implanted in the duodenum. Firstly, cardiovascular reflexes to distentions were studied using telemetry with surgically implanted transmitters, 2 weeks after a single, 15-min session of foot shocks. The distentions caused characteristic, bi-phasic responses in both mean arterial blood pressure and heart rate that were not different between preshocked and control animals. Secondly, the numbers of Fos immunopositive cells were quantified in selected brain areas, 1 h after repeated distention of the duodenum. We found an increase in distention-induced Fos in preshocked rats in the nucleus tractus solitarius and a weaker effect in the central nucleus of the amygdala. This could be a first indication that altered visceral afferent processing in previously stressed rats, found earlier for the colon, may be a general and not an organ-specific phenomenon.
Conjugation of the small ubiquitin-like modifier, SUMO-1, to target proteins is linked to the regulation of multiple cellular pathways, including nucleocytoplasmic trafficking, cell cycle progression, the ubiquitin-proteasome system and apoptosis. Recently, the accumulation of SUMOylated proteins in pathological neuronal intranuclear aggregates has been found in several neurodegenerative diseases. The aim of our study was to examine SUMO-1 in the alpha-synucleinopathy diseases, Multiple System Atrophy (MSA) and Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB). We conducted anti-SUMO-1 immunostaining of fixed brain tissue sections and smears of unfixed brain tissue homogenates of DLB and MSA cases. We found that oligodendroglial cytoplasmic inclusions, the alpha-synuclein-positive cytoplasmic aggregates that characterize MSA, exhibit robust punctate SUMO-1 immunostaining, marking discrete submicron-sized subdomains within the inclusion bodies. Lewy bodies in smears of DLB tissue homogenates showed similar SUMO-1-positive structures, although these were not detected in fixed tissue. In cell culture experiments, we found that the nuclear and perinuclear accumulation of SUMO-1 aggregates could be induced in glioma cells by chemical inhibition of proteasomal protein degradation.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) protects the CNS against chemical insults. Regulation of blood-brain tissue exchange is accomplished by ependymal cells, which possess intercellular tight junctions. Loss of BBB function is an etiologic component of many neurological disorders. Vanadium (V) is a metalloid widely distributed in the environment and exerts potent toxic effects on a wide variety of biological systems. The current study examines the effects of Vanadium pentoxide (V2O5) inhalation in mice ependymal epithelium, through the analysis of the brain metal concentrations and the morphological modifications in the ependymal cells identified by scanning and transmission electron microscopy after 8 weeks of inhalation, in order to obtain a possible explanation about the mechanisms that V uses to enter and alter the CNS. Our results showed that V2O5 concentrations increase from the first week of study, stabilizing its values during the rest of the experiment. The morphological effects included cilia loss, cell sloughing and ependymal cell layer detachment. This damage can allow toxicants to modify the permeability of the epithelium and promote access of inflammatory mediators to the underlying neuronal tissue causing injury and neuronal death. Thus, understanding the mechanisms of BBB disruption would allow planning strategies to protect the brain from toxicants such as metals, which have increased in the atmosphere during the last decades and constitute an important health problem.
Repetitive microsatellites mutate at relatively high rates and may contribute to the rapid evolution of species-typical traits. We show that individual alleles of a repetitive polymorphic microsatellite in the 5' region of the prairie vole vasopressin 1a receptor (avpr1a) gene modify gene expression in vitro. In vivo, we observe that this regulatory polymorphism predicts both individual differences in receptor distribution patterns and socio-behavioral traits. These data suggest that individual differences in gene expression patterns may be conferred via polymorphic microsatellites in the cis-regulatory regions of genes and may contribute to normal variation in behavioral traits.
Endometriosis is a disease defined by the presence of endometrial tissue outside of the uterus. Severe pelvic pain is often associated with endometriosis, and this pain can be diminished with therapies that suppress estrogen production. Many women with endometriosis also suffer from other chronic pain conditions. Recent studies suggest that mechanisms underlying these pains and sensitivity to estrogen involve the growth into the ectopic endometrial tissue of a nerve supply, which could have a varied and widespread influence on the activity of neurons throughout the central nervous system.
We used a newly generated antiserum specific for the Wnt receptor Frizzled9 to examine the distribution of this protein in the telencephalon. Previous studies showed expression of the mRNA for Frizzled9 in a medial high to lateral low gradient during cortical development 6. Our studies with the Frizzled9 antiserum supported this localization during mid-gestation mouse embryos. Later in gestation, the expression of Frizzled9 persisted in all cellular derivatives of the medial cortical neuroepithelium. From birth through adulthood, Frizzled9 continues to be expressed in the principal neuronal cells of the hippocampus. Interestingly, Frizzled9 was also expressed by astrocytic cells and dividing neuronal precursors in the adult dentate gyrus. Thus, Frizzled9 expression marks are a regional marker of medially derived cortical derivatives throughout rodent life and will be a useful marker in the study of regulation of cortical arealization.

Anandamide, an endogenous ligand for brain cannabinoid CB(1) receptors, produces many behavioral effects similar to those of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the main psychoactive ingredient in marijuana. Reinforcing effects of THC have been demonstrated in experimental animals, but there is only indirect evidence that endogenous cannabinoids such as anandamide participate in brain reward processes. We now show that anandamide serves as an effective reinforcer of drug-taking behavior when self-administered intravenously by squirrel monkeys. We also show that methanandamide, a synthetic long-lasting anandamide analog, similarly serves as a reinforcer of drug-taking behavior. Finally, we show that the reinforcing effects of both anandamide and methanandamide are blocked by pretreatment with the cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonist rimonabant (SR141716). These findings strongly suggest that release of endogenous cannabinoids is involved in brain reward processes and that activation of cannabinoid CB(1) receptors by anandamide could be part of the signaling of natural rewarding events.
In the owl midbrain, a map of auditory space is synthesized in the inferior colliculus (IC) and conveyed to the optic tectum (OT). Ascending auditory information courses through these structures via topographic axonal projections. Little is known about the molecular composition of projection neurons or their postsynaptic targets. To visualize axodendritic contacts between identified cell types, we used double-label immunohistochemistry, in vivo retrograde tracing, in vitro anterograde tracing, high-resolution confocal microscopy, three-dimensional reconstruction and fly-through visualization. We discovered a major class of IC neurons that strongly expressed calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type II, alpha subunit (CaMKII). The distribution of these cells within the IC was mostly restricted to the external nucleus of the IC (ICX), in which the auditory space map is assembled. A large proportion of ICX-OT projection neurons were CaMKII positive. In addition to being the principal outputs, CaMKII cells were in direct contact with axonal boutons emanating from the main source of input to ICX, the lateral shell of the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICCls). Numerous sites of putative synaptic contact were found on the somata, proximal dendrites, and distal dendrites. Double-label immunoelectron microscopy confirmed the existence of synapses between ICCls axons and the dendrites of CaMKII cells. Collectively, our data indicate that CaMKII ICX neurons are a cellular locus for the computation of auditory space-specific responses. Because the ICCls-ICX projection is physically altered during experience-dependent plasticity, these results lay the groundwork for probing microanatomical rearrangements that may underlie plasticity and learning.
The transcription factor cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) is implicated in the actions of drugs of abuse in several brain areas, but little information is available about a role for CREB in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), one of the key reward regions of the brain. Here, we demonstrate that chronic exposure to drugs of abuse induces CREB activity throughout the VTA. Using viral-mediated gene transfer, we expressed green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged CREB or mCREB (a dominant-negative form of CREB) in the VTA and, using a conditioned place-preference paradigm, found that CREB activation within the rostral versus caudal subregions of the VTA produces opposite effects on drug reward. We identified VTA subregion-specific differences in the proportion of dopaminergic and GABAergic neurons and in the dopaminergic projections to the nucleus accumbens, another brain region implicated in drug reward, and suggest that this may contribute to behavioral differences in this study. We also measured expression levels of tyrosine hydroxylase and the AMPA glutamate receptor subunit GluR1, both of which are known to contribute to drug reward in the VTA, and found that both of these genes are upregulated following the expression of CREB-GFP and downregulated following expression of mCREB-GFP, raising the possibility that CREB may exert its effects on drug reward, in part, via regulation of these genes. These results suggest a novel role for CREB in mediating drug-induced plasticity in the VTA and establish two functionally distinct subregions of the VTA in which CREB differentially regulates drug reward.
Electrical stimulation of neurons in brain slices evokes increases in cytoplasmic Ca(2+) in neighboring astrocytes. The present study tests whether similar neuron-to-glial signaling occurs in the isolated rat retina in response to light stimulation. Results demonstrate that Mller cells, the principal retinal glial cells, generate transient increases in Ca(2+) under constant illumination. A flickering light stimulus increases the occurrence of these Ca(2+) transients. Antidromic activation of ganglion cell axons also increases the generation of Mller cell Ca(2+) transients. The increases in Ca(2+) transients evoked by light and antidromic stimulation are blocked by the purinergic antagonist suramin and by TTX. The addition of adenosine greatly potentiates the response to light, with light ON evoking large Ca(2+) increases in Mller cells. Suramin, apyrase (an ATP-hydrolyzing enzyme), and TTX substantially reduce the adenosine-potentiated response. NMDA, metabotropic glutamate, GABA(B), and muscarinic receptor antagonists, in contrast, are mainly ineffective in blocking the response. Light-evoked Ca(2+) responses begin in Mller cell processes within the inner plexiform (synaptic) layer of the retina and then spread into cell endfeet at the inner retinal surface. These results represent the first demonstration that Ca(2+) increases in CNS glia can be evoked by a natural stimulus (light flashes). The results suggest that neuron-to-glia signaling in the retina is mediated by neuronal release of ATP, most likely from amacrine and/or ganglion cells, and that the response is augmented under pathological conditions when adenosine levels increase.
In cancer anorexia, a decrease in food intake (FI) occurs concomitant with changes in orexigenic peptides such as neuropeptide Y (NPY) and anorexigenic peptides such as alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) and anorexigenic neurotransmitter serotonin. omega-3 Fatty acid (omega-3FA) inhibits cytokine synthesis, and delays tumor appearance, tumor growth, and onset of anorexia in tumor-bearing rats. We hypothesize that, in cancer anorexia, omega-3FA is associated with quantitative reversal of hypothalamic NPY, alpha-MSH, and serotonin receptor (5-HT(1B)-receptor) enhancing FI. Fischer rats were divided into: MCA tumor bearing fed chow (TB-Chow) or omega-3FA diet (TB-omega-3FA) and controls: non-tumor bearing fed chow (NTB-Chow) or omega-3FA diet (NTB-omega-3FA). Rats were euthanized at anorexia and brains were removed for hypothalamic immunohistochemical study, using NPY, alpha-MSH, and 5-HT(1B)-receptor-specific antibodies and slides assessed by image analysis. Immunostaining specificity was controlled by omission of primary or secondary antibodies and pre-absorption test. At anorexia, FI decreased (P &lt; 0.05) in TB-Chow but did not change in TB-omega-3FA rats. In TB-omega-3FA vs. TB-Chow, NPY immunoreactivity increased 38% in arcuate nucleus (ARC; P &lt; 0.05), and 50% in magnocellular paraventricular nucleus (mPVN; P &lt; 0.05). alpha-MSH decreased 64% in ARC and 29% in mPVN (P &lt; 0.05). 5-HT(1B)-receptor immunoreactivity decreased 13% only in supraoptic nucleus (P &lt; 0.05). No immunoreactivity was found in the control sections. omega-3FA modified hypothalamic peptides and 5-HT-(1B)-receptor immunoreactivity at anorexia, concomitant with an increase in FI, were probably mediated by omega-3FA inhibition of tumor-induced cytokines.
Cannabinoid agonists modulate a variety of behavioral functions by activating cannabinoid receptors that are widely distributed throughout the central nervous system. In the present study, norepinephrine efflux was assessed in the frontal cortex of rats that received a systemic administration of the cannabinoid agonist, WIN 55,212-2. The synthetic cannabinoid agonist dose-dependently increased the release of norepinephrine in this brain region. Pretreatment with the cannabinoid receptor antagonist, SR 141716A, blocked the increase in norepinephrine release. To identify sites of cellular activation, immunocytochemical detection of c-Fos was combined with detection of the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), in the brainstem nucleus locus coeruleus (LC), a region that is the sole source of norepinephrine to the frontal cortex. Systemic administration of WIN 55,212-2 significantly increased the number of c-Fos immunoreactive cells within TH-containing neurons in the LC compared to vehicle-treated rats. Pretreatment with SR 141716A inhibited the WIN 55,212-2 induced c-Fos expression, while the antagonist alone did not affect c-Fos expression. Taken together, these data indicate that systemically administered cannabinoid agonists stimulate norepinephrine release in the frontal cortex by activating noradrenergic neurons in the coeruleo-frontal cortex pathway. These effects may partially underlie changes in attention, arousal and anxiety observed following exposure to cannabis-based drugs.
Urocortin 1 (Ucn1) neurons, most abundantly expressed in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus (E-WN), respond to various acute challenges. In a recent study, we found that acute ether stress resulted in the strongest activation of E-WN Ucn1 cells, as revealed by immunohistochemistry for Fos (often used as a marker for neuronal activation). Although the acute stress responsiveness of E-WN Ucn1 neurons has been widely studied, the activation pattern of Fos in these neurons in response to repeated challenges has not yet been investigated. Therefore, we quantitatively studied Fos activation in E-WN neurons and measured Ucn1 mRNA levels in E-WN neurons after acute and chronic ether stress in mice. Acute stress resulted in a robust Fos response and an increase in Ucn1 mRNA as compared to non-stressed mice. In the chronic stress paradigm, Fos expression was unchanged, whereas after 2 and 3 weeks of daily ether exposure Ucn1 mRNA expression had strongly declined in the E-WN. Fos and Ucn1 mRNA were co-expressed in E-WN neurons in both acutely and chronically stressed animals. This paper is the first to demonstrate that Ucn1 mRNA-expressing neurons in the E-WN show a non-habituating Fos response to a chronic homotypic ether challenge that also resulted in a reliable down-regulation of E-WN Ucn1 mRNA levels vs. acutely stressed animals. Based on these results, we propose that the E-WN-Ucn1 system represents a novel stress adaptation pathway, which may play an important role in coping with chronic challenges.
Neurodegeneration can produce behavioral impairments. Previously, we have found that inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2 activity or physical activity was neuroprotective during kainic-acid-induced neural loss. Here, we investigated the combined effect of exercise pre-insult and cyclooxygenase inhibitor treatment post-kainate-induced brain damage. However, in spite of an increase in BDNF levels, the combination did not improve behavioral performance in Morris watermaze and object exploration tasks.
Rodent models of schizophrenia provide powerful experimental tools for elucidating certain manifestations of the brain disease. The chakragati (ckr) mouse mutant, for instance, reproduces aberrant neuroanatomical and behavioral phenotypes observed in the corresponding human condition. To further investigate the utility of this mouse in the context of social behavior, we compared spontaneous behavioral activity and social interactions recorded during the subjective night among wild-type, heterozygous, and homozygous ckr mice. We found that both heterozygous and homozygous ckr animals failed to show appropriate norms of social behavior, including proximity, approach, huddling, and anogenital investigation in response to novel conspecifics. We further found that the anatomical distribution, topography, and connectivity of the neuropeptides oxytocin and vasopressin in the anterior hypothalamus did not differ among wild-type, heterozygous, or homozygous ckr animals. These latter findings suggest that although oxytocin and vasopressin influence social behavior, connectivity of such cells may not be phenotypically relevant for the observed social deficits seen in heterozygous and homozygous ckr mice. Collectively, ckr mice and their heterozygote kin are valuable experimental tools for pre-clinical studies involving disruptions of social behavior (e.g., social withdrawal).
In this study, the protective effects of melatonin were evaluated against 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP)-induced striatal neuronal damage in rats. Lesions were induced in the right striatum of Sprague-Dawley rats by stereotaxic injection with 3-NP and melatonin was intraperitoneally administered both 30 min before and 60 min after 3-NP injection. And rats continuously received melatonin daily for 3 days. As indicators of oxidative damage, lipid peroxidation and protein oxidation in the lesioned striatum were measured at 1 day after 3-NP injection. Levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) and protein carbonyl were significantly increased by 3-NP injection, but reduced in the melatonin-treated rats. Four days post-lesion, large lesions and extensive neuronal damage were produced in the 3-NP-injected striata, as revealed by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining. In addition, marked ipsilateral rotational behavior following apomorphine challenge and a decrease of dopamine content in the lesioned striatum were observed in the 3-NP-injected rats. However, melatonin treatment significantly attenuated the 3-NP-induced neuronal damage, reduced the degree of asymmetric rotational behavior, and restored the dopamine level in the lesioned striatum. The present results indicate that melatonin effectively protects against the neuronal damage caused by 3-NP in vivo and that the neuroprotective effects of melatonin may be related to antioxidant action.
Abrupt withdrawal from chronic alcohol exposure can produce convulsions that are likely due to ethanol (EtOH) neuroadaptations. While significant efforts have focused on elucidating dependence mechanisms, the alterations contributing to EtOH withdrawal severity are less well characterized. The present studies examined the kappa-opioid receptor (KOP-R) system in Withdrawal Seizure-Prone (WSP) and Withdrawal Seizure-Resistant (WSR) mice, selected lines that display severe and mild convulsions upon removal from chronic EtOH exposure. Previous data demonstrated significant increases in whole brain prodynorphin (Pdyn) mRNA in WSP mice only during EtOH withdrawal. No significant effects of EtOH exposure or withdrawal were observed in WSR mice. The present study characterized Pdyn mRNA and the KOP-R in WSP and WSR mice during EtOH withdrawal using in situ hybridization (ISH) and KOP-R autoradiography. Analyses were performed in brain regions that express Pdyn mRNA and/or KOP-R and that might participate in seizure circuitry: the piriform cortex, olfactory tubercle, nucleus accumbens, caudate-putamen, claustrum, dorsal endopiriform nucleus, and cingulate cortex. ISH analyses confirmed previous findings; EtOH withdrawal increased Pdyn mRNA in multiple brain regions of WSP mice, but not WSR. Basal KOP-R binding was higher in WSR mice than in WSP mice, suggesting an anti-convulsant role for receptor activation. Finally, increased KOP-R density was present during EtOH withdrawal in WSP mice. These data suggest that differences in the KOP-R system among the lines might contribute to their selected difference in EtOH withdrawal severity.
Convergent evidence demonstrates that adult humans possess numerical representations that are independent of language [1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6]. Human infants and nonhuman animals can also make purely numerical discriminations, implicating both developmental and evolutionary bases for adult humans' language-independent representations of number [7 and 8]. Recent evidence suggests that the nonverbal representations of number held by human adults are not constrained by the sensory modality in which they were perceived [9]. Previous studies, however, have yielded conflicting results concerning whether the number representations held by nonhuman animals and human infants are tied to the modality in which they were established [10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15]. Here, we report that untrained monkeys preferentially looked at a dynamic video display depicting the number of conspecifics that matched the number of vocalizations they heard. These findings suggest that number representations held by monkeys, like those held by adult humans, are unfettered by stimulus modality.
Nurses working in neuroscience often have to manage patients whose behaviour puts themselves or others at risk of injury or compromises their care and treatment. The National Benchmarking Group has explored issues related to the restraint of patients and made some key recommendations. The aim was to develop guidelines for staff working in specialist areas on how to manage challenging behaviour while maintaining patient safety and dignity.
It has been proposed that multiple sperm storage organs (spermathecae) could allow polyandrous females to control paternity. There is little conclusive evidence for this since insemination of individual spermathecae is generally not experimentally manipulable. Here, we examined sperm use patterns in the Australian redback spider (Latrodectus hasselti), which has paired, independent spermathecae. We assessed paternity when two rivals were forced to inseminate a single storage organ or opposite storage organs. When males inseminated a single spermatheca, mean paternity of the female's first mate was 79.8% (median 89.4%), and 38% of first mates achieved 100% paternity. In contrast, when males inseminated opposite organs, the mean paternity of the first mate was 49.3% (median 49.9%), only 10% of males achieved complete precedence, and paternity was normally distributed, suggesting sperm mixing. Males responded to this difference by avoiding previously inseminated female reproductive tracts. Complete sperm precedence can only be achieved if females permit males to copulate with both reproductive tracts. Females often cannibalize smaller males during their first copulation, thus limiting their paternity to 50%. These data show that multiple sperm storage organs can increase female control of paternity.
A technique for studying the relationship between brain and language, which involves correlating scores on two continuous variables, signal intensity across the entire brains of brain-damaged patients and behavioral priming scores, was used to investigate a central issue in cognitive neuroscience: Are the components of the neural language system organized as a single undifferentiated process, or do they respond differentially to different types of linguistic structure? Differences in lexical structure, in the form of the regular and irregular past tense, have proven to be critical in this debate by contrasting a highly predictable rule-like process (e.g., jump-jumped) with an unpredictable idiosyncratic process typified by the irregulars (e.g., think-thought). The key issue raised by these contrasts is whether processing regular and irregular past tense forms differentially engages different aspects of the neural language system or whether they are processed within a single system that distinguishes between them purely on the basis of phonological and semantic differences. The correlational analyses provide clear evidence for a functional differentiation between different brain regions associated with the processing of lexical form, meaning, and morphological structure.
Sexual deficits and other behavioral disturbances such as anxiety-like behaviors can be observed in animals that have undergone social isolation, especially in species having important social interactions. Using a model of protracted social isolation in adult rats, we observed increased anxiety-like behavior and deficits in both the latency to initiate sexual behavior and the latency to ejaculate. We show, using transgenic cAMP response element (CRE)-LacZ reporter mice, that protracted social isolation also reduces CRE-dependent transcription within the nucleus accumbens. This decrease in CRE-dependent transcription can be mimicked in nonisolated animals by local viral gene transfer of a dominant negative mutant of CRE-binding protein (CREB). We previously showed that this manipulation increases anxiety-like behavior. We show here that it also impairs initiation of sexual behavior in nonisolated animals, a deficit that can be corrected by anxiolytic drug treatment. This local reduction in CREB activity, however, has no influence on ejaculation parameters. Reciprocally, we used the viral transgenic approach to overexpress CREB in the nucleus accumbens of isolated animals. We show that this local increase in CREB activity completely rescued the anxiety phenotype of the isolated animals, as well as their deficit in initiating sexual behavior, but failed to rescue the deficit in ejaculation. Our data suggest a role for the nucleus accumbens in anxiety responses and in specific aspects of sexual behavior. The results also provide insight into the molecular mechanisms by which social interactions affect brain plasticity and behavior.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) causes neuronal apoptosis, inflammation, and reactive astrogliosis, which contribute to secondary tissue loss, impaired regeneration, and associated functional disabilities. Here, we show that up-regulation of cell cycle components is associated with caspase-mediated neuronal apoptosis and glial proliferation after TBI in rats. In primary neuronal and astrocyte cultures, cell cycle inhibition (including the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors flavopiridol, roscovitine, and olomoucine) reduced up-regulation of cell cycle proteins, limited neuronal cell death after etoposide-induced DNA damage, and attenuated astrocyte proliferation. After TBI in rats, flavopiridol reduced cyclin D1 expression in neurons and glia in ipsilateral cortex and hippocampus. Treatment also decreased neuronal cell death and lesion volume, reduced astroglial scar formation and microglial activation, and improved motor and cognitive recovery. The ability of cell cycle inhibition to decrease both neuronal cell death and reactive gliosis after experimental TBI suggests that this treatment approach may be useful clinically.
EphA4 signaling has recently been implicated in the regulation of synapse formation and plasticity. In this study, we show that ankyrin repeat-rich membrane spanning (ARMS; also known as a kinase D-interacting substrate of 220 kD), a substrate for ephrin and neurotrophin receptors, was expressed in developing muscle and was concentrated at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). Using yeast two-hybrid screening, we identified a PDZ (PSD-95, Dlg, ZO-1) domain protein, alpha-syntrophin, as an ARMS-interacting protein in muscle. Overexpression of alpha-syntrophin induced ARMS clustering in a PDZ domain-dependent manner. Coexpression of ARMS enhanced EphA4 signaling, which was further augmented by the presence of alpha-syntrophin. Moreover, the ephrin-A1-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of EphA4 was reduced in C2C12 myotubes after the blockade of ARMS and alpha-syntrophin expression by RNA interference. Finally, alpha-syntrophin-null mice exhibited a disrupted localization of ARMS and EphA4 at the NMJ and a reduced expression of ARMS in muscle. Altogether, our findings suggest that ARMS may play an important role in regulating postsynaptic signal transduction through the syntrophin-mediated localization of receptor tyrosine kinases such as EphA4.


We analysed the effects of 192 IgG-saporin lesions on pnd 7 upon neonatal behavioural responses. Number of ultrasonic vocalisations (USVs) were recorded on pnds 9, 11 and 13. On pnd 13 rats underwent a homing test to measure olfactory orientation towards nest material. 192 IgG-saporin reduced the number of USVs at all ages considered while increasing number of entrancies into the nest area. These data suggest that early damage to the basal forebrain cholinergic nuclei induces significant changes in the rat behavioural repertoire as early as the second-postnatal week.
The present study shows that the selective cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist SR141716A attenuated responding for both nicotine- and sucrose-associated stimuli in a long-term extinction-reinstatement model. The results suggest that endocannabinoids play a general role in modulating cue reactivity or conditioned reinforcement following prolonged abstinence of both drug and natural reinforcers. In line with previous preclinical and recent clinical observations, our results provide a strong rationale for the use of CB1 antagonists in the treatment of addictive behaviors.
Nitric oxide (NO) that is produced by inducible NO synthase (iNOS) in glial cells is thought to contribute significantly to the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis. Oligodendrocytes can be stimulated to express iNOS by inflammatory cytokines, which are known to accumulate in the multiple sclerotic brain. The potentially pathological levels of NO produced under these circumstances can target a wide spectrum of intracellular components. We hypothesized that one of the critical targets for damage that leads to disease is mtDNA. In this study, we found that cytokines, in particular a combination of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (50 ng/ml) and IFNgamma (25 ng/ml), cause elevated NO production in primary cultures of rat oligodendrocytes. Western blot analysis revealed a strong enhancement of iNOS expression 48 h after cytokine treatment. Within the same time period, NO-mediated mtDNA damage was shown by Southern blot analysis and by ligation-mediated PCR. Targeting the DNA repair enzyme human 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase (hOGG1) to the mitochondria of oligodendrocytes had a protective effect against this cytokine-mediated mtDNA damage. Moreover, it was shown that mitochondrial transport sequence hOGG1-transfected oligodendrocytes had fewer apoptotic cells compared with cells containing vector only following treatment with the cytokines. Subsequent experiments revealed that targeting hOGG1 to mitochondria reduces the activation of caspase-9, showing that this recombinant protein works to reduce apoptosis that is occurring through a mitochondria-based pathway.
Hyperammonemia is a key factor in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy (HE) as well as other metabolic encephalopathies, such as those associated with inherited disorders of urea cycle enzymes and in Reye's syndrome. Acute HE results in increased brain ammonia (up to 5 mM), astrocytic swelling, and altered glutamatergic function. In the present study, using fluorescence imaging techniques, acute exposure (10 min) of ammonia (NH4+/NH3) to cultured astrocytes resulted in a concentration-dependent, transient increase in [Ca2+]i. This calcium transient was due to release from intracellular calcium stores, since the response was thapsigargin-sensitive and was still observed in calcium-free buffer. Using an enzyme-linked fluorescence assay, glutamate release was measured indirectly via the production of NADH (a naturally fluorescent product when excited with UV light). NH4+/NH3 (5 mM) stimulated a calcium-dependent glutamate release from cultured astrocytes, which was inhibited after preincubation with 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid acetoxymethyl ester but unaffected after preincubation with glutamate transport inhibitors dihydrokainate and DL-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate. NH4+/NH3 (5 mM) also induced a transient intracellular alkaline shift. To investigate whether the effects of NH4+/NH3 were mediated by an increase in pH(i), we applied trimethylamine (TMA+/TMA) as another weak base. TMA+/TMA (5 mM) induced a similar transient increase in both pH(i) and [Ca2+]i (mobilization from intracellular calcium stores) and resulted in calcium-dependent release of glutamate. These results indicate that an acute exposure to ammonia, resulting in cytosolic alkalinization, leads to calcium-dependent glutamate release from astrocytes. A deregulation of glutamate release from astrocytes by ammonia could contribute to glutamate dysfunction consistently observed in acute HE.

The present study examined whether pre-injury administration of morphine can prevent partial sciatic nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain in mice. We observed that pre-injury administration of subcutaneous (s.c.) and intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) morphine dose-dependently prevented the development of both thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia at 7 days following nerve injury in mice. The pre-injury morphine (s.c.)-induced analgesia was significantly blocked by pretreatment with naloxone injected s.c. or i.c.v., but not i.t., suggesting that systemic morphine produced the pre-emptying effects mainly by acting at the supra-spinal sites. Since it is believed that activation of descending monoaminergic mechanisms in spinal cord largely contributes to the supra-spinal analgesic effects of morphine, we investigated the involvement of serotonergic and noradrenergic mechanisms in spinal cord in the pre-injury morphine-induced analgesic effects. We found that pre-injury s.c. morphine-induced analgesic effect was significantly blocked by i.t. pretreatment with serotonergic antagonist, methysergide and noradrenergic antagonist, phentolamine. In addition, pre-injury i.t. injection of serotonin uptake inhibitor, fluoxetine and alpha2-adrenergic agonist, clonidine significantly prevented the neuropathic hyperalgesia. We next examined whether pre-injury morphine prevented the expression of neuronal hyperactivity markers such as c-Fos and protein kinase C gamma (PKCgamma) in the spinal dorsal horn. We found that pre-injury administration of s.c. morphine prevented increased expressions of both c-Fos and PKCgamma observed following nerve injury. Similar results were obtained with i.t. fluoxetine and clonidine. Altogether these results suggest that pre-injury administration of morphine might prevent the development of neuropathic pain through activation of descending monoaminergic pain inhibitory pathways.
Neuroanatomical tract-tracing methods were used to study the topography of the reticulocollicular projections. Injections of gold-HRP or BDA tracers into the medial and/or central portions of the superior colliculus resulted in labelled neurones mainly in the medial reticular formation, whereas injections into the lateral portion of the superior colliculus showed labelling in the medial and lateral reticular formation. When tracer was injected into the lateral portion of the caudal superior colliculus, extensive lateral labelling was observed in the contralateral parvocellular reticular nucleus and the contralateral dorsal medullary reticular nucleus, two areas involved in reflex blinking. The present study shows that these reticular areas project to the lateral superior colliculus, which is known to be involved in the coordination of eye and eyelid movements.
Autosomal recessive mutations in the parkin gene are the predominant cause of familial, early-onset parkinsonism; missense mutations involving one or a few nucleotides, exonic deletions and duplications have been described. Here we report a family with two affected brothers. Direct sequencing of parkin did not detect mutations, but semi-quantitative analysis identified a novel exonic rearrangement of exons 2-4. Both patients were homozygous for unique genomic triplications of the parkin gene.
Unilateral sensorimotor cortical (SMC) lesions in rats impair reaching and grasping movements of the contralateral forelimb. These impairments can be improved using motor rehabilitative training on a skilled reaching task, but the training may be far from sufficient to return animals to pre-lesion levels of performance. Because D-amphetamine (AMPH) has been found to promote neuroplastic responses to injury and to be very beneficial when combined with some (but not all) types of rehabilitative training, we asked in this experiment whether it could improve the efficacy of rehabilitative training in skilled reaching. Ten to 14 days after unilateral ischemic (endothelin-1 induced) lesions of the SMC, adult rats were given a 3-week regimen of AMPH (1mg/kg) coupled with daily rehabilitative training on a skilled reaching task, the single pellet retrieval task. AMPH treatment not only dramatically improved reaching performance compared with saline-injected controls, the AMPH treated rats surpassed pre-lesion levels of performance by the end of the rehabilitative training period. The greater performance in AMPH compared to saline-treated rats was still evident at 1 month, but not at 2 and 3 months, after the end of rehabilitative training. Thus, AMPH treatment can greatly enhance the efficacy of rehabilitative training on a skilled reaching task after unilateral SMC lesions, but alternate injection and training regimes may be needed to produce permanent improvements.
The synthesis and structure-activity relationship of a series of 6,7-disubstituted 4-aminopyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidines as novel non-nucleoside adenosine kinase inhibitors is described. A variety of substituents, primarily aryl, at the C6 and C7 positions of the pyridopyrimidine core were found to yield analogues that are potent inhibitors of adenosine kinase. In contrast to the 5,7-disubstituted and 5,6,7-trisubstituted pyridopyrimidine series, these analogues exhibited only modest potency to inhibit AK in intact cells.
Identifying the neural basis of visibility is central to understanding conscious visual perception. Visibility of basic features such as brightness is often thought to reflect activity in just early visual cortex. But here we show under metacontrast masking that fMRI activity in stimulus-driven areas of early visual cortex did not reflect parametric changes in the visibility of a brightness stimulus. The psychometric visibility function was instead correlated with activity in later visual regions plus parieto-frontal areas, and surprisingly, in representations of the unstimulated stimulus surround for primary visual cortex. Critically, decreased stimulus visibility was associated with a regionally-specific decoupling between early visual cortex and higher visual areas. This provides evidence that dynamic changes in effective connectivity can closely reflect visual perception.
The molecular layer of the cerebellar cortex is populated by glial progenitors that express ionotropic glutamate receptors and extend numerous processes among Purkinje cell dendrites. Here, we show that release of glutamate from climbing fiber (CF) axons produces AMPA receptor currents with rapid kinetics in these NG2-immunoreactive glial cells (NG2+ cells) in cerebellar slices. NG2+ cells may receive up to 70 discrete inputs from one CF and, unlike mature Purkinje cells, are often innervated by multiple CFs. Paired Purkinje cell-NG2+ cell recordings show that one CF can innervate both cell types. CF boutons make direct synaptic junctions with NG2+ cell processes, indicating that this rapid neuron-glia signaling occurs at discrete sites rather than through ectopic release at CF-Purkinje cell synapses. This robust activation of Ca2+-permeable AMPA receptors in NG2+ cells expands the influence of the olivocerebellar projection to this abundant class of glial progenitors.
NMDA receptors (NMDARs) control bidirectional synaptic plasticity by regulating postsynaptic AMPA receptors (AMPARs). Here we show that NMDAR activation can have differential effects on AMPAR trafficking, depending on the subunit composition of NMDARs. In mature cultured neurons, NR2A-NMDARs promote, whereas NR2B-NMDARs inhibit, the surface expression of GluR1, primarily by regulating its surface insertion. In mature neurons, NR2B is coupled to inhibition rather than activation of the Ras-ERK pathway, which drives surface delivery of GluR1. Moreover, the synaptic Ras GTPase activating protein (GAP) SynGAP is selectively associated with NR2B-NMDARs in brain and is required for inhibition of NMDAR-dependent ERK activation. Preferential coupling of NR2B to SynGAP could explain the subtype-specific function of NR2B-NMDARs in inhibition of Ras-ERK, removal of synaptic AMPARs, and weakening of synaptic transmission.
Persistent, use-dependent modulation of synaptic strength has been demonstrated for fast synaptic transmission mediated by glutamate and has been hypothesized to underlie persistent behavioral changes ranging from memory to addiction. Glutamate released at synapses is sequestered by the action of excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) in glia and postsynaptic neurons. So, the efficacy of glutamate transporter function is crucial for regulating glutamate spillover to adjacent presynaptic and postsynaptic receptors and the consequent induction of plastic or excitotoxic processes. Here, we report that tetanic stimulation of cerebellar climbing fiber-Purkinje cell synapses results in long-term potentiation (LTP) of a climbing fiber-evoked glutamate transporter current recorded in Purkinje cells. This LTP is postsynaptically expressed and requires activation of an mGluR1/PKC cascade. Together with a simultaneously induced long-term depression (LTD) of postsynaptic AMPA receptors, this might reflect an integrated antiexcitotoxic cellular response to strong climbing fiber synaptic activation, as occurs following an ischemic episode.
A striking example of neuronal synchronization occurs in the mammalian main olfactory bulb where mitral cells that project to the same glomerular unit display highly synchronized spike activity. In this issue of Neuron, Christie et al. use mice deficient for the gap junction protein connexin36 (Cx36) to demonstrate that Cx36-mediated electrical coupling underlies such synchrony.
Activity-based anorexia (ABA) is considered an animal model of anorexia nervosa. In ABA, scheduled feeding in combination with voluntary wheel running leads to hyperactivity, reduced food intake, severe body weight loss and hypothermia. In this study it was investigated whether hyperactivity in ABA could be reduced by introducing a warm plate (which was voluntary accessible and did not influence ambient temperature) into a part of the cage. In ad libitum fed rats, the presence of the warm plate did not influence body temperature, running wheel activity (RWA), body weight or food intake. During ABA, however, rats preferred the warm plate and hypothermia was prevented, while hyperactivity and body weight loss were significantly reduced when compared to ABA rats without a plate. Correlation analysis revealed a significant association between basal body temperature and RWA during the light phase in ABA rats. However, there was no evidence that initiation of light phase RWA was a result of hypothermia. These data suggest that ABA rats prefer to prevent hypothermia passively by choosing a warm plate rather than actively regulating body temperature by hyperactivity.
Overconsumption and increased selection of high fat (HF) foods contribute to the development of common obesity. Because the hypothalamic melanocortin (MC) system plays an integral role in the regulation of food intake and dietary choice, we tested the hypothesis that proneness (-P) or resistance (-R) to dietary-induced obesity (DIO) may be due to differences in MC function. We found that prior to developing obesity and while still maintained on chow, acute, central administration of MTII, an MC agonist, produced a greater anorectic response in DIO-P rats than in DIO-R rats. However, after only 5 days of exclusive HF feeding, the DIO-R rats had significantly greater suppression of intake after MTII treatment than they did when maintained on chow. In addition, the DIO-P rats were much less responsive to MTII treatment than the DIO-R rats after only 5 days of the HF diet. In fact, MTII-induced anorexia during HF feeding correlated negatively with body weight gained on the HF diet. These results suggest that the voluntary decrease of HF feeding in DIO-R rats may be mediated by increased endogenous MC signaling, a signal likely compromised in DIO-P rats. Differences in MC regulation may also explain the observed preference for HF over a lower fat food choice in DIO-P rats. Finally, the results indicate that responses to exogenous MC challenge can be used to predict proneness or resistance to DIO.
Hamsters repeatedly exposed to cocaine throughout adolescence display highly escalated offensive aggression compared to saline-treated littermates. Recently, we have shown that serotonin neural signaling and development play an important role in adolescent cocaine-induced offensive aggression. This study examined whether the adolescent cocaine-induced aggressive response was modulated by serotonin type 1A (5HT1A) receptors. To test this, adolescent male Syrian hamsters were administered cocaine hydrochloride (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) throughout adolescent development (P27-57) and then tested for offensive aggression after the administration of the 5HT(1A) receptor agonist R(+)-8-OH-DPAT (0.1, 0.3, 0.6, 1.0, 1.25 mg/kg, i.p.). R(+)-8-OH-DPAT dose-dependently reduced cocaine-induced offensive aggression, with a significant reduction observed at 0.3 mg/kg for most of the offensive responses measured. Animals treated with higher doses of R(+)-8-OH-DPAT (0.6-1.25 mg/kg) prior to testing showed significant reductions in all measures of offensive aggression and social interest towards intruders (i.e., contact time), indicating more general behavioral inhibition. Adolescent cocaine-treated animals did not differ in body weight from controls, suggesting that the increased aggression was not due to increased body mass. These data support a role for 5HT1A signaling in adolescent cocaine-induced aggression.




Declines in function are common manifestations of aging in many phyla. Because functional senescence is thought to drive the increasing risk of death with age, understanding functional senescence is important for understanding aging. Experimental investigation of functional senescence requires one to quantitative and compare age-dependent declines in function between cohorts. Such quantitation and comparison is often difficult due to complexities in functional senescence data sets. Here, we discuss issues related to describing and contrasting age-related declines in function. We parameterized functional senescence data in simple ways to generate descriptors for (1) rate of functional decline, (2) time to onset of functional decline, and (3) total function. To illustrate how these descriptors can be used, we analyzed a hypothetical data set and one of our previously published data sets. We conclude that no one descriptor sufficiently characterizes functional senescence. Useful distinctions between functional senescence in different cohorts can be made, however, when multiple descriptors are used in an integrated fashion [corrected]
Brain mitochondrial function has been posited to decline with aging. In order to test this hypothesis, cortical and striatal mitochondria were isolated from Fischer 344 rats at 2, 5, 11, 24 and 33 months of age. Mitochondrial membrane potential remained stable through 24 months, declining slightly in mitochondria from both brain regions at 33 months. The ability of calcium to induce mitochondrial swelling and depolarization, characteristics of the permeability transition, was remarkably stable through 24 months of age and increased at advanced ages only for cortical, but not striatal, mitochondria. Striatal mitochondria were more sensitive to calcium than were cortical mitochondria throughout the first 2 years of life. A two-fold increased resistance to calcium was observed in striatal mitochondria between 5 and 11 months. Although these measurements do demonstrate changes in mitochondrial function with aging, the changes in polarization are relatively small and the increased cortical susceptibility to the permeability transition only occurred at very advanced ages. Thus mitochondrial decline with advanced age depends upon brain region.
Although the incidence of HIV-related dementia has decreased significantly in the era of contemporary HAART, the prevalence of memory and cognitive symptoms remains steady in persons with HIV/AIDS. Recognition of which memory symptoms may be specifically related to HIV infection is becoming more and more challenging because of the increased survival and aging of those living with HIV disease. Therefore, numerous age-related causes of memory impairment may need to be ruled out. Depression can often result in subjective memory symptoms but rarely causes objective cognitive impairment. Because of the widespread use of thiamine food supplementation, alcohol is now a less common cause of severe memory impairment. HAART remains the treatment of choice for HIV-related dementia.
This article represents the proceedings of a symposium at the 2004 International Society for Biomedical Research on Alcoholism in Mannheim, Germany, organized and co-chaired by Susan E. Bergeson and Wolfgang Sommer. The presentations and presenter were (1) Gene Expression in Brains of Alcohol-Preferring and Non-Preferring Rats, by Howard J. Edenberg (2) Candidate Treatment Targets for Alcoholism: Leads from Functional Genomics Approaches, by Wolfgang Sommer (3) Microarray Analysis of Acute and Chronic Alcohol Response in Brain, by Susan E. Bergeson (4) On the Integration of QTL and Gene Expression Analysis, by Robert J. Hitzemann (5) Microarray and Proteomic Analysis of the Human Alcoholic Brain, by Peter R. Dodd.
Acute thrombolysis with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) is the only treatment of proven effectiveness in acute ischemic stroke (AIS). Cerebral edema (CE) is the most feared and fatal complication of AIS. For both of these conditions, patient selection for treatment and timing of intervention are crucial but controversial issues. Conventional diagnostic tools for AIS, including the neurological exam, computerized cerebral tomography (CT) Scan, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) have not as yet been able to determine which patients are the best risk-benefit candidates for thrombolysis, nor are they sensitive to the early detection of patients at risk for cerebral edema. This article suggests that the use of Emergency EEG (EmEEG) in AIS can reveal a distinctive EEG pattern that adds value to the selection of patients for thrombolytic and cerebral edema treatment. This pattern, called RAWOD (Regional Attenuation WithOut Delta) can identify patients with massive AIS earlier than CT or MRI. Patients with RAWOD are unlikely to benefit from thrombolysis but may be candidates for early surveillance and intervention for cerebral edema.

Anatomical analyses of occipital and temporal cortex of patients with fragile X mental retardation syndrome (FXS) and in a mouse model of the syndrome (FraX mice) compared to controls have suggested that the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) is important for normal spine structural maturation and pruning. However, a recent analysis of spine properties in somatosensory cortex of young FraX mice has suggested that this region may not exhibit spine abnormalities. While spine abnormalities were present 1 week after birth in somatosensory cortex, by 4 weeks almost all spine abnormalities had disappeared, suggesting that adult spine abnormalities observed in other cortical regions may not persist post-developmentally in somatosensory cortex. To resolve this discrepancy we examined spine properties in somatosensory cortex of young (day 25) and adult (day 73-76) FraX compared to wild-type (WT) mice. Spine properties in young FraX and WT mice did not consistently differ from each other, consistent with the recent analysis of developing somatosensory cortex. However, adult FraX mice exhibited increased spine density, longer spines, more spines with an immature-appearing structure, fewer shorter spines, and fewer spines with a mature structure, a pattern consistent with prior analyses from other adult cortical brain regions in humans and mice. These findings (1) support the previous report of the absence of major spine abnormalities in the fourth postnatal week, (2) demonstrate normal spine development in WT mice, (3) demonstrate abnormal spine development after the fourth postnatal week in FraX mice, and (4) demonstrate spine abnormalities in somatosensory cortex of adult FraX compared to adult WT mice. In doing so, these findings resolve a potential conflict in the literature and more thoroughly describe the role of FMRP in spine development.
In denervated skeletal muscle, mononuclear interstitial cells accumulate in the perisynaptic regions before fibrotic change occurs. These cells are currently considered to be fibroblasts that originate from muscle tissue. However, when we denervated hind limbs of GFP-bone marrow chimeric mice by excising the sciatic nerve unilaterally, many bone marrow-derived cells (BM-DCs) infiltrated the interstitial spaces and accumulated in the perisynaptic regions, peaking 14 days after denervation. They accounted for nearly one-half of the increase in mononuclear interstitial cells. Although BM-DCs did not incorporate into satellite cells, immunohistochemical and FACS analyses revealed that BM-DCs were both CD45 and CD11b positive, indicating that they were of macrophage/monocyte lineage. BrdU staining showed inactive proliferation of BM-DCs. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction of mononuclear cells isolated by FACS revealed that BM-DCs did not express type I collagen or tenascin-C; however, they did express transforming growth factor-beta1, suggesting that they regulate the fibrotic process. In contrast, muscle tissue-derived interstitial cells expressed type I collagen and tenascin-C, suggesting that these populations were the final effectors of fibrosis. These findings identify elementary targets that may regulate the migration, homing, differentiation, and function of BM-DCs, leading to amelioration of the excessive fibrosis of denervated skeletal muscle.
Glucocorticoid negative feedback regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is mediated by corticosteroid receptors. It is widely thought that during stress, glucocorticoid receptors (GR) are essential for this negative feedback. In contrast, mineralocorticoid receptors (MR) are associated with HPA axis regulation in basal, nonstress conditions. Notions about the relative roles of MR and GR for HPA axis regulation during stressor challenge may not be complete. Recent work in our laboratory suggests that previous estimates of MR occupancy at resting plasma levels of corticosterone (CORT) may be overestimated. It is possible that a significant number of MR may be available to mediate negative feedback during stressor challenge. We hypothesized that this may be especially the case during mild stressor challenge when the plasma CORT response is weak. In the present studies, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were first treated systemically or centrally with the selective MR antagonist RU28318 (50 mg/kg sc or 500 ng.10 microl(-1).2 h(-1) icv) or vehicle (300 microl propylene glycol sc or 10 microl/2 h sterile saline icv) and then challenged with 60-min novel environment or restraint. In vehicle controls, restraint resulted in a greater plasma CORT response than novel environment. Both systemic and central treatment with RU28318 significantly increased CORT responding to novel environment relative to vehicle controls. However, RU28318 treatment did not increase the CORT response to restraint. These data suggest that MR may be necessary for glucocorticoid regulation of HPA axis activity during mild stressors, but not during stressors that result in a more robust CORT response.
Evidence in rats suggests that central oxytocin (OT) signaling pathways contribute to suppression of food intake during dehydration (i.e., dehydration anorexia). The present study examined water deprivation-induced dehydration anorexia in wild-type and OT -/- mice. Mice were deprived of food alone (fasted, euhydrated) or were deprived of both food and water (fasted, dehydrated) for 18 h overnight. Fasted wild-type mice consumed significantly less chow during a 60-min refeeding period when dehydrated compared with their intake when euhydrated. Conversely, fasting-induced food intake was slightly but not significantly suppressed by dehydration in OT -/- mice, evidence for attenuated dehydration anorexia. In a separate experiment, mice were deprived of water (but not food) overnight for 18 h; then they were anesthetized and perfused with fixative for immunocytochemical analysis of central Fos expression. Fos was elevated similarly in osmo- and volume-sensitive regions of the basal forebrain and hypothalamus in wild-type and OT -/- mice after water deprivation. OT-positive neurons expressed Fos in dehydrated wild-type mice, and vasopressin-positive neurons were activated to a similar extent in wild-type and OT -/- mice. Conversely, significantly fewer neurons within the hindbrain dorsal vagal complex were activated in OT -/- mice after water deprivation compared with activation in wild-type mice. These findings support the view that OT-containing projections from the hypothalamus to the hindbrain are necessary for the full expression of compensatory behavioral and physiological responses to dehydration.
Mature male Sprague-Dawley (SD) and Long-Evans (LE) rats were instrumented with telemetry transmitters for measurement of heart rate (HR) and housed in room calorimeters for assessment of food intake and oxygen consumption (Vo(2)) at standard laboratory temperatures (23 degrees C) to examine physiological responses to caloric restriction (CR; 60% of baseline ad libitum calories for 2 wk) and refeeding. Ad libitum controls had stable food intake (84-88 kcal/day) and gained weight at rates of 3-4 g/day. Groups from both strains assigned to CR exhibited similar patterns of weight loss and reductions in Vo(2) and HR. Upon refeeding, SD rats exhibited a mild, transient hyperphagic response (1 day) accompanied by sustained suppression of Vo(2) and HR that remained evident 8 days after refeeding. In contrast, LE rats exhibited sustained daily hyperphagia that persisted 8 days after refeeding and was accompanied by a complete restoration of HR and Vo(2). The lower HR and Vo(2) observed during refeeding in SD rats were not due to reduced locomotor activity. The results reveal a strain-dependent divergent response to recovery from CR. We conclude that during recovery from CR, homeostatic stimulation of appetite or suppression of energy expenditure may occur selectively to restore body weight.
Sleep occurs in close relation to changes in body temperature. Both the monophasic sleep period in humans and the polyphasic sleep periods in rodents tend to be initiated when core body temperature is declining. This decline is mainly due to an increase in skin blood flow and consequently skin warming and heat loss. We have proposed that these intrinsically occurring changes in core and skin temperatures could modulate neuronal activity in sleep-regulating brain areas (Van Someren EJW, Chronobiol Int 17: 313-54, 2000). We here provide results compatible with this hypothesis. We obtained 144 sleep-onset latencies while directly manipulating core and skin temperatures within the comfortable range in eight healthy subjects under controlled conditions. The induction of a proximal skin temperature difference of only 0.78 +/- 0.03 degrees C (mean +/- SE) around a mean of 35.13 +/- 0.11 degrees C changed sleep-onset latency by 26%, i.e., by 3.09 minutes [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.91 to 4.28] around a mean of 11.85 min (CI, 9.74 to 14.41), with faster sleep onsets when the proximal skin was warmed. The reduction in sleep-onset latency occurred despite a small but significant decrease in subjective comfort during proximal skin warming. The induction of changes in core temperature (delta = 0.20 +/- 0.02 degrees C) and distal skin temperature (delta = 0.74 +/- 0.05 degrees C) were ineffective. Previous studies have demonstrated correlations between skin temperature and sleep-onset latency. Also, sleep disruption by ambient temperatures that activate thermoregulatory defense mechanisms has been shown. The present study is the first to experimentally demonstrate a causal contribution to sleep-onset latency of skin temperature manipulations within the normal nocturnal fluctuation range. Circadian and sleep-appetitive behavior-induced variations in skin temperature might act as an input signal to sleep-regulating systems.
Interoceptive stimuli modulate stress responses and emotional state, in part, via ascending viscerosensory inputs to the hypothalamus and limbic forebrain. It is unclear whether similar viscerosensory pathways are recruited by emotionally salient exteroceptive stimuli, such as odors. To address this question, we investigated conditioned avoidance and central c-Fos activation patterns in rats exposed to synthetic trimethylthiazoline (TMT), an odiferous natural component of fox feces. Experiment 1 demonstrated that rats avoid consuming novel flavors that previously were paired with TMT exposure, evidence that TMT supports conditioned flavor avoidance. Experiment 2 examined central neural systems activated by TMT. Odor-naive rats were acutely exposed to low or high levels of TMT or a novel nonaversive control odor and were perfused with fixative 60-90 min later. A subset of rats received retrograde neural tracer injections into the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) 7-10 days before odor exposure and perfusion. Brain sections were processed for dual-immunocytochemical detection of c-Fos and other markers to identify noradrenergic (NA) neurons, corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons, and retrogradely labeled neurons projecting to the CeA. Significantly greater proportions of medullary and pontine NA neurons, hypothalamic CRH neurons, and CeA-projecting neurons were activated in rats exposed to TMT compared with activation in rats exposed to the nonaversive control odor. Thus the ability of TMT to support conditioned avoidance behavior is correlated with significant odor-induced recruitment of hypothalamic CRH neurons and brain stem viscerosensory inputs to the CeA.
The controls of food intake differ in male and female rats. Daily food intake is typically greater in male rats, relative to female rats, and a decrease in food intake, coincident with the estrous stage of the ovarian reproductive cycle, is well documented in female rats. This estrous-related decrease in food intake has been attributed to a transient increase in the female rat's sensitivity to satiety signals generated during feeding bouts. Here, we investigated whether sex or stage of the estrous cycle modulate the satiety signal generated by fenfluramine, a potent serotonin (5-HT) releasing agent. To examine this hypothesis, food intake was monitored in male, diestrous female, and estrous female rats after intraperitoneal injections of 0, 0.25, and 1.0 mg/kg D-fenfluramine. The lower dose of fenfluramine decreased food intake only in diestrous and estrous females, suggesting that the minimally effective anorectic dose of fenfluramine is lower in female rats, relative to male rats. Although the larger dose of fenfluramine decreased food intake in both sexes, the duration of anorexia was greater in diestrous and estrous female rats, relative to male rats. Moreover, the magnitude of the anorectic effect of the larger dose of fenfluramine was greatest in estrous rats, intermediate in diestrous rats, and least in male rats. Thus our findings indicate that the anorectic effect of fenfluramine is modulated by gonadal hormone status.
The management of patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage following rupture of an intracranial aneurysm is changing. The recent introduction of endovascular occlusion of the aneurysm using detachable coils offers an alternative to craniotomy and clipping of the aneurysm for the prevention of recurrent aneurysmal haemorrhage. The aim of this survey was to evaluate the current provision of peri-operative care for patients with an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland. A survey was conducted of the 34 neuroscience centres which provide an adult neurosurgery service in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland. Most centres reported an increasing role for coiling, and a decreasing role for clipping in the management of aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. The provision of peri-operative care for patients undergoing interventional neuroradiology procedures varied greatly between centres. Neurovascular services in the UK are being reorganised and adequate staff and facilities should be available for the peri-operative care of patients undergoing interventional neuroradiology procedures.
With fast separation times (seconds to minutes), minimal sample requirements (nanoliters to femtoliters), and excellent mass detection limits (femtomole to zeptomole), capillary electrophoresis (CE) is ideally suited for in vitro and in vivo sampling of neurological samples with a high degree of spatial resolution. Advances in extracellular fluid analysis employing improved microdialysis and push-pull perfusion sampling methodologies has enabled the resolution of neurotransmitters present in limited amounts using CE. Great progress has been made to resolve complex neuropeptides, amino acids, and biogenic amines in tissue and cell cultures. Finally, owing largely to the small volume sampling abilities of CE, investigations of single nerve cells, both invertebrate and mammalian, have been accomplished. These applications of CE to the advancement of neuroscience are presented.

Short-term plasticity was studied on synapses to Purkinje cells (PC): paired-pulse facilitation in parallel fibers (PF) and paired-pulse depression in climbing fibers (CF). Both phenomena relate to synaptic strength. These forms of short-term plasticity were tested on cerebellar slices in rat by early postnatal synchronous stimulation of olivary neurons (i.e., CFs) with harmaline and by inhibition of a metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) as well as in mice that were deficient in the extracellular matrix glycoprotein tenascin-C. Harmaline stimulation delayed the developmental competition between CF inputs and maintained multiple innervation. Paired-pulse depression of the CF-PC synapse after harmaline treatment was more expressed. However, paired-pulse facilitation in PF-PC synapses remained unchanged. Electrophysiological responses of postsynaptic mGluR1 in CF-PC synapses could be obtained only with AMPA receptors blocked and glutamate uptake impaired. The mGluR1-specific antagonist CPCCOEt suppressed the CF-mGluR EPSC in some PCs and potentiated it in other PCs. CF paired-pulse depression was not changed with CPCCOEt, thus excluding a presynaptic effect. The postsynaptic effect was underlined by CPCCOEt-induced rise in amplitude of EPSC and by a prolongation of its decay time. Tenascins are extracellular matrix glycoproteins that may restrict the regenerative capacity of the nervous tissue. Testing short-term presynaptic plasticity in tenascin-C-deficient mice showed that CF paired-pulse depression was less expressed while PF paired-pulse facilitation was augmented except in a group of cells where there was even depression. The results underline differences in forms of short-term plasticity with regard to susceptibility to diverse modulatory factors.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune and chronic inflammatory disease characterized by plaques, areas of destroyed myelin sheaths in the CNS, which results in multiple disabilities for patients. In addition to demyelinated plaques, pathophysiological studies have shown &quot;shadow plaques&quot; that represent areas of partial remyelination. New myelin can be made by oligodendrocytes (OLs) generated from oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) that pre-exist in the demyelinated area or recruited from surrounding areas. To successfully repopulate the demyelinated area, OPCs have to proliferate, migrate, and differentiate into mature OLs capable of forming myelin. Identifying factors that influence remyelination is a current topic in developmental neurobiology. Previously, we showed that Golli proteins, which have a broad distribution in the nervous and immune systems, are present both in OPCs and activated microglia around MS lesions. We hypothesized that in response to inflammation, Golli proteins may promote proliferation of OPCs through microglial cells. To test this, we established neonatal mouse brain slice and cell cultures and used lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to induce inflammation. In LPS-treated brain slices, Golli proteins displayed increased expression in the cortical subventricular zone. Furthermore, Golli proteins were demonstrated only in the conditioned medium from LPS-treated microglial cell cultures (LPS-MCM), and were absent in either conditioned medium from LPS-treated astrocytes or control media. Finally, proliferation of purified OPCs was promoted with LPS-MCM or Golli proteins, but not with LPS alone. In summary, these results demonstrate that activated microglia are beneficial for proliferation of OPCs and suggest possible involvement of Golli proteins as one of mediators in this process.
The limited regenerative capability of adult central neurons results from an interplay between the intrinsic growth potential of injured nerve cells and environmental growth-inhibitory signals, such as myelin-associated molecules. These molecules, which are known to inhibit axonal regeneration, are expressed in the adult intact central nervous system, suggesting that they also exert a constitutive regulatory function on uninjured neurites. However, most of the mechanisms underlying this function of myelin-associated factors are still unclear. To address this issue, we examined Purkinje cells, which show extremely poor regenerative capabilities. Such a weak intrinsic growth potential is attributed, at least in part, to inhibitory activity exerted by the myelin-associated molecule Nogo-A on growth-associated gene expression and axon plasticity of adult Purkinje cells. Indeed, the regenerative potential of these neurons declines during postnatal development in parallel with myelin deposition. In addition, myelin-associated factors regulate the development of the Purkinje axon intracortical plexus, contributing to the shaping of mature cerebellar connectivity. The action of environmental inhibitory factors can be partially counteracted by overexpression of neuronal growth-associated molecules. In fact, following axotomy, transgenic Purkinje cells that overexpress GAP-43 are able to sprout their axons into white matter and show a pronounced tendency to lose myelin. Altogether, these results suggest that the control exerted by myelin on Purkinje axon plasticity plays an important role in preventing aberrant growth and in stabilizing intracortical connectivity. Such a constitutive regulation may eventually hamper compensatory mechanisms set up by the same neurons in response to injury and thus determine their weak regenerative abilities.
The Purkinje cell of the cerebellar cortex presents two distinct dendritic domains: a distal one, with spiny branchlets and a high density of spines innervated by many parallel fibers, and a proximal one, with a few clusters of spines innervated by a single climbing fiber terminal arbor. In adult rats, after 7 days of blocked electrical activity by the administration of TTX into the cerebellar parenchyma, the proximal dendritic domain of the Purkinje cell shows a remarkable growth of new spines that are innervated by parallel fibers. At the same time, the climbing fiber terminal arbor tends to become atrophic. In contrast, in the branchlets, spine density remains unmodified. These changes are reversible when TTX is removed. TTX treatment also leads to a decrease in spine size both in the branchlets and in the new spines of the proximal dendritic compartment. Spontaneous electrical activity should therefore be regarded not simply as noise, but as a significant signal for maintaining the typical profile of afferent innervation of the Purkinje cell and for preventing spines from shrinking.
Radoslav K. Andjus was a professor of physiology and biophysics at the University of Belgrade, Serbia, from 1953 to 1992. He was an elected member of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, the International Academy of Astronautics, and the Montenegrin Academy of Sciences and Arts. He published over 190 papers in domestic and international journals and three textbooks. The main field of his research was thermophysiology. He studied hypothermia, suspended animation and resuscitation, hibernation and biological rhythms, temperature adaptation and acclimation, and cryoprotection. Professor Andjus also contributed significantly to the fields of brain metabolism, endocrinology, electroretinography, as well as biophysical modeling and theoretical biology.
Antibodies to gangliosides and Purkinje cells have been reported in patients with celiac disease (CD) with neuropathy and ataxia, respectively. Whether these antibodies are pathogenic is not clear. The response of neurological symptoms and antibody titers to a gluten-free diet is still controversial. The objective of our study was to assess whether neurological manifestations in CD patients correlate with antibody titers and a gluten-free diet.Thirty-five CD patients (9 males, 26 females, mean age 37.1 +/- 12.6 yrs) were followed prospectively. At initial evaluation, 23 were on a gluten-free diet, 12 were not. At recruitment and during follow-up, patients underwent neurological and electrophysiological evaluation. IgG, IgM, and IgA anti-ganglioside antibodies were assayed by ELISA; anti-neuronal antibodies were assessed by immunohistochemistry and Western blot. Four patients, all males, had electrophysiological evidence of neuropathy; three had been on a gluten-free diet for several months, and one was newly diagnosed. One had reduced tendon reflexes; another complained of distal paresthesias. With regard to anti-ganglioside antibodies, three patients had a moderate increase in antibodies without symptoms or signs of neuropathy. No patients had ataxia or cerebellar dysfunction, although in four patients reactivity to neuronal antigens was found. In 17 patients, an electrophysiological follow-up (mean duration of follow-up, 9 months) showed no changes. In conclusion, the preliminary results of this prospective study indicate that neuropathy, usually subclinical, may accompany CD. Antibody titers do not seem to correlate with neurological symptoms/signs or diet. Ongoing follow-up will help confirm these data and clarify the role, if any, of antibodies in neurological involvement in CD.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a potent modulator of cardiac and vascular regulation. Its role in cardiac-autonomic neural signaling has received much attention over the last decade because of the ability of NO to alter cardiac sympathovagal balance to favor more anti-arrhythmic states. Complexity and controversy have arisen, however, because of the numerous sources of NO in the brain, peripheral nerves, and cardiomyocytes, all of which are potential regulators of cardiac excitability and calcium signaling. This review addresses the integrative role of NO as a relatively ubiquitous signaling molecule with respect to cardiac neurobiology. The present idea, that divergent NO-signaling pathways from multiple sources within the heart and nervous system converge to modulate cardiac excitability and impact on morbidity and mortality in health and disease, is discussed.
Estrogens are potent and efficacious neuroprotectants both in vitro and in vivo in a variety of models of neurotoxicity. We determined the structural requirements for neuroprotection in in vitro assays using a library of more than 70 novel estratrienes, synthesized to reduce or eliminate estrogen receptor (ER) binding. We observed that neuroprotection could be enhanced by as much as 200-fold through modifications that positioned a large, bulky group at the C2 and/or C4 position of the phenolic A ring of the estratriene. Further, substitutions on the B, C, or D rings either reduced or did not markedly change neuroprotection. For this library of compounds, there was a negative correlation between ER binding and neuroprotection, as the more potent compounds showed weaker or no ER binding. In an in vivo model for neuroprotection, transient cerebral ischemia, efficacious compounds were active in protection of brain tissue from this pro-oxidant insult. Finally, estradiol protected brains from insult-induced Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathology, including activation of apoptosis, stimulation of Abeta production, hyperphosphorylation of tau, activation of cyclin-dependent kinases, and activation of catastrophic attempts at neuronal mitosis. Collectively, these results demonstrate that nonfeminizing estrogens are neuroprotective and protect the brain from the induction of AD-like neuropathology in an animal model. These features of nonfeminizing estrogens make them attractive compounds for assessment of efficacy in AD and stroke, because they are not expected to show the side effects of chronic estrogen therapy that are ER mediated in the liver, uterus, and breast.
Over the past two decades, many clinical trials have been conducted using different forms of estrogen therapy with and without progestin supplementation in an effort to treat diagnosed Alzheimer's disease. Design variations among these trials may account for the inconsistent results of these investigations and the persistent gap in knowledge about the appropriate use of estrogen in the treatment paradigm for degenerative diseases.
Gonadal steroid hormones such as estrogen and progesterone can no longer be considered strictly within the confines of reproductive function, and with respect to their anatomic targets, extrahypothalamic structures within the brain such as the cerebral cortex have revealed themselves to be important targets. As such, it may come as no surprise that the decline in such hormones, which occurs after the menopause or ovariectomy, can result in neuronal dysfunction. Although estrogen has been shown to help restore the deficits consequent to ovariectomy, it is important to consider that ovariectomy, like the menopause, results in the precipitous loss of not only estrogen but of progesterone as well. As such, the loss of progesterone may contribute to the deficits observed after ovariectomy or the increased risk for Alzheimer's disease seen after the menopause. Indeed, recent evidence supports the neuroprotective potential of progesterone itself. Here, we review the current understanding of some of the diverse mechanisms by which progesterone may reduce neuronal vulnerability to toxic insults relevant to age and age-associated diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. Further, we comment on the need to carefully consider the various preparations of progestins that are currently available and argue that &quot;not all progestins are created equal,&quot; at least when it comes to influences on neuroprotection and other extrahypothalamic brain functions.
Hot flashes have a negative influence on the quality of life in hypogonadal women. There seem to be many regulators of hot flashes that add to the complexity of these profound vasomotor symptoms. In this paper, focus is placed on selected factors that may be involved in the relationship between hot flashes and cognitive status. During the hypogonadal state, the brain becomes relatively deprived of glucose. Hot flashes were found to be associated with transient inadequacies in brain levels of glucose. Neuroglucopenia was shown to initiate a cascade of immediate and delayed reactions leading to neuronal damage. Estrogen is known to diminish neuroglucopenia. In a pilot study on postmenopausal women, it was observed that cognitive performance of women who reported having hot flashes during their menopausal years was better than in women who did not experience hot flashes. It is hypothesized that a hot flash triggers a counterregulatory mechanism of the central nervous system to the insufficiency of glucose delivery to the brain and may have a beneficial effect on cognitive health in postmenopausal women. Possible therapeutic implications of this hypothesis are discussed in the light of current knowledge.
The tyrosine kinase receptor RON and its ligand, macrophage stimulating protein (MSP), exert inhibitory effects on systemic innate immunity, but their CNS expression and impact on human neuroinflammatory diseases are unknown were RON and MSP present in human brain perivascular macrophages and microglia, but RON mRNA and protein abundance in the CNS were diminished in both MS patients and the MS animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Treatment of differentiated human monocytoid cells with MSP resulted in significant reduction of interleukin (IL)-1beta, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and MMP-9 mRNA levels, whereas minimal effects were observed in human astrocytes. After induction of EAE, RON knockout and heterozygote animals exhibited significantly increased CNS proinflammatory gene (TNF-alpha, MMP-12) expression compared with wild-type littermate controls, although IL-4 levels were suppressed in both RON-deficient groups. Neurological disease in RON-deficient animals showed a more rapid onset with overall worsened severity, together with exacerbated demyelination, axonal injury, and neuroinflammation after EAE induction. The proto-oncogene, c-Cbl, which modulates ubiquitylation of RON, was increased in glia in both MS brains and EAE spinal cords. Thus, the MSP-RON pathway represents a novel regulatory mechanism within the CNS by which innate immunity and its pathogenic effects could be targeted for future therapeutic interventions.
Brain inflammatory reactions have been described in various neurological disorders, including epilepsy. Although there is clear evidence that cytokines affect neuroglial functions and blood-brain barrier permeability, scarce information is available on the functional consequences of brain inflammation on seizures. We studied the role of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF)-alpha and its p55 and p75 receptors in seizure modulation. We found that intrahippocampal injection of murine recombinant TNF-alpha potently inhibits seizure in mice while human recombinant TNF-alpha, which shows strong specificity for mouse p55 receptors, was ineffective. p75 receptors were detected in mouse hippocampal neurons, whereas p55 receptors were absent. Transgenic mice with a perturbed TNF-alpha system showed profound alterations in seizure susceptibility: astrocytic overexpression of TNF-alpha was associated with reduced seizures, whereas mice lacking TNF-alpha p75 or both p55 and p75, receptors showed prolonged seizures. Mice deficient in p55 receptor only showed reduced seizures; and both p75 and TNF receptor-associated factor 2 protein levels were upregulated in their hippocampi. Our findings show that increased brain levels of TNF-alpha result in significant inhibition of seizures in mice, and this action is mediated by neuronal p75 receptors. This evidence highlights a novel function of TNF-alpha in brain and indicates a new system for anticonvulsive intervention.
The pseudoscience of phrenology arose from the observations and intuitions of Franz Joseph Gall (1758-1828) and his disciple Johann Gaspar Spurzheim (1776-1832). Gall believed that mental functions are localized in discrete parts of the brain, which he called organs. He located the organs subserving intellectual functions chiefly in the cerebral cortex. To support this doctrine, Gall and Spurzheim carried out extensive neuro-anatomical studies, and made some important discoveries. The Gordon Craig Library contains a book by Spurzheim on the anatomy of the brain, published in London in 1826, which summarizes these discoveries. Gall also believed that the functional strength of the cerebral and cerebellar organs was expressed by their bulk: a well-developed organ caused a bulge in the overlying cranial bone. Hence, feeling the bumps of the skull was a means of assessing the individual's personality. This very fallacious component of Gall's doctrine had great influence in the nineteenth century, affecting psychiatry, criminology and educational theory. Further research demolished Gall's doctrine, and phrenology sank into disrepute. Nevertheless, phrenological thinking played an important part in the growth of clinical neurology in the second half of the nineteenth century.


We recently demonstrated that in the D4 dopamine receptor the aromatic microdomain that spans the interface of the second and third transmembrane (TM) domains influences the high affinity interactions of extremely D4-selective ligands possessing a 1,4-disubstituted aromatic piperazine/piperidine (1,4-DAP) structure. On the basis of their substructural features and patterns of sensitivity to mutations constructed in a D4 receptor background, the D4-selective 1,4-DAPs were categorized as having two distinct modes of binding that we named mode-1 and mode-3 [1]. Here we extend these findings of the ligand-receptor structure-affinity relationships for some of these highly D4-selective 1,4-DAPs by measuring the effect of the corresponding reciprocal TM2/TM3 mutations constructed in a D2 dopamine receptor background on the binding affinity of the para-halogenated mode-1 ligands L750,667 and FAUC213. The results indicate that the D2-V2.61F + FV3.28-3.29LM mutant binds L750,667 and FAUC213 with significantly increased affinity, i.e., its binding profile becomes more D4-like. These findings further support the assignment of the TM2/TM3 aromatic microdomain encompassing positions 2.61 and 3.28-3.29 as a 1,4-DAP D4-selectivity microdomain and highlights the importance of the precise emplacement of aromatics in this microdomain as key to the selective molecular recognition of L750,667 and FAUC213.

Bioregulators or modulators are biochemical compounds such as peptides, that occur naturally in organisms. Advances in biotechnology create the potential for the misuse of peptide bioregulators in offensive biological weapons programmes. Bioregulators are a new class of weapons that can damage the nervous system, alter mood, trigger psychological changes and kill. Over the last twenty years, neuroscience has produced an explosion of knowledge about receptor systems in the nerve cells that are of critical importance in receiving chemical transmitter substances released by other nerve cells. Bioregulators are closely related to substances normally found in the body that regulates normal biological processes. The potential military or terrorist use of bioregulators is similar to that of toxins. Together with increased research into toxins, the bioregulators have also been studied and synthesized. This paper presents a review of bioregulators that could be used in terrorist or other hostile activities.



Confinement and isolation have always confounded the extraordinary endeavor of human spaceflight. Psychosocial health is at the forefront in considering risk factors that imperil missions of 1- to 2-yr duration. Current crewmember selection metrics restricted to behavioral observation by definition observe rather than prevent performance degradation and are thus inadequate when preflight training cannot simulate an entire journey. Nascent techniques to monitor functional and task-related cortical neural activity show promise and can be extended to include whole-brain monitoring. Watching spaceflight crews think can reveal the efficiency of training procedures. Moreover, observing subcortical emotion centers may provide early detection of developing neuropsychiatric disorders. The non-invasive functional neuroimaging modalities electroencephalography (EEG), magnetoencephalography (MEG), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), and highlights of how they may be engineered for spacecraft are detailed. Preflight and in-flight applications to crewmember behavioral health from current generation, next generation, and generation-after-next neuroscience research studies are also described. The emphasis is on preventing the onset of neuropsychiatric dysfunctions, thus reducing the risk of mission failure due to human error.
In deep-space missions, the basal ganglia and hippocampus, subcortical structures of the brain that play critical roles in motor activity, cognition, and memory, will be vulnerable to damage from cosmic rays. These metabolically active structures are also sensitive to damage arising from the low oxygen content of air at extreme altitudes. We have, therefore, used Mount Everest as an analogue for deep space, where astronauts will be subject to danger and stress as well as neural damage. We can ethically obtain data because our climber-subjects already intend to climb Mt. Everest. We record speech and test cognitive and linguistic performance before, during, and after exposure to hypoxic conditions. From these data we have derived and validated computer-implemented acoustic voice measures that track slight as well as profound cognitive impairment. Vowel duration and speech motor sequencing errors increase as climbers ascend, reflecting degraded basal ganglia activity. These metrics detect deficits in language comprehension and the ability to change plans in changing circumstances. Preliminary analyses also reveal memory deficits reflecting hippocampal damage. Our speech metrics are unobtrusive and do not reveal the content of a verbal message; they could be derived automatically, allowing space crews to detect subtle motor and cognitive deficits and invoke countermeasures before performance is profoundly impaired. In future work we will be validating the voice metrics of stress in collaboration with the Dinges NSBRI laboratory study of task-induced stress. Our procedures can also be applied in general aviation and in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's dementia, and other neurological disorders.
The effect of nurses' confidence to counsel patients at risk of stroke in selected health promotion areas: smoking cessation, exercise and nutrition was examined. Bandura's (1986) self-efficacy and Knowles' adult learning theories provided the theoretical underpinnings for the study. This was a quasi-experimental design in which neuroscience nurses (N = 23) from a quaternary hospital completed questionnaires prior to, immediately after, and 2 months post completion of a self-directed learning manual (SDL). The researcher-designed manual was designed to enhance learning about the risk factors for stroke and the importance of stroke prevention. Along with reflective activities and pre-post test, strategies for counseling high-risk, stroke-prone individuals in the areas of smoking cessation, exercise, and nutrition were also integrated. The Health Promotion Counseling Self-Efficacy Scale (Tresolini, Saluja, and Stritter, 1995), consisting of 10 self-efficacy subscales relating to self-confidence in knowledge and ability to counsel in health promotion areas, was used to capture the nurses' self-report of self-efficacy. Using a 5-point Likert Scale, nurses also rated their amount of agreement or disagreement about health promotion counseling in practice. Overall, self-efficacy levels for both knowledge and counseling increased significantly (p &lt; .01) from pre-to immediately post completion of the manual, and decreased slightly at two-month follow-up. This pattern was evident in all health promotion areas measured except for knowledge in exercise (p = .015). Nurses' attitudes about aspects of health promotion practices correlated significantly (p &lt; 05) at two-month follow-up with all health promotion areas. Results of this study support the usefulness of a self-directed learning manual as a teaching strategy for health promotion counseling of individuals at risk of stroke.
Maternal behaviors in rodents include a number of subcomponents, such as nursing, nest building, licking and grooming of pups, pup retrieval, and maternal aggression. Because each behavior involves a unique motor pattern, a unique ensemble neural circuitry must underlie each behavior. To what extent there is overlap in terms of brain regions and specific neurons for each circuit is being actively investigated. This review will first examine overlapping and separate components of pup retrieval and maternal aggression circuitries while examining a central role for medial preoptic area (MPA) in both behaviors. With an emphasis on experimental approaches, the review will then highlight recent findings and propose future directions for understanding maternal behavior regulation. Finally, examples for why studying the neural basis of maternal behaviors can bring insights to other areas of neuroscience, such as feeding, addiction, and anxiety and aggression regulation will be provided.
In the present study, rats received amygdala lesions (AMX) on either Postnatal Day 7 (PD 7; immature brain) or PD 21 (almost mature brain), and adult social activity was studied after short-term isolation housing. Sham-operated rats demonstrated increased following and approaching behavior after 7 days of isolation compared with after 4 days of isolation, an effect that was absent in AMX-PD 7 and AMX-PD 21 rats. Furthermore, AMX-PD 7 rats, but not AMX-PD 21 rats, displayed a reduction in investigatory behavior after prolonged isolation. This indicates that in AMX-PD 21 rats, mainly appetitive motivational aspects of social behavior were affected, whereas in AMX-PD 7 rats both motivational and consummatory aspects were disturbed. Finally, the reported deficits in AMX-PD 7 rats may reflect neurodevelopmental deficits of structures connected with the amygdala.
Processing of context information is implicated in prefrontal functions as response selection or attention. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the mammalian prefrontal cortex (PFC) and in the nidopallium caudolaterale (NCL) of birds, the avian functional equivalent of the PFC, are involved in learning, which also requires processing of context. The authors investigated the role of NMDA receptors in the pigeon (Columba livia) NCL for context processing and response selection in a simultaneous-matching-to-sample task with 2 trial types, requiring either processing of context information, delivered by a conditional stimulus (context dependent), or only recall of a stimulus-response association (fixed response). The competitive NMDA antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid impaired performance only in context-dependent trials. Therefore, NMDA receptors in the avian PFC participate in response selection requiring context processing rather than in response selection per se.
Classical conditioning is thought to play a key role in addiction. The authors used c-Fos immunohistochemistry to demonstrate a conditioned physiological response to methamphetamine (meth) in mice. Male outbred mice were placed into an environment where they had previously experienced 2 mg/kg meth or saline. The meth-paired mice displayed increased c-Fos in several brain regions, including the nucleus accumbens, prefrontal cortex, orbitofrontal cortex, basolateral amygdala, and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. No conditioned locomotor activity was observed, but individual activity levels strongly correlated with c-Fos in many regions. A batch effect among immunohistochemical assays was demonstrated. Results implicate specific brain regions in classical conditioning to meth and demonstrate the importance of considering locomotor activity and batch in a c-Fos study.
A contextual reinstatement procedure was developed to assess the contributions of environmental cues and hippocampal function in the recovery of conditioned fear following extinction in humans. Experiment 1 showed context specificity in the recovery of extinguished skin conductance responses after presentations of an auditory unconditioned stimulus. Experiment 2 demonstrated that fear recovery did not generalize to an explicitly unpaired conditioned stimulus. Experiment 3 replicated the context dependency of fear recovery with a shock as an unconditioned stimulus. Two amnesic patients failed to recover fear responses following reinstatement in the same context, despite showing initial fear acquisition. These results extend the known functions of the human hippocampus and highlight the importance of environmental contexts in regulating the expression of latent fear associations.
Conditional motor learning contributes importantly to behavioral flexibility. In previous work, the authors found that fornix transections impaired the ability of macaque monkeys (Macaca mulatta) to learn conditional motor associations between the nonspatial features of visual stimuli and nonspatially differentiated responses. In the present study, they found that significant 1-trial learning of such associations also depended on the fornix. Furthermore, removal of the hippocampus, subiculum, and subjacent parahippocampal cortex, added to fornix transection, had no effect, thus demonstrating that fornix transections eliminated the contribution of the hippocampal system. In addition, the authors examined the effect of errorless learning and found, in control monkeys, that errors made prior to the 1st correct response retarded 1-trial learning.

Neural rhythms can be studied in terms of conditions for their generation, or in terms of their functional significance. The theta oscillation is a particularly prominent rhythm, reported to be present in many brain areas, and related to many important cognitive processes. The generating mechanisms of theta have extensively been studied and reviewed elsewhere; here we discuss ideas that have accumulated over the past decades on the computational roles it may subserve. Theories propose different aspects of theta oscillations as being relevant for their cognitive functions: limit cycle oscillations in neuronal firing rates, subthreshold membrane potential oscillations, periodic modulation of synaptic transmission and plasticity, and phase precession of hippocampal place cells. The relevant experimental data is briefly summarized in the light of these theories. Specific models proposing a function for theta in pattern recognition, memory, sequence learning and navigation are reviewed critically. Difficulties with testing and comparing alternative models are discussed, along with potentially important future research directions in the field.
The past decade has witnessed the establishment of several now well-replicated findings in the neuropsychology of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), which have been confirmed by meta-analyses. Progress has been notable from the importing of cognitive science and neuroscience paradigms. Yet these findings point to many neural networks being involved in the syndrome and to modest effect sizes suggesting that any one neuropsychologic deficit will not be able to explain the disorder. In this article, leading theories and key findings are briefly reviewed in four key domains: attention, executive functions, state regulation and motivation, and temporal information processing. Key issues facing the field of neuropsychologic research and theory in ADHD include 1) the need for more integrative developmental accounts that address both multiple neural systems and the socialization processes that assure their development; 2) consideration of multiple models/measures in the same study so as to examine relative contributions, within-group heterogeneity, and differential deficit; and 3) better integration of cognitive process models with affective and temperament theories so that early precursors to ADHD can be better understood. Overall, the field has witnessed notable progress as it converges on an understanding of ADHD in relation to disruption of a multicomponent self-regulatory system. The next era must articulate multipathway, multilevel developmental accounts of ADHD that incorporate neuropsychologic effects.
Intra-individual variability in behavior and functioning is ubiquitous among children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), but it has not been systematically examined or integrated within causal models. This article seeks to provide a conceptual, methodologic, and analytic framework as a foundation for future research. We first identify five key research questions and methodologic issues. For illustration, we examine the periodic structure of Eriksen Flanker task reaction time (RT) data obtained from 24 boys with ADHD and 18 age-matched comparison boys. Reaction time variability in ADHD differed quantitatively from control subjects, particularly at a modal frequency around .05 Hz (cycle length approximately 20 sec). These oscillations in RT were unaffected by double-blind placebo and were suppressed by double-blind methylphenidate. Together with converging lines of basic and clinical evidence, these secondary data analyses support the speculative hypothesis that the increased power of multisecond oscillations in ADHD RT data, and by inference, in attentional performance, represents a catecholaminergic deficit in the ability to appropriately modulate such oscillations in neuronal activity. These results highlight the importance of retaining time-series data and quantitatively examining intra-subject measures of variability as a putative endophenotype for ADHD.
More than three decades of research has attempted to elucidate the neuropsychopharmacology of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Stimulants, a principle treatment for the disorder, act on the norepinephrine (NE) and dopamine (DA) systems; this has led to a long-standing hypothesis of catecholamine dysfunction in ADHD. Animal studies show a clear role for NE and DA in the modulation of executive functions, which are often disturbed in persons with ADHD. Nonstimulant agents that are effective in the treatment of ADHD tend to affect the NE system, whereas those affecting only DA, or those that affect neither catecholamine, are less potent in reducing ADHD symptoms. Studies of the effects of NE and DA peripheral metabolites by ADHD pharmacotherapies show acute increases in levels of these catecholamines; however, their long-term turnover may be reduced. Imaging studies suggest stimulants increases DA levels in the brain, whereas some animal models of ADHD are more consistent with excessive DA activation in the disorder. Ultimately, ADHD therapy may modify activity in the NE and DA systems to a more optimal level, thus improving responses to environmental stimuli and enhancing working memory and executive function.
The prefrontal cortex guides behaviors, thoughts, and feelings using representational knowledge, i.e., working memory. These fundamental cognitive abilities subserve the so-called executive functions: the ability to inhibit inappropriate behaviors and thoughts, regulate our attention, monitor our actions, and plan and organize for the future. Neuropsychological and imaging studies indicate that these prefrontal cortex functions are weaker in patients with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and contribute substantially to attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder symptomology. Research in animals indicates that the prefrontal cortex is very sensitive to its neurochemical environment and that small changes in catecholamine modulation of prefrontal cortex cells can have profound effects on the ability of the prefrontal cortex to guide behavior. Optimal levels of norepinephrine acting at postsynaptic alpha-2A-adrenoceptors and dopamine acting at D1 receptors are essential to prefrontal cortex function. Blockade of norepinephrine alpha-2-adrenoceptors in prefrontal cortex markedly impairs prefrontal cortex function and mimics most of the symptoms of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, including impulsivity and locomotor hyperactivity. Conversely, stimulation of alpha-2-adrenoceptors in prefrontal cortex strengthens prefrontal cortex regulation of behavior and reduces distractibility. Most effective treatments for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder facilitate catecholamine transmission and likely have their therapeutic actions by optimizing catecholamine actions in prefrontal cortex.

Psychological functions that are behaviorally and neurally well specified may serve as endophenotypes for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) research. Such endophenotypes, which lie between genes and symptoms, may relate more directly to relevant genetic variability than does the clinical ADHD syndrome itself. Here we review evidence in favor of response inhibition as an endophenotype for ADHD research. We show that response inhibition--operationalized by Go/NoGo or Stop-signal tasks--requires the prefrontal cortex (PFC), in particular the right inferior frontal cortex (IFC); that patients with ADHD have significant response inhibition deficits and show altered functional activation and gray matter volumes in right IFC; and that a number of studies indicate that response inhibition performance is heritable. Additionally, we review evidence concerning the role of the basal ganglia in response inhibition, as well as the role of neuromodulatory systems. All things considered, a combined right IFC structure/function/response inhibition phenotype is a particularly good candidate for future heritability and association studies. Moreover, a dissection of response inhibition into more basic components such as rule maintenance, vigilance, and target detection may provide yet better targets for association with genes for neuromodulation and brain development.
Over the past few decades, functional neuroimaging techniques have begun to provide unprecedented windows on the neurobiology of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and the neural effects of medications used to treat the disorder. Convergent data from neuroimaging, neuropsychological, genetics, and neurochemical studies have implicated dysfunction of fronto-striatal structures (lateral prefrontal cortex, dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, caudate, and putamen) as likely contributing to the pathophysiology of ADHD. This review 1) provides an overview of the main imaging techniques being used to study ADHD; 2) discusses their relative strengths and weaknesses, highlighting how they can complement one another; 3) shows how the functional imaging literature, which has built on the structural imaging data, is now being used to test focused hypotheses regarding the neurobiological substrate of ADHD; and 4) suggests guidelines for improving future functional imaging studies. Although at present there are no accepted uses for functional imaging in diagnosing ADHD, this article mentions possible future clinical uses of imaging in ADHD.
Many investigators have hypothesized that attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) involves structural and functional brain abnormalities in frontal-striatal circuitry. Although our review suggests that there is substantial support for this hypothesis, a growing literature demonstrates widespread abnormalities affecting other cortical regions and the cerebellum. Because there is only one report studying adults with ADHD, this summary is based on children. A key limitation of the literature is that most of the studies until recently have been underpowered, using samples of fewer than 20 subjects per group. Nevertheless, these studies are largely consistent with the most comprehensive and definitive study (Castellanos et al 2002). Moreover, studies differ in the degree to which they address the influence of medications, comorbidities, or gender, and most have not addressed potentially important sources of heterogeneity such as family history of ADHD, subtype, or perinatal complications. Despite these limitations, a relatively consistent picture has emerged. The most replicated alterations in ADHD in childhood include significantly smaller volumes in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, caudate, pallidum, corpus callosum, and cerebellum. These results suggest that the brain is altered in a more widespread manner than has been previously hypothesized. Developmental studies are needed to address the evolution of this brain disorder into adulthood.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a multifactorial and clinically heterogeneous disorder that is associated with tremendous financial burden, stress to families, and adverse academic and vocational outcomes. Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder is highly prevalent in children worldwide, and the prevalence of this disorder in adults is increasingly recognized. Studies of adults with a diagnosis of childhood-onset ADHD indicate that clinical correlates--demographic, psychosocial, psychiatric, and cognitive features--mirror findings among children with ADHD. Predictors of persistence of ADHD include family history of the disorder, psychiatric comorbidity, and psychosocial adversity. Family studies of ADHD have consistently supported its strong familial nature. Psychiatric disorders comorbid with childhood ADHD include oppositional defiant and conduct disorders, whereas mood and anxiety disorders are comorbid with ADHD in both children and adults. Pregnancy and delivery complications, maternal smoking during pregnancy, and adverse family environment variables are considered important risk factors for ADHD. The etiology of ADHD has not been clearly identified, although evidence supports neurobiologic and genetic origins. Structural and functional imaging studies suggest that dysfunction in the fronto-subcortical pathways, as well as imbalances in the dopaminergic and noradrenergic systems, contribute to the pathophysiology of ADHD. Medication with dopaminergic and noradrenergic activity seems to reduce ADHD symptoms by blocking dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake. Such alterations in dopaminergic and noradrenergic function are apparently necessary for the clinical efficacy of pharmacologic treatments of ADHD.
4-Amino-5,7-disubstituted pyridopyrimidines are potent, non-nucleoside inhibitors of adenosine kinase (AK). We recently identified a potent, orally efficacious analog, 4 containing a 7-pyridylmorpholine substituted ring system as the key structural element of this template. In this report, we disclose the pharmacologic effects of five- and six-membered heterocyclic ring replacements for the pyridine ring in 4. These replacements were found to have interesting effects on in vivo efficacy and genotoxicity as well as in vitro potency. We discovered that the nitrogen in the heterocyclic ring at C(7) is important for the modulation of mutagenic side effects (Ames assay).
Oxidation and reduction (redox) are known to modulate the function of a variety of ion channels. Here, we report a redox regulation of the function of ClC-0, a chloride (Cl(-)) channel from the Torpedo electric organ. The study was motivated by the occasional observation of oocytes with hyperpolarization-activated Cl(-) current when these oocytes expressed ClC-0. We find that these atypical recording traces can be turned into typical ClC-0 current by incubating the oocyte in millimolar concentrations of reducing agents, suggesting that the channel function is regulated by oxidation and reduction. The redox control apparently results from an effect of oxidation on the slow (inactivation) gating: oxidation renders it more difficult for the channel to recover from the inactivated states. Introducing the point mutation C212S in ClC-0 suppresses the inactivation state, and this inactivation-suppressed mutant is no longer sensitive to the inhibition by oxidizing reagents. However, C212 is probably not the target for the redox reaction because the regulation of the inactivation gating by oxidation is still present in a pore mutant (K165C/K165 heterodimer) in which the C212S mutation is present. Taking advantage of the K165C/K165 heterodimer, we further explore the oxidation effect in ClC-0 by methane thiosulfonate (MTS) modifications. We found that trimethylethylammonium MTS modification of the introduced cysteine can induce current in the K165C/K165 heterodimer, an effect attributed to the recovery of the channel from the inactivation state. The current induction by MTS reagents is subjected to redox controls, and thus the extent of this current induction can serve as an indicator to report the oxidation state of the channel. These results together suggest that the inactivation gating of ClC-0 is affected by redox regulation. The finding also provides a convenient method to &quot;cure&quot; those atypical recording traces of ClC-0 expressed in Xenopus oocytes.
We report a rare case of paraparesis caused by thoracic spinal epidural lipomatosis in a female patient who did not have any recognized predisposing factor for this condition.
1 Agonistic neurosteroids, including pregnenolone, dehydroepiandrosterone and its sulfate (DHEAS), caused rapid degranulation in measurements of beta-hexosaminidase (beta-HEX) release from a mast cell line, RBL-2H3. This degranulation was blocked by BSA-conjugated progesterone (PROG-BSA) or 17beta-estradiol, both of which are antagonistic neurosteroids. 2 DHEAS-induced beta-HEX release was blocked by U-73122 or xestospongin C, but not by PTX or EGTA. DHEAS-induced beta-HEX release was also abolished by G(q/11)-AS, but not by G(q/11)-MS. Pharmacological analyses revealed that the neurosteroids stimulated a putative membrane receptor through activation of the novel G(q/11) and phospholipase C. 3 While representative endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) did not show any degranulation or nocifensive actions by themselves, they blocked the DHEAS-induced degranulation. 4 The binding of a PROG-BSA-fluorescein isothiocyanate conjugate (PROG-BSA-FITC) to cells was inhibited by neurosteroids and EDCs. 5 In the algogenic-induced biting and licking responses test, DHEAS caused agonistic nocifensive actions in a dose-dependent manner between 1 and 10 fmol (i.pl.). DHEAS-induced nocifensive actions were abolished by PROG-BSA or nonylphenol. 6 Taken together, these results suggest that a G(q/11)-coupled neurosteroid receptor may regulate the neuroimmunological activity related to sensory stimulation and that some EDCs have antagonistic actions for this receptor.
1 Neuroprotection has been reported after either activation or blockade of the group I metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGluR5). However, some recent evidence suggests that protection provided by mGluR5 antagonists may reflect their ability to inhibit N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activity. 2 Here, in both rat and mouse cortical neurons, we compare the neuroprotective actions of two mGluR5 antagonists: 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP), which has been commonly used and 3-[(2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl)ethynyl]pyridine (MTEP), a more recently developed compound believed to have greater mGluR5 selectivity. We have previously shown that MPEP directly reduces single-channel NMDA receptor open time at the same concentrations (20 microM or greater) that show neuroprotection, whereas MPEP antagonizes mGluR5 agonist ((RS)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG))-induced changes in inositol phosphates (IP) at concentrations as low as 0.2 microM. 3 In the present studies, MTEP significantly inhibited CHPG-mediated IP hydrolysis at concentrations as low as 0.02 microM. In contrast to MPEP, which significantly reduced glutamate- or NMDA-mediated cell death in primary rat neuronal cultures at a concentration of 20 microM, small neuroprotective effects were observed with MTEP only at a concentration of 200 microM. Neither MPEP- nor MTEP-mediated mGluR5 inhibition had any effect on etoposide-induced apoptotic cell death. In rat cortical neurons, the neuroprotective effects of MTEP at very high concentrations, like those of MPEP, reflect ability to directly reduce NMDA receptor peak and steady-state currents. 4 We also compared the effects of MPEP and MTEP in primary cortical neuronal cultures from parental and mGluR5 knockout mice. Both agents were neuroprotective, at high concentrations in normal as well as in the knockout cultures. In contrast to rat cortical neurons, neither MPEP nor MTEP appears to directly alter NMDA receptor activity. 5 Combined, these studies support the conclusion that MTEP has greater mGluR5 selectivity than MPEP, and that neuroprotection provided by either antagonist in neuronal cultures does not reflect inhibition of mGluR5 receptors.
1 The mitochondrial respiratory chain produces reactive oxygen species (ROS) during normal electron transport. Despite producing ROS, mitochondria are vulnerable to oxidative stress. Mitochondrial dysfunction has been associated with many degenerative diseases, making it important to identify compounds that protect mitochondria from ROS-mediated toxicity. Here we report that ciclopirox (CPX) blocks H2O2-induced mitochondrial injury by maintaining mitochondrial transmembrane potential (Deltapsim). 2 CPX completely blocked H2O2-stimulated release of lactate dehydrogenase (a marker of cell death) and decrease in MTT reduction (a marker of mitochondrial function) in adenocarcinoma SK-HEP-1 cells. 3 H2O2 rapidly depolarized the Deltapsim, and CPX blocked this H2O2-stimulated Deltapsim decrease. Similar data were obtained in experiments using mitochondria isolated from rat liver. 4 Furthermore, CPX effectively inhibited H2O2-induced mitochondrial permeability transition pore (MPTP) opening. In de-energized mitochondria, however, CPX did not inhibit Ca2+-evoked MPTP opening, indicating that CPX is not a direct inhibitor of the MPTP. 5 Oxygen consumption studies showed that in the presence of pyruvate and malate CPX restored the rate of state 3 to state 4 respiration decreased by H2O2. Consistent with this, CPX replenished ATP levels lowered by H2O2. 6 The present results indicate that CPX protects SK-HEP-1 cells from H2O2 cytotoxicity by inhibiting Deltapsim decrease and indirectly preventing MPTP opening.

The pathophysiology underlying the involuntary tics of Gilles de la Tourette syndrome (GTS) remains unknown. Here we used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to examine the excitability of two different inhibitory systems in the human motor cortex: short interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) and short interval afferent inhibition (SAI) in 10 healthy non-smoking controls and eight untreated non-smoking patients with GTS. Compared with the healthy control group, both SICI (measured at a range of conditioning intensities) and SAI were reduced in patients. This is consistent with the suggestion that reduced excitability of cortical inhibition is one factor that contributes to the difficulty that patients have in suppressing involuntary tics. In addition, the reduced SAI indicates that impaired intracortical inhibition may not be limited to the motor cortex but also involves circuits linking sensory input and motor output. A single dose of nicotine reduced tic severity as assessed by blind video scoring in the majority of patients. In addition, it abolished the difference between patients and controls in SICI and SAI. There was no effect of nicotine, and no difference between controls and patients in measures of motor or SICI threshold. This indicates that cholinergic input can modulate the efficiency of SICI and SAI differently in GTS and healthy controls.
The role of changes in inter-regional cortical synchronization in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease and the mechanism of action of dopaminergic therapy and high frequency subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation is unclear. We hypothesized that synchronization between distributed cortical areas would correlate with parkinsonism and that changes in synchronization with treatment would correlate with improvements in parkinsonism. To this end, we recorded scalp EEG in parkinsonian patients off treatment (16 patients, 31 sides) and then separately during high frequency stimulation (HFS) of the STN (16 patients, 31 sides) and following drug treatment (12 patients, 24 sides). All recordings were made at rest to avoid the confounding effects of differences in task performance. The motor Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) score was determined in each state. We found that EEG-EEG coherence over approximately 10-35 Hz correlated with the severity of parkinsonism, and reductions in cortical coupling over this frequency range with both l-dopa and STN stimulation correlated with clinical improvement. These results suggest that both dopaminergic therapy and STN stimulation may support the restoration of normal cortico-cortical interactions in the frequency domain. This mechanistic similarity may underscore the strong clinical correlation between the therapeutic effects of these treatment modalities.
We have undertaken a test-re-test [11C]flumazenil (FMZ) PET study in 10 drug-resistant epileptic patients, including six with a mesiotemporal epilepsy (MTE), and 10 normal controls, in order to investigate seizure-related short-term plasticity of benzodiazepine (BZD) receptors. All subjects underwent two FMZ-PET scans at a 1 week interval. Patients benefited from a concurrent video-EEG monitoring which allowed determination of the duration of the interictal period (IP) preceding each PET. Test-re-test whole brain B'(max) variations, evaluated with a partial-saturation injection protocol, were similarly observed in patients and controls, suggesting a physiological modulation of BZD receptors. Five patients (50%), but no controls, also demonstrated clinically significant test-re-test FMZ-PET variations in the mesial temporal region. This was observed in all three patients with MTE and no hippocampal atrophy in whom only the PET study associated with the shortest IP correctly identified the epileptogenic zone. Statistical analysis revealed a significant effect of IP duration on BZD receptor B'(max) in MTE patients, suggesting that the shorter the IP, the lower the B'(max) in the epileptogenic hippocampus. FMZ-PET appears to be an interesting tool for investigating both normal and abnormal short-term modulations of the BZD receptor system, and should ideally be performed within a few days following a seizure in patients with MTE and a normal MRI.
The neural basis of functional lateralization in language processing is a fundamental issue in systems neuroscience. We used functional MRI (fMRI) to examine hemispheric dominance during the processing of signed and spoken sentences. By using tasks involving comprehension of sentences (Sc) and sentential non-word detection (Sn), we compared different groups and stimulus conditions. Under the sign condition with sentence stimuli in Japanese Sign Language (JSL), we tested two groups of subjects: Deaf signers (Deaf) of JSL, and hearing bilinguals (children of Deaf adults, CODA) of JSL and Japanese (JPN). Under the speech condition, we tested hearing monolinguals (Mono) of JPN with auditory JPN stimuli alone (AUD), or with an audiovisual presentation of JPN and JSL stimuli (A&amp;V). We found that the overall bilateral activation patterns under the four experimental conditions of Deaf, CODA, AUD and A&amp;V were almost identical, despite differences in stimuli (JSL and JPN) and groups (Deaf, CODA and Mono). Moreover, consistently left-dominant activations involving frontal and temporo-parietal regions were observed across all four conditions. Furthermore, irrespective of the modalities of sign and speech, the main effects of task (Sc-Sn) were found primarily in the left regions: the ventral part of the inferior frontal gyrus (F3t/F3O), the precentral sulcus, the superior frontal gyrus, the middle temporal gyrus, the angular gyrus and the inferior parietal gyrus. Among these regions, only the left F3t/F3O showed no main effects of modality condition. These results demonstrate amodal commonality in the functional dominance of the left cortical regions for comprehension of sentences, as well as the essential and universal role of the left F3t/F3O in processing linguistic information from both signed and spoken sentences.
Maintaining language functions after left hemisphere lesions has been associated with compensatory right hemisphere activation. It remains unclear whether recruitment of right hemisphere regions necessarily provides an effective mechanism to compensate for language deficits. To investigate the compensatory mechanisms that mediate good reading skills in patients after left anterior temporal lobe resection for mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (mTLE), we tested for the effect of their reading ability on the regional fMRI (functional MRI) signal elicited by sentence reading. Sixteen control subjects and 16 patients participated in the study. In the activation condition, they silently read nine-word sentences, and in the baseline condition they viewed nine-word sentences after all the letters were transformed into false fonts. Reading ability in controls and patients significantly (P &lt; 0.05, corrected) predicted activations in a left hemisphere middle temporal region that was part of the normal sentence reading system. In addition, reading ability in patients, but not controls, significantly predicted activation in the right inferior frontal sulcus, right hippocampus and right inferior temporal sulcus. Right inferior frontal activation was only observed in the patients. In contrast, right hippocampal and inferior temporal activation was observed in all controls and in patients whose reading ability was within the normal range, indicating the importance of these regions for efficient encoding during normal sentence reading. We conclude that proficient reading skills following left anterior temporal lobe resection for mTLE rely on two mechanisms: (i) integrating regions from the normal system (i.e. the left middle temporal, right hippocampus and anterior superior temporal sulcus); and (ii) recruiting right hemisphere regions (i.e. the right inferior frontal sulcus) that are not activated in control subjects.
Patients with unilateral (left or right) medial temporal lobe lesions and normal control (NC) volunteers participated in two experiments, both using a duration bisection procedure. Experiment 1 assessed discrimination of auditory and visual signal durations ranging from 2 to 8 s, in the same test session. Patients and NC participants judged auditory signals as longer than equivalent duration visual signals. The difference between auditory and visual time discrimination was equivalent for the three groups, suggesting that a unilateral temporal lobe resection does not modulate the modality effect. To document interval-timing abilities after temporal lobe resection for different duration ranges, Experiment 2 investigated the discrimination of brief, 50-200 ms, auditory durations in the same patients. Overall, patients with right temporal lobe resection were found to have more variable duration judgments across both signal modality and duration range. These findings suggest the involvement of the right temporal lobe at the level of the decision process in temporal discriminations.
We have hypothesized a distinction between the processes required to control the timing of different classes of periodic movements. In one class, salient events mark successive cycles. For these movements, we hypothesize that the temporal goal is a requisite component of the task representation, what we refer to as event-based timing. In the other class, the successive cycles are produced continuously. For these movements, alternative control strategies can optimize performance, allowing timing to be emergent. In a previous study, patients with cerebellar lesions were found to be selectively impaired on event-based timing tasks; they were unimpaired on a continuously produced task. In the present study, patients with Parkinson's disease were tested on repetitive movement tasks in which timing was either event-based or emergent. Temporal variability on either type of task did not differ between on- and off-medication sessions for the Parkinson's patients nor did patient performance differ from that of controls. These results suggest that the basal ganglia play a minimal role in movement timing and that impairments on event-based timing tasks are specific to cerebellar damage.
Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) exhibit deficits in perceptual and motor timing as well as impairments in memory and attentional processes that are related to dysfunction of dopaminergic systems in the basal ganglia. The aim of the present study was to assess the relationships existing between impaired duration judgments and defective memory and attention in PD patients. We compared time performance of medicated PD patients and control subjects on a duration reproduction task that is highly memory-dependent, and on a duration production task that could reveal effects of changes in the speed of internal time-keeping mechanisms. Each task was performed in a control counting condition and in a condition requiring divided attention between the temporal task and a concurrent reading task. Moreover, PD patients and control subjects were assessed on memory and attention using a battery of neuropsychological tests. The results revealed that in the concurrent reading condition of the reproduction task, duration judgments tended to be more variable in PD patients than in control subjects. Moreover, variability of duration reproductions was correlated with both measures of memory and of disease severity. In the concurrent reading condition of the production task, duration judgments were significantly shorter in PD patients than in control subjects, and accuracy of duration productions was correlated with scores on sub-tests of short-term memory. The findings suggest that the administration of dopamine did not entirely remove the memory deficits in PD patients. Moreover, DA treatment would have abnormally accelerated the rate of the internal clock leading to shorter duration productions in PD patients. The whole results indicate that dopamine administration in patients might have overshadowed the slowing rate of the internal clock usually reported in non medicated PD patients, without entirely restoring all of the memory functions.
The experiments presented here demonstrate that normal aging amplifies differences in time production occurring in delayed free-recall testing. Experiment 1 compared the time production ability of two healthy aged groups as well as college-aged participants. During the test session, which followed a 24-h delay and omitted all feedback and examples of the two target intervals, the two groups of aged participants' over-produced a 6s interval. This effect is similar in form to errors shown by young participants, but twice the magnitude. Productions of a 17 s interval were generally accurate overall. However, further analysis indicated that the majority of aged participants over-produced the 17 s interval while a minority greatly under-produced the 17 s interval. Furthermore, aged participants showed violations of the scalar property of timing variability in the training session, while in the test session, only those who under-produced the 17 s interval showed this tendency. In contrast, training session performance was good for all participants. Experiments 2 and 3 investigated the ability of the participants in Experiment 1 to reproduce the length of a line from memory, under conditions analogous to those of the time production experiments. These experiments provided tests of the specificity of the errors observed in Experiment 1. Performance in the older participants was accurate, if more variable, compared to the young participants, in contrast to the time production results, indicating that production inaccuracy in free-recall is specific to interval timing in the current context.
Several convergent lines of evidence have suggested that the presence of an emotion signal in a visual stimulus can influence processing of that stimulus. In the current study, we picked up on this idea, and explored the hypothesis that the presence of an emotional facial expression (happiness) would facilitate the identification of familiar faces. We studied two groups of normal participants (overall N=54), and neurological patients with either left (n=8) or right (n=10) temporal lobectomies. Reaction times were measured while participants named familiar famous faces that had happy expressions or neutral expressions. In support of the hypothesis, naming was significantly faster for the happy faces, and this effect obtained in the normal participants and in both patient groups. In the patients with left temporal lobectomies, the effect size for this facilitation was large (d=0.87), suggesting that this manipulation might have practical implications for helping such patients compensate for the types of naming defects that often accompany their brain damage. Consistent with other recent work, our findings indicate that emotion can facilitate visual identification, perhaps via a modulatory influence of the amygdala on extrastriate cortex.
Tracing the neural circuitry of decision formation is a critical step in the understanding of higher cognitive function. To make a decision, the primate brain coordinates dynamic interactions between several cortical and subcortical areas that process sensory, cognitive, and reward information. In selecting the optimal behavioral response, decision mechanisms integrate the accumulating evidence with reward expectation and knowledge from prior experience, and deliberate about the choice that matches the expected outcome. Linkages between sensory input and behavioral output responsible for response selection are shown in the neural activity of structures from the prefrontal-basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical loop. The deliberation process can be best described in terms of sensitivity, selection bias, and activation threshold. Here, we show a systems neuroscience approach of the visual saccade decision circuit and the interaction between its components during decision formation.
Psychosurgery, the neurosurgical treatment of psychiatric disease, has a history dating back to antiquity, and involves all of the clinical neurosciences. This review discusses the history of psychosurgery, its development in the 19th century, and the conditions of its use and abuse in the 20th century, with a particular focus on the frontal lobotomy. The transition to the modern era of psychosurgery is discussed, as well as the neurobiology underlying current psychosurgical procedures. The techniques of stereotactic cingulotomy, capsulotomy, subcaudate tractotomy, and limbic leukotomy are described, as well their indications and side effects. Due to the past abuse of psychosurgery, procedures are currently under strict control, and the example of the Cingulotomy Committee at the Massachusetts General Hospital is discussed. Finally, future directions of psychosurgery and somatic therapies are explored, including transcranial magnetic stimulation, vagal nerve stimulation, deep brain stimulation, gene therapy, and stem cell therapy. In summary, this review provides a concise yet comprehensive introduction to the history, current practice, and future trends of neurosurgery for psychiatric disorders.
Spinal cord injury can lead to devastating functional disability. Pathophysiological studies show that, very early after the initial trauma, secondary damage is caused by toxic phenomena involving excitatory amino acids (excitotoxicity). The use of specific antagonists can attenuate this secondary damage in murine models. However, the kinetics of this phenomenon must be precisely documented before launching clinical trials of multidrug therapy. Axonal regeneration, previously considered impossible within the mammalian central nervous system, depends on appropriate control of glial reactivity. This may be achieved through gene therapy (si RNA) targeting glial obstacles. Finally, the existence in the spinal cord of autonomous centers such as the locomotor CPG suggests that cell therapy-based approaches may also be effective.
Polycystin-2, a member of the TRP family of calcium channels, is encoded by the human PKD2 gene. Mutations in that gene can lead to swelling of nephrons into the fluid-filled cysts of polycystic kidney disease. In addition to expression in tubular epithelial cells, human polycystin-2 is found in muscle and neuronal cells, but its cell biological function has been unclear. A homologue in Caenorhabditis elegans is necessary for male mating behavior. We compared the behavior, calcium signaling mechanisms, and electrophysiology of wild-type and pkd-2 knockout C. elegans. In addition to characterizing PKD-2-mediated aggregation and mating behaviors, we found that polycystin-2 is an intracellular Ca(2+) release channel that is required for the normal pattern of Ca(2+) responses involving IP(3) and ryanodine receptor-mediated Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores. Activity of polycystin-2 creates brief cytosolic Ca(2+) transients with increased amplitude and decreased duration. Polycystin-2, along with the IP(3) and ryanodine receptors, acts as a major calcium-release channel in the endoplasmic reticulum in cells where rapid calcium signaling is required, and polycystin-2 activity is essential in those excitable cells for rapid responses to stimuli.
A key regulatory mechanism in cell motility is the control of myosin activity, which in non-muscle cells is determined by phosphorylation of the myosin regulatory light chain (MRLC). Here we show that MRLC-interacting protein (MIR)-interacting saposin-like protein (MSAP) enhances cell spreading in fibroblasts and migration of rat C6 glioma cells through increases in MRLC phosphorylation. Overexpression of MSAP enhanced the motility of glioma cells measured in matrigel invasion chambers and using a scratch assay. Downregulation of MSAP by RNA interference significantly decreased glioma cell migration and phosphorylation of MRLC. Inhibition of the corresponding MRLC kinase by ML-7 did not affect migration of MSAP-overexpressing cells. The present results show that MSAP controls glioma cell migration via enhancement of MRLC phosphorylation. This effect is independent of the activity of MRLC kinase. Thus, MSAP is a novel modulator of cell motility that influences migration of glioma cells and possibly other tumors.
1. Gene expression studies of human brain tissues in both health and disease require the use of intact, high spectral quality messenger RNA (mRNA). Short post-mortem tissues, when adequately controlled, provide a valuable primary source of brain mRNA. 2. Typical mRNA isolation methodologies rely on total RNA extraction from whole cells or tissues. Here we report that as an alternative approach, nuclei can be isolated from the same tissues and programmed for run-on gene transcription to generate enriched mRNA fractions. 3. This novel technique represents a significant improvement over previous methods and provides high quality, high yield mRNA samples suitable for downstream applications that include cloning, sequencing and gene expression studies using DNA array technologies.
1. This paper reviews the evolution of the family of genes present in mammals and other vertebrates that encode gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) type A (GABA(A)) receptors, which are the major inhibitory neurotransmitter receptors in the central nervous system (CNS). In mammals, 16 different polypeptides (alpha1-alpha6, beta1-beta3, gamma1-gamma3, delta, epsilon, pi, and theta) have been identified, using recombinant DNA techniques, each of which is encoded by a distinct gene. The products of these genes assemble in diverse combinations to form a variety of receptor subtypes that have different sensitivities to a number of clinically relevant compounds, such as the benzodiazepines (BZs). 2. Based on a number of chromosomal mapping techniques, the majority of the GABA(A) receptor genes have been localized, in man, in four clusters on chromosomes 4, 5, 15, and the X. Furthermore, the genes that are present within these clusters have a conserved transcriptional orientation. It has, therefore, been proposed that the clusters arose largely as a consequence of two whole-genome doublings that occurred during chordate evolution, and that the ancestral cluster contained an &quot;alpha-like,&quot; a &quot;beta-like,&quot; and a &quot;gamma-like&quot; subunit gene. 3. Our laboratory has identified two additional GABA(A) receptor polypeptides (the beta4 and gamma4 subunits) in a number of vertebrate species; these do not appear to be present in mammals. We discuss here the relationship of the corresponding genes to other GABA(A) receptor genes, and conclude that their products are orthologous to the mammalian theta and epsilon subunits, respectively. 4. The GABA(A) receptor has a number of binding sites for compounds such as BZs, barbiturates, neurosteroids, and certain volatile anaesthetics. However, the only site at which endogenous compounds are thought to be active is the steroid site; this binds steroids such as certain metabolites of progesterone and deoxycorticosterone, which are synthesized in the periphery and CNS. Since the in vivo functional relevance, if any, of binding sites for other classes of compounds (such as the BZs) is unknown, the significance of differences in primary sequence, between different receptor subunits, is uncertain. We suggest that a possibly more important consequence of gene duplication is that it permitted greater flexibility in the level, pattern and regulation of expression of GABA(A) receptor genes.
1. Strong etiological association exists between dysfunctional metabolism of brain lipids, age-related changes in the cerebral vasculature and neurodegenerative features characteristic of Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. 2. In this short review, recent experimental evidence for these associations is further discussed below.


Data from brain-damaged and neurologically intact populations indicate hemispheric asymmetries in the temporo-parietal cortex for discriminating an object's global form (e.g. the overall shape of a bicycle) versus its local parts (e.g. the spokes in a bicycle tire). However, it is not yet clear whether such asymmetries reflect processes that (i) bias attention toward upcoming global versus local stimuli and/or (ii) attend/identify global versus local stimuli after they are presented. To investigate these possibilities, we asked sixteen healthy participants to perform a cued global/local attention task while their brain activity was recorded using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The results indicated a novel double dissociation. Hemispheric asymmetries for deploying attention toward expected global versus local object features were specific to the intraparietal sulcus (iPs). However, hemispheric asymmetries for identifying global versus local features after they were presented were specific to the inferior parietal lobe/superior temporal gyrus (IPL/STG). This double dissociation provides the first direct evidence that hemispheric asymmetries associated with different components of global/local attention occur in distinct temporo-parietal loci. Furthermore, it parallels an analogous dissociation reported in a recent fMRI study of spatial orienting, suggesting that global/local attention and spatial attention might rely on similar cognitive/neural mechanisms.
Perceptual suppression of distractors may depend on both endogenous and exogenous factors, such as attentional load of the current task and sensory competition among simultaneous stimuli, respectively. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to compare these two types of attentional effects and examine how they may interact in the human brain. We varied the attentional load of a visual monitoring task performed on a rapid stream at central fixation without altering the central stimuli themselves, while measuring the impact on fMRI responses to task-irrelevant peripheral checkerboards presented either unilaterally or bilaterally. Activations in visual cortex for irrelevant peripheral stimulation decreased with increasing attentional load at fixation. This relative decrease was present even in V1, but became larger for successive visual areas through to V4. Decreases in activation for contralateral peripheral checkerboards due to higher central load were more pronounced within retinotopic cortex corresponding to 'inner' peripheral locations relatively near the central targets than for more eccentric 'outer' locations, demonstrating a predominant suppression of nearby surround rather than strict 'tunnel vision' during higher task load at central fixation. Contralateral activations for peripheral stimulation in one hemifield were reduced by competition with concurrent stimulation in the other hemifield only in inferior parietal cortex, not in retinotopic areas of occipital visual cortex. In addition, central attentional load interacted with competition due to bilateral versus unilateral peripheral stimuli specifically in posterior parietal and fusiform regions. These results reveal that task-dependent attentional load, and interhemifield stimulus-competition, can produce distinct influences on the neural responses to peripheral visual stimuli within the human visual system. These distinct mechanisms in selective visual processing may be integrated within posterior parietal areas, rather than earlier occipital cortex.
It has been proposed that the prefrontal cortex modulates neural activity in posterior cortex via inhibitory mechanisms. As a result, damage to the former area may produce disinhibition in posterior regions and increase sensitivity to extraneous information. This hypothesis was investigated by examining how prefrontal cortex lesions affected the firing of hippocampal place cells in freely moving rats. In experiment 1, the positional firing of lesion-group cells was altered to a greater extent than that of control-group cells when objects were introduced into the recording environment. This suggested that place cell firing was overly influenced by local cues in the prefrontal-lesioned animals. In experiment 2 place cells were recorded while rats foraged on a circular track with access to both local and distal multimodal cues. Although the position of place fields in lesion-group cells was not excessively tied to local cues, a greater proportion of the fields lost their spatial selectivity following a rotation of these cues. The cue-related effects were associated with larger extracellular action-potential amplitudes and a greater incidence of burst-firing in lesion-group cells. This finding is consistent with the hypothesis that lesions of the prefrontal cortex result in a disinhibition of posterior cortex.
DNA repair plays a critical, but imprecisely defined role in neuronal survival during cortical neurogenesis. We examined cortical development in mice deficient for the DNA end-joining protein, Ku70. At gestational day 14.5, corresponding to the peak of neurogenesis, the Ku70(-/-) embryonic cerebral cortex displayed 25- to 30-fold more cell death than heterozygous littermates, as judged by DNA breaks, pyknosis and active caspase-3. In Ku70(-/-) embryos only, large clusters of dying neurons were found in the intermediate zone. Cell death declined until P4, when the number of dying cells became comparable to that in heterozygous mice. Two groups of dying cells were evident: a GLAST(+) neural progenitor population in the subventricular and ventricular zones, and a doublecortin(+) immature neuron population in the intermediate zone, the latter exhibiting strong staining for oxidative DNA damage. Antioxidants and lower oxygen tension reduced the high levels of neuronal death in primary cortical cultures derived from Ku70(-/-) mice, but not the low levels of cell death in wildtype cortical cultures. Results indicate migrating cortical neurons undergo oxidative DNA damage, which is normally repaired by non-homologous end joining. Failure to repair oxidative damage triggers a form of apoptosis involving caspase-3 activation.
We address the problem of detecting, from scalar observations, the time scales involved in synchronization of complex oscillators with several spectral components. Using a recent data-driven procedure for analyzing nonlinear and nonstationary signals [Huang, Proc. R. Soc. London A 454, 903 (1998)], we decompose a time series in distinct oscillation modes which may display a time varying spectrum. When applied to coupled oscillators with multiple time scales, we found that motions are captured in a finite number of phase-locked oscillations. Further, in the synchronized state distinct phenomena as phase slips, anti-phase or perfect phase locking can be simultaneously observed at specific time scales. This fully data-driven approach (without a priori choice of filters or basis functions) is tested on numerical examples and illustrated on electric intracranial signals recorded from an epileptic patient. Implications for the study of the build-up of synchronized states in nonstationary and noisy systems are pointed out.
Moths of the subfamily Heliothinae are suitable models for comparative studies of plant odour information encoded by the olfactory system. Here we identify and functionally classify types of olfactory receptor neurons by means of electrophysiological recordings from single receptor neurons linked to gas chromatography and to mass spectrometry. The molecular receptive ranges of 14 types in the two polyphagous species Heliothis virescens and Helicoverpa armigera are presented. The receptor neurons are characterized by a narrow tuning, showing the best response to one primary odorant and weak responses to a few chemically related compounds. The most frequently occurring of the 14 types constituted the receptor neurons tuned to (+)-linalool, the enantioselectivity of which was shown by testing two samples with opposite enantiomeric ratios. These neurons, also responding to dihydrolinalool, were found to be functionally similar in the two related species. The primary odorants for 10 other receptor neuron types were identified as (3Z)-hexenyl acetate, (+)-3-carene, trans-pinocarveol, trans-verbenol, vinylbenzaldehyde, 2-phenylethanol, methyl benzoate, alpha-caryophyllene and caryophyllene oxide, respectively. Most odorants were present in several host and non-host plant species, often in trace amounts. The specificity as well as the co-localization of particular neuron types so far recorded in both species showed similarities of the olfactory systems receiving plant odour information in these two species of heliothine moths.



We report on a patient with delayed carbon monoxide encephalopathy who presented with severe cognitive impairment associated with MRI findings of extensive demyelination of the cerebral white matter after a silent period of three weeks from acute intoxication. Despite the severe signs of structural and functional cerebral impairment in the sub-acute stage, the clinical course was favorable but for residual mild dysfunction of the frontal lobes.
Giant nerve sheath tumour is a rare tumour originating from the nerve sheath. It differs from the conventional nerve sheath tumour only by the size these tumours can reach. There are two main type of tumours that occur in the nerve sheath which include neurofibroma and schwannoma. The current views are that schwannomas arise from the progenitor of the schwann cell. Whereas the neurofibroma series probably arise from a mesenchymal origin closer to a fibroblast. We report on six cases of nerve sheath tumour that occur in the spinal and paraspinal region that presented to us over a 5 year period.

BACKGROUND: Previous preliminary reports have suggested potential interactions between microcytic anaemia and mood disorders. In particular, heterozygous beta-thalassaemia has been implicated in the bipolar spectrum. This study surveyed relevant haematological parameters in a large sample of psychiatric outpatients with the aim of clarifying previous observations. METHODS: Mean Corpuscular Volume (MCV) was analysed in 1014 consecutive patients diagnosed according to modified Research Diagnostic Criteria (RDC). Haemoglobin electrophoresis and/or chromatography was performed in blood samples from 143 patients with reduced MCV. Prevalence of heterozygous beta-thalassaemia was estimated based on the rates of patients with reduced MCV and increased haemoglobin A2 concentration. RESULTS: MCV lower than 80 mu3 was found in greater proportions among bipolar compared with the remaining RDC subgroups (183/732 = 25.0% versus 51/282 = 18.1%; p = 0.02; relative risk = 1.38; Fisher's exact test). This difference can mainly be attributed to heterozygous beta-thalassaemia, the estimated prevalence of which was 16.4% among bipolar and 9.9% among non-bipolar subgroups (p = 0.01; relative risk = 1.65). CONCLUSION: The results are consistent with the hypothesis that heterozygous beta-thalassaemia might play a role as a susceptibility factor in bipolar spectrum disorders in specific populations.

More than 1.7 million American women are expected to reach menopause each year. Recent Canadian statistics show that a 50-year-old woman can now expect to live until her mid-80s, which implies living at least one-third of her life after menopause. The menopausal transition is typically marked by intense hormonal fluctuations, accompanied by vasomotor symptoms (eg, hot flashes, night sweats), sleeps disturbance, and changes in sexual function, as well as increased risk for osteoporosis, cardiovascular disease, and cognitive decline. More importantly, recent studies have demonstrated a significant association between menopausal transition and a higher risk for developing depression. In the post-Women's Health Initiative Study era, physicians and patients are questioning the safety and efficacy of long-term hormone therapy use. This article reviews the current literature on the benefits and risks of using hormone therapy for the treatment of menopause-related mood disturbances and alternate strategies currently available for the management of menopause-related problems, including antidepressants, complementary and alternative medicine, and selective estrogen receptor modulators.
After outlining what is meant by wavefront aberration, the history of the field of wavefront technology is sketched and methods for measuring ocular wavefront aberration are briefly described. The variations in aberration of the normal eye with the individual and their pupil size, accommodation and age are summarised. Potential contact lens applications are outlined, including the design and on-eye performance of single-vision lenses, lenses for presbyopes and keratoconics, orthokeratology, tear film studies, and the design and performance of customised contact lenses intended to minimise residual lens-eye wavefront error.

Specific Language Impairment (SLI) has been explained by two broad classes of hypotheses, which posit either a deficit specific to grammar, or a non-linguistic processing impairment. Here we advance an alternative perspective. According to the Procedural Deficit Hypothesis (PDH), SLI can be largely explained by the abnormal development of brain structures that constitute the procedural memory system. This system, which is composed of a network of inter-connected structures rooted in frontal/basal-ganglia circuits, subserves the learning and execution of motor and cognitive skills. Crucially, recent evidence also implicates this system in important aspects of grammar. The PDH posits that a significant proportion of individuals with SLI suffer from abnormalities of this brain network, leading to impairments of the linguistic and non-linguistic functions that depend on it. In contrast, functions such as lexical and declarative memory, which depend on other brain structures, are expected to remain largely spared. Evidence from an in-depth retrospective examination of the literature is presented. It is argued that the data support the predictions of the PDH, and particularly implicate Broca's area within frontal cortex, and the caudate nucleus within the basal ganglia. Finally, broader implications are discussed, and predictions for future research are presented. It is argued that the PDH forms the basis of a novel and potentially productive perspective on SLI.
Neuroanatomical and behavioral evidence indicate that the cerebellum is particularly vulnerable to the toxic effects of prenatal alcohol exposure. Recent research has shown impairments in eyeblink conditioning in rats following binge-like neonatal ethanol exposure. The neural substrates of eyeblink conditioning have been localized to the cerebellum and related brainstem mechanisms. The present study considered whether heavy prenatal alcohol exposure would result in similar impairments in eyeblink conditioning in children. A related purpose was to determine if eyeblink conditioning could discriminate between children with prenatal alcohol exposure and children diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactive disorder or developmental dyslexia. Fifty-three age-matched children [10 prenatal alcohol exposure (FAE), 16 attention deficit hyperactive disordered (ADHD), 14 children with dyslexia (DYS), 13 normal controls] were assessed on eyeblink conditioning in the delay paradigm. Children in the FAE and DYS groups failed to learn the conditioned response, producing longer latencies and poorly timed responses to the conditioning stimulus. Children with ADHD were impaired on measures of adaptively timed responses, although conditioned responses matched normal controls. The results suggest that children prenatally exposed to alcohol have deficits in cerebellar processing similar to those with dyslexia, and that these functional deficits are related to disabilities in learning.
Findings from 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT measurements at rest in a group of 19 school-age children with specific language impairment (SLI) were compared to a group of 12 children with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). The regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) distributions were different in the two groups. Children with SLI showed significantly lower CBF values in the right parietal region and in the subcortical region compared to the ADHD group. In addition, the SLI group had symmetric CBF distributions in the left and right temporal regions, whereas the ADHD group showed the usual asymmetry with left-sided hemispheric predominance in the temporal regions. The findings give further evidence for anomalous neurodevelopment with deviant hemispheric lateralization as an important factor in the aetiology of SLI. They also point to the role of subcortical structures in language impairment in childhood. Earlier focus on cortical structures in SLI research needs to be widened to include subcortical regions as well.


In mammals, the regulation of the cell fate to either proliferate, differentiate, arrest cell growth, or initiate programmed cell death is the most fundamental mechanism for maintaining normal cell function and tissue homeostasis. Under multiple signaling pathways, Jun and Fos family proteins are known to play important roles as components of an AP-1 (activator protein-1) complex, to regulate the transcription of various genes involved in cell proliferation, differentiation and programmed cell death. DeltaFosB, one of the AP-1 subunits encoded by alternatively spliced fosB mRNA, triggers one round of proliferation in quiescent rat embryo cell lines, followed by a different cell fate such as morphological alteration or delayed cell death. As one of the downstream targets of the DeltaFosB in rat3Y1 cell line, we identified rat galectin-1 and its novel variant, galectin-1beta, and demonstrated that the expression of galectin-1 is required for the proliferative activation of quiescent rat1A cells by DeltaFosB, thus indicating that galectin-1 is one of functional targets of DeltaFosB. The expression of DeltaFosB is highly inducible in the adult brain in response to various insults such as ischemic reperfusion injury, seizure induced by electric stimulation or cocaine administration. On the other hand, galectin-1 has also been shown to be involved in the regeneration of damaged axons in the peripheral nerve, as well as in neurite outgrowth or synaptic connectivity in the olfactory system during development. We herein propose that DeltaFosB together with galectin-1, may therefore mediate neuroprotection and neurogenesis in response to brain damage.
A large body of evidence indicates that oxidative stress is a salient pathological feature in many neurodegenerative diseases, including Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, and Parkinson's disease. In addition to signs of systemic oxidative stress, at the biochemical and neuropathological level, neuronal degeneration in these disorders has been shown to coincide with several markers of oxidative damage to lipids, nucleic acids, and proteins in affected brain regions. Neuroinflammatory processes, often associated with the induction of free radical generating enzymes and the accumulation of reactive astrocytes and microglial cells, are considered as a major source of oxidative stress. Given the pathogenic impact of oxidative stress and neuroinflammation, therapeutic strategies aimed to blunt these processes are considered an effective way to confer neuroprotection. Recently, the nuclear transcription factor Nrf2, that binds to the antioxidant response element (ARE) in gene promoters, has been reported to constitute a key regulatory factor in the co-ordinate induction of a battery of endogenous cytoprotective genes, including those encoding for both antioxidant- and anti-inflammatory proteins. In the present review, besides discussing recent evidence underscoring the thesis that the Nrf2-ARE signalling pathway is an attractive therapeutic target for neurodegenerative diseases, we advocate the view that chemopreventive agents might be suitable candidates to serve as lead compounds for the development of a new class of neuroprotective drugs.
Clustering of activated microglia in Abeta deposits is related to accumulation of amyloid associated factors and precedes the neurodegenerative changes in AD. Microglia-derived pro-inflammatory cytokines are suggested to be the driving force in AD pathology. Inflammation-related proteins, including complement factors, acute-phase proteins, pro-inflammatory cytokines, that normally are locally produced at low levels, are increasingly synthesized in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. Similar to AD, in prion diseases (Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, Gerstmann-Strussler-Scheinker disease and experimentally scrapie infected mouse brain) amyloid associated factors and activated glial cells accumulate in amyloid deposits of conformational changed prion protein (PrPres). Biological properties of Abeta and prion (PrP) peptides, including their potential to activate microglia, relate to Abeta and PrP peptide fibrillogenic abilities that are influenced by certain amyloid associated factors. However, since small oligomers of amyloid forming peptides are more toxic to neurons than large fibrils, certain amyloid associated factors that enhance fibril formation, may sequester the potentially harmful Abeta and PrP peptides from the neuronal microenvironment. In this review the positive and negative actions of amyloid associated factors on amyloid peptide fibril formation and on the fibrillation state related activation of microglia will be discussed. Insight in these mechanisms will enable the design of specific therapies to prevent neurodegenerative diseases in which amyloid accumulation and glial activation are prominent early features.
The evolution of alternative splicing in eukaryotes greatly expanded the number of functionally distinct proteins that could be produced from a finite gene pool. Extensive in the brains of higher organisms, alternative splicing might be the primary mechanism for generating the spectrum of protein activities that support complex brain functions. Alternative splicing is controlled at the level of individual neurons to custom design proteins for optimal performance. The expression profiles of splice isoforms are modified during development and as neuronal activity changes. Alternative splicing can lead to incremental, long lasting changes in ion channel and receptor activities, independent of changes in gene transcription. Recent studies of tissue-specific splicing factors are revealing how coordinated alterations in alternative splicing of RNA transcripts control synaptic function.
The various properties of neuronal dendrites--their morphology, active membrane and synaptic properties--all play important roles in determining the functional capabilities of central nervous system neurons. Because of their fundamental involvement in both synaptic integration and synaptic plasticity, the active dendritic properties are important for both neuronal information processing and storage. The active properties of dendrites are determined by the densities of voltage-gated ion channels located within the dendrites in addition to the biophysical characteristics of those channels. The real power of this system resides in the level of plasticity that is provided by the many forms of channel modulation known to exist in neurons. Indeed, voltage gated ion channel modulation shapes the active properties of neuronal dendrites to specific conditions, thus tailoring the functional role of the single neuron within its circuit.
Cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels are found in several cell types, and are best studied in photoreceptors and olfactory sensory neurons. There, CNG channels are gated by the second messengers of the visual and olfactory signalling cascades, cGMP and cAMP respectively, and operate as transduction channels generating the stimulus-induced receptor potentials. In visual and olfactory sensory cells CNG channels conduct cationic currents. Calcium can contribute a large fraction of this current, and calcium influx serves a modulatory role in CNG-channel mediated signal transduction. There have been recent developments in our understanding of how the regulation of CNG channels contributes to the physiological properties of photoreceptors and olfactory sensory cells, and in particular on the role of calcium-mediated feedback.
Glutamate receptor ion channels mediate excitatory responses at the majority of CNS synapses. They are the only ligand-gated ion channels for which multiple high-resolution crystal structures have been solved. Highlights of information gained from mechanistic studies based on the crystal structures of their ligand-binding domains include explanations for strikingly diverse phenomena. These include the basis for subtype-specific agonist selectivity; mechanisms for desensitization and allosteric modulation; and mechanisms for partial agonist activity. In addition, multiple lines of evidence, including low-resolution electron microscopic studies, suggest that native AMPA receptors combine with an auxiliary subunit which regulates activity and trafficking. Functional studies suggest that glutamate receptor gating is distinct from that of structurally related voltage-gated ion channels.


Positioning of the limb is one of the important events for limb development. In the early stage of embryogenesis, the lateral plate mesoderm splits into two layers and the dorsal layer (the somatic mesoderm) gives rise to a series of distinct structures along the rostrocaudal axis, including the forelimb bud, flank body wall, and hindlimb bud. To determine whether positional information in the somatic mesoderm for regionalization along the rostrocaudal axis is also inherited by the ventral layer of the lateral plate mesoderm (the splanchnic mesoderm), experiments in which the splanchnic mesoderm was transplanted under the ectoderm in an in ovo chick system were carried out. Transplantation of the wing-, flank-, and leg-level splanchnic mesoderm resulted in the formation of wings, nothing, and legs, respectively. These results suggest that the splanchnic mesoderm possesses the ability to form limbs and that the ability differs according to the position along the rostrocaudal axis. The position-specific ability to form limbs suggests that there are some domains involved in the formation of position-specific structures in the digestive tract derived from the splanchnic mesoderm, and results of cell fate tracing supported this possibility. In contrast, analysis of shh expression suggested that the anteroposterior polarity in the limb region seems not to be inherited by the splanchnic mesoderm. We propose that the positioning of limb buds is specified and determined in the very early stage of development of the lateral plate mesoderm before splitting and that the polarity in a limb bud is established after the splitting of the mesoderm.
We report the region-specific expression of a novel gene, named mario, whose expression domain is in the distal tip of the presumptive and developing digit 2 region in the developing chick wing bud. The anterior region-specific expression of mario corresponds well with the presence of digit 2, and fate map analysis showed that mario expression at early stages represents the presumptive digit 2 region. Using mario expression as a region-specific marker for the digit 2 region, several surgical operations were performed to obtain insights into digit 2 development in the chick wing. Cell fate tracing concomitant with a zone of polarizing activity (ZPA) implantation revealed that an additional digit 2 in the ZPA implantation into the anterior or middle region of wing bud is derived from the original digit 2 region (mario-positive region). Surgical manipulations revealed that the anterior nondigit region has an inhibitory effect on digit 2 formation. Taken together, these results suggest that the most-anterior region, including the anterior necrotic zone, restricts the position of digit 2 region by limiting the anterior border of the digit 2 region and preventing its expansion.
The retinoic acid receptor RARbeta is highly expressed in the striatum of the ventral telencephalon. We studied the expression pattern of different RARbeta isoforms in the developing mouse striatum by in situ hybridization. We found a differential ontogeny of RARbeta2 and RARbeta1/3 in embryonic day (E) 13.5 lateral ganglionic eminence (striatal primordium). RARbeta2 mRNA was detected primarily in the rostral and ventromedial domains, whereas RARbeta1/3 mRNAs were enriched in the caudal and dorsolateral domains. Notably, by E16.5, a prominent decreasing gradient of RARbeta2 mRNA was present in the developing striatum along the rostrocaudal axis, i.e., RARbeta2 was expressed at higher levels in the rostral than the caudal striatum. No such gradient was found for RARbeta1/3 and RARbeta3 mRNAs. The rostrocaudal RARbeta2 gradient gradually disappeared postnatally and was absent in the adult striatum. The differential expression pattern of RARbeta isoforms in the developing striatum may provide an anatomical basis for differential gene regulation by RARbeta signaling.
A spike, a resultant regenerate made after amputation of a Xenopus froglet limb, has no muscle tissue. This muscle-less phenotype was analyzed by molecular approaches, and the results of analysis revealed that the spike expresses no myosin heavy chain or Pax7, suggesting that neither mature muscle tissue nor satellite cells exist in the spike. The regenerating blastema in the froglet limb lacked some myogenesis-related marker genes, myoD and myf5, but allowed implanted muscle precursor cells to survive and differentiate into myofiber. Implantation of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) -releasing cell aggregates rescued this muscle-less phenotype and induced muscle regeneration in Xenopus froglet limb regenerates. These results suggest that failure of regeneration of muscle is due to a disturbance of the early steps of myogenesis under a molecular cascade mediated by HGF/c-met. Improvement of muscle regeneration in the Xenopus adult limb that we report here for the first time will give us important insights into epimorphic tissue regeneration in amphibians and other vertebrates.
Wnt signaling regulates hippocampal development but little is known about the functions of specific Wnt receptors in this structure. Frizzled 9 is selectively expressed in the hippocampus and is one of about 20 genes typically deleted in Williams syndrome. Since Williams syndrome is associated with severe visuospatial processing defects, we generated a targeted null allele for frizzled 9 to examine its role in hippocampal development. Frizzled 9-null mice had generally normal gross anatomical hippocampal organization but showed large increases in apoptotic cell death in the developing dentate gyrus. This increase in programmed cell death commenced with the onset of dentate gyrus development and persisted into the first postnatal week of life. There was also a perhaps compensatory increase in the number of dividing precursors in the dentate gyrus, which may have been a compensatory response to the increased cell death. These changes in the mutants resulted in a moderate decrease in the number of adult dentate granule cells in null mice and an increase in the number of hilar mossy cells. Heterozygous mice (the same frizzled 9 genotype as Williams syndrome patients) were intermediate between wild type and null mice for all developmental neuronanatomic defects. All mice with a mutant allele had diminished seizure thresholds, and frizzled 9 null mice had severe deficits on tests of visuospatial learning/memory. We conclude that frizzled 9 is a critical determinant of hippocampal development and is very likely to be a contributing factor to the neurodevelopmental and behavioral phenotype of patients with Williams syndrome.
The dorsal spinal cord contains a diverse array of neurons that connect sensory input from the periphery to spinal cord motoneurons and brain. During development, six dorsal neuronal populations (dI1-dI6) have been defined by expression of homeodomain factors and position in the dorsoventral axis. The bHLH transcription factors Mash1 and Ngn2 have distinct roles in specification of these neurons. Mash1 is necessary and sufficient for generation of most dI3 and all dI5 neurons. Unexpectedly, dI4 neurons are derived from cells expressing low levels or no Mash1, and this population increases in the Mash1 mutant. Ngn2 is not required for any specific neuronal cell type but appears to modulate the composition of neurons that form. In the absence of Ngn2, there is an increase in the number of dI3 and dI5 neurons, in contrast to the effects produced by activity of Mash1. Mash1 is epistatic to Ngn2, and, unlike the relationship between other neural bHLH factors, cross-repression of expression is not detected. Thus, bHLH factors, particularly Mash1 and related family members Math1 and Ngn1, provide a code for generating neuronal diversity in the dorsal spinal cord with Ngn2 serving to modulate the number of neurons in each population formed.
Neurogenesis persists throughout life in the rodent subventricular zone (SVZ)-olfactory bulb pathway. The molecular regulation of this neurogenic circuit is poorly understood. Because the components for retinoid signaling are present in this pathway, we examined the influence of retinoic acid (RA) on postnatal SVZ-olfactory bulb neurogenesis. Using both SVZ neurosphere stem cell and parasagittal brain slice cultures derived from postnatal mouse, we found that RA exposure increased neurogenesis by enhancing the proliferation and neuronal differentiation of forebrain SVZ neuroblasts. The RA precursor retinol had a similar effect, which was reversed by treating cultures with the RA synthesis inhibitor disulfiram. Electroporation of dominant-negative retinoid receptors into the SVZ of slice cultures also blocked neuroblast migration to the olfactory bulb and altered the morphology of the progenitors. Moreover, the administration of disulfiram to neonatal mice decreased in vivo cell proliferation in the striatal SVZ. These results indicate that RA is a potent mitogen for SVZ neuroblasts and is required for their migration to the olfactory bulb. The regulation of multiple steps in the SVZ-olfactory bulb neurogenic pathway by RA suggests that manipulation of retinoid signaling is a potential therapeutic strategy to augment neurogenesis after brain injury.
The present study examined self-ratings of two aspects of everyday memory performance: long-term prospective memory-measured by the prospective memory questionnaire (PMQ), and everyday memory-measured by the everyday memory questionnaire (EMQ). Use of other substances was also measured and used as covariates in the study. To ensure confidentiality and to expand the numbers used in previous studies, an Internet study was carried out and data from 763 participants was gathered. After controlling for other drug use and strategy use, the data from the PMQ revealed that smokers reported a greater number of long-term prospective memory errors than non-smokers. There were also differences between light and heavier smokers in long-term prospective memory, suggesting that nicotine may have a dose-dependent impact upon long-term prospective memory performance. There was also a significant ANOVA group effect on the EMQ, although the trend for more memory errors amongst the heavier smokers was statistically only borderline (p=.057). These findings suggest there are selective memory deficits associated with smoking and that long-term prospective memory deficits should be added to the growing list of problems associated with cigarette use.
Vectors based on adeno-associated virus (AAV) have recently been used in phase I clinical trials for the treatment of neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's and Canavan's diseases. Indeed, AAV-mediated gene transfer is a promising tool for the delivery of therapeutic gene into the central and peripheral nervous systems. AAV-mediated gene transfer was also applied in phase I and phase II clinical trials for the treatment of cystic fibrosis and in phase I clinical trials for the treatment of hemophilia B. Remarkable progress is being reported in the development of AAV-based vectors; however, the design of AAV-derived vectors needs to be improved. As it stands, AAV-mediated gene transfer has a limited capacity in accommodating foreign genes. In addition, some preclinical studies have shown that AAV-derived vectors can cause tumors in animals due to insertional mutagenesis events. This review will discuss perspectives and drawbacks for AAV-based vector systems.

As befits a system essential for survival, neuroendocrine regulation of the hypothalamic--pituitary--adrenocortical (HPA) axis is characterized by tight control as well as plasticity. Stimulus-specific afferents code for specific hypothalamic corticotropin (ACTH) secretagogues, which have combinatorial effects on ACTH secretion, resulting in a glucocorticoid response that is tailored to stimulus intensity. Chronic stress-induced stimulation of HPA activity alters ACTH secretagogue expression and hypothalamic afferent activity to maintain adrenocortical responsiveness. Rigorous control of circadian HPA activity optimizes the balance between beneficial and adverse effects of glucocorticoids (largely mediated by glucocorticoid receptors) by minimizing circadian nadir glucocorticoid secretion (an effect mediated by mineralocorticoid receptors). HPA activity also is controlled by other glucocorticoid-regulated factors, such as immune and metabolic status. Dysregulation of these control mechanisms is likely to contribute to a variety of diseases.



Studies have demonstrated that &quot;seizure-alert dog&quot; owners with epilepsy exhibit improvement in seizure rates. One of the most difficult aspects for patients with epilepsy is the unpredictability of seizures. We evaluated the detection abilities of seizure-alert dogs in an inpatient epilepsy care unit where patients were undergoing continuous computer-assisted EEG. Between March and May of 2004 we monitored two patients who owned &quot;seizure dogs&quot; in the Epilepsy Care Unit at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia. Both patients were accompanied by their &quot;seizure dogs&quot; during their admission, as the patients felt more secure with the dogs. The dogs' performance in alerting before a seizure was poor for patient 1 and misleading for patient 2. In our limited but objective experience, the &quot;seizure dogs&quot; were not as effective as previously thought in predicting the seizure activity. At the same time we must be fair and recognize the limitations that the environment of the Epilepsy Care Unit places not only on patients but also on seizure-alert dogs. Similar studies (in epilepsy monitoring units) of larger samples of patients are needed to determine if these trained dogs are responsible for clinical improvement in epilepsy patients.
To extend previous work concerning diet and overt seizures in rats, we tested the hypothesis that ingestion of 10% sucrose-water could reduce seizure onset time (SOT) in rats given lithium and pilocarpine. We found that female but not male rats given free access to a 10% sucrose-water solution for 3 weeks exhibited shorter SOTs than age- and sex-matched control subjects. A separate experiment determined that SOT was significantly reduced whether female rats were provided 1, 2, 3, or 4 weeks of free access to sucrose. Moreover, the daily volume of sucrose ingested was significantly correlated (r=-0.42) with SOT regardless of the duration of sucrose treatment (in weeks). These findings suggest that a diet supplemented with sugar can facilitate the emergence of behavioral seizures in female rats given lithium and pilocarpine. We discuss the potential role of dopamine in mediating the sucrose-induced changes in SOT.
Topiramate, an antiepileptic drug with a number of mechanisms of action including blockade of AMPA/KA receptor subtypes, was assessed as a neuroprotective agent following seizures. We administered topiramate or saline chronically during and following a series of 25 neonatal seizures. After completion of the topiramate treatment, animals were tested in the water maze for spatial learning and the open field for activity level. Brains were then examined for cell loss and sprouting of mossy fibers. Rats treated with topiramate performed significantly better in the water maze than rats treated with saline. Topiramate treatment also reduced the amount of seizure-induced sprouting in the supragranular region. There were no differences between topiramate- and saline-treated rats in activity level in the open field, swimming speed, or weight gain. These findings show that long-term treatment with topiramate after neonatal seizures changes the long-term consequences of seizures and improves cognitive function.
Our aim was to compare memory and frontal function performance between two groups of patients treated with Guglielmi detachable coil (GDC) following intracranial ruptured aneurysm. The subgroups drawn following the localization of the aneurysm consisted of 19 patients presenting with anterior communicating artery aneurysms and 16 patients exhibiting middle cerebral artery and posterior communicating artery aneurysms. The 35 patients and 35 normal controls were administered extensive neuropsychological assessment. Additionally, a scale of qualitative changes of mood was presented to the patients and patients' relatives. The patients showed a better general performance on memory compared with the executive function performance, which was similarly impaired in both groups. We suggest that executive functions are more vulnerable to differently located lesions than memory functions.
Learning abilities depend on detection and exploitation of errors. In primates, this function involves the anterior cingulate cortex. However, whether anterior cingulate error-related activity indicates occurrence of inappropriate responses or results from other computations is debated. Here we have tested whether reward-related parameters modulate error-related activity of anterior cingulate neurons. Recordings in monkeys performing stimulus-reward associations and preliminary data obtained with a problem-solving task revealed major properties of error-related unit activity: (i) their amplitude varies with the amount of predicted reward or the proximity to reward delivery; (ii) they appear both after execution and performance errors; (iii) they do not indicate which error occurred or which correction to make; and (iv), importantly, the activity of these neurons also increases following an external signal indicating the necessity to shift response. Hence, we conclude that anterior cingulate 'error' activity might represent a negative deviation from a predicted goal, and does not only reflect error detection but signals events interrupting potentially rewarded actions.
Perception of biological motion (BM) is a fundamental property of the human visual system. It is as yet unclear which role the cerebellum plays with respect to the perceptual analysis of BM represented as point-light displays. Imaging studies investigating BM perception revealed inconsistent results concerning cerebellar contribution. The present study aimed to explore the role of the cerebellum in the perception of BM by testing the performance of BM perception in patients suffering from circumscribed cerebellar lesions and comparing their performance with an age-matched control group. Perceptual performance was investigated in an experimental task testing the threshold to detect BM masked by scrambled motion and a control task testing the detection of motion direction of coherent motion masked by random noise. Results show clear evidence for a differential contribution of the cerebellum to the perceptual analysis of coherent motion compared with BM. Whereas the ability to detect BM masked by scrambled motion was unaffected in the patient group, their ability to discriminate the direction of coherent motion in random noise was substantially affected. We conclude that intact cerebellar function is not a prerequisite for a preserved ability to detect BM. Because the dorsal motion pathway as well as the ventral form pathway contribute to the visual perception of BM, the question of whether cerebellar dysfunction affecting the dorsal pathway is compensated for by the unaffected ventral pathway or whether perceptual analysis of BM is performed completely without cerebellar contribution remains to be determined.
Previous studies have demonstrated that the activation of pontine-wave (P-wave) generating cells in the brainstem during post-training rapid eye movement (REM) sleep is critical for the consolidation of memory for two-way active avoidance (TWAA) learning in the rat. Here, using immunocytochemistry, we investigated the spatio-temporal distribution of CREB phosphorylation within different parts of the dorsal hippocampus, amygdala, and hypothalamus following a session of TWAA training in the rat. We show that the TWAA training trials increased phosphorylation of CREB (p-CREB) in the dorsal hippocampus, amygdala, amygdalo-hippocampal junction (AHi), and hypothalamus. However, the time intervals leading to training-induced p-CREB activity were different for different regions of the brain. In the dorsal hippocampus, p-CREB activity was maximal at 90 min and this activity disappeared by 180 min. In the AHi, activity of the p-CREB peaked by 180 min and disappeared by 360 min. In the amygdala, the p-CREB activity peaked at 180 min and still remained higher than the control at the 360 min interval. In the hypothalamus, at 90 min p-CREB activity was present only in the ventromedial hypothalamus; however, by 180 min this p-CREB activity was also present in the dorsal hypothalamus, perifornical area, and lateral hypothalamus. By 360 min, p-CREB activity disappeared from the hypothalamus. This TWAA training trials-induced spatiotemporal characteristic of CREB phosphorylation, for the first time, suggests that REM sleep P-wave generator activation-dependent memory processing involves different parts of the dorsal hippocampus, amygdala, and hypothalamus.
The underlying mechanism for nerve growth factor (NGF) evoked pain and long-lasting mechanical hyperalgesia remains poorly understood. Using intrathecal antisense against the NGF receptor, receptor tyrosine kinase (TrkA), we found NGF to act at the primary afferent nociceptor directly in the Sprague-Dawley rat. Inhibitors of the three major pathways for TrkA receptor signalling, extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK)/mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) (ERK/MEK), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), and phospholipase Cgamma (PLCgamma) all attenuate NGF-induced hyperalgesia. Although inhibitors of kinases downstream of PI3K and PLCgamma[glycogen synthetase kinase 3 (GSK3), calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CAMII-K) or protein kinase C (PKC)] do not reduce mechanical hyperalgesia, hyperalgesia induced by activation of PI3K was blocked by ERK/MEK inhibitors, suggesting cross-talk from the PI3K to the ERK/MEK signalling pathway. As integrins have been shown to modulate epinephrine and prostaglandin E(2)-induced hyperalgesia, we also evaluated a role for integrins in NGF-induced mechanical hyperalgesia using beta(1)-integrin-specific antisense or antibodies.
Dopamine and adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate-regulated phosphoprotein (DARPP-32) is a key molecule for dopamine neurotransmission. The molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of DARPP-32 in the developing brain remains elusive. Previous studies have shown that retinoids are capable of inducing DARPP-32 in striatal cell culture, suggesting that retinoids are candidate molecules for controlling DARPP-32 expression. In the present study, we first studied the expression profiles of retinoid receptors and their associated co-factors in the developing rat telencephalon by RT-PCR. The results showed that among the retinoid receptors, RARbeta and RXRgamma were nearly selectively expressed in the developing striatum. By contrast, the retinoid receptors associated transcriptional co-factors, including the co-repressors of N-CoR and SMRT, and the co-activators of SRC-1 and P/CAF, were ubiquitously expressed in the developing telencephalon. In light of the previous findings that DARPP-32 was inducible by retinoids in striatal culture, but not in cortical culture, we hypothesized that the striatum-selective RARbeta and RXRgamma may mediate DARPP-32 induction by retinoids. To test this hypothesis, we used the gain-of-function approach to ectopically express RARbeta and RXRgamma in the developing cerebral cortex that lacked these two retinoid receptors. Ectopic expression of RARbeta1, but not RXRgamma1, up-regulated DARPP-32 in the cortical explant culture. Notably, DARPP-32 was up-regulated only by the RARbeta1 isoform, but not by other RARbeta isoforms. Our study suggests that RARbeta signaling may regulate DARPP-32 gene expression by an isoform-specific mechanism in developing telencephalic neurons. The molecular diversity of RARbeta isoforms may underlie parts of the complex gene regulation by retinoids during neural development.
Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and is tightly regulated by cell surface transporters to avoid increases in concentration and associated neurotoxicity. Selective blockers of glutamate transporter subtypes are sparse and so knock-out animals and antisense techniques have been used to study their specific roles. Here we used WAY-855, a GLT-1-preferring blocker, to assess the role of GLT-1 in rat hippocampus. GLT-1 was the most abundant transporter in the hippocampus at the mRNA level. According to [(3)H]-l-glutamate uptake data, GLT-1 was responsible for approximately 80% of the GLAST-, GLT-1-, and EAAC1-mediated uptake that occurs within dissociated hippocampal tissue, yet when this transporter was preferentially blocked for 120 h with WAY-855 (100 microm), no significant neurotoxicity was observed in hippocampal slices. This is in stark contrast to results obtained with TBOA, a broad-spectrum transport blocker, which, at concentrations that caused a similar inhibition of glutamate uptake (10 and 30 microm), caused substantial neuronal death when exposed to the slices for 24 h or longer. Likewise, WAY-855, did not significantly exacerbate neurotoxicity associated with simulated ischemia, whereas TBOA did. Finally, intrahippocampal microinjection of WAY-855 (200 and 300 nmol) in vivo resulted in marginal damage compared with TBOA (20 and 200 nmol), which killed the majority of both CA1-4 pyramidal cells and dentate gyrus granule cells. These results indicate that selective inhibition of GLT-1 is insufficient to provoke glutamate build-up, leading to NMDA receptor-mediated neurotoxic effects, and suggest a prominent role of GLAST and/or EAAC1 in extracellular glutamate maintenance.
'Primitive intelligence' in audition refers to the capacity of the auditory system to adaptatively model the acoustic regularity and react neurophysiologically to violations of such regularity, thus supporting the ability to predict future auditory events. In the present study, event-related brain potentials to pairs of tones were recorded in 11 human newborns to determine the infants' ability to extract an abstract acoustic rule, the direction of a frequency change. Most of the pairs (standard, P = 0.875) were of ascending frequency (i.e. the second tone higher than the first), while the remaining pairs (deviant, P = 0.125) were of descending frequency (the second tone being lower). Their frequencies varied among seven levels to prevent discrimination between standard and deviant pairs on the basis of absolute frequencies. We found that event-related brain potentials to deviant pairs differed in amplitude from those to standard pairs at 50-450 ms from the onset of the second tone of a pair, indicating the infants' ability to represent the abstract rule. This finding suggests the early ontogenetic origin of 'primitive intelligence' in audition that eventually may form a prerequisite for later language acquisition.
Acetylcholine (ACh) has been recognized for a long time as a major neurotransmitter in the retina, however, little is known about the contribution of acetylcholine receptors in synaptic processing. Moreover, even less information is available concerning their role during development. To address this question further, we examined the physiological and pharmacological properties of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in retinal ganglion cells from embryonic (E) 12-18-day-old Leghorn chicks. Patch-clamp recordings in whole-cell configuration revealed that at E12 approximately 21% of the ganglion cells responded to acetylcholine pulses with inward currents. The number of responsive cells progressively increased to 57% at E15 to reach up to 15 positive cells out of 15 cells tested at E18. Acetylcholine-evoked responses could be subdivided, according to their time course, into fast and slowly desensitizing. Taking advantage of the selectivity of the frog toxin epibatidine (Epi), that preferentially activates heteromeric neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, we compared the currents evoked by this toxin vs. the effects of acetylcholine. A further characterization of the receptor diversity during development was to assess their sensitivity to the alpha-conotoxin MII (alpha-CTX-MII), which has been shown to preferentially block alpha6- and alpha3beta2-containing receptors. These data demonstrate that ganglion cells of the chick retina express multiple receptor subtypes that progressively develop as a function of retina maturation.
Ischemic events have been hypothesized to play a critical role on the pathogenesis of dementia and the acceleration of cognitive impairments. This experiment was designed to determine the consequences of microvascular ischemia on the cortical cholinergic input system and associated attention capacities. Injections of microspheres ( approximately 50 microm diameter; approximately 5000 microspheres/100 microL) into the right common carotid artery of rats served as a model of microvascular ischemia and resulted in decreases in the density of cholinergic fibers in the ipsilateral medial prefrontal cortex and frontoparietal areas. Furthermore, dense astrogliosis, indicated by glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunohistochemistry, was observed in the globus pallidus, including the areas of origin of cholinergic projections to the cortex. Fluoro-Jade B staining indicated that loss of neurons in the cortex was restricted to areas of microsphere-induced infarcts. Attentional performance was assessed using an operant sustained attention task; performance in this task was previously demonstrated to reflect the integrity and activity of the cortical cholinergic input system. Embolized animals' performance was characterized by a decrease in the animals' ability to detect signals. Their performance in non-signal trials remained unaffected. The residual density of cholinergic axons in prefrontal and frontoparietal areas correlated with the animals' performance. The present data support the hypothesis that microvascular ischemia results in loss of cortical cholinergic inputs and impairs associated attentional performance. Microsphere embolism represents a useful animal model for studying the role of interactions between microvascular disorder and impaired forebrain cholinergic neurotransmission in the manifestation of cognitive impairments.
p25, a degradation product of p35, has been reported to accumulate in the forebrain of patients with Alzheimer's disease. p25 as well as p35 are activators of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) although p25/Cdk5 and p35/Cdk5 complexes have distinct properties. Several mouse models with high levels of p25 expression exhibit signs of neurodegeneration. On the contrary, we have shown that low levels of p25 expression do not cause neurodegeneration and are even beneficial for particular types of learning and memory [Angelo et al., (2003) Eur J. Neurosci., 18, 423-431]. Here, we have studied the influence of low-level p25 expression in hippocampal synaptic plasticity and in learning and memory for each sex separately in two different genetic backgrounds (129B6F1 and C57BL/6). Surprisingly, we found that low-level p25 expression had different consequences in male and female mutants. In the two genetic backgrounds LTP induced by a strong stimulation of the Schaffer's collaterals (four trains, 1-s duration, 5-min interval) was severely impaired in male, but not in female, p25 mutants. Furthermore, in the two genetic backgrounds spatial learning in the Morris water maze was faster in female p25 mutants than in male transgenic mice. These results suggest that, in women, the production of p25 in Alzheimer's disease could be a compensation for some early learning and memory deficits.

When a person moves through the world, the associated visual displacement of the environment in the opposite direction is not usually seen as external movement but rather as a changing view of a stable world. We measured the amount of visual motion that can be tolerated as compatible with the perception of moving within a stable world during active, sinusoidal, translational and rotational head movement. Head movements were monitored by means of a low-latency, mechanical head tracker and the information was used to update a helmet-mounted visual display. A variable gain was introduced between the head tracker and the display. Ten subjects adjusted this gain until the visual display appeared stable during sinusoidal yaw, pitch and roll head rotations and naso-occipital, inter-aural and dorso-ventral translations at 0.5 Hz. Each head movement was tested with movement either orthogonal to or parallel with gravity. A wide spread of gains was accepted as stable (0.8 to 1.4 for rotation and 1.1 to 1.8 for translation). The gain most likely to be perceived as stable was greater than that required by the geometry (1.2 for rotation; 1.4 for translation). For rotational motion, the mean gains were the same for all axes. For translation there was no effect of whether the movement was inter-aural (mean gain 1.6) or dorso-ventral (mean gain 1.5) and no effect of the relative orientation of the translation direction relative to gravity. However translation in the naso-occipital direction was associated with more closely veridical settings (mean gain 1.1) and narrower standard deviations than in other directions. These findings are discussed in terms of visual and non-visual contributions to the perception of an earth-stable environment during active head movement.
Humans demonstrate motor learning when exposed to changes in the dynamics of movement or changes in the visuomotor map. However, when two opposing dynamic transformations are learned in succession, the memory of the first is overwritten by learning of the second; the same is true for two opposing visuomotor rotations. This retrograde interference is not seen for all combinations of transformations, however. When a dynamic transformation is learned subsequent to a visuomotor rotation, the presence or absence of interference appears to depend crucially on the structure of the dynamic task: a force-field dependent on the position of the hand produces interference, whereas an inertial load applied lateral to the hand does not. To explain these results, it has been hypothesized that two transformations can be learned without interference if they depend on two different kinematic parameters of movement (such as position and velocity of the hand). Here we demonstrate, contrary to this hypothesis, interference between a dynamic transformation that depends on the position of the hand and one that depends on its velocity. However, the interference was found to be incomplete, supporting the view that the ability to retain motor memories for different tasks depends on the degree to which their representations conflict in working memory.
During standing, anticipatory postural adjustments (APAs) and focal movements are delayed while performing a choice reaction task, compared with a simple reaction task. We hypothesized that APAs and focal movements of a choice reaction task would be similarly delayed during walking. Furthermore, reaction times are delayed during walking compared with standing. We further hypothesized that APAs and focal movements would be delayed during walking, compared with standing, for both simple and choice reaction tasks. Subjects either walked or stood on a treadmill while holding on to stable handles. They were asked to push or pull on the handles in response to a visual cue. Muscle activity was recorded from muscles of the leg (APA) and arm (RT). Our results were in agreement with previous work showing APA onset was delayed in the choice reaction task compared with the simple reaction task. In addition, the interval between the onset of APA and focal movement activity increased with choice reaction tasks. The task of walking did not delay the onset of focal movement for either the simple or choice reaction tasks. Walking did delay the onset of the APA, but only during choice reaction tasks. The results suggest the added demand of walking does not significantly modify the control of focal arm movements. However, additional attentional demands while walking may compromise anticipatory postural control.
The possibility of causing instability in the stretch reflex has been examined in three different human muscles: biceps, first dorsal interosseous (FDI) of the hand and digastric. Tremor recorded as fluctuation of isometric force was compared with that occurring during contraction against a spring load. The spring compliance was selected to make the natural frequency of the part in each case appropriate for oscillations in the short latency stretch reflex. A computer model of the whole system was used to predict the frequency at which oscillations should be expected and to estimate the reflex gain required in each case to cause sustained oscillations. Estimates were computed of the autospectra of the force records and of the rectified surface EMG signals and of the coherence functions. Normal subjects showed no evidence of a distinct spectral peak during isometric recording from any of the three muscles. However, in anisometric conditions regular oscillations in force occurred in biceps, but not in FDI or digastric. The oscillations in biceps at 8-9 Hz were accompanied by similar oscillations in the EMG which were highly coherent with the force signal. The results are consistent with the presence of a strong segmental stretch reflex effect in biceps and weak or absent reflex in FDI. Digastric is known to contain no muscle spindles and therefore to lack a stretch reflex. In two subjects who volunteered that they had more tremor than normal, but had no known neurological abnormality, there was a distinct peak in the force spectrum at 8-9 Hz in biceps and FDI in isometric conditions with coherent EMG activity. The peak increased in size in anisometric conditions in biceps but not in FDI. This component appears to be of central rather than of reflex origin. No equivalent component was found in digastric records. The results are discussed in relation to the possible role of the short latency stretch reflex in the genesis of physiological tremor in different muscles.
ADHD is a highly heritable psychiatric disorder of childhood. A functional polymorphism (Val158Met) of the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene has attracted interest as a candidate gene for ADHD. The high-activity valine variant of this polymorphism degrades prefrontal dopamine three to four times more quickly than the low-activity methionine variant and could therefore contribute to the proposed hypodopaminergic state in ADHD. Here we tested for association of this polymorphism with ADHD and examined its influence on prefrontal cognition in ADHD. We have previously reported no association of the Val158Met COMT gene polymorphism in 94 Irish ADHD families (Hawi et al. (2000) Am J Med Genet 96:282-284). Here we re-examined this finding with an extended sample of 179 ADHD cases using a family control design. We also examined the performance of children and adolescents with ADHD (n = 61) on a standardised test of sustained attention. Analysis confirmed the absence of an association between the Val158Met COMT gene polymorphism and the clinical phenotype of ADHD. COMT genotype, however, affected prefrontal cognition in ADHD: ADHD children who were homozygous for the valine variant had significantly better sustained attention than those ADHD children possessing at least one copy of the methionine variant. Children possessing the methionine variant performed significantly below age-related norms on tests of sustained attention. Contrary to expectations, the methionine variant of the Val158Met COMT gene polymorphism impaired prefrontally-mediated cognition in ADHD. This effect may be understood by positing a hyper-functioning of prefrontal dopaminergic systems. Against this background, the slower clearance of dopamine associated with the methionine variant of the COMT gene polymorphism may be disadvantageous to cognition in ADHD.
Among other channels, voltage-gated chloride channels (ClC) regulate cell volume, membrane potential and cellular transport. Because changes in trabecular meshwork (TM) cell volume influence outflow facility and because the relative abundance of a gene's transcript is an indication of the relevance of the gene's function, we investigated the presence and relative expression of seven members of the CLCN gene family in the human TM. To elucidate the role of ClC-2 and ClC-3 in cell swelling, we studied changes in their mRNA levels after hypotonic shock. In addition, to examine the potential involvement of these two channels in conditions associated with glaucoma, we determined their transcripts levels in response to elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) and dexamethasone (DEX). For our evaluations, we used non-transformed human TM cells and perfused human anterior segments from post-mortem donors. For hypotonic shock, cells were exposed to 260 mOsm kg(-1) medium for 15 and 30 min. For DEX, cells were treated with 0.1 microm DEX for 1, 4 and 10 days. For elevated IOP, one eye of each pair of perfused human anterior segments was subjected to DeltaP 38+/-4 mm Hg for 1 hr, 4 and 7 days while the contralateral remained at baseline pressure as a control. ClCs transcripts were determined by relative quantitative RT-PCR. Our results showed that all transcripts but ClC-1 were detected in HTM cells. ClC-2 and ClC-3 were the most abundant and comprised about twice the amount of ClC-6 and ClC-7 and four times that of ClC-4 and ClC-5. Hypotonic conditions consistently up regulated CLCN2 and slightly up regulated CLCN3. After short periods of elevated pressure, ClC-2 and ClC-3 transcripts were increased but ClC-2 induction was significantly higher than that of ClC-3. In contrast, after long pressure insults (7 days), ClC-3 mRNA was significantly increased while CLCN2 was not changed. DEX treatment markedly down regulated CLCN3 and little, if any, reduced ClC-2. The extent of response of the CLCN2 and CLCN3 to these conditions was markedly affected by individual traits but at all times maintained the relative expression pattern of both genes. CLCN2 gene expression was predominantly influenced by cell volume regulation while that of CLCN3 was preferentially affected by conditions associated with TM pathology.
We investigated the differential effects of levodopa medication and STN stimulation on finger force control in Parkinson subjects grasping to lift an object and performing vertical point-to-point movements of a hand-held object. The experiments were conducted in four treatment conditions: off-drug/off-stimulation, off-drug/on-stimulation, on-drug/off-stimulation and on-drug/on-stimulation. We found that the bradykinesia in Parkinsonian subjects improved by both levodopa medication and STN stimulation. As compared to healthy subjects, excessive grip force was observed in all Parkinson subjects, regardless of the treatment condition. This force excess was most pronounced in the on-drug condition and ameliorated by STN stimulation. We observed reliable correlations between the amount of force overflow and the severity of levodopa-induced dyskinesias in the on-drug condition. Despite some similarities regarding therapeutic effects on bradykinesia, our findings contrast with earlier observations with respect to the differential effects of levodopa and STN stimulation on the scaling of fingertip forces in Parkinson's disease. While levodopa causes an overshoot of fingertip forces, STN stimulation appears to be sufficient to alleviate, but not normalise the force excess. STN stimulation enables Parkinson subjects to scale grip force more accurately to the loads arising from voluntary manipulation of hand-held objects.
Radial glial cells are neural stem cells (NSC) that are transiently found in the developing CNS. To study radial glia, we isolated clones following immortalization of E13.5 GFP rat neurospheres with v-myc. Clone RG3.6 exhibits polarized morphology and expresses the radial glial markers nestin and brain lipid binding protein. Both NSC and RG3.6 cells migrated extensively in the adult spinal cord. However, RG3.6 cells differentiated into astroglia slower than NSC, suggesting that immortalization can delay differentiation of radial glia. Following spinal cord contusion, implanted RG3.6 cells migrated widely in the contusion site and into spared white matter where they exhibited a highly polarized morphology. When injected immediately after injury, RG3.6 cells formed cellular bridges surrounding spinal cord lesion sites and extending into spared white matter regions in contrast to GFP fibroblasts that remained in the lesion site. Behavioral analysis indicated higher BBB scores in rats injected with RG3.6 cells than rats injected with fibroblasts or medium as early as 1 week after injury. Spinal cords transplanted with RG3.6 cells or dermal fibroblasts exhibited little accumulation of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPG) including NG2 proteoglycans that are known to inhibit axonal growth. Reduced levels of CSPG were accompanied by little accumulation in the injury site of activated macrophages, which are a major source of CSPG. However, increased staining and organization of neurofilaments were found in injured rats transplanted with RG3.6 cells suggesting neuroprotection or regrowth. The combined results indicate that acutely transplanted radial glia can migrate to form bridges across spinal cord lesions in vivo and promote functional recovery following spinal cord injury by protecting against macrophages and secondary damage.
Abnormal formation or loss of myelin is a distinguishing feature of many neurological disorders and contributes to the pathobiology of neurotrauma. In this study we characterize the functional and molecular changes in CNS white matter in Long Evans Shaker (LES) rats. These rats have a spontaneous mutation of the gene encoding myelin basic protein which results in severe dysmyelination of the central nervous system (CNS), providing a unique model for demyelinating/dysmyelinating disorders. To date, the functional and molecular changes in CNS white matter in this model are not well understood. We have used in vivo somatosensory evoked potential (SSEP), in vitro compound action potential (CAP) recording in isolated dorsal columns, confocal immunohistochemistry, Western blotting and real-time PCR to examine the electrophysiological, molecular and cellular changes in spinal cord white matter in LES rats. We observed that dysmyelination is associated with dispersed labeling of Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 K+ channel subunits, as well as Caspr, a protein normally confined to paranodes, along the LES rat spinal cord axons. Abnormal electrophysiological properties including attenuation of CAP amplitude and conduction velocity, high frequency conduction failure and enhanced sensitivity to K+ channel blockers 4-aminopyridine and dendrotoxin-I were observed in spinal cord axons from LES rats. Our results in LES rats clarify some of the key molecular, cellular and functional consequences of dysmyelination and myelin-axon interactions. Further understanding of these issues in this model could provide critical insights for neurological disorders characterized by demyelination.
Sensorineural hearing loss is a disabling condition. In the post-embryonic and adult mammalian inner ear, the regeneration of auditory hair cells, spiral ganglion neurons or their axons does not occur naturally. This decrease in excitable neurons limits the success of auditory rehabilitation. Allografts and xenografts have shown promise in the treatment of a variety of neurological diseases. Fetal dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons can extend functional connections in the rat spinal cord. Embryonic stem cells (ES cells) and adult neural stem cells (ANSC) have the potential to differentiate into neurons. We have implanted embryonic days (E) 13-16 fetal mouse DRGs from transgenic mouse lines that express Enhanced Green Fluorescent Protein (EGFP) or lacZ reporter genes, EGFP-expressing ES cells or lacZ-expressing ANSC into the injured vestibulocochlear nerve of adult rats and guinea pigs. Survival of the implants was assessed 2 to 4 weeks postoperatively. For further evaluation of the differentiation of the implanted ES-cells, we double labeled with the mouse-specific neuronal antibody Thy 1.2. The rats implanted with EGFP- or lacZ-expressing DRGs showed labeled DRGs after sacrifice. In addition, EGFP-positive nerve fibers were seen growing within the proximal nerve. The results from the EGFP ES cells and lacZ ANSC revealed reporter-expressing cells at the site of injection in the vestibulocochlear nerve of the host rats and guinea pigs but also within the brain stem. Thy 1.2 profiles were seen among the EGFP ES cells within the 8th cranial nerve. The findings of this study indicate that the vestibulocochlear nerve of adult rats and guinea pigs will support xenotransplants of embryonic DRG, ES cells and ANSC. This may have future clinical applicability in recreating a neuronal conduit following neuronal injury between the inner ear and the central nervous system (CNS).

The utility of vaccine strategies to treat neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease may still hold promise. Phase IIa clinical trials were halted due to a small but significant occurrence of meningoencephalitis. Knowledge gained from studies on amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) immunotherapy will allow optimisation of new-generation vaccines, targeting highly specific epitopes while reducing undesired side effects. In harnessing and steering the immune system, an effective response can be generated against Abeta, one that might have attenuated immune responses with robust disease-altering activity.

Autosomal dominant familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus (adFNDI) is a progressive, inherited neurodegenerative disorder that presents as polydipsia and polyuria as a consequence of a loss of secretion of the antidiuretic hormone vasopressin (VP) from posterior pituitary nerve terminals. VP gene mutations cause adFNDI. Rats expressing an adFNDI VP transgene (Cys67stop) show a neuronal pathology characterized by autophagic structures in the cell body. adFNDI has thus been added to the list of protein aggregation diseases, along with Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's, which are associated with autophagy, a bulk process that delivers regions of cytosol to lysosomes for degradation. However, the role of autophagy in these diseases is unclear. To address the relationships between mutant protein accumulation, autophagy, cell survival, and cell death, we have developed a novel and tractable in vitro system. We have constructed adenoviral vectors (Ads) that express structural genes encoding either the Cys67stop mutant protein (Ad-VCAT-Cys67stop) or an epitope-tagged wild-type VP precursor (Ad-VCAT). After infection of mouse neuroblastoma Neuro2a cells, Ad-VCAT encoded material enters neurite processes and accumulates in terminals, while the Cys67stop protein is confined to enlarged vesicles in the cell body. Similar to the intracellular derangements seen in the Cys67stop rats, these structures are of ER origin, and colocalize with markers of autophagy. Neither Ad-VCAT-Cys67stop nor Ad-VCAT expression affected cell viability. However, inhibition of autophagy or lysosomal protein degradation, while having no effect on Ad-VCAT-expressing cells, significantly increased apoptotic cell death following Ad-VCAT-Cys67stop expression. These data suggest that activation of autophagy by the stress of the expression of an adFNDI mutant protein is a prosurvival mechanism.
Mutations in the human gene encoding the antidiuretic hormone vasopressin (VP) cause autosomal dominant familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus (adFNDI), a rare inherited disorder that presents as polydipsia and polyuria as a consequence of a loss of secretion of VP from posterior pituitary nerve terminals. Work from our laboratories has shown that adFNDI, like other neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's, is associated with autophagy. We have recently shown that the activation of autophagy in mouse neuroblastoma Neuro2a cells after adenoviral vector-mediated delivery of an adFNDI mutant VP transgene (Cys67stop) is a cell survival mechanism; its inhibition induces apoptosis. We now show that expression of Cys67stop sensitizes Neuro2a cells to the lethal effects of dopamine. This mode of cell death exhibits features typically associated with classical apoptosis. Yet inhibition of autophagy reversed these effects and rescued cell viability. We propose that autophagy-mediated cell death is a &quot;two-hit&quot; process: Following the cellular stress of the accumulation of a misfolded mutant protein, autophagy is prosurvival. However, a second insult triggers an autophagy-dependent apoptosis.
Although highly controversial just a few years ago, the idea that G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) may undergo homo-oligomerization or hetero-oligomerization has recently gained considerable attention. The recognition that GPCRs may exhibit either dimeric or oligomeric structures is based on a number of different biochemical and biophysical approaches. Although much effort has been spent to demonstrate the mechanism(s) by which GPCRs interact with each other, the physiological relevance of this phenomenon remains elusive. An additional source of uncertainty stems from the realization that homo-oligomerization and hetero-oligomerization of GPCRs may affect receptor binding and activity in different ways, depending on the type of interacting receptors. In this brief review, the functional and pharmacological effects of the hetero-oligomerization of GPCR on binding and cell signaling are critically analyzed.
Several twin studies and familial aggregation studies in IBS are consistent with either a genetic or a social learning hypothesis, and it is possible that both play a role. The prospect of identifying a genetic cause for IBS may be very important, because it raises the possibility of confirming that IBS isa disease entity, suggests new insight into the pathophysiology of the disorder, and provides new targets for drug development. Several candidate genetic markers including: those related to cytokines such as IL-10, TNF-alpha and TGF beta1; SERT-P; alpha-adrenergic receptors; and G proteins have been associated with certain aspects of IBS. Genetic polymorphisms,however, are common and may have no etiological or pathogenetic relevance. Searching for the genes in IBS is of potentially great relevance. Such studies may identify more specific phenotypes in IBS or potentially predict increased disease vulnerability, but it is unlikely that this strategy will lead to a diagnostic test, given the limited component of IBS that is likely to be genetically determined. Pharmaco genomic studies have potential to be important in the future. For this potential to be realized, it will be necessary to formally include genetic studies in trials of experimental drugs.This would enhance understanding of one of the roles of genetics for treating IBS.
IBS is a common condition, affecting approximately 3% to 15% of the general population based on various diagnostic criteria. There seem to be differences in disease epidemiology between the eastern and the western world. As data from larger Asian epidemiological studies begin to surface,however, such differences appear to be less marked. The proportion of IBS patients who consult a physician for their symptoms is around 50%. Psychological factors and the presence and duration of abdominal pain are all significant predictors for health care seeking. The natural history of IBS is characterized by frequent fluctuation of symptoms and by an overlap with other functional GI disorders, some of which share a number of risk factors for IBS. Unnecessary abdominal surgery is performed in a high proportion of IBS sufferers. Along with the established role for psychosocial conditions in IBS, other risk factors are emerging. Evidence for postinfectious IBS is mounting, but the clinical usefulness of characterizing such patients remains unclear. Food sensitivities are frequently present in IBS, but more well-conducted trials of avoidance diets and desensitization are needed. Finally,genetic markers in IBS are an increasing focus of attention, but the amount of phenotypic variance explained by genetic variability remains to be established.
The role of Anti-Mllerian hormone (Amh) during gonad development has been studied extensively in mammals, but is less well understood in other vertebrates. In male mammalian embryos, Sox9 activates expression of Amh, which initiates the regression of the Mullerian ducts and inhibits the expression of aromatase (Cyp19a1), the enzyme that converts androgens to estrogens. To better understand shared features of vertebrate gonadogenesis, we cloned amh cDNA from zebrafish, characterized its genomic structure, mapped it, analyzed conserved syntenies, studied its expression pattern in embryos, larvae, juveniles, and adults, and compared it to the expression patterns of sox9a, sox9b and cyp19a1a. We found that the onset of amh expression occurred while gonads were still undifferentiated and sox9a and cyp19a1a were already expressed. In differentiated gonads of juveniles, amh showed a sexually dimorphic expression pattern. In 31 days post-fertilization juveniles, testes expressed amh and sox9a, but not cyp19a1a, while ovaries expressed cyp19a1a and sox9b, but not amh. In adult testes, amh and sox9a were expressed in presumptive Sertoli cells. In adult ovaries, amh and cyp19a1a were expressed in granulosa cells surrounding the oocytes, and sox9b was expressed in a complementary fashion in the ooplasm of oocytes. The observed expression patterns of amh, sox9a, sox9b, and cyp19a1a in zebrafish correspond to the patterns expected if their regulatory interactions have been conserved with mammals. The finding that zebrafish sox9b and sox8 were not co-expressed with amh in oocytes excludes the possibility that amh expression in zebrafish granulosa cells is directly regulated by either of these two genes.
Impairment of motor coordination, or ataxia, is a prominent effect of alcohol ingestion in humans. To date, many models have been created to examine this phenomenon in animals. Evidence suggests that the tasks thought to measure this behavior in mice actually measure different components of this complex trait. We have characterized the parallel rod floor apparatus to quantify ethanol-induced motor incoordination. Using genetically heterogeneous mice, we evaluated the influence of rod diameter and inter-rod distance on dose-related ethanol-induced motor incoordination to select parameters that optimized testing procedures. We then used the DBA/2J and C57BL/6J inbred strains of mice to examine the effect of 2 g/kg of ethanol, by serially testing mice on two floor types, separated by 1 week. Finally, we tested eight inbred strains of mice on four floor types to examine patterns of strain sensitivity to 2 g/kg of intraperitoneal ethanol and determined the test parameters that maximized strain effect size. Motor incoordination varied depending on the floor type and strain. When data from strain 129S1/SvlmJ were removed from the analyses because of their extreme behavior, the greatest strain effect size was observed on one floor type during the first 10 min of testing after 2 g/kg of intraperitoneal ethanol. These findings suggest that the parallel rod floor apparatus provides a useful means for examining ethanol-induced motor incoordination in mice but that specific testing procedures are important for optimizing detection of motor incoordination and genetic influences.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of individual housing on mouse behavior. The male mice of the C57BL/6J and DBA/2 strains were separated at the age of 4 weeks and kept in individual housing for 7 weeks until behavioral testing began. Their behavior was compared to the group-housed mice in a battery of tests during the following 7 weeks. The single-housed mice were hyperactive and displayed reduced habituation in the tests assessing activity and exploration. Reduced anxiety was established in the elevated plus-maze, but an opposite effect was observed in the dark-light (DL) and hyponeophagia tests. Immobility in the forced swimming test was reduced by social isolation. The DBA mice displayed higher anxiety-like behavior than the B6 mice in the plus-maze and DL exploration test, but hyponeophagia was reduced in the DBA mice. Moreover, all effects of individual housing on the exploratory and emotional behavior were more evident in the DBA than in the B6 mice. Novel object recognition and fear conditioning (FC) were significantly impaired in the single-housed mice, whereas water-maze (WM) learning was not affected. Marked strain differences were established in all three learning tests. The B6 mice performed better in the object recognition and FC tasks. Initial spatial learning in the WM was faster and memory retention slightly enhanced in the B6 mice. The DBA mice displayed lower preference to the new and enhanced preference to the old platform location than the B6 mice after reversal learning in the WM. We conclude that individual housing has strong strain- and test-specific effects on emotional behavior and impairs memory in certain tasks.
We generated six transgenic mouse lines in which synaptopHluorin (SpH), one of green fluorescent protein-based sensors of vesicular exocytosis, was expressed under the control of neuron-specific Thy-1.2 promoter. In situ hybridization study revealed that SpH mRNA was expressed in a broad spectrum of brain regions in four of them, whereas in others it was expressed in the specific regions of the hippocampus. In one particular line, SpH immunoreactivity was specifically observed in the mossy fiber presynaptic terminals of both hippocampus and cerebellar cortex. The fluorescence intensity of these presynaptic terminals was somewhat decreased by acidic buffer superfusion and greatly increased by vesicular neutralization of pH, indicating that the SpH molecules are mainly distributed in the synaptic vesicles. The exocytosis-dependent fluorescence increment was measured upon activation of a single presynaptic terminal. These transgenic lines are expected to facilitate morphological and physiological studies of presynaptic terminals in a variety of regions of the brain.
We present seven new vertebrate homologs of the prolactin-releasing hormone receptor (PRLHR) and show that these are found as two separate subtypes, PRLHR1 and PRLHR2. Analysis of a number of vertebrate sequences using phylogeny, pharmacology, and paralogon analysis indicates that the PRLHRs are likely to share a common ancestry with the neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptors. Moreover, a micromolar level of NPY was able to bind and inhibit completely the PRLH-evoked response in PRLHR1-expressing cells. We suggest that an ancestral PRLH peptide started coevolving with a redundant NPY binding receptor, which then became PRLHR, approximately 500 million years ago. The PRLHR1 subtype was shown to have a relatively high evolutionary rate compared to receptors with fixed peptide preference, which could indicate a drastic change in binding preference, thus supporting this hypothesis. This report suggests how gene duplication events can lead to novel peptide ligand/receptor interactions and hence spur the evolution of new physiological functions.
Astrocytes become activated (reactive) in response to many CNS pathologies, such as stroke, trauma, growth of a tumor, or neurodegenerative disease. The process of astrocyte activation remains rather enigmatic and results in so-called &quot;reactive gliosis,&quot; a reaction with specific structural and functional characteristics. In stroke or in CNS trauma, the lesion itself, the ischemic environment, disrupted blood-brain barrier, the inflammatory response, as well as in metabolic, excitotoxic, and in some cases oxidative crises--all affect the extent and quality of reactive gliosis. The fact that astrocytes function as a syncytium of interconnected cells both in health and in disease, rather than as individual cells, adds yet another dimension to this picture. This review focuses on several aspects of astrocyte activation and reactive gliosis and discusses its possible roles in the CNS trauma and ischemia. Particular emphasis is placed on the lessons learnt from mouse genetic models in which the absence of intermediate filament proteins in astrocytes leads to attenuation of reactive gliosis with distinct pathophysiological and clinical consequences.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are matrix-degrading enzymes involved in diverse homeostatic and pathological processes. Several MMPs are expressed within the CNS and serve important normal and pathological functions during development and adulthood. An early and major pathological effect of MMP activity after cerebral ischemia is opening of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). More recent work demonstrates emerging roles for MMPs and their natural inhibitors, tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs), in the regulation of neuronal cell death. In addition, MMPs and TIMPs are likely to play important roles during the repair phases of cerebral ischemia, particularly during angiogenesis and reestablishment of cerebral blood flow. This review attempts to elucidate how MMPs and TIMPs may provide detrimental or beneficial actions during the injury and repair processes after cerebral ischemia. These processes will have important implications for therapies using MMP inhibitors in stroke.
Astrocytes can die rapidly following ischemic and traumatic injury to the CNS. Brain acid-base status has featured prominently in theories of acute astrocyte injury. Failure of astrocyte pH regulation can lead to cell loss under conditions of severe acidosis. By contrast, the function of astrocyte pH regulatory mechanisms appears to be necessary for acute cell death following the simulation of transient ischemia and reperfusion. Severe lactic acidosis, and the failure of astrocytes to regulate intracellular pH (pH(i)) have been emphasized in brain ischemia under hyperglycemic conditions. Direct measurements of astrocyte pH(i) after cardiac arrest demonstrated a mean pH(i) of 5.3 in hyperglycemic rats. In addition, both in vivo and in vitro studies of astrocytes have shown similar pH levels to be cytotoxic. Whereas astrocytes exposed to hypoxia alone may require 12-24 h to die, acidosis has been found to exacerbate and speed hypoxic loss of these cells. Recently, astrocyte cultures were exposed to hypoxic, acidic media in which the large ionic perturbations characteristic of brain ischemia were simulated. Upon return to normal saline (&quot;reperfusion&quot;), the majority of cells died. This injury was dependent on external Ca2+ and was prevented by inhibition of reversed Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange, blockade of Na(+)-H+ exchange, or by low pH of the reperfusion saline. These data suggested that cytotoxic elevation of [Ca2+]i occurred during reperfusion due to a sequence of activated Na(+)-H+ exchange, cytosolic Na+ loading, and resultant reversal of Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange. The significance of this reperfusion model to ischemic astrocyte injury in vivo is discussed.

Bekhterev was one of the prominent scientists of his era. He played a crucial role in the study of the development of the brain's organization, neurophysiology and neuropathology and in the objective study of psychological phenomena. Due to a trick of fate, Bekhterev's name and scientific contributions were neglected and consigned to oblivion. In this article we would like to restore the historical injustice done to Bekhterev. Based on newly discovered documents and testimonies, we present little known details about his life history, his clinical work and the tragic circumstances of his death.
The interface between insanity, race and culture was a challenging subject for some of the most influential nineteenth-century alienists. Our paper reviews some of the theoretical and clinical investigations of comparative psychiatry of this period. The idea that insanity was supposedly rare among 'primitive' people, e.g., Africans, American Natives and some Eastern populations, was repeatedly defended by prominent alienists. Associated with this notion, many authors believed that insanity tends to become more prevalent as civilization evolves. According to them, civilization had an unfavourable effect on insanity rates because it demanded a much higher degree of organization and mental production. Moreover, a greater degree of mental excitation would explain why insanity occurs more frequently in Europe than in the East, Africa or South America. Eventually, at the end of the nineteenth century, the coalition of cross-cultural and neuropsychiatry produced a notion that the brain of the 'native' is more simple and crude than that of the civilized, and more vulnerable to the evil effects of civilized life. In conclusion, some ethnocentric bias and racial stereotypes still pervasive in contemporary psychiatry are identified and traced back to their historical origins.
Many neural systems are undergoing marked development over adolescence, which may heighten an animal's vulnerability to stressors. One consequence may be altered sensitivity to drugs of abuse. We previously reported that social stressors in adolescence increased behavioral sensitization to nicotine in adulthood in female, but not male, rats. Here we examined whether social stressors in adolescence alter the functioning of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis by examining corticosterone release in response to restraint in adulthood. To further assess effects of social stressors on behavioral sensitivity to psychostimulants, we examined locomotor activity in response to nicotine and to amphetamine. In a second set of experiments, we investigated whether the same procedure of social stressors administered in adulthood produces effects similar to that observed when administered in adolescence. Rats underwent daily 1 h isolation followed by pairing with a new cage mate on either postnatal days 33-48 (pubertal stress: PS) or days 65-80 (adult stress: AS). Three weeks later rats tested for either: (a) corticosterone levels were measured in response to restraint, or (b) locomotor sensitization to nicotine (0.25 mg/kg; 5 days) followed by an amphetamine challenge (0.5 mg/kg) 24 h later. Effects of social stressors were evident only in females. PS females had increased locomotor activity to amphetamine compared to controls, and AS females had increased corticosterone release compared to controls. No effect of the social stressors was found in males at either age except for reduced weight gain during the stress procedure. Thus, females are more susceptible to the enduring effects of these moderate social stressors than are males. However, in terms of behavioral sensitivity to drugs of abuse, females may be more susceptible to stressors during adolescence than adulthood, although the reverse appears to be true for HPA function.
Rats can use a wide spectrum of intra- and extramaze information while navigating through the environment. The current study examined the relative contribution of an intramaze cue with regard to its proximity to the goal. Three experiments were conducted and the impact of intramaze cue removal or rotation on water maze search was examined. In males, the effect of the intramaze cue declined monotonically in relation to the proximity of the cue to the goal. A more complex relationship between cue location and utilization was found in estrous and proestrus females. Estrous females showed a strong effect of the cue only when it was near the goal, ignoring it when it was situated further away. Conversely proestrus females were affected by the cue under all conditions. It is concluded that previous reports of behavioral differences may stem from the fact that proestrus females are affected by and attend to a wider range of stimuli, while estrous females are more affected by salient stimuli.

We discuss the application of beamforming techniques to the field of magnetoencephalography (MEG). We argue that beamformers have given us an insight into the dynamics of oscillatory changes across the cortex not explored previously with traditional analysis techniques that rely on averaged evoked responses. We review several experiments that have used beamformers, with special emphasis on those in which the results have been compared to those observed in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and on those studying induced phenomena. We suggest that the success of the beamformer technique, despite the assumption that there are no linear interactions between the mesoscopic local field potentials across distinct cortical areas, may tell us something of the balance between functional integration and segregation in the human brain. What is more, MEG beamformer analysis facilitates the study of these complex interactions within cortical networks that are involved in both sensory-motor and cognitive processes.

The goal of this study was to test the feasibility and efficacy of using microstimulators (BIONs) to correct foot drop, the first human application of BIONs in functional electrical stimulation (FES). A prototype BIONic foot drop stimulator was developed by modifying a WalkAide2 stimulator to control BION stimulation of the ankle dorsiflexor muscles. BION stimulation was compared with surface stimulation of the common peroneal nerve provided by a normal WalkAide2 foot drop stimulator. Compared to surface stimulation, we found that BION stimulation of the deep peroneal nerve produces a more balanced ankle flexion movement without everting the foot. A three-dimensional motion analysis was performed to measure the ankle and foot kinematics with and without stimulation. Without stimulation, the toe on the affected leg drags across the ground. The BIONic WalkAide elevates the foot such that the toe clears the ground by 3 cm, which is equivalent to the toe clearance in the unaffected leg. The physiological cost index (PCI) was used to measure effort during walking. The PCI is high without stimulation (2.29 +/- 0.37; mean +/- S.D.) and greatly reduced with surface (1.29 +/- 0.10) and BION stimulation (1.46 +/- 0.24). Also, walking speed is increased from 9.4 +/- 0.4 m/min without stimulation to 19.6 +/- 2.0 m/min with surface and 17.8 +/- 0.7 m/min with BION stimulation. We conclude that functional electrical stimulation with BIONs is a practical alternative to surface stimulation and provides more selective control of muscle activation.
A technique is presented for rapid fabrication of microfluidic channels on top of multichannel in vitro neural recording electrode arrays. The channels allow dynamic control of both stable and transient flow patterns over localized areas of the array, over biologically relevant timescales. A cellular model consisting of thermally sensitive dorsal root ganglion neurons was integrated into the devices. The device was used to demonstrate precise control of the extracellular microenvironment of individual cells on the array. Since the methods presented here are not specific to a particular cell type or neural recording system, the technique is amenable to a wide range of applications within the neuroscience field.
Neural spike train decoding algorithms are important tools for characterizing how ensembles of neurons represent biological signals. We present a Bayesian neural spike train decoding algorithm based on a point process model of individual neurons, a linear stochastic state-space model of the biological signal, and a temporal latency parameter. The latency parameter represents the temporal lead or lag between the biological signal and the ensemble spiking activity. We use the algorithm to study whether the representation of position by the ensemble spiking activity of pyramidal neurons in the CA1 region of the rat hippocampus is more consistent with prospective coding, i.e., future position, or retrospective coding, past position. Using 44 simultaneously recorded neurons and an ensemble delay latency of 400 ms, the median decoding error was 5.1 cm during 10 min of foraging in an open circular environment. The true coverage probability for the algorithm's 0.95 confidence regions was 0.71. These results illustrate how the Bayesian neural spike train decoding paradigm may be used to investigate spatio-temporal representations of position by an ensemble of hippocampal neurons.
Hypoxia-ischemia (HI) refers to reduced blood oxygenation and/or a diminished amount of blood perfusing the brain, and is associated with premature birth/very low birth weight (VLBW). HI represents a common cause of injury to the perinatal brain. Indeed, a significant number of premature/VLBW infants go on to demonstrate cognitive/behavioral deficits, with particularly high incidence of disruptions in language development. Auditory processing deficits, in turn, have been suggested to play a causal role in the development of language impairments. Specifically, the inability to identify fast elements in speech is purported to exert cascading detrimental effects on phonological discrimination, processing, and identification. Based on this convergent evidence, the current studies address auditory processing evaluation in a rodent model of HI injury induced on postnatal days 1, 7, or 10 (which in turn is well accepted as modeling HI-related injury to the perinatal human). Induced injuries were followed by a battery of auditory testing, and a spatial maze assessment, performed both during juvenile and adult periods. Results indicate that rats suffering from these early HI insults performed significantly worse than shams on tasks requiring rapid auditory processing, and on a test of spatial learning (Morris water maze (MWM)), although these effects were not seen on simpler versions of auditory tasks or on a water escape assessment (thus ruling out hearing/motor impairments). Correlations were found between performance on rapid auditory and spatial behavioral tasks and neuroanatomical measures for HI animals such as: the volume of the hippocampus, cerebral cortex, ventricles, and/or the area of the corpus callosum. Cumulative findings suggest that perinatal HI injury in the rat may lead to neurodevelopmental damage associated, in turn, with auditory processing and/or learning and memory impairments. As such, the current model may have critical implications for the study of neurophysiological underpinnings of cognitive deficits in premature/VLBW infants.
Water-soluble amyloid-beta (wsAbeta) is present in cerebral cortex of subjects at risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) as well as in normal elderly subjects as a mixture of three major amyloid-beta (Abeta) species: 1-42, py3-42 and py11-42. The three wsAbeta species are nondetectable in brains of young people, free of immunohistochemically detectable amyloid plaques. In the brains of Down's syndrome and APP-mutant transgenic mice, wsAbeta appears long time before amyloid deposition, indicating that it represent the first form of Abeta aggregation and accumulation. In normal brain, wsAbeta is bound to apolipoprotein E that favours its degradation by proteases. The composition of wsAbeta, in terms of the ratio between the full-length 1-42 and the py3-42 peptides, correlates with the severity of clinical and pathological phenotype in familial early onset AD. Water-soluble Abeta is the native counterpart of the Abeta small aggregates (soluble oligomers) that show in vitro an early and high neuronal toxicity.

Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) is a common and often disabling disorder. This paper reviews the pharmacological treatment of GAD, based on the findings of published meta-analyses and randomized placebo-controlled studies. In doing so, it aims to address three fundamental questions: What is the first-line treatment for GAD? How long should treatment continue? What is the best intervention in patients who do not respond to first-line and second-line treatments? Due to their efficacy in GAD and comorbid anxiety and depressive disorders, their tolerability and safety, certain selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (escitalopram, paroxetine, sertraline) should be considered the first-line treatment for most patients, although the serotonin-noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor venlafaxine is a reasonable alternative. Little is known about the optimal length of therapy after response to acute treatment but relapse-prevention studies with paroxetine suggest that continuation treatment should last for at least 6 months. The management of patients who do not respond to first-line treatment is uncertain, but some patients may benefit from certain tricyclic antidepressants, buspirone, or pregabalin.
The antidepressant effects of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) that have been demonstrated in recent studies could be related to its ability to modulate cortical excitability. Yet, the relationship between stimulus location and frequency and treatment outcome has not been established. The aim of the present study was to compare efficacy of rTMS in various configurations and clomipramine treatment in patients with major depression (MD) and to evaluate the relationship between clinical outcome and changes in cortical excitability. Fifty-nine MD patients were randomized to receive (1) left (n = 12) or right (n = 12) 3 Hz rTMS with placebo medication; (2) left (n = 10) or right (n = 9) 10 Hz rTMS with placebo medication; (3) active medication (clomipramine) with sham rTMS (n = 16). Both 3 Hz and 10 Hz rTMS were administered to the prefrontal cortex by a circular coil at an intensity of 110% and 100% of the resting motor threshold (rMT) respectively. Measurements of cortical excitability were performed prior to and 24 h after completion of 2 wk of daily rTMS or pharmacological treatments. These included the rMT, silent period threshold (SPT), inter-threshold difference (ITD), MEP/M-wave amplitude ratio and silent period duration (SPD). Severity of depression was blindly assessed by the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS). The best improvement scores were seen in patients who received left 3 Hz rTMS. The 10 Hz rTMS treatment was less tolerated resulting in a significantly higher dropout rate. A significant increase of the MEP/M wave amplitude ratio accompanied by a shortening of the SPD was evidenced in patients who showed marked clinical improvement (reduction in HDRS by 50% or more) following left rTMS regardless of stimulation frequency. Our results suggest that 3 Hz left rTMS has a higher therapeutic efficacy and tolerability in patients with MD. The enhancement of cortical excitability may be related to the antidepressant action of rTMS.
The objective of this article was to identify the effects of bromocriptine on the ultrastructure of the caudate nucleus in rats with a 6-hydroxidopamine (6-OHDA) unilateral lesion of the substantia nigra pars compacta. Eighteen Wistar male rats were stereotactically lesioned with 6-OHDA (n=12), or sham lesioned (n=6). Two days after rotational behavior was tested, and 2 days later, 6 rats were treated with 0.3 mg/Kg bromocriptine orally for a month and 6 rats were kept for the same time without treatment. The neuropile of the sham operated and bromocriptine-treated rats was well preserved contrary to the non-bromocriptine-treated rats. Also, it was found that there was a significant difference in the number of synaptic endings with edema in caudate of bromocriptine-treated rats compared with non-treated rats; however, the size of the synaptic endings were different to those found in the sham lesioned rats. Also, as in the sham lesioned group, the bromocriptines showed more synaptic contacts with dendritic spines contrasting to the non-treated group. The results suggest that bromocriptine possesses antioxidant properties because it decreased the ultrastructural alterations after 6-OHDA lesion.
The long-term improvement of intrastriatal co-grafts with genetically engineered fibroblasts expressing tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) was investigated in the present study. Two recombinant vectors, pCMV-TH and pCI-neo-GDNF, were transfected respectively into the primary fibroblasts, and their expression was further identified by in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry. The engineered fibroblasts expressing TH, GDNF, or both were transplanted into the striatum of parkinsonian rats, and the therapeutic effects were observed for 20 weeks. Data revealed that only animals with fibroblasts expressing both TH and GDNF exhibited a stable and significant behavioral and biochemical recovery. Moreover, persistence of both TH and GDNF expression in grafts was demonstrated 20 weeks after transplantation. These results suggest that combined transplantation of fibroblasts expressing TH and GDNF can lead to long-term and remarkable therapeutic effects on parkinsonian rat model.
It can be theorized that loneliness plays a significant role in the development and continuation of violent, antisocial attitudes and behavior. Analysis of case reports of two serial killers, Dennis Nilsen and Jeffrey Dahmer, indicate that there is evidence for such a link. In this article, a list of significant correlates of loneliness and antisocial behavior is presented. This may be useful for the assessment of possible dangerousness and in the development of prevention and intervention programs. Suggestions are made for the adequate treatment of loneliness and correlated violent, antisocial behavior. A need is recognized for more research into the psychosocial, emotional, neurobiological, cultural, and ethnic determinants of loneliness and their correlation to specific antisocial and/or criminal behavior.
The public is gradually becoming aware of specific learning disabilities (SLDs), which are very often the cause of academic difficulties. The aim of the study was to assess the SLDs in the clinic population at the Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Clinic at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh using the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences SLD index and subsequently to assess the children's neuropsychological functions using a battery of tests. Thirty-five children in the age range of 7-14 years (both boys and girls) were recruited as the cohort, diagnosed clinically and assessed using the battery of tests for SLDs and neuropsychological tests consisting of the PGIMER memory scale for children, the Wisconsin card sorting test, the Bender visuo-motor gestalt test and Malin's intelligence scale for Indian children. The study revealed deficits in language and writing skills and impairments in specific areas of memory, executive functions and perceptuo-motor tasks. Identification of SLDs is useful in drawing up a treatment plan specific for a particular child.
The results of in vitro and animal studies provide a strong rationale for the use of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) to prevent dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD). In humans, the results of 16 observational studies are consistent with the hypothesis that estrogen use reduces the risk of AD by 10 to 60%. However, women who are prescribed HRT are less likely to have hypertension, diabetes and history of stroke than nonusers. As all of these factors have been associated with increased risk of dementia (including AD), this &quot;prescription bias&quot; may have a significant impact on the results of observational studies. Randomized trials are designed with the aim of avoiding many of the potential biases and confounding (measured or unmeasured) of observational studies. The results of the Women's Health Initiative Memory Study (WHIMS) indicate that HRT (estrogen plus progestin or estrogen alone) increases the risk of dementia (hazard ratio, HR = 1.8, 95% CI = 1.2-2.6). Taking into account the results of the WHIMS and the adverse health events associated with the use of estrogen plus progestin or estrogen alone, we conclude that HRT cannot be recommended as a safe and effective strategy to prevent dementia.
Depression has been identified as occurring in the majority of people who commit suicide. Effective antidepressant medications have been available for over half a century. It seems logical to conclude that treatment of depression with antidepressants would have a suicide preventive effect. This has been difficult to demonstrate due to the infrequency of suicide and methodological problems in prospectively testing the hypothesis. Pooled data from controlled clinical trials of antidepressants have not demonstrated a suicide preventive effect, but patient selection and the brief time of most trials limits the power of the data. Some reports from either long-term or very large databases have provided evidence that antidepressants prevent suicide. All but one study using aggregated data from naturalistic settings have shown inverse relationships between use of antidepressants and suicide rates in various populations. Definite conclusions cannot be drawn from naturalistic studies since unknown confounders cannot be excluded. The number of geographically widespread studies reporting positive results with varying methods leads us to conclude, however, that antidepressants do exert a suicide preventive effect.
The extraordinary navigational ability of homing pigeons provides a unique spatial cognitive system to investigate how the brain is able to represent past experiences as memory. In this paper, we first summarize a large body of lesion data in an attempt to characterize the role of the avian hippocampal formation (HF) in homing. What emerges from this analysis is the critical importance of HF for the learning of map-like, spatial representations of environmental stimuli used for navigation. We then explore some interesting properties of the homing pigeon HF, using for discussion the notion that the homing pigeon HF likely displays some anatomical or physiological specialization(s), compared to the laboratory rat, that account for its participation in homing and the representation of large-scale, environmental space. Discussed are the internal connectivity among HF subdivisions, the occurrence of neurogenesis, the presence of rhythmic theta activity and the electrophysiological profile of HF neurons. Comparing the characteristics of the homing pigeon HF with the hippocampus of the laboratory rat, two opposing perspectives can be supported. On the one hand, one could emphasize the subtle differences in the properties of the homing pigeon HF as possible departure points for exploring how the homing pigeon HF may be adapted for homing and the representation of large-scale space. Alternatively, one could emphasize the similarities with the rat hippocampus and suggest that, if homing pigeons represent space in a way different from rats, then the neural specializations that would account for the difference must lie outside HF. Only future research will determine which of these two perspectives offers a better approximation of the truth.
Selective breeding of house mice has been used to study the evolution of locomotor behavior. Our model consists of 4 replicate lines selectively bred for high voluntary wheel running (High-Runner) and 4 bred randomly (Control). The major changes in High-Runner lines appear to have taken place in the brain rather than in capacities for exercise. Their neurobiological profile resembles features of human Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and is also consistent with high motivation for exercise as a natural reward. Both ADHD and motivation for natural rewards (such as food and sex), as well as drugs of abuse, have been associated with alterations in function of the neuromodulator dopamine, and High-Runner mice respond differently to dopamine drugs. In particular, drugs that block the dopamine transporter protein (such as Ritalin and cocaine) reduce the high-intensity running of High-Runner mice but have little effect on Control mice. In preliminary studies of mice exercised on a treadmill, brain dopamine concentrations did not differ, suggesting that changes in the dopamine system may have occurred downstream of dopamine production (e.g., receptor expression or transduction). Brain imaging by immunohistochemical detection of c-Fos identified several key regions (prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, caudate-putamen, lateral hypothalamus) that appear to play a role in the differential response to Ritalin and in the increased motivation for running in High-Runner mice. The activation of other brain regions, such as the hippocampus, was closely associated with wheel running itself. Chronic wheel running (several weeks) also increased the production of new neurons to apparently maximal levels in the hippocampus, but impaired learning in High-Runner mice. We discuss the biomedical implications of these findings.
Seismic airguns produce considerable amounts of acoustic energy that have the potential to affect marine life. This study investigates the effects of exposure to a 730 in.3 airgun array on hearing of three fish species in the Mackenzie River Delta, the northern pike (Esox lucius), broad whitefish (Coregonus nasus), and lake chub (Couesius plumbeus). Fish were placed in cages in the 1.9 m of water and exposed to five or 20 airgun shots, while controls were placed in the same cage but without airgun exposure. Hearing in both exposed and control fish were then tested using the auditory brainstem response (ABR). Threshold shifts were found for exposed fish as compared to controls in the northern pike and lake chub, with recovery within 24 hours of exposure, while there was no threshold shift in the broad whitefish. It is concluded that these three species are not likely to be substantially impacted by exposure to an airgun array used in a river seismic survey. Care must be taken, however, in extrapolation to other species and to fishes exposed to airguns in deeper water or where the animals are exposed to a larger number of airgun shots over a longer period of time.

Estimates of the spontaneous discharge rate (SR) of auditory-nerve (AN) fibers are often based on measurements of the average rate over a long (e.g., 30 s) interval. These measurements are important because SR is apparently correlated with other AN properties, such as threshold to acoustic stimuli, shape of rate-level function, recovery from prior stimulation, and certain anatomical characteristics. Furthermore, histograms of SR estimates from large numbers of fibers suggest that they can be divided into two (i.e., low and high) or three (i.e., low, medium, and high) SR classes. Yet, even &quot;simple&quot; statistical estimates, such as average rate, can behave surprisingly poorly for processes with long-range dependence (LRD), which has been found in the spontaneous activity of AN fibers. In particular, LRD greatly increases the variability of estimates of mean discharge rate. We investigated the implications of this effect of LRD for our understanding of the SRs of AN fibers. The fractional-Gaussian-noise-driven Poisson process (fGnDP) was originally developed to model the LRD action-potential trains of AN fibers. Using rate estimates computed from this model, we were able to reproduce the shape of published histograms of SR using only three fixed SR values. Moreover, by using a Poisson-equivalent integrate-and-fire (IF) model in place of the inhomogeneous Poisson process in the fGnDP model, we were able to reproduce SR histograms using only two fixed SR values. These results suggest that AN fibers may have only two or three possible values for their long-term average spontaneous discharge rates. In other words, all &quot;high-SR&quot; neurons may actually have the same underlying SR. Furthermore, both &quot;low-SR&quot; and &quot;medium-SR&quot; neurons may have a single &quot;true&quot; SR value, or these two classes may have two different &quot;true&quot; SR values. Furthermore, the Poisson-equivalent IF model may prove useful in other applications involving the modeling of trains of action potentials.
Odors elicit a number of behavioral responses, including attraction and repulsion in Drosophila. In this study, the authors used a T-maze apparatus to show that wild-type Drosophila melanogaster exhibit a robust circadian rhythm in the olfactory attractive and repulsive responses. These responses were lower during the day and began to rise at early night, peaking at about the middle of the night and then declining thereafter. They were also independent of locomotor activity. The olfactory response rhythms were lost in period or timeless mutant flies (per0, tim0), indicating that clock genes control circadian rhythms of olfactory behavior. The rhythms in olfactory response persisted in the absence of the pigment-dispersing factor neuropeptide or the central pacemaker lateral neurons known to drive circadian patterns of locomotion and eclosion. These results indicate that the circadian rhythms in olfactory behavior in Drosophila are driven by pacemakers that do not control the rest-activity cycle and are likely in the antennae.
The circadian clock, influencing many biological processes, has been demonstrated to modulate levels of specific coagulation factors, but its impact on the coagulation efficiency is unknown. In a mouse model, the authors evaluated the temporal variations in the initial rate of activated factor X (FXa) and thrombin generation. Upon coagulation activation through the FVIIa-TF pathway (extrinsic activation), both parameters showed rhythmic variations with a significant peak at ZT 12, the light-to-dark transition. In mice subjected to a 6-h delayed light-dark cycle, the peak was shifted as expected. These cyclic oscillations were also observed in constant darkness, thus demonstrating, for the first time, the existence of strong circadian rhythms of the initial rate of either FXa or thrombin generation activity levels. These circadian variations overlapped with those that have been recently described in factor VII (FVII) activity. The peak of FXa generation activity was simulated by the addition of purified human FVII, thus indicating that circadian variations in FVII activity are important determinants of the circadian rhythm of the procoagulant cascade efficiency. These findings help to elucidate the complex control on the coagulation process and might contribute in explaining the temporal variations in the frequency of cardiovascular events observed in humans.
Protein kinase C (PKC) isozymes have been known to mediate a variety of complex and diverse cellular functions. deltaPKC has been implicated in mediating apoptosis. Using two models of cerebral ischemia, cardiac arrest in rats and oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD) in organotypic hippocampal slices, we tested whether an ischemic insult promoted deltaPKC cleavage during the reperfusion and whether the upstream pathway involved release of cytochrome c and caspase 3 cleavage. We showed that cardiac arrest/OGD significantly enhanced deltaPKC translocation and increased its cleavage at 3 h of reperfusion. Since deltaPKC is one of the substrates for caspase 3, we next determined caspase 3 activation after cardiac arrest and OGD. The maximum decrease in levels of procaspase 3 was observed at 3 h of reperfusion after cardiac arrest and OGD. We also determined cytochrome c release, since it is upstream of caspase 3 activation. Cytochrome c in cytosol increased at 1 h of reperfusion after cardiac arrest/OGD. Inhibition of either deltaPKC/caspase 3 during OGD and early reperfusion resulted in neuroprotection in CA1 region of hippocampus. Our results support the deleterious role of deltaPKC in reperfusion injury. We propose that early cytochrome c release and caspase 3 activation promote deltaPKC translocation/cleavage.
The aim of this study was to examine the influence of different fat diets on muscarinic acetylcholine receptor binding. Nineteen male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups and fed a diet of either high saturated fat, n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA), n-3 PUFA or low fat (control) for 8 weeks. Using quantitative autoradiography, [(3)H]pirenzepine binding to muscarinic M1/M4 receptors and [(3)H]AF-DX384 binding to M2/M4 receptors were measured throughout the brain in all four groups. The main findings were that compared to the low fat control group, M2/M4 receptor binding was significantly reduced in the dorsolateral, dorsomedial and ventromedial parts of the caudate putamen (61-64%, p &lt; 0.05), anterior cingulate cortex (59%, p &lt; 0.01), dentate gyrus and CA1-3 fields of the hippocampus (32-43%, p &lt; 0.01) of rats on a high n-6 PUFA diet; however, no differences in M1/M4 receptor binding densities between the four groups were observed. These results suggest that a diet high in n-6 PUFA, but not of n-3 PUFAs or saturated fat, may selectively alter M2/M4 receptor-mediated signal transduction in the rat brain.
The development of opiate analgesics that do not produce adverse side effects is hampered by the difficulty in developing drugs that are tissue/sensory cell-specific. Previously, our laboratory has demonstrated that small- and medium-diameter dorsal root ganglia (DRG) cells can be subclassified into at least nine distinct cell types based upon their patterns of voltage activated currents [Petruska, J.C., Napaporn, J., Johnson, R.D., Gu, J.G., Cooper, B.Y., 2000. Subclassified acutely dissociated cells of rat DRG: histochemistry and patterns of capsaicin-, proton-, and ATP-activated currents. J. Neurophysiol. 84 (5), 2365-2379; Petruska, J.C., Napaporn, J., Johnson, R.D., Cooper, B.Y., 2002. Chemical responsiveness and histochemical phenotype of electrophysiologically classified cells of the adult rat dorsal root ganglion. Neuroscience 115 (1), 15-30.] Based on their responses to algesic compounds and histochemical phenotype, eight of the nine subtypes are likely nociceptors. In the present study, we examined the immunoreactivity (IR) of delta-, kappa- and mu-opioid receptors (DOR, KOR and MOR, respectively), in 164 electrophysiologically subclassified DRG neurons. The expression of opioid receptors in the DRG cell types was diverse. Type 1 (25-30 microm cell diameter) and type 9 (35-45 microm) expressed MOR-IR, but were negative for DOR-IR and KOR-IR. Type 2 (25-30 microm) co-expressed DOR-IR and MOR-IR, but did not express KOR-IR. Type 3 (15-20 microm), the non-nociceptive cell type, was not immunoreactive. Type 4 (35-45 microm), type 6 (35-45 microm), and type 7 (15-20 microm) expressed all three opioid receptors. Type 5 (35-45 microm) and type 8 (35-45 microm), co-expressed KOR-IR and MOR-IR, but did not express DOR-IR. The co-expression of opioid receptors in some of the cell types suggests that these sensory afferents might contain heteromeric opioid receptors. Additionally, the diverse expression patterns of opioid receptors between cell types and the consistency of these patterns maintained within each cell type provides further evidence of distinct functional properties of DRG nociceptors.

The authors present practical evidence for the usefulness of intraoperative monitoring with surface electromyograms (sEMGs) from the affected muscles to assist electrode implantation and lesioning in patients with movement disorders. In 22 consecutive patients with various movement disorders, sEMGs were monitored in selected muscles during stereotactic surgery that involved either lesioning or electrode implantation. The electromyograms related to major motor symptoms such as tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, dystonia, and chorea were monitored and characterized on-line by both amplitude and frequency. Major motor symptoms were revealed by sEMGs recorded from the affected muscles. Tremor manifested as highly rhythmic bursts with a narrow frequency band; dyskinesias and chorea appeared as irregularly repeated bursts within a broad frequency range of 1 to 5 Hz; and rigidity and dystonia appeared as sustained high-frequency activity and co-contraction between antagonist muscles. The results suggest that intraoperative monitoring of sEMGs could help to functionally refine and confirm target localization. Surface EMGs could be used (1) as reference signals of the motor symptoms so that other signals, such as the oscillatory local field potentials simultaneously recorded via the implanted electrodes, could be correlated with the sEMGs and used to fine-tune or confirm the target localization; (2) to quantify the effects of acute electrical stimulation on the motor symptoms; and (3) to sensitively detect unwanted capsular responses induced by direct stimulation of the internal capsule. The authors conclude that intraoperative monitoring of sEMGs of the affected muscles of patients with movement disorders during stereotactic surgery provides sensitive and quantitative information that can contribute to improved electrode or lesion placement.
Corticomotor threshold is a clinically useful concept for defining motor cortex excitability using transcranial magnetic stimulation. Although the silent period duration can be a quantitative measure of corticospinal inhibitory function, its threshold value has not been formally determined. The authors studied 20 right-handed normal subjects and found that silent period threshold was a reproducible parameter that did not vary with age and sex. Its value was significantly lower with left-sided transcranial magnetic stimulation and right-hand recordings. The silent period threshold may be a novel parameter useful for future studies of cortical inhibitory function.

The aim of this study is to investigate the efficacy of dynamic computed tomography (CT) during selective angiography (CT-arteriography) of orbital tumors in the evaluation of intratumoral vascular anatomy, feeding artery territory, and histological diagnosis. Among 35 consecutive cases with various orbital lesions, those cases showing tumor staining or pooling of the contrast medium on digital subtraction angiography (DSA) were evaluated by CT-arteriography (n = 14). The information obtained by CT-arteriography was compared with that provided by enhanced MRI (n = 31) and dynamic MRI (n = 21), in which the contrast medium was injected intravenously. In addition to the visualization of fine vascular anatomy, CT-arteriography emphasized areas of nodular enhancement and non-enhancing cystic/necrotic components as well as the intratumoral feeding arteries. Patterns of CT-arteriography were categorized into three subgroups: homogeneous enhancement (benign lymphoid lesion), partial enhancement (schwannomas and carcinomas), and patchy multinodular enhancement (specific for cavernous angiomas). In addition, CT-arteriography with selective arterial catheterization clearly delineated the feeding artery territories. CT-arteriography, with a minimal dose of contrast medium, can offer significant advantages over intravenously injected dynamic neuroimaging, and provides additional valuable preoperative information about the orbital tumor under investigation.

Behavioral and neurophysiological effects of word imageability and concreteness remain a topic of central interest in cognitive neuroscience and could provide essential clues for understanding how the brain processes conceptual knowledge. We examined these effects using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging while participants identified concrete and abstract words. Relative to nonwords, concrete and abstract words both activated a left-lateralized network of multimodal association areas previously linked with verbal semantic processing. Areas in the left lateral temporal lobe were equally activated by both word types, whereas bilateral regions including the angular gyrus and the dorsal prefrontal cortex were more strongly engaged by concrete words. Relative to concrete words, abstract words activated left inferior frontal regions previously linked with phonological and verbal working memory processes. The results show overlapping but partly distinct neural systems for processing concrete and abstract concepts, with greater involvement of bilateral association areas during concrete word processing, and processing of abstract concepts almost exclusively by the left hemisphere.
A major thrust of cognitive neuroscience is the elucidation of structure-function relationships in the human brain. Over the last several years, functional neuroimaging has risen in prominence relative to the lesion studies that formed the historical core of work in this field. These two methods have different strengths and weaknesses. Among these is a crucial difference in the nature of evidence each can provide. Lesion studies can provide evidence for necessity claims, whereas functional neuroimaging studies do not. We hypothesized that lesion studies will continue to have greater scientific impact even as the relative proportion of such studies in the cognitive neuroscience literature declines. Using methods drawn from systematic literature review, we identified a set of original cognitive neuroscience articles that employed either functional imaging or lesion techniques, published at one of two time points in the 1990s, and assessed the effect of the method used on each article's impact across the decade. Functional neuroimaging studies were cited three times more often than lesion studies throughout the time span we examined. This effect was in large part due to differences in the influence of the journals publishing the two methods; functional neuroimaging studies appeared disproportionately more often in higher impact journals. There were also differences in the degree to which articles using one method cited articles using the other method. Functional neuroimaging articles were less likely to include such cross-method citations.

Unlike predators, which immediately consume their prey, parasitoid wasps incapacitate their prey to provide a food supply for their offspring. We have examined the effects of the venom of the parasitoid wasp Ampulex compressa on the metabolism of its cockroach prey. This wasp stings into the brain of the cockroach causing hypokinesia. We first established that larval development, from egg laying to pupation, lasts about 8 days. During this period, the metabolism of the stung cockroach slows down, as measured by a decrease in oxygen consumption. Similar decreases in oxygen consumption occurred after pharmacologically induced paralysis or after removing descending input from the head ganglia by severing the neck connectives. However, neither of these two groups of cockroaches survived more than six days, while 90% of stung cockroaches survived at least this long. In addition, cockroaches with severed neck connectives lost significantly more body mass, mainly due to dehydration. Hence, the sting of A. compressa not only renders the cockroach prey helplessly submissive, but also changes its metabolism to sustain more nutrients for the developing larva. This metabolic manipulation is subtler than the complete removal of descending input from the head ganglia, since it leaves some physiological processes, such as water retention, intact.
The synaptic drive from neuronal populations varies considerably over short time scales. Such changes in the pre-synaptic rate trigger many temporal processes absent under steady-state conditions. This paper examines the differential impact of pyramidal cell population bursts on post-synaptic pyramidal cells receiving depressing synapses, and on a class of interneuron that receives facilitating synapses. In experiment a significant shift of the order of one hundred milliseconds is seen between the response of these two cell classes to the same population burst. It is demonstrated here that such a temporal differentiation of the response can be explained by the synaptic and membrane properties without recourse to elaborate cortical wiring schemes. Experimental data is first used to construct models of the two types of dynamic synaptic response. A population-based approach is then followed to examine analytically the temporal synaptic filtering effects of the population burst for the two post-synaptic targets. The peak-to-peak delays seen in experiment can be captured by the model for experimentally realistic parameter ranges. It is further shown that the temporal separation of the response is communicated in the outgoing action potentials of the two post-synaptic cells: pyramidal cells fire at the beginning of the burst and the class of interneuron receiving facilitating synapses fires at the end of the burst. The functional role of such delays in the temporal organisation of activity in the cortical microcircuit is discussed.
The presumed opposition of nature and nurture has been a major concern of western civilization since its beginnings. Christian theologians interpreted Adam and Eve's eating of the forbidden fruit as the origin of an inherited 'original sin'. Saint Augustine explicitly applied the concept to human mental development, arguing that, because of original sin, children are inclined toward evil and education requires physical punishment. For centuries, it was considered parents' moral and religious obligation, not to nurture their children, in our current sense of that word, but to beat the willfulness out of them. 16thC humanists fought back, arguing that &quot;schools have become torture chambers&quot; while it is adults &quot;who corrupt young minds with evil&quot;. Locke's (1690) statement that children are born as a 'white paper' was crucial in rejecting the dogma of an inborn (and sinful) nature. The original sin vs. white paper argument merged with another ancient dichotomy: inborn instinct (which controls animal behavior) vs. the reason and free will which humans have. Darwin made the concept of inherited instinct, common to both man and animals, one cornerstone of his theory of evolution. The 20(th)C saw scientists recast the debate as instinct vs. learning, bitterly argued between behaviorists and ethologists. Laboratory experimentation and field observation showed that behavior could develop without learning but also that conditioning paradigms could powerfully mold behavior. The progress of genetics and neurobiology has led to the modern synthesis that neural development, and hence behavior, results from the interdependent action of both heredity and environment.
Two types of attribution believed to predict anger in married couples were investigated. Wives' anger was expected to be predicted by event-dependent attributions, appraisals based on the unique aspects of one's current situation. Husbands' anger was expected to be predicted by schematic attributions, appraisals based on one's global sentiment in the relationship. Seventy-seven recently married couples attended 2 assessment sessions, and each couple identified 4 incidents pertaining to unresolved relationship issues. Participants rated their event-dependent attributions and their anger prior to a discussion for each incident. They also completed questionnaires regarding schematic attributions and relationship sentiment. Hierarchical linear modeling was used to distinguish between the 2 types of attribution. Strong support was found for the expected gender differences. Results suggest that wives are particularly attentive to the details of interpersonal interaction.
The Drosophila Slowpoke calcium-dependent potassium channel (dSlo) binding protein Slob was discovered by a yeast two-hybrid screen using the carboxy-terminal tail region of dSlo as bait. Slob binds to and modulates the dSlo channel. We have found that there are several Slob proteins, resulting from multiple translational start sites and alternative splicing, and have named them based on their molecular weights (in kD). The larger variants, which are initiated at the first translational start site and are called Slob71 and Slob65, shift the voltage dependence of dSlo activation, measured by the whole cell conductance-voltage relationship, to the left (less depolarized voltages). Slob53 and Slob47, initiated at the third translational start site, also shift the dSlo voltage dependence to the left. In contrast, Slob57 and Slob51, initiated at the second translational start site, shift the conductance-voltage relationship of dSlo substantially to more depolarized voltages, cause an apparent dSlo channel inactivation, and increase the deactivation rate of the channel. These results indicate that the amino-terminal region of Slob plays a critical role in its modulation of dSlo.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is now recognized as an autoimmune disorder in which antibodies to acetylcholine (ACh) receptor lead to impairment of neuromuscular transmission. The discovery of alpha-bungarotoxin by Chang and Lee in 1963 has played a crucial role in establishing the new concept of MG. However, isolation of bungarotoxins from the venom of Taiwan banded krait, Bungarus multicinctus, was accomplished in the poorly funded and under equipped laboratory of the Department of Pharmacology, National Taiwan University, during the post-WWII period of economic depression and research isolation. Because alpha-bungarotoxin binds specifically and irreversibly with the muscle type nicotinic ACh receptor, it was used to localize ACh receptor and to isolate the ACh receptor protein, opening up a new era of receptor studies. It was also used to produce an antibody to ACh receptor and eventually an experimental autoimmune model of MG and clinical confirmation. The discovery of alpha-bungarotoxin has been considered the most important contribution to neurosciences from Taiwan.

Proteinase-activated receptors (PARs), a newly discovered subgroup of G-protein coupled receptors, are widely expressed by neural cells, but their roles in the nervous system remain uncertain. In this study, we report that PAR-2 was up-regulated on neurons in conjunction with neuroinflammation in brain tissue from patients with HIV-1-associated dementia. The inflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha and IL-1beta were also increased in HIV-1-associated dementia brains compared with patients without dementia (p &lt; 0.05), but these same cytokines induced PAR-2 expression on neurons. Enhanced PAR-2 expression and subsequent activation prevented neuronal cell death and induction of the tumor suppressor, p53, caused by the HIV-encoded protein, Tat (p &lt; 0.01). Intrastriatal implantation of a PAR-2 peptide agonist also inhibited Tat-induced neurotoxicity in a mouse model of HIV neuropathogenesis (p &lt; 0.05). Moreover, PAR-2 null animals showed more severe neuroinflammation and neuronal loss caused by Tat neurotoxicity (p &lt; 0.05). TNF-alpha protected wild-type neurons from Tat-related neurotoxicity, but in PAR-2-deficient neurons, the same concentrations of TNF-alpha were cytotoxic (p &lt; 0.001). Thus, neuroinflammation can exert protective effects by which it induces PAR-2 expression with the ensuing abrogation of neuronal death.
ATP has been indicated as a primary factor in microglial response to brain injury and inflammation. By acting on different purinergic receptors 2, ATP is known to induce chemotaxis and stimulate the release of several cytokines from these cells. The activation of purinergic receptors 2 in microglia can be triggered either by ATP deriving from dying cells, at sites of brain injury or by ATP released from astrocytes, in the absence of cell damage. By the use of a biochemical approach integrated with video microscopy experiments, we investigated the functional consequences triggered in microglia by ATP released from mechanically stimulated astrocytes, in mixed glial cocultures. Astrocyte-derived ATP induced in nearby microglia the formation and the shedding of membrane vesicles. Vesicle formation was inhibited by the ATP-degrading enzyme apyrase or by P2X(7)R antagonists. Isolation of shed vesicles, followed by IL-1beta evaluation by a specific ELISA revealed the presence of the cytokine inside the vesicular organelles and its subsequent efflux into the extracellular medium. IL-1beta efflux from shed vesicles was enhanced by ATP stimulation and inhibited by pretreatment with the P2X(7) antagonist oxidized ATP, thus indicating a crucial involvement of the pore-forming P2X(7)R in the release of the cytokine. Our data identify astrocyte-derived ATP as the endogenous factor responsible for microvesicle shedding in microglia and reveal the mechanisms by which astrocyte-derived ATP triggers IL-1beta release from these cells.
Variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is a transmissible spongiform encephalopathy believed to be caused by the bovine spongiform encephalopathy agent, an abnormal isoform of the prion protein (PrP(sc)). At present there is no specific or effective treatment available for any form of CJD. Pentosan polysulphate (PPS), a large polyglycoside molecule with weak heparin-like activity, has been shown to prolong the incubation period of the intracerebral infection when administered to the cerebral ventricles in a rodent scrapie model. PPS also prevents the production of further PrP(sc) in cell culture models. These properties of PPS prompted its cerebroventricular administration in a young man with vCJD. Long-term continuous infusion of PPS at a dose of 11 microg/kg/day for 18 months did not cause drug-related side effects. Follow-up CT scans demonstrated progressive brain atrophy during PPS administration. Further basic and clinical research is needed in order to address the issue of efficacy of PPS in vCJD and in other prion diseases.
In Rall's &quot;equivalent&quot; cylinder morphological-to-electrical transformation, neuronal arborizations are reduced to single unbranched core-conductors. The conventional assumption that such an &quot;equivalent&quot; reconstructs the electrical properties of the fibers it represents was tested directly; electrical properties and responses of &quot;equivalent&quot; cylinders were compared with those of their literal branch constituents for fibers with a single symmetrical bifurcation. The numerical solution methods were validated independently by their accurate reconstruction of the responses of an analog circuit configured with compartmental architecture to solve the cable equation for passive fibers with a symmetrical bifurcation. In passive fibers, &quot;equivalent&quot; cylinders misestimated the spatial distribution of voltage amplitudes and steady-state input resistance, partly due to the lack of axial current bifurcation. In active fibers with a single propagating action potential, the spatial distributions of point-to-point conduction velocity values (measured in meters/second) for a literal branch point differed significantly from those of their &quot;equivalent&quot; cylinders. &quot;Equivalent&quot; cylinders also underestimated the diameter-dependent delay in propagation through the branch point and branches, due to the larger &quot;equivalent&quot; diameter. Corrections to the &quot;equivalent&quot; cylinder did not reconcile differences between &quot;equivalent&quot; and literal models. However, &quot;equivalent&quot; and literal branch fibers had the same (a) steady-state resistance &quot;looking into&quot; an isolated symmetrical branch point and (b) geometry-independent point-to-point propagation velocity when measured in space constants per millisecond except within +/-1 space constant from the geometrical inhomogeneity. In summary, Rall's &quot;equivalent&quot; cylinders did not accurately reconstruct all passive or active electrophysiological properties and responses of their literal compartments. For the modeling of individual neurons, the requirement of single-branch resolution is discussed.
For over 40 years, since I first obtained evidence for nonsynaptic diffusion neurotransmission (most scientists call it Volume Transmission), I have been convinced that we scientists were ignoring organizational dynamics other than the mechanistic synaptic organization of the brain. For many years it was an uneasy feeling, since I was aware there are so many avenues to explore in brain function. I have wondered how much we scientists have ignored, in our quest to understand how the brain really works, due to our efforts to &quot;be scientific&quot;. In addition to the difficulty of understanding how the brain functions, how could we even begin to explore the human experience? In this paper I will first discuss some emerging concepts of brain function. I will then comment on the development of concepts that have been a part of my own research experience.
This study is the first report of genetic and environmental influences on birthweight using Korean twins. The sample consisted of 255 monozygotic (MZ) and 178 dizygotic (DZ) twin pairs drawn from the Seoul Twin Family Study. Intraclass twin correlations were computed for the twins' birthweights obtained from parents (typically mothers) of the twins. To estimate genetic and shared and nonshared environmental influences on birthweight, standard univariate model-fitting analyses were performed using a software, Mx. For each gender, MZ twin correlations were higher than DZ twin correlations, suggesting existence of genetic influences on birthweight; however, DZ twin correlations were higher than half the MZ twin correlations, indicating that shared environmental factors are also important. For each zygosity, twin correlations were not significantly different between males and females, implicating that genes and environments that cause individual differences in birthweight may not vary between males and females. Model-fitting analyses based on the data pooled across gender yielded estimates of 17% for genetic, 60% for shared environmental, and 23% for nonshared environmental influences on birthweight.
Interferon (IFN) regulatory factor (IRF)-4 is a lymphoid- and myeloid-restricted transcription factor of the IRF family. We analyzed its expression during differentiation of human monocytes along the macrophage or the dendritic cell (DC) pathway and in blood myeloid and plasmacytoid DC (M-DC and P-DC, respectively) subsets. Monocyte differentiation into DC, driven by granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF)/interleukin-4 or GM-CSF/IFN-beta, resulted in a strong up-regulation of IRF-4 mRNA and protein, which was further increased by lipopolysaccharide. It is interesting that 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3) [1,25(OH)(2)D(3)], a potent inhibitor of DC differentiation, completely abolished IRF-4 up-regulation. IRF-4 was also detected in blood P-DC and M-DC. However, up-regulation upon in vitro culture and down-regulation by 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) was observed in M-DC but not in P-DC. These results point to IRF-4 as a potential player in human myeloid DC differentiation and as a novel target for the immunomodulatory activity of 1,25(OH)(2)D(3).
The high-affinity leukotriene B(4) (LTB(4)) receptor, BLT1, is a chemotactic receptor involved in inflammatory responses. In this study, we have explored the regulation of BLT1 expression in human monocytes by pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and dexamethasone. We found that proinflammatory mediators, such as interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and LPS, down-regulated expression, whereas the anti-inflammatory cytokine, interleukin-10, and dexamethasone up-regulated BLT1 mRNA expression. The effect of IFN-gamma on BLT1 mRNA expression was rapidly detectable (&lt;4 h) and concentration-dependent (1-50 ng/ml) and seems to be exerted through a block in transcriptional activity. Alterations in mRNA expression were accompanied by changes in BLT1 surface expression, and receptor down-modulation following IFN-gamma stimulation resulted in a diminished chemotactic response to LTB(4). The regulation of BLT1 mRNA and receptor protein expression was similar to the regulation of the monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 chemokine receptor, CC chemokine recptor 2 (CCR2). Flow cytometric analysis of fresh peripheral blood cells revealed that classical (CD14(++)CD16(-)) monocytes express high levels of BLT1 and CCR2 and that both receptors are down-regulated on CD14(+)CD16(+) monocytes. Apart from providing insight into the regulation of BLT1 in human monocytes, our results reveal a parallel expression and regulation of BLT1 and CCR2, which may help to understand monocyte trafficking during pathophysiological conditions.
Alginate hydrogels have long been used to encapsulate cells for the purpose of cell transplantation. However, they also have been criticized because they fail to consistently maintain their integrity for extended periods of time. Two issues of critical importance that have yet to be thoroughly addressed concerning the long-term integrity of alginate/poly-L-lysine/alginate microcapsules are: (i) are there temporal changes in the alginate/poly-L-lysine interaction and (ii) are there temporal changes in the alginate gel structure. NMR microscopy is a non-invasive analytical technique that can address these issues. in this report, we present data to demonstrate the utility of (1)H NMR microscopy to (i) visualize the poly-L-lysine layer in an effort to address the first question, and (ii) to observe temporal changes in the alginate matrix that may represent changes in the gel structure.
After axonal injury on postnatal day 14 (P14), but not P21, motoneurons in the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB) do not display their normal response to circulating testosterone levels. This could result from a permanent disruption of communication between motoneurons and their testosterone-sensitive target muscles. We assessed the extent of reinnervation of one of these target muscles, the levator ani (LA) muscle, 5 months after the pudendal nerve was cut either on P14 or P21. The number of motoneurons innervating the LA in control and nerve cut animals was determined using retrograde labeling procedures. Functional recovery of the LA muscle was determined via the testing of its in situ contractile properties. Compared to control muscles, reinnervated LA muscles were smaller, had fewer muscle fibers, generated a lower maximum tetanic tension, and were more fatigable. In spite of the fact that fewer motoneurons reinnervated the LA muscle after nerve cut on P14 than on P21, there were no differences in the weight or contractile properties of the LA muscle between these two groups. These data suggest that motoneurons that survived injury on P14 innervated more muscle fibers than normal and exhibited a similar ability to functionally reinnervate the target muscle as those motoneurons that survived injury on P21.

We studied the effects of chloramphenicol on brain glucose utilization and sleep-wake cycles in rat. After slightly anaesthetized animals were injected with [18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose, we acquired time-concentration curves from three radiosensitive beta microprobes inserted into the right and left frontal cortices and the cerebellum, and applied a three-compartment model to calculate the cerebral metabolic rates for glucose. The sleep-wake cycle architecture was analysed in anaesthetic-free rats by recording electroencephalographic and electromyographic signals. Although chloramphenicol is a well-established inhibitor of oxidative phosphorylation, no compensatory increase in glucose utilization was detected in frontal cortex. Instead, chloramphenicol induced a significant 23% decrease in the regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose. Such a metabolic response indicates a potential mismatch between energy supply and neuronal activity induced by chloramphenicol administration. Regarding sleep-wake states, chloramphenicol treatment was followed by a 64% increase in waking, a 20% decrease in slow-wave sleep, and a marked 59% loss in paradoxical sleep. Spectral analysis of the electroencephalogram indicates that chloramphenicol induces long-lasting modifications of delta-band power during slow-wave sleep.
Using intracerebral microdialysis, we reported previously that acute in vivo activation of NMDA glutamate receptors triggers rapid and transient releases of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and F2-isoprostane 15-F(2t)-IsoP in the hippocampus of freely moving rats. The formation of the two metabolites--produced through cyclo-oxygenase (COX) enzymatic activity and free radical-mediated peroxidation of arachidonic acid (AA), respectively,--was prevented by the specific NMDA antagonist MK-801, and was largely dependent on COX-2 activity. Here, we demonstrate that besides COX-2, which is the prominent COX isoform in the brain and particularly in the hippocampus, the constitutive isoform, COX-1 also contributes to prostaglandin (PG) synthesis and oxidative damage following in vivo acute activation of hippocampal NMDA glutamate receptors. The relative contribution of the two isoforms is dynamically regulated, as the COX-2 selective inhibitor NS398 immediately prevented PGE2 and 15-F(2t)-IsoP formation during the application of NMDA, whereas the COX-1 selective inhibitor SC560 was effective only 1 h after agonist infusion. Our data suggest that, although COX-2 is the prominent isoform, COX-1 activity may significantly contribute to excitotoxicity, particularly when considering the amount of lipid peroxidation associated with its catalytic cycle. We suggest that both isoforms should be considered as possible therapeutic targets to prevent brain damage caused by excitotoxicity.
In vitro assays have demonstrated that peptides derived from the recently-identified proSAAS precursor inhibit prohormone convertase 1 (PC1) suggesting that this novel peptide may function as an endogenous inhibitor of PC1. To further understand the role of proSAAS in vivo, we have investigated the expression of proSAAS mRNA and processing of proSAAS during pre- and early postnatal rodent development. In situ hybridization showed that, by embryonic day 12.5 (e12.5) in the rat, proSAAS mRNA was present in essentially all differentiating neurons in the mantle layer of the myelencephalon, metencephalon, diencephalon, spinal cord and several sympathetic ganglia. During later stages of prenatal development, widespread proSAAS expression continues in post-mitotic neurons of both the CNS and PNS and begins in endocrine cells of the anterior and intermediate pituitary. Although proSAAS expression overlaps with PC1 in several regions, its overall expression pattern is significantly more extensive, suggesting that proSAAS may be multifunctional during development. Processed forms of proSAAS are present by at least mid-gestation with marked accumulation of two C-terminal forms, comprising the PC1 inhibitory fragment of proSAAS.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is critical for the function and survival of neurons that degenerate in the late stage of Alzheimer's disease (AD). There are two forms of BDNF, the BDNF precursor (proBDNF) and mature BDNF, in human brain. Previous studies have shown that BDNF mRNA and protein, including proBDNF, are dramatically decreased in end-stage AD brain. To determine whether this BDNF decrease is an early or late event during the progression of cognitive decline, we used western blotting to measure the relative amounts of BDNF proteins in the parietal cortex of subjects clinically classified with no cognitive impairment (NCI), mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or mild to moderate AD. We found that the amount of proBDNF decreased 21 and 30% in MCI and AD groups, respectively, as compared with NCI, consistent with our previous results of a 40% decrease in end-stage AD. Mature BDNF was reduced 34 and 62% in MCI and AD groups, respectively. Thus, the decrease in mature BDNF and proBDNF precedes the decline in choline acetyltransferase activity which occurs later in AD. Both proBDNF and mature BDNF levels were positively correlated with cognitive measures such as the Global Cognitive Score and the Mini Mental State Examination score. These results demonstrate that the reduction of both forms of BDNF occurs early in the course of AD and correlates with loss of cognitive function, suggesting that proBDNF and BDNF play a role in synaptic loss and cellular dysfunction underlying cognitive impairment in AD.
Striatal and cortical mitochondria from knock-in and transgenic mutant huntingtin mice were examined for their sensitivity to calcium induction of the permeability transition, a cause of mitochondrial depolarization and ATP loss. The permeability transition has been suggested to contribute to cell death in Huntington's Disease. Mitochondria were examined from slowly progressing knock-in mouse models with different length polyglutarnine expansions (Q20, Q50, Q92, Q111) and from the rapidly progressing transgenic R6/2 mice overexpressing exon I of human huntingtin with more than 110 polyglutamines. As previously observed in rats, striatal mitochondria from background strain CD1 and C57BL/6 control mice were more sensitive to calcium than cortical mitochondria. Between 5 and 12 months in knock-in Q92 mice and between 8 and 12 weeks in knock-in Q111 mice, striatal mitochondria developed resistance, becoming equally sensitive to calcium as cortical mitochondria, while those from Q50 mice were unchanged. Cortical mitochondrial calcium sensitivity did not change. In R6/2 mice striatal and cortical mitochondria were equally resistant to Ca2+ while striatal mitochondria from littermate controls were more susceptible. No increases in calcium sensitivity were observed in the mitochondria from Huntington's Disease (HD) mice compared to controls. Neither motor abnormalities, nor expression of cyclophilin D corresponded to the changes in mitochondrial sensitivity. Polyglutamine expansions in huntingtin produced an early increased resistance to calcium in striatal mitochondria suggesting mitochondria undergo compensatory changes in calcium sensitivity in response to the many cellular changes wrought by polyglutamine expansion.
Hyperammonaemia has deleterious effects on the CNS in patients with liver dysfunction. Cellular mechanisms underlying the effects of hyperammonaemia are largely unknown, although astrocytes have been the main target of interest. This study investigated how treatment with NH4Cl and lactate, which increase in the brain as a consequence of hyperammonaemia, affects cells in primary rat cultures enriched in either astrocytes or microglia. Morphological changes were studied over time using light microscopy. Release of the proinflammatory cytokines tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-1beta was measured using ELISA. NH4Cl was found to induce vacuole formation in both culture systems. Lactate treatment altered astrocytic appearance, resulting in increased space between individual cells. Microglia adopted a round morphology with either NH4Cl or lactate treatment. Lactate, but not NH4Cl, induced release of TNF-alpha and IL-6 in both astroglial- and microglial-enriched cultures, while IL-1beta was released only in microglial cultures. Cytokine release was higher in the microglial- than in the astroglial-enriched cultures. Additionally, the astroglial-enriched cultures containing approximately 10% microglial cells released more cytokines than cultures containing about 5% microglial cells. Taken together, our data suggest that most TNF-alpha, IL-6 and IL-1beta release comes from microglia. Thus, microglia could play an important role in the pathological process of hyperammonaemia.
Neurotrophin 3 (NT3), a member of the neurotrophin family, antagonizes the proliferative effect of fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) on cortical precursors. However, the mechanism by which NT3 inhibits FGF2-induced neural progenitor (NP) cell proliferation is unclear. Here, using an FGF2-dependent rat neurosphere culture system, we found that NT3 inhibits both FGF2-induced neurosphere growth and bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation in a dose-dependent manner. U0126, a mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1/2 (MEK1/2) inhibitor, and LY294002, a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor, both inhibited FGF2-induced BrdU incorporation, suggesting that the extracellular signal-regulated kinase1/2 (ERK1/2) and PI3K pathways are required for FGF2-induced NP cell proliferation. NT3 significantly inhibited FGF2-induced phosphorylation of Akt and glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta), a downstream kinase of Akt, whereas phosphorylation of ERK1/2 was unaffected. The inhibitory effect of NT3 on FGF2-induced NP cell proliferation was abolished by LY294002, and treatment with SB216763, a specific GSK3 inhibitor, antagonized the NT3 effect, rescuing both neurosphere growth and BrdU incorporation. Moreover, experiments with anti-NT3 antibody revealed that endogenous NT3 also plays a role in inhibiting FGF2-induced NP cell proliferation, and that anti-NT3 antibody enhanced phospho-Akt and phospho-GSK3beta levels in the presence of FGF2. These findings indicate that FGF2-induced NP cell proliferation is inhibited by NT3 via the PI3K/GSK3 pathway.
Among the different factors which can contribute to CNS alterations associated with HIV infection, Tat protein is considered to play a critical role. Evidence indicates that Tat can contribute to brain vascular pathology through induction of endothelial cell activation. In the present study, we hypothesized that Tat can affect expression of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) in brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMEC). P-gp is an ATP-dependent cellular efflux transporter which is involved in the removal of specific non-polar molecules, including drugs used for highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). Treatment of BMEC with Tat(1-72) resulted in P-gp overexpression both at mRNA and protein levels. These alterations were confirmed in vivo in brain vessels of mice injected with Tat(1-72) into the hippocampus. Furthermore, pre-treatment of BMEC with SN50, a specific NF-kappaB inhibitor, protected against Tat(1-72)-stimulated expression of mdr1a gene, i.e. the gene which encodes for P-gp in rodents. Tat(1-72)-mediated changes in P-gp expression were correlated with increased rhodamine 123 efflux, indicating the up-regulation of transporter functions of P-gp. These results suggest that Tat-induced overexpression of P-gp in brain microvessels may have significant implications for the development of resistance to HAART and may be a contributing factor for low efficacy of HAART in the CNS.
Various studies have indicated that exogenous dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) modulates several mechanisms in the CNS of rodents. As adult rodent glands do not secrete significant amounts of DHEA, its role as endogenous modulator of the CNS remains possible only if DHEA is produced by nerve cells. Therefore, the last decade has been marked by diverse unsuccessful investigations aiming to demonstrate the activity of cytochrome P450c17 (P450c17), the key DHEA-synthesizing enzyme, in adult rodent CNS. Here, we combined molecular, anatomical, cellular and neurochemical approaches to provide the first demonstration of the existence of P450c17 and bioactivity in adult rat spinal cord (SC). Real-time RT-PCR revealed P450c17 gene expression in all SC segments. Western blot analyses allowed identification of a specific P450c17 protein in the SC and immunohistochemical studies localized P450c17 in neurones and glial cells. Pulse-chase experiments combined with HPLC and radioactive steroid detection showed that SC slices converted [3H]pregnenolone into [3H]DHEA, a conversion markedly reduced by ketoconazole, a P450c17 inhibitor. Kinetics studies revealed accumulation of [3H]DHEA newly synthesized by SC slices in the incubation medium as its amount declined slowly. This first cellular mapping of an active P450c17 in adult rodent SC suggests that endogenous DHEA synthesized in spinal neural networks may control various spinally-mediated activities.
Chronic exposure to the pesticide rotenone induces a selective degeneration of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons and reproduces the features of Parkinson's disease in experimental animals. This action is thought to be relevant to its inhibition of the mitochondrial complex I, but the precise mechanism of this suppression in selective neuronal death is still elusive. Here we investigate the mechanism of dopaminergic neuronal death mediated by rotenone in primary rat mesencephalic neurons. Low concentrations of rotenone (5-10 nM) induce the selective death of dopaminergic neurons without significant toxic effects on other mesencephalic cells. This cell death was coincident with apoptotic events including capsase-3 activation, DNA fragmentation, and mitochondrial membrane depolarization. Pretreatment with coenzyme Q10, the electron transporter in the mitochondrial respiratory chain, remarkably reduced apoptosis as well as the mitochondrial depolarization induced by rotenone, but other free radical scavengers such as N-acetylcysteine, glutathione, and vitamin C did not. Furthermore, the selective neurotoxicity of rotenone was mimicked by the mitochondrial protonophore carbonyl cyanide 4-(trifluoromethoxy) phenylhydrazone (FCCP), a cyanide analog that effectively collapses a mitochondrial membrane potential. These data suggest that mitochondrial depolarization may play a crucial role in rotenone-induced selective apoptosis in rat primary dopaminergic neurons.
The aim of the present study was to define the cellular composition of ventricular, as compared with lumbar, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in patients with non-inflammatory neurological disorders (NIND). We addressed this issue by determining the cellular composition of lumbar CSF from patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) who were undergoing lumbar CSF drainage during evaluation for shunting procedures, and evaluating ventricular CSF from a subset of these who underwent subsequent placement of ventriculoperitoneal shunts. We determined the cellular composition of lumbar CSF from 18 patients with NPH, and found that the leukocyte differentials, and relative proportions of CD4+ and CD8+ central memory (TCM), effector memory (TEM) and naive cell (TNaive) populations, were equivalent to those found previously in studies of CSF from patients with NIND. We further evaluated cells in the ventricular CSF of five patients who had previously undergone lumbar drainage. Leukocyte differential counts, as well as CD4+ and CD8+ TCM, TEM, and TNaive proportions, were equivalent in matched ventricular and lumbar CSF samples. These observations support the hypothesis that leukocytes enter the CSF in a selective fashion, at its site of formation in the choroid plexus. The results implicate CSF T cells in the immune surveillance of the central nervous system.
The mechanism of natural killer (NK) cell regulatory role in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) was studied in SJL/J mice. In vivo experiments showed that NK cell depletion by anti-NK1.1 monoclonal antibody treatment enhanced EAE in mice. To investigate the mechanism, we cultured proteolipid protein (PLP)136-150 peptide-specific, encephalitogenic T cell lines, which were used as the NK cell target. Our results show that NK cells exert a direct cytotoxic effect on autoantigen-specific, encephalitogenic T cells. Furthermore, cytotoxicity to PLP-specific, encephalitogenic T line cells was enhanced by using enriched NK cells as effector cells. However, the cytotoxic effect of NK cells to ovalbumin-specific T line cells and ConA-stimulated T cells could also be detected with a lesser efficiency. Our studies indicate that NK cells play a regulatory role in EAE through killing of syngeneic T cells which include myelin antigen-specific, encephalitogenic T cells, and thus ameliorate EAE.






In meningioma recurrences a tumor progression has been proposed on a molecular genetic basis. From the histological point of view the problem has not been sufficiently investigated. Recurrences mainly depend on tumor location, histology, resection type and on the tumor growth in the adjacent nervous tissue. Seventy-six completely resected recurrent meningiomas have been studied. Most tumors were convexity or parasagittal meningiomas. The number of recurrences studied per tumor varied from 1 to 5. Besides histological methods, immunohistochemistry for Ki-67 MIB-1, TUNEL for apoptosis, counts of mitoses and molecular genetics for CDKN2A were performed. No variation of the mitotic index (MI) or MIB-1 labeling index (LI) was observed in recurrences. Histological features, the number of mitoses and the MIB-1 LI showed a great regional variability. Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of CDKN2A was found to be slightly more frequent in the first recurrence than in the initial tumor, but it was lower in the following recurrences. The nervous tissue adjacent to the tumor could contain meningothelial cells and be responsible for recurrences. The number of mitoses appeared to be the most important criterion for establishing the tumor grade. The histological aspect does not change in recurrences and there is no progression. The greater number of recurrences in atypical and anaplastic tumors depends on their initial higher proliferation capacity. The occurrence of tumor meningothelial cells in the adjacent nervous tissue or in the thickened arachnoidal membrane can be responsible for recurrence.

Homonymous visual field defects (HVFDs) are among the most common disorders that occur in brain damage, particularly after stroke. They lead to considerable disabilities, particularly with reading and visual exploration. A variety of different approaches, including optical aids and visual training techniques, have been examined for the rehabilitation of these HVFDs. Despite the considerable ingenuity that has been applied and anecdotal evidence that has accumulated, rigorously controlled trials that clearly establish efficacy of any method are lacking.
A 62-year-old woman presented with diplopia caused by bilateral sixth cranial nerve palsies. Two weeks later, she had bulbar weakness and ataxia. Brain magnetic resonance imaging showed non-specific abnormalities and spinal fluid was acellular but contained an elevated protein and oligoclonal bands. A paraneoplastic screen showed anti-Hu antibodies. Her clinical condition improved with immunoglobulin and systemic corticosteroid treatment. Breast cancer was diagnosed 21 months later by mammography but there were no metastases detected. Four and half years after the onset of her diplopia, she died of diffuse metastatic breast cancer. This is the first reported case of anti-Hu paraneoplastic brain stem encephalitis presenting with sixth cranial nerve palsies.
We detected morphologic abnormalities in the cerebral cortex of Mecp2-hemizygous (Mecp2(-/y)) mice. The cortical thickness of both somatosensory and motor cortices in mutants did not increase after 4 weeks of age, as compared with that in wild-type male mice. The density of neurons in those areas was significantly higher in layers II/III and V of Mecp2(-/y) mice than in wild-type mice, particularly in layers II/ III after 4 weeks of age. In layer II/III of the somatosensory cortex of Mecp2(-/y) mice, the diameter of the apical dendrite was thin and the number of dendritic spines was small. Electron microscopy revealed that two-week-old mutants already had numerous premature postsynaptic densities. These results indicate that Mecp2(-/y) mice suffered delayed neuronal maturation of the cerebral cortex and that the initial neuronal changes were caused by premature synaptogenesis. Rett syndrome patients with a heterozygous mutation of Mecp2 display developmental disorders including cortical malfunctions such as mental retardation, autism, and epilepsy. Our results provide evidence of the similarity with Rett syndrome brains in some respects and suggest that MeCP2/Mecp2 plays some role in synaptogenesis.
Among the autophagic vacuolar myopathies (AVMs), a subgroup is characterized pathologically by unusual autophagic vacuoles with sarcolemmal features (AVSF) and includes Danon disease and X-linked myopathy with excessive autophagy. The diagnostic importance and detailed morphologic features of AVSF in different AVMs have not been well established, and the mechanism of AVSF formation is not known. To address these issues, we have performed detailed histologic studies of myopathies with AVSF and other AVMs. In Danon disease and related AVMs, at the light microscopic level, autophagic vacuoles appeared to be accumulations of lysosomes, which, by electron microscopy consisted of clusters of autophagic vacuoles, indicative of autolysosomes. Some autolysosomes were surrounded by membranes with sarcolemmal proteins, acetylcholinesterase activity, and basal lamina. In Danon disease, the number of fibers with AVSF increased linearly with age while the number with autolysosomal accumulations decreased slightly, suggesting that AVSF are produced secondarily in response to autolysosomes. Most of the AVSF form enclosed spaces, indicating that the vacuolar membranes may be formed in situ rather than through sarcolemmal indentation. This unique intracytoplasmic membrane structure was not found in other AVMs. In conclusion, AVSF with acetylcholinesterase activity are autolysosomes surrounded by secondarily generated intracytoplasmic sarcolemma-like structure and delineates a subgroup of AVMs.

Beta-adrenergic receptors and the cyclic AMP signaling pathway play an important role in neuronal plasticity and in learning and memory and are known to change with aging. We examined the effects of beta-adrenergic stimulation paired with 5-Hz low frequency stimulation (LFS) of Schaffer collateral-commissural afferents on population spike amplitude in area CA1 of hippocampal slices from young (3 mo) and aged (22 mo) Fischer 344 rats. Application of the beta-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol (1 microM) for 10 min followed immediately by 3 min LFS produced long-lasting potentiation in young hippocampi, but the magnitude of potentiation in aged rats was significantly attenuated and was not long-lasting. In slices prepared from young rats, long-term potentiation (LTP) induced by this protocol occludes subsequent attempts to produce conventional high frequency stimulation-induced LTP, and vice versa, suggesting that these two forms of potentiation share one or more molecular mechanisms. Age-related differences in response to LFS alone were not observed, but significant differences in response to beta-adrenergic stimulation were apparent. Similarly, significant age-related differences in response to direct activation of adenylate cyclase with forskolin (10 microM) were observed. In both age groups, this enhancement produced by isoproterenol or forskolin is only transient, returning to baseline within 60 or 90 min, respectively. Taken together, these studies of adenylate cyclase-mediated forms of potentiation in area CA1 suggest that there is an age-related defect, either upstream or downstream of adenylate cyclase activation, in this important signaling system. Such changes may contribute to the compromised performance on memory tasks that is often observed with normal aging.
This review surveys results from a new approach to the problem of haptic sensing, in which subjects use primarily proximal arm movements to explore the shapes of virtual objects. These shapes are generated using a robotically controlled manipulandum. We begin by summarizing distortions of simple geometric properties (such as the length and orientation of lines) in the haptic perception of space. We then consider the extent to which the sense of more complex shapes (such as quadrilaterals) can be explained by these geometric distortions, i.e., the extent to which the shape of a complex object is synthesized from simpler constituent elements, and some of the sensory cues that may be important in this process. Haptic and visual processing of shapes appear to lead to some similar illusions. However, we argue that the processing of haptic information differs fundamentally from visual processing in that the former requires the integration of information that evolves in time as well as in space.



Saccades to combined audiovisual stimuli often have reduced saccadic reaction times (SRTs) compared with those to unimodal stimuli. Neurons in the intermediate/deep layers of the superior colliculus (dSC) are capable of integrating converging sensory inputs to influence the time to saccade initiation. To identify how neural processing in the dSC contributes to reducing SRTs to audiovisual stimuli, we recorded activity from dSC neurons while monkeys generated saccades to visual or audiovisual stimuli. To evoke crossmodal interactions of varying strength, we used auditory and visual stimuli of different intensities, presented either in spatial alignment or to opposite hemifields. Spatially aligned audiovisual stimuli evoked the shortest SRTs. In the case of low-intensity stimuli, the response to the auditory component of the aligned audiovisual target increased the activity preceding the response to the visual component, accelerating the onset of the visual response and facilitating the generation of shorter-latency saccades. In the case of high-intensity stimuli, the auditory and visual responses occurred much closer together in time and so there was little opportunity for the auditory stimulus to influence previsual activity. Instead, the reduction in SRT for high-intensity, aligned audiovisual stimuli was correlated with increased premotor activity (activity after visual burst but preceding saccade-aligned burst). These data provide a link between changes in neural activity related to stimulus modality with changes in behavior. They further demonstrate how crossmodal interactions are not limited to the initial sensory activity but can also influence premotor activity in the SC.
In response to touches to their skin, medicinal leeches shorten their body on the side of the touch. We elicited local bends by delivering precisely controlled pressure stimuli at different locations, intensities, and durations to body-wall preparations. We video-taped the individual responses, quantifying the body-wall displacements over time using a motion-tracking algorithm based on making optic flow estimates between video frames. Using principal components analysis (PCA), we found that one to three principal components fit the behavioral data much better than did previous (cosine) measures. The amplitudes of the principal components (i.e., the principal component scores) nicely discriminated the responses to stimuli both at different locations and of different intensities. Leeches discriminated (i.e., produced distinguishable responses) between touch locations that are approximately a millimeter apart. Their ability to discriminate stimulus intensity depended on stimulus magnitude: discrimination was very acute for weak stimuli and less sensitive for stronger stimuli. In addition, increasing the stimulus duration improved the leech's ability to discriminate between stimulus intensities. Overall, the use of optic flow fields and PCA provide a powerful framework for characterizing the discrimination abilities of the leech local bend response.
A major cue for the localization of sound in space is the interaural time difference (ITD). We examined the role of inhibition in the shaping of ITD responses in the inferior colliculus (IC) by iontophoretically ejecting gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) antagonists and GABA itself using a multibarrel pipette. The GABA antagonists block inhibition, whereas the applied GABA provides a constant level of inhibition. The effects on ITD responses were evaluated before, during and after the application of the drugs. If GABA-mediated inhibition is involved in shaping ITD tuning in IC neurons, then applying additional amounts of this inhibitory transmitter should alter ITD tuning. Indeed, for almost all neurons tested, applying GABA reduced the firing rate and consequently sharpened ITD tuning. Conversely, blocking GABA-mediated inhibition increased the activity of IC neurons, often reduced the signal-to-noise ratio and often broadened ITD tuning. Blocking GABA could also alter the shape of the ITD function and shift its peak suggesting that the role of inhibition is multifaceted. These effects indicate that GABAergic inhibition at the level of the IC is important for ITD coding.
Mutations in the microtubule-associated protein tau gene have been linked to neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) formation in several neurodegenerative diseases known as tauopathies; however, no tau mutations occur in Alzheimer's disease, although this disease is also characterized by NFT formation and cell death. Importantly, the mechanism of tau-mediated neuronal death remains elusive. Aged mice expressing nonmutant human tau in the absence of mouse tau (htau mice) developed NFTs and extensive cell death. The mechanism of neuron death was investigated in htau mice, and surprisingly, the presence of tau filaments did not correlate directly with death within individual cells, suggesting that cell death can occur independently of NFT formation. Our observations show that the mechanism of neurodegeneration involved reexpression of cell-cycle proteins and DNA synthesis, indicating that nonmutant tau pathology and neurodegeneration may be linked via abnormal, incomplete cell-cycle reentry.
In manual action, the relationship between a given motor command and the ensuing movement depends on the dynamics of both the arm and hand-held objects. Skilled performance relies on the brain learning both these dynamics, and previous studies have examined how people adapt to novel loads applied to either the hand or the arm. In this study, we ask whether these different kinds of load are represented independently as a result of changes in cutaneous feedback and hand-arm coordination. We used a robotic apparatus that could either apply forces to an object held in the subject's hand or directly to the segments of the arm. We tested whether subjects could retain learning of a force field applied to the hand after subsequently experiencing the opposing field applied to the arm (or vice versa), or whether retrograde interference would be observed. In separate experiments, we used force fields and torque fields that were linearly related to either hand or joint velocities, respectively. Our finding of complete interference between opposing fields suggests that loads applied to the arm and hand are not represented independently by the sensorimotor system. This interference occurred despite markedly different cutaneous inputs that were directly related to the movement task. This result suggests that the brain represents dynamics independently of these sensory inputs. In addition, we found that the rate at which subjects adapted to a given force field, specified either in hand or joint coordinates, was independent of whether the forces were applied to the hand or arm segments.
Human sound localization results primarily from the processing of binaural differences in sound level and arrival time for locations in the horizontal plane (azimuth) and of spectral shape cues generated by the head and pinnae for positions in the vertical plane (elevation). The latter mechanism incorporates two processing stages: a spectral-to-spatial mapping stage and a binaural weighting stage that determines the contribution of each ear to perceived elevation as function of sound azimuth. We demonstrated recently that binaural pinna molds virtually abolish the ability to localize sound-source elevation, but, after several weeks, subjects regained normal localization performance. It is not clear which processing stage underlies this remarkable plasticity, because the auditory system could have learned the new spectral cues separately for each ear (spatial-mapping adaptation) or for one ear only, while extending its contribution into the contralateral hemifield (binaural-weighting adaptation). To dissociate these possibilities, we applied a long-term monaural spectral perturbation in 13 subjects. Our results show that, in eight experiments, listeners learned to localize accurately with new spectral cues that differed substantially from those provided by their own ears. Interestingly, five subjects, whose spectral cues were not sufficiently perturbed, never yielded stable localization performance. Our findings indicate that the analysis of spectral cues may involve a correlation process between the sensory input and a stored spectral representation of the subject's ears and that learning acts predominantly at a spectral-to-spatial mapping level rather than at the level of binaural weighting.
Footshock stress can reinstate cocaine-seeking behavior through a central action of the stress-associated neurohormone corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF). Here we report (1) that footshock stress releases CRF in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of the rat brain, (2) that, in cocaine-experienced but not in cocaine-naive rats, this CRF acquires control over local glutamate release, (3) that CRF-induced glutamate release activates the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system, and (4) that, through this circuitry, footshock stress triggers relapse to drug seeking in cocaine-experienced animals. Thus, a long-lasting cocaine-induced neuroadaptation, presumably at the level of glutamate terminals in the VTA, appears to play an important role in stress-induced relapse to drug use. Similar neuroadaptations may be important for the comorbidity between addiction and other stress-related psychiatric disorders.
Recently, we have shown that the microtubule-associated protein tau is essential for beta-amyloid (Abeta)-induced neurotoxicity in hippocampal neurons. However, the mechanisms by which tau mediates Abeta-induced neurite degeneration remain poorly understood. In the present study, we analyzed whether tau cleavage played a role in these events. Our results showed that pre-aggregated Abeta induced the generation of a 17 kDa tau fragment in cultured hippocampal neurons. The generation of this fragment was preceded by the activation of calpain-1. Conversely, inhibitors of this protease, but not of caspases, completely prevented tau proteolysis leading to the generation of the 17 kDa fragment and significantly reduced Abeta-induced neuronal death. Furthermore, the expression of this fragment in cultured hippocampal neurons induced the formation of numerous varicosity-bearing tortuous processes, as well as the complete degeneration of some of those neurite processes. These results suggest that Abeta-induced neurotoxicity may be mediated, at least in part, through the calpain-mediated generation of a toxic 17 kDa tau fragment. Collectively, these results provide insight into a novel mechanism by which tau could mediate Abeta-induced neurotoxicity.
Oscillatory activity is generated by many neural systems. gamma band (approximately 40 Hz) oscillations in the thalamus and cortex occur spontaneously and in response to sensory stimuli. Fast rhythmic bursting (FRB) cells (also called chattering cells) comprise a unique class of cortical neurons that, during depolarization by current injection, intrinsically generate bursts of high-frequency action potentials with an interburst frequency between 30 and 50 Hz. In the present study, we show for the first time that FRB cells in the primary visual cortex can be either simple or complex and are distributed throughout all cortical layers. Strikingly, both simple and complex FRB cells generate spike bursts at gamma frequencies in response to depolarizing current pulses, but only simple FRB cells exhibit a selective, stimulus feature-dependent increase in gamma oscillations in response to visual stimulation. In addition, we find that hyperpolarization does not reduce the relative power of visually evoked gamma oscillations in the V(m) response of FRB cells. Our results thus indicate that visually evoked gamma activity in individual simple and complex FRB cells is generated in large part by rhythmic synaptic input, rather than by depolarization-dependent activation of intrinsic properties. Finally, the presence of FRB cells in layer 6 suggests a role for corticothalamic feedback in potentiating thalamic oscillations and facilitating the generation of a corticothalamocortical oscillatory loop. We propose that rather than functioning as pacemakers, FRB cells amplify and distribute stimulus-driven gamma oscillations in the neocortex.
Staphylococcal enterotoxin A (SEA) is a microbial superantigen that activates T-lymphocytes and induces production of various cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha). Previously, it was shown that SEA activates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and augments gustatory neophobic behaviors. In the present study, it was hypothesized that these effects involve neuronal activation in forebrain regions mediating fear and/or anxiety and are dependent on the production of TNFalpha. Male C57BL/6J mice were given intraperitoneal injections of 10 microg of SEA and 5 microg of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or saline and perfused 2 h later for histochemical determination of brain c-Fos immunoreactivity (IR). The results showed increased c-Fos IR in the paraventricular nucleus, arcuate nucleus, central nucleus of the amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and lateral septum. Challenge of TNF-/- mice with SEA did not produce a significant increase in brain c-Fos IR, although c-Fos was increased after exposure to a psychogenic stressor (i.e., open field). In additional experiments, the elevated corticosterone response to SEA was abrogated in TNF-/- mice and was shown to be corticotropin-releasing hormone dependent. Finally, the augmented reduction in novel food intake after SEA challenge was attenuated in TNF-/- mice as well as in wild-type mice administered antibody to TNFalpha. In conclusion, challenge with SEA recruits brain regions mediating stress and anxiety responses, an effect that requires endogenous TNFalpha. Whether this is indicative of all T-cell superantigens remains to be determined, although it stands in contrast to other models of neuroimmunomodulation (e.g., LPS) that involve multiple cytokine influences.
Signaling via the p42/44 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway has been shown to be a key intracellular signaling event that couples light to entrainment of the mammalian circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Because many of the physiological effects of the MAPK pathway are mediated by extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)-regulated kinases, it was of interest to identify kinase targets of ERK in the SCN. In this study, we examined whether mitogen- and stress-activated protein kinase 1 (MSK1) is a downstream target of ERK in the SCN and whether it couples to clock gene expression. Here we show that photic stimulation during the subjective night stimulates MSK1 phosphorylation at serine 360, an event required for robust kinase activation. Activated ERK and MSK1 were colocalized in SCN cell nuclei after photic stimulation. The in vivo administration of the MAP kinase kinase 1/2 inhibitor U0126 [1,4-diamino-2,3-dicyano-1,4-bis(o-aminophenylmercapto) butadiene] attenuated MSK1 phosphorylation. MSK1 phosphorylation was more responsive to late-night than early-night photic stimulation, indicating that MSK1 may differentially contribute to light-induced phase advancing and phase delaying of the clock. The potential connection between pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) (a regulator of clock entrainment) and MSK1 phosphorylation was examined. PACAP infusion stimulated MSK1 phosphorylation, whereas PACAP receptor antagonist infusion attenuated light-induced MSK1 phosphorylation in the SCN. In reporter gene assays, MSK1 was shown to couple to mPeriod1 via a cAMP response element-binding protein-dependent mechanism. Together, these data identify MSK1 as both a downstream target of the MAPK cascade within the SCN and a regulator of clock gene expression.
Neurofibromatosis is a disease caused by a chromosomal defect that can occur spontaneously or be inherited. The disease is grossly disfiguring and carries with it significant psychological sequelae. It is characterized by tumors on nerve sheaths that can arise anywhere in the body. The rate and frequency of occurrence is unpredictable. More than nine different types of neurofibromatosis have been identified, but other than types 1 and 2, they are quite rare. All types of neurofibromatosis persist for a lifetime, so nurses from different backgrounds may encounter such a patient for various reasons. Nursing care should focus not only on the medical issues the patient presents with, but also on the psychosocial needs that may arise.
Huntington's disease (HD) is caused by a polyglutamine expansion that results in atrophy of the striatum and frontal cortex during disease progression. HD-susceptible striatal neurons are affected chronologically with initial degeneration of the striatopallidal neurons then the striatonigral projections, whereas large aspiny striatal interneurons (LAN) survive. Two classes of critical membrane proteins were evaluated in transgenic mouse models to determine their association with HD susceptibility, which leads to dysfunction and death in selected striatal neuron populations. We examined potassium (K+) channel protein subunits that form membrane ionophores conducting inwardly and outwardly rectifying K+ currents. K+ channel protein staining was diminished substantially in the HD striatal projection neurons but was not expressed in the HD-resistant LAN. Because loss of K+ channel subunits depolarizes neurons, other voltage-gated ionophores will be affected. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and their phosphorylation by cyclic AMP were studied as a mechanism contributing to excitotoxic vulnerability in striatal projection neurons that would lose voltage regulation after diminished K+ channels. NR1 subunits showed significant elevation in the HD transgenic projection systems but were expressed at very low levels in LAN. NR1 subunit phosphorylation by cyclic AMP also was enhanced in striatal projection neurons but not in LAN. Cyclic AMP-driven phosphorylation of NMDA receptors increases the channel open time and elevates neuronal glutamate responsiveness, which may lead to excitotoxicity. Together our data suggest that changes in these proteins and their modification may predispose striatal projection neurons to dysfunction and then degeneratation in HD and provide a mechanism for LAN resistance in the disease.
The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that the dorsal hippocampus plays a critical role in pontine-wave (P-wave) generator activation-dependent memory processing of two-way active avoidance (TWAA) learning. To achieve this objective, rats were given small bilateral lesions in the CA1, dentate gyrus (DG), or CA3 region of the dorsal hippocampus by microinjecting ibotenic acid. After recovery, lesioned and sham-lesioned rats were trained on a TWAA learning paradigm, allowed a 6-hr period of undisturbed sleep, and then were tested on the same TWAA paradigm. It was found that lesions in the CA3 region impaired retention of avoidance learning. Conversely, lesions in the CA1 and DG regions had no effect on TWAA learning retention. None of the groups showed any changes in the baseline sleep-wake cycle or in the acquisition of TWAA learning. All rats showed increased rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and increased REM sleep P-wave density during the subsequent 6-hr recording period. Impaired retention in the CA3 group occurred despite an increase in REM sleep and P-wave density, suggesting that during REM sleep, the P-wave generator interacts with the CA3 region of the dorsal hippocampus to aid in consolidation of TWAA learning. The results of the present study thus demonstrate that P-wave generator activation-dependent consolidation of memory requires an intact CA3 subfield of the dorsal hippocampus. The results also provide evidence that under mnemonic pressure, the dorsal hippocampus may not be involved directly in regulating the sleep-wake cycle.


The effects of a unilateral interruption of the dorsolateral funiculus at cervical level on the survival of neurons in the motor cortex were investigated in macaque monkeys. The lesion was made on the left side at the transition region between the 7(th) and 8(th) cervical segments, above the motoneurons controlling hand muscles. As a result, the homolateral hand became paretic, although an incomplete recovery of manual dexterity took place during 2 months post-lesion. A quantitative anatomical assessment of pyramidal neurons in layer V was performed in the hindlimb area of the primary motor cortex and in the supplementary motor area (SMA proper). The pyramidal neurons were visualized using the marker SMI-32 and thus included the subpopulation of corticospinal neurons. These quantitative data demonstrated that the vast majority of the axotomized corticospinal (CS) neurons did not degenerate. Rather, their somata shrank, compared to the opposite hemisphere or to intact monkeys. This conclusion is in contrast to some previous studies in monkeys that argued for a substantial degeneration of motor cortex neurons as a result of transection of the corticospinal tract; yet in agreement with others that concluded the survival of most CS neurons. The survival of the majority of CS axotomized neurons is also consistent with the observation of numerous CS axons 1 mm above the cervical hemisection.
We report the rapid discovery of putative protein biomarkers of traumatic brain injury (TBI) by SDS-PAGE-capillary liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (SDS-PAGE-Capillary LC-MS(2)). Ipsilateral hippocampus (IH) samples were collected from naive rats and rats subjected to controlled cortical impact (a rodent model of TBI). Protein database searching with 15,558 uninterpreted MS(2) spectra, collected in 3 days via data-dependent capillary LC-MS(2) of pooled cyanine dye-labeled samples separated by SDS-PAGE, identified more than 306 unique proteins. Differential proteomic analysis revealed differences in protein sequence coverage for 170 mammalian proteins (57 in naive only, 74 in injured only, and 39 of 64 in both), suggesting these are putative biomarkers of TBI. Confidence in our results was obtained by the presence of several known biomarkers of TBI (including alphaII-spectrin, brain creatine kinase, and neuron-specific enolase) in our data set. These results show that SDS-PAGE prior to in vitro proteolysis and capillary LC-MS(2) is a promising strategy for the rapid discovery of putative protein biomarkers associated with a specific physiological state (i.e., TBI) without a priori knowledge of the molecules involved.
KIF1A, a kinesin-related motor protein that transports pre-synaptic vesicles in neurons, was originally presumed to translocate along microtubules (MT) as a monomer. Protein structure predictions from its amino acid sequence failed to identify the long coiled-coil domains typical of kinesins, which led researchers to believe it does not oligomerize into the canonical kinesin dimer. However, mounting evidence using recombinant chimeric protein indicates that KIF1A, like conventional kinesin, requires dimerization for fast, unidirectional processive movement along MTs. Because these studies are somewhat indirect, we wished to test the oligomerization state of native KIF1A, and to compare that to full-length recombinant protein. We have performed hydrodynamic analyses to determine the molecular weights of the respective complexes. Our results indicate that most native KIF1A is soluble and indeed monomeric, but recombinant KIF1A is a dimer. MT-binding studies also showed that native KIF1A did not bind to MTs in either the presence of AMP-PNP, apyrase, or adenosine triphosphate (ATP), but recombinant KIF1A bound to MTs most stably in the presence of ATP, indicating very different motor functional states. To further characterize KIF1A's dimerization potential, we prepared peptides corresponding to the neck domains of MmKIF1A and CeUnc104, and by circular dichroism spectroscopy compared these peptides for their ability to form coiled-coils. Interestingly, both MmKIF1A and CeUnc104 neck peptides formed homodimeric coiled-coils, with the MmKIF1A neck coiled-coil exhibiting the greater stability. Collectively, from our data and from previous studies, we predict that native KIF1A can exist as both an inactive monomer and an active homodimer formed in part through its neck coiled-coil domain.
The functioning of 12 patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) and 18 patients with multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) was evaluated to obtain health profiles and appropriate clinimetric instruments. Assessment was made in a cross-sectional study by means of a performance-based body function test (hand-held dynamometry), two performance-based activity tests (10-m walk test and Berg balance scale), a self-reported activity test (Canadian Occupational Performance Measure), and a self-reported functioning test (sickness impact profile 68). In both patient groups, CIDP and MMN, specific health profiles were manifest. A clear relationship between body function, activities, and functioning was not found. Therefore, to assess a patient with inflammatory neuropathy, it is recommended to assess body function as well as activities and functioning and to select appropriate clinimetric instruments specific for each type of neuropathy.
Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) is an acquired disorder of the peripheral nervous system with a probable auto-immune pathogenesis. The nature of the responsible autoantigens is unclear in most patients. We used the Western immunoblot technique to seek antibodies to peripheral nerve protein antigens. Sera from eight of 32 (25%) CIDP patients, 12 of 37 (32%) Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) patients, zero of 30 (0%) chronic idiopathic axonal polyneuropathy patients and two of 39 (5%) healthy control subjects contained anti-peripheral nerve protein antibodies. The frequency of such antibodies was significantly greater in both CIDP (p = 0.04) and GBS (p = 0.003) patients than in normal control subjects. For CIDP patients, there were non-significant trends for antibodies to be more common in females and in those who responded to treatment with either intravenous immunoglobulin or plasma exchange. The commonest antibodies were directed against a band at 28 kDa, resembling that labelled by a monoclonal antibody against myelin protein zero (P0). Six CIDP and seven GBS patients' sera reacted with this band. These results support the view that antibodies to myelin proteins, and especially P0, are present in the serum of some patients with CIDP and GBS.
Diabetes mellitus impairs peripheral nerve regeneration. Regenerative failure likely exacerbates deficits from polyneuropathy or focal neuropathies in patients who might otherwise exhibit spontaneous improvement. Some focal neuropathies, like carpal tunnel syndrome, are common, yet render ongoing disability because of their delayed recovery. Why diabetic nerves fail to regenerate is an interesting question to consider because several mechanisms likely contribute. In this review, we examine a number of these causes. These causes include microangiopathy or disease of small blood vessels, failure to provide proper metabolic support for repair, defects in the entry and actions of inflammatory cells within the injury milieu, less robust support of axons by their Schwann cells, and lack of a full repertoire of trophic factors. A number of the mechanisms that generate neuropathy in the first place also likely contribute to failed regenerative programs, but how they do so is not clear.
This presentation highlights aspects of the immunobiology of the Guillain-Barr syndromes (GBS), the world's leading cause of acute autoimmune neuromuscular paralysis. Understanding the key pathophysiological pathways of GBS and developing rational, specific immunotherapies are essential steps towards improving the clinical outcome of this devastating disorder. Much of the research into GBS over the last decade has focused on the forms mediated by anti-ganglioside antibodies, and we have made substantial progress in our understanding in several related areas. Particular highlights include (a) the emerging correlations between anti-ganglioside antibodies and specific clinical phenotypes, notably between anti-GM1/anti-GD1a antibodies and the acute motor axonal variant and anti-GQ1b/anti-GT1a antibodies and the Miller Fisher syndrome; (b) the identification of molecular mimicry between GBS-associated Campylobacter jejuni oligosaccharides and GM1, GD1a, and GT1a gangliosides as a mechanism for anti-ganglioside antibody induction; (c) the development of rodent models of GBS with sensory ataxic or motor phenotypes induced by immunisation with GD1b or GM1 gangliosides, respectively. Our work has particularly studied the motor nerve terminal as a model site of injury, and through combined active and passive immunisation paradigms, we have developed murine neuropathy phenotypes mediated by anti-ganglioside antibodies. This has been achieved through use of glycosyltransferase and complement regulator knock-out mice, both for cloning anti-ganglioside antibodies and inducing disease. Through such studies, we have proven a neuropathogenic role for murine anti-ganglioside antibodies and human GBS-associated antisera and identified several determinants that influence disease expression including (a) the level of immunological tolerance to microbial glycans that mimic self-gangliosides; (b) the ganglioside density in target tissue; (c) the level of complement activation and the neuroprotective effects of endogenous complement regulators; and (d) the role of calcium influx through complement pores in mediating axonal injury. Such studies provide us with clear information on an antibody-mediated pathogenesis model for GBS and should lead to rational therapeutic testing of agents that are potentially suitable for use in humans.
Perzinfotel [EAA-090; [2-(8,9-dioxo-2,6-diazabicyclo[5.2.0]non-1(7)-en-2-yl)-ethyl]phosphonic acid] is a selective, competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist with high affinity for the glutamate site. The current study evaluated whether perzinfotel would have antinociceptive effects or block thermal hypersensitivity associated with the administration of chemical irritants in rats. Perzinfotel lacked antinociceptive effects but dose- and time-dependently blocked prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2))- and capsaicin-induced thermal hypersensitivity in a warm-water tail-withdrawal assay in rats. Doses of 10 mg/kg intraperitoneal or 100 mg/kg oral blocked PGE(2)-induced hypersensitivity by 60 to 80%. The magnitude of reversal was greater than other negative modulators of the NMDA receptor studied, such as uncompetitive channel blockers (e.g., memantine, dizocilpine, and ketamine), a NR2B selective antagonist (e.g., ifenprodil), and other glutamate antagonists [e.g., selfotel, 3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP), D,L-(E)-2-amino-4-propyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid (CGP-39653)], up to doses that suppressed operant rates of responding. In contrast to other negative modulators of the NMDA receptor studied, which typically decreased operant rates of responding at doses that lacked antinociceptive effects, perzinfotel did not modify response rates at doses that blocked irritant-induced thermal hypersensitivity. Collectively, these studies demonstrate that perzinfotel has therapeutic ratios for effectiveness versus adverse effects superior to those seen with other competitive and uncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonists studied.
Glutamate plays an important role in the regulation of dopamine neuron activity. In particular, the glutamatergic input from the subthalamic nucleus is thought to provide control over dopamine neuron firing patterns. The degeneration of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) observed in Parkinson's disease (PD) is believed to be due to a complex interplay of factors, including oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction. Although glutamate is not the primary cause of cell death in PD, there is evidence suggesting excessive glutamate release onto dopamine neurons may play a role in continued degeneration. Although many studies have focused on the role of glutamate in the SNc, little work has been directed at exploring the modulatory control of glutamate release in this region. Previous studies have found a high-potency inhibitory effect of nonselective group III mGluR agonist on glutamatergic transmission in the SNc. Using whole-cell patch-clamp methods and novel pharmacological tools, we have determined that mGluR4 mediates the group III mGluR modulation of excitatory transmission in the rat SNc. The group III mGluR-selective agonist l-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid inhibits excitatory transmission in the SNc at low micromolar concentrations with a maximal inhibition occurring at 3 muM. This effect was potentiated by the mGluR4-selective allosteric modulator N-phenyl-7-(hydroxymino)cyclopropa[b]chromen-1a-carboxamide and was not mimicked by the mGluR8-selective agonist (S)-3,4-dicarboxyphenylglycine. Interestingly, in an attempt to employ knockout mice to confirm the role of mGluR4, we discovered an apparent species difference suggesting that in mice, both mGluR4 and mGluR8 modulate excitatory transmission in the SNc.
Amyloid plaques are formed in the extracellular space of Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain due to the accumulation of amyloid beta (Abeta) proteins such as Abeta40. The relationship between Abeta40 pharmacokinetics and its accumulation within and clearance from the brain in both wild-type (WT) and AD transgenic mice (APP,PS1) was studied to understand the mechanism of amyloid plaque formation and the potential use of Abeta40 as a probe to target and detect amyloid plaques. In both WT and APP,PS1 mice, the (125)I-Abeta40 tracer exhibited biexponential disposition in plasma with very short first and second phase half-lives. The (125)I-Abeta40 was significantly metabolized in the liver kidney &gt; spleen. Coadministration of exogenous Abeta40 inhibited the plasma clearance and the uptake of (125)I-Abeta40 at the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in WT animals but did not affect its elimination from the brain. The (125)I-Abeta40 was shown to be metabolized within and effluxed from the brain parenchyma. The rate of efflux from APP,PS1 brain slices was substantially lower compared with WT brain slices. Since the Abeta40 receptor at the BBB can be easily saturated, the blood-to-brain transport of Abeta40 is less likely to be a primary contributor to the amyloid plaque formation in APP,PS1 mice. The decreased elimination of Abeta40 from the brain is most likely responsible for the amyloid plaque formation in the brain of APP,PS1 mice. Furthermore, inadequate targeting of Abeta40 to amyloid plaques, despite its high BBB permeability, is due to the saturability of Abeta40 transporter at the BBB and its metabolism and efflux from the brain.
Ischemic stress causes neuronal death and functional impairment. Evidence has suggested that cells in the ischemic core first lose viability due to the decline in blood flow and cellular energy metabolism and then die by necrosis. Although inhibition of necrosis could be a potent therapeutic target for brain ischemia, known neurotrophic factors are ineffective for neuronal necrosis. We previously reported that insulin, but not brain-derived neurotrophic factor or insulin like-growth factor-1, inhibited neuronal necrosis under serum-free starvation stress. Although insulin receptors are abundant in the central nervous system as well as in peripheral tissues, neurons are not dependent upon insulin for their glucose supply, indicating that insulin receptors have other roles in the central nervous system. In the present study, by using hypoxia-reperfusion stress, we showed that cortical neurons rapidly died by necrosis as evaluated by propidium iodide staining and transmission electron microscopic analysis. As expected, insulin treatment significantly inhibited neuronal necrosis, although this effect was blocked by pretreatment with an antisense oligonucleotide for the insulin receptor. Furthermore, an inhibitor of protein kinase C (PKC) eliminated the insulin-induced antinecrotic effect. The addition of insulin induced significant translocation of only the PKC-gamma isoform, whereas antisense oligonucleotide treatment for this isoform abolished the insulin-induced inhibition of necrosis. Together, these results suggest that insulin mediates inhibition of neuronal necrosis through a novel mechanism involving PKC-gamma activation.
The effects of baicalein on 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced neurotoxicity were evaluated. Intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) injection of 6-OHDA was done to young mice. Baicalein was administered intraperitoneally 30 min before and 90 min after i.c.v. injection. Animals received further injection of bacalein daily for 3 consecutive days. Rotarod performance was assessed, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) Western blotting was performed, and dopamine (DA) levels and peroxidation were determined. High dose of baicalein effectively improved rotarod performance and prevented the reduction of striatal DA levels and TH contents in the striatum and subtantia nigra (SN). In addition, lipid peroxidation level was decreased by baicalein at 3 and 7 days after 6-OHDA injection. These results showed that baicalein effectively prevents the 6-OHDA-induced dopaminergic dysfunction through an antioxidative action.
The active interaction of neonatal animals with their environment has been shown to be a decisive factor in the postnatal development of sensory systems, which demonstrates a critical period in their maturation. The direct demonstration of such a dependence on the rearing environment has not been demonstrated for motor system function. Nor has the role of gravity in mammalian motor system development been investigated. Here we report the results of two space flight missions examining the effect of removing gravity on the development of surface righting. Since the essential stimulus that drives this synergy, gravitation, was missing, righting did not occur while the animals were in the microgravity environment. We hypothesize that this absence of contextual motor experience arrested the maturation of the motor tactics for surface righting. Such effects were permanent in rats spending 16 days (from postnatal day (P), P14 to P30), but were transient in animals spending nine days (from P15 to P24) in microgravity. Thus, active, contextual interaction with the environment during a critical period of development is necessary for the postnatal maturation of motor tactics as exemplified by surface righting, and such events must occur within a particular time period. Further, Earth's gravitational field is not assumed by the developing motor system. Rather, postnatal motor system development is appropriate to the gravitational field in which the animal is reared.
The postnatal development of sensory systems has been shown in studies over the last four decades to be influenced by experience during critical periods of development. We report here that similar experience-dependent development can be observed in the swimming behaviour of young rats reared from postnatal day 14 (P14) to P30 in the reduced gravitational field of low earth orbit. Animals flown in space when placed in the water on the day of landing maintained their head and forelimbs in a balanced posture. However, until the animals began to swim, their hindquarters showed little lateral postural control resulting in rotation about the longitudinal axis (60 degrees+/-4 deg). Such results suggest an 'unlinking' of postural control of the forequarters from the hindquarters in the early hours after landing. Similar instability seen in animals age-matched to the day of launch (97+/-7 deg) and in ground control animals (9+/-3 deg) was corrected within one or two rotations, even in the absence of swimming. Animals flown in space began to swim sooner after being placed in the water, and the duration of swimming strokes was shorter than in control animals. Motion analysis revealed a difference in the swimming style on landing day. In flight animals, the knee joint was more flexed throughout the stroke, there was a narrower range of movement, and the linear velocity of the tip of the foot was faster throughout most of the stroke than in age-matched control animals. Thus, posture in the water as well as swimming speed and style were altered in the animals flown in space. Some of these characteristics persisted for as long as the animals were followed (30 days). These included the short pre-swimming interval and short stroke duration in flight animals. These findings clearly show that an altered gravitational field influences the postnatal development of motor function. The nature of the differences between animals reared in space for 16 days and those remaining on the ground reflects an adaptation of the flight animals to the microgravity environment. The data suggest that the most fundamental of these adaptations is a resetting of the basic motor rhythm to a higher frequency.
Calmodulin (CaM) has been shown to modulate different ion channels, including voltage-gated sodium channels (NaChs). Using the yeast two-hybrid assay, we found an interaction between CaM and the C-terminal domains of adult skeletal (NaV1.4) and cardiac (NaV1.5) muscle NaChs. Effects of CaM were studied using sodium channels transiently expressed in CHO cells. Wild type CaM (CaM(WT)) caused a hyperpolarizing shift in the voltage dependence of activation and inactivation for NaV1.4 and activation for NaV1.5. Intracellular application of CaM caused hyperpolarizing shifts equivalent to those seen with CaM(WT) coexpression with NaV1.4. Elevated Ca2+ and CaM-binding peptides caused depolarizing shifts in the inactivation curves seen with CaM(WT) coexpression with NaV1.4. KN93, a CaM-kinase II inhibitor, had no effect on NaV1.4, suggesting that CaM acts directly on NaV1.4 and not through activation of CaM-kinase II. Coexpression of hemi-mutant CaMs showed that an intact N-terminal lobe of CaM is required for effects of CaM upon NaV1.4. Mutations in the sodium channel IQ domain disrupted the effects of CaM on NaV1.4: the I1727E mutation completely blocked all calmodulin effects, while the L1736R mutation disrupted the effects of Ca2+-calmodulin on inactivation. Chimeric channels of NaV1.4 and NaV1.5 also indicated that the C-terminal domain is largely responsible for CaM effects on inactivation. CaM had little effect on NaV1.4 expressed in HEK cells, possibly due to large differences in the endogenous expression of beta-subunits between CHO and HEK cells. These results in heterologous cells suggest that Ca2+ released during muscle contraction rapidly modulates NaCh availability via CaM.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a disabling and prevalent psychiatric disorder. Researchers and scientists have developed a neurobiological basis, which provides a framework for understanding the complexities of PTSD, for many symtoms of the disorder. The estimated lifetime prevalence of PTSD among adult Americans is 7.8%, with women twice as likely as men to have PTSD. Onset of symptoms can occur years after exposure to trauma, and the duration of the illness can last a lifetime. Patients with PTSD often encounter multiple psychosocial problems that result from the symptoms they experience, and their distorted perceptions can affect relationships within the family and the workplace. Nurses in various roles (e.g., educator, therapist, prescriber, case manager, staff nurse) may encounter individuals with PTSD. The nursing profession has traditionally sought to explain sophisticated language to patients in understandable terms, and nurses serve in encouraging, supporting, and evaluating roles, all of which will be increasingly important as science and technology discover more information about the neurobiological basis for mental illnesses.
Brain aromatase has been shown to be increased in expression after neurotoxic damage and to exert neuroprotection via generation of local oestrogens. The present study investigates the topography and time course of brain aromatase expression after experimental stroke (middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO)). Ovariectomised stroke prone spontaneously hypertensive rats underwent distal MCAO by electrocoagulation. Immunohistochemistry revealed increased brain aromatase expression at 24h and 8 days in the cortical penumbra/peri-infarct zones with no increase evident at 2h or 30 days post-MCAO. Double label studies indicate that some of the increased aromatase expression is associated with astrocytic processes. Thus, this is the first evidence that aromatase protein is increased after MCAO and the location (peri-infarct), time course (within 24h) and cellular localisation (astrocytic) indicate the potential for aromatase to promote the survival of cells in the penumbra after experimental stroke by local synthesis of oestrogens.
Computer-based brief motivational interventions may be able to reach a high proportion of at-risk individuals and thus have potential for significant population impact. The present studies were conducted to determine the acceptability and preliminary efficacy of a computer-based brief motivational intervention (the motivation enhancement system, or MES). In Study 1, quantitative and qualitative feedback from 30 postpartum women and 17 women in treatment for drug use were used to modify the software. In Study 2, 50 urban postpartum women who reported drug use in the month before pregnancy completed the intervention and provided repeated within-session ratings of state motivation. In Study 3, 30 women were randomly assigned to intervention or control conditions with 1-month follow-up. Overall, women rated the MES as highly acceptable and easy to use and reported significant increases in state motivation at postintervention and at 1-month follow-up (d = .49). These preliminary results are encouraging and suggest that further work in this area is warranted.


This project was designed to assess whether MRI imaging could detect Lorentz-force-induced motion in conductive samples. Experiments were performed by applying alternating voltages across 2% agar and 18% bovine gels placed in the field of a 1.5-T MRI scanner. Motion-sensitized time-gated MRI images that were obtained and analyzed with custom-developed software used in previous studies revealed the production of movement in both agar and gel samples. Motion was most pronounced in the plane vertical to the sample and had the greatest amplitude when the current path was perpendicular to the scanner's magnetic field. These findings are compatible with the vector cross product nature of the Lorentz force and suggest that the imaging of Lorentz-force-induced motion in conductive samples is feasible. Whether this approach can be extended to study electrically active tissues such as the peripheral nerves, brain and heart remains to be seen.

The current paper summarizes the findings on endogenous morphine isolated by HPLC and characterized by mass spectroscopy in Schistosoma mansoni, Dracunculus medinensis and Ascaris suum. Morphine-6-glucuronide (M6G) has also been found by HPLC and confirmed by mass spectroscopy in Dracunculus medinensis and Ascaris suum. In addition, a morphine like substance has been isolated from Trichinella spiralis by HPLC and mice infected with Trichinella spiralis show a naloxone reversible analgesia. We discuss in greater detail the tissue distribution, course of secretion, and sex differences of morphine in Ascaris suum. Finally, we explore the function of morphine as both an internal signaling molecule and its use in immune evasion in Ascaris suum.

Allosteric modulators allow for the fine-tuning of receptor responses to endogenous neurotransmitters and exogenous therapeutic agents. Different types of allosteric modulation of dopamine receptors are discussed as well as the significance of such modulation in the control of normal biological processes and in the treatment of disease.
Pituitary adenomas are the third most common benign intracranial tumor seen in neurosurgical practice. They represent &gt;or= 15 % of all primary intracranial tumors with 25 % prevalence as reported in autopsy series. Advances in biomedical assays, imaging studies support their diagnosis and tailor their management. The direct endonasal transsphenoidal surgery is the recommended intervention for adenoma resection in more than 95 %. The safety and efficacy of this intervention was enhanced by microsurgery and more recently by the introduction of neuronavigation, assisted endoscopy and intraoperative MRI. Anticipation of clinical, biochemical, radiological and surgical pitfalls by a multidisciplinary team is of paramount importance in improving treatment and preventing potential complications.
The function of the prion protein (PrP(c)), implicated in transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs), is largely unknown. We examined the possible influence of PrP(c) on Ca(2+) homeostasis, by analyzing local Ca(2+) fluctuations in cells transfected with PrP(c) and Ca(2+)-sensitive aequorin chimeras targeted to defined subcellular compartments. In agonist-stimulated cells, the presence of PrP(c) sharply increases the Ca(2+) concentration of subplasma membrane Ca(2+) domains, a feature that may explain the impairment of Ca(2+)-dependent neuronal excitability observed in TSEs. PrP(c) also limits Ca(2+) release from the endoplasmic reticulum and Ca(2+) uptake by mitochondria, thus rendering unlikely the triggering of cell death pathways. Instead, cells expressing Doppel, a PrP(c) paralogue, display opposite effects, which, however, are abolished by the coexpression of PrP(c). These findings are consistent with the functional interplay and antagonistic role attributed to the proteins, whereby PrP(c) protects, and Doppel sensitizes, cells toward stress conditions.
In the central nervous system (CNS), damaged axons are inhibited from regeneration by glial scars, where secreted chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (CSPG) and tenascin repulse outgrowth of neurites, the forerunners of axons and dendrites. During differentiation, these molecules are thought to form boundaries for guiding neurons to their correct targets. In neuroblastoma NIE-115 cells, outgrowth of neurites on laminin could be induced by serum starvation or inhibition of RhoA by Clostridium botulinum C3 toxin. The outgrowing neurites avoided crossing onto the repulsive substrate CSPG or tenascin. This avoidance response was partially overcome on expression of membrane-targeted and kinase-inactive forms of PAK. In these cells, the endogenous PAK isoforms colocalized with actin in distinctive sites, alphaPAK in the cell center as small clusters and along the neurite shaft and betaPAK and gammaPAK in areas with membrane ruffles and filopodia, respectively. When isoform-specific N-terminal PAK sequences were introduced to interfere with PAK function, substantially more neurites crossed onto CSPG when cells contained a gammaPAK-derived peptide but not the corresponding alphaPAK- or betaPAK-derived peptide. Thus, while neurite outgrowth can be promoted by RhoA inhibition, overcoming the accompanying repulsive guidance response will require modulation of PAK activity. These results have therapeutic implications for CNS repair processes.
Kalirin is a multidomain guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) that activates Rho proteins, inducing cytoskeletal rearrangement in neurons. Although much is known about the effects of Kalirin on Rho GTPases and neuronal morphology, little is known about the association of Kalirin with the receptor/signaling systems that affect neuronal morphology. Our experiments demonstrate that Kalirin binds to and colocalizes with the TrkA neurotrophin receptor in neurons. In PC12 cells, inhibition of Kalirin expression using antisense RNA decreased nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced TrkA autophosphorylation and process extension. Kalirin overexpression potentiated neurotrophin-stimulated TrkA autophosphorylation and neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells at a low concentration of NGF. Furthermore, elevated Kalirin expression resulted in catalytic activation of TrkA, as demonstrated by in vitro kinase assays and increased NGF-stimulated cellular activation of Rac, Mek, and CREB. Domain mapping demonstrated that the N-terminal Kalirin pleckstrin homology domain mediates the interaction with TrkA. The effects of Kalirin on TrkA provide a molecular basis for the requirement of Kalirin in process extension from PC12 cells and for previously observed effects on axonal extension and dendritic maintenance. The interaction of TrkA with the pleckstrin homology domain of Kalirin may be one example of a general mechanism whereby receptor/Rho GEF pairings play an important role in receptor tyrosine kinase activation and signal transduction.
The neuron-enriched endosomal protein 21 (NEEP21) has recently been implicated in the regulation of AMPA receptor (AMPAR) trafficking and proposed to participate in the control of synaptic strength. We tested here this possibility at CA3-CA1 synapses in hippocampal slice cultures using antisense-mediated down-regulation of NEEP21 expression or transfection of a fragment of the cytosolic domain of NEEP21. We found that NEEP21 suppression or expression of the dominant-negative fragment reduced spontaneous and evoked AMPAR-mediated synaptic currents without affecting presynaptic properties. The effect specifically resulted from a reduction of currents mediated by AMPA as opposed to NMDA receptors. Blockade of endocytosis, using a peptide interfering with dynamin, revealed a progressive increase of AMPAR responses due to receptor accumulation in control cells, but not following NEEP21 suppression or expression of the fragment. Also, the enhanced receptor cycling induced by bath application of NMDA resulted in a depression that was enhanced following interference with NEEP21 function. Finally, LTP induction, which involves expression of new synaptic receptors, was abolished in NEEP21-depleted cells or cells expressing the dominant-negative fragment. Together, we conclude that NEEP21 contributes to the regulation of synaptic transmission and plasticity in slice cultures by affecting the recycling and targeting of AMPA receptors to the synapse.
The cardinal pathological features of multiple system atrophy (MSA) are the presence of glial cytoplasmic inclusions (GCIs) in oligodendrocytes and loss of oligodendrocytes. To understand the mechanisms underlying MSA, we examined the effects of overexpression of human alpha-synuclein (halpha-syn) in CG-4 oligodendrocytic progenitor cells. CG-4 cells overexpressing halpha-syn (halpha-syn CG-4) demonstrated severely impaired adhesion and increased cell death when plated on fibronectin compared to laminin. The expression of the alphav integrin subunit in whole cell lysates was also significantly downregulated in halpha-syn CG-4. These results demonstrate a cytotoxic consequence of halpha-syn overexpression in CG-4. This cytotoxicity appears to be the result of alterations in cell-extracellular matrix interactions, where impaired adhesion to fibronectin is associated with downregulation of the alphav integrin subunit and increased cell death. It may, therefore, be one of the mechanisms underlying the loss of oligodendrocytes in MSA.
Fate choice decision and the initiation of neuronal development occur in precursor cells of the adult dentate gyrus. We here show that the earliest signs of neuronal function can be detected in a nestin-positive progenitor cell population, which is morphologically distinct from the putative radial glia-like stem cells. Whereas radial glia-like stem cells had a glial physiological phenotype, this other cell population was more heterogeneous including cells with the ability to generate action potentials. These cells had only plump horizontal processes or lacked processes. Some of these cells received spontaneous and evoked synaptic input, which was sensitive to GABA(A), but not to glutamate receptor antagonists. In radial glia-like stem cells, such a response was not observed. However, both types of precursor cells expressed functional GABA(A) and glutamate receptors and glutamate transporters. This early establishment of GABAergic innervation in adult neurogenesis thus mimics the pattern described for brain development.
Kindling, an experimental model of epileptogenesis, and activation-induced synaptic reorganization are modulated by nerve growth factor (NGF), but whether NGF acts via its high-affinity receptor TrkA and/or the common neurotrophin receptor p75NTR is unknown. We previously demonstrated, and confirmed in this study, that inhibition of NGF binding to both TrkA and p75NTR inhibited kindling and decreased kindling-induced mossy fiber sprouting. We now report specific inhibition of TrkA.NGF binding, but not p75NTR.NGF binding, retarded perforant path kindling progression. However, mossy fiber sprouting was inhibited by either selective TrkA.NGF or p75NTR.NGF antagonists. Our results suggest that TrkA, but not p75NTR, plays a role in kindling, while both receptors modulate kindling-induced mossy fiber sprouting. This implicates different mechanisms of neurotrophin action on kindling (mediated by TrkA) and neuronal sprouting (mediated by both TrkA and p75NTR) and suggests that sprouting involves kindling-independent neurotrophin action via p75NTR.
The serotonin transporter (SERT) regulates 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) (5-HT) neurotransmission and is a high-affinity target for antidepressants and psychostimulants. In the present study, we investigated the mechanisms that contribute to a previously unidentified biphasic regulation of endogenous SERTs expressed in the platelets. Treatment of rat platelets with beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) for 5 min or less resulted in a rapid inhibition of SERT involving changes in intrinsic activity of the transporter (increased K(m) and decreased V(max)). beta-PMA treatment for 30 min or more produced a sustained inhibition of SERT with a decrease only in the V(max). Whereas inhibition of SERT activity was detected from 1 to 45 min after phorbol ester addition, the decrease in surface SERT required at least 30 min of phorbol ester incubation. Increased endocytosis of SERT accounted for the decrease in surface SERT at the later point. Protein kinase C (PKC)-mediated phosphorylation of SERT occurs on the plasma membrane during the initial phase of rapid transporter inhibition, and later, the phosphorylated SERT enters the intracellular pool. beta-PMA-induced phosphorylation of SERT occurs initially on serine residues(s) and then on threonine residue(s). The initial serine phosphorylation corresponded to the first phase of rapid inhibition mediated by changes in intrinsic activity and/or silencing of SERT. The later phosphorylation on threonine residue(s) corresponded to the later phase of sustained inhibition mediated by an enhanced endocytosis of SERT. Together, these data reveal that in platelets, SERT function is regulated by PKC in a biphasic manner involving both trafficking-dependent and independent mechanisms and that these two events occur at distinct phases of transporter phosphorylation.
To understand how structurally distinct ligands regulate CB(1) receptor interactions with Gi1, Gi2, and Gi3, we quantified the Galphai and betagamma proteins that coimmunoprecipitate with the CB(1) receptor from a detergent extract of N18TG2 membranes in the presence of ligands. A mixture of A, R, G(GDP) (or G_), and ARG(GDP) (or ARG_) complexes was observed in the presence of aminoalkylindole (R)-(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpholinylmethyl)pyrrolo[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-naphthalenylmethanone (WIN 55,212-2) for all three RGalphai complexes, cannabinoid desacetyllevonantradol for Galphai1 and Galphai2, and eicosanoid (R)-methanandamide for Galphai3. Desacetyllevonantradol maintained RGalphai3 complexes and (R)-methanandamide maintained RGalphai1 and RGalphai2 complexes even in the presence of a nonhydrolyzable GTP analog. The biaryl pyrazole antagonist N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboximide hydrochloride (SR141716) maintained all three RGalphai complexes. Gbeta proteins, and to a certain extent Ggamma2, exhibited the same association/dissociation pattern as the Galpha proteins. A GDP analog had no influence on any of these association/dissociation reactions and failed to promote sequestration of G proteins. These results can be explained by invoking the existence of an inverse agonist-supported inactive state in the ternary complex equilibrium model. WIN 55,212-2 behaves as an agonist for all three Gi subtypes; SR141716 behaves as an inverse agonist for all three Gi subtypes; desacetyllevonantradol behaves as an agonist for Gi1 and Gi2, and an inverse agonist at Gi3; and (R)-methanandamide behaves as an inverse agonist at Gi1 and Gi2, and an agonist at Gi3. These ligand-selective G protein responses imply that multiple conformations of the receptor could be evoked by ligands to regulate individual G proteins.
mRNAs for the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) alpha6 and beta3 subunits are abundantly expressed and colocalized in dopaminergic cells of the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. Studies using subunit-null mutant mice have shown that alpha6- or beta3-dependent nAChRs bind alpha-conotoxin MII (alpha-CtxMII) with high affinity and modulate striatal dopamine release. This study explores the effects of beta3 subunit-null mutation on striatal and midbrain nAChR expression, composition, and pharmacology. Ligand binding and immunoprecipitation experiments using subunit-specific antibodies indicated that beta3-null mutation selectively reduced striatal alpha6* nAChR expression by 76% versus beta3(+/+) control. Parallel experiments showed a smaller reduction in both midbrain alpha3* and alpha6* nAChRs (34 and 42% versus beta3(+/+) control, respectively). Sedimentation coefficient determinations indicated that residual alpha6* nAChRs in beta3(-/-) striatum were pentameric, like their wild-type counterparts. Immunoprecipitation experiments on immunopurified beta3* nAChRs demonstrated that almost all wild-type striatal beta3* nAChRs also contain alpha4, alpha6, and beta2 subunits, although a small population of non-beta3 alpha6* nAChRs is also expressed. beta3 subunit incorporation seemed to increase alpha4 participation in alpha6beta2* complexes. (125)I-Epibatidine competition binding studies showed that the alpha-CtxMII affinity of alpha6* nAChRs from the striata of beta3(-/-) mice was similar to those isolated from beta3(+/+) animals. Together, the results of these experiments show that the beta3 subunit is important for the correct assembly, stability and/or transport of alpha6* nAChRs in dopaminergic neurons and influences their subunit composition. However, beta3 subunit expression is not essential for the expression of alpha6*, high-affinity alpha-CtxMII binding nAChRs.
The application of the snake neurotoxin taipoxin to hippocampal neurons in culture induced Ca(2+)-dependent synaptic vesicle (SV) exocytosis, with swelling of nerve terminals and redistribution of SV proteins to the axolemma. Using digital imaging videomicroscopy to measure fluorescence resonance energy transfer in live neurons, we also found that taipoxin modulates the machinery for neurosecretion by causing dissociation of the SV proteins synaptobrevin 2 and synaptophysin I at a stage preceding taipoxin-induced facilitation of SV fusion. These early effects of the toxin are followed by severe impairment of SV exo-endocytosis, which might underlie the prevention of neurotransmitter release reported after intoxication by taipoxin.
Our previous results pointed to a putative gene for susceptibility to bipolar affective disorder located on the chromosomal region 12q23-q24 that segregated in the Saguenay-Lac-St-Jean population of Quebec. We report here results from a second genome-wide scan based on the analysis of 380 polymorphic microsatellite markers. For the purpose of this analysis, an additional 18 families were recruited from the Saguenay-Lac-St-Jean region and pooled to our previous sample to improve its statistical power, giving a total of 394 sampled individuals. This work confirms the presence of a susceptibility locus for affective disorder on chromosome 12q24 with parametric LOD score value of 3.35 at D12S378 when pedigrees were broken into nuclear families and analysed under a recessive segregation model. This result was supported by neighbouring markers and by a LOD score value of 5.05 at D12S378 under model-free analysis. Other regions of lower interest were indicated on chromosomes 2, 5, 7, 9, 10, 17 and 20.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) has been shown to promote survival and function of cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain in various models of neuronal degeneration in rodents and primates. We examined whether a regulatable in vivo expression system can control the survival of cholinergic neurons after injury, using a tetracycline-regulated promoter (&quot;tet-off&quot; system) to modulate lentiviral NGF gene delivery. Two weeks after lesions to cholinergic neurons, significant cell rescue (65+/-8% neuron survival; P&lt;0.005 compared to controls) was observed when NGF expression was activated. Treatment with the tetracycline analog doxycycline to turn gene expression &quot;off&quot; resulted in a significant loss of cholinergic neurons (only 37+/-5% neurons remained, an amount that did not differ from untreated, lesioned controls). Animals treated with a constitutively active and robust nonregulated NGF expression system showed the same degree of neuronal rescue (73+/-8%) as animals treated with activated tet-regulated vectors. ELISA measurements confirmed that oral treatment of animals with doxycycline reduced NGF protein levels to levels in untreated control subjects. These data demonstrate for the first time that NGF delivery by lentiviral gene transfer using tetracycline-regulated promoters can completely regulate neuronal rescue and protein production in the brain.
Malignant forms of multiple sclerosis (MS) represent a limited group of very aggressive demyelinating diseases, which rapidly progress to severe disability leading often to life-threatening conditions. On these clinical entities, currently available therapies for MS are not very effective. Recently, it has been demonstrated that intense immunosuppression followed by autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) can affect the clinical course of individuals with severe MS and completely abrogate the inflammatory activity detected by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). We report on the treatment with intense immune ablation followed by ASCT of three patients with malignant MS whose clinical course indicated a dramatically poor prognosis. This procedure succeeded in halting the rapidly worsening course of disease. The effect was long lasting, as demonstrated by a sustained efficacy over a two-year period in two subjects and 12 months in the third case. In addition, a striking effect on inflammation-related MRI findings was obtained. These results support a role for intense immunosuppression followed by ASCT as treatment in rapidly evolving malignant MS cases unresponsive to conventional therapies.
The relationship between multiple sclerosis (MS) disease activity and myelin protein-induced cytokine responses over time is not elucidated. We addressed this relationship by examining longitudinal cytokine responses to myelin proteins every three months for one year, in the context of gadolinium (gad)-enhancing brain lesions and of clinical relapses. The ELISPOT assay was used to determine the ex vivo cytokine production in response to nine amino acid long peptides spanning the entire proteolipid protein (PLP) and myelin basic protein (MBP) molecules in relapsing-remitting (RR) MS patients and matched healthy controls. We identified three longitudinal levels of myelin-induced cytokine secretion by adding up the positive responses for all PLP or MBP peptides obtained for five timepoints, at three-month intervals: low reactivity (&lt; 200 cumulative cytokine-secreting cells), isolated peptide reactivity (201-450 cumulative cytokine-secreting cells) and recurrent protein-wide bursts of cytokine reactivity (&gt; 451 cumulative cytokine-secreting cells). The majority of MS patients showed recurrent bursts to PLP and MBP. In contrast, controls showed a more even distribution between all levels of cytokine reactivity. The majority of patients with gad-enhancing lesions showed PLP/IFN gamma and MBP/IFN gamma recurrent burst responses. This is the first longitudinal study on MS patients in which nine amino acid long myelin peptides are used to reveal the broad range of PLP- and MBP-peptide cytokine reactivity across the whole molecule of these two major myelin proteins. This study also reveals the extremely dynamic nature of the immune reactivity to numerous regions of myelin, which can fluctuate dramatically over time. Such fluctuation could hamper the efficacy of antigen-based therapies for MS.
We present three patients with signs and symptoms of meralgia paresthetica (MP) after long-distance walking and cycling. No other possible causes of MP, such as trauma or exogenous compression, were present. A neuropathy of the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve was confirmed in all patients with somatosensory evoked potentials. We propose that conduction block due to local ischemia during repetitive muscle stretching was the probable cause for the neuropathy.
Imprinted genes show differential expression between maternal and paternal alleles as a consequence of epigenetic modification that can result in 'parent-of-origin' effects on phenotypic traits. There is increasing evidence from mouse and human studies that imprinted genes may influence behavior and cognitive functioning. Previous work in girls with Turner syndrome (45,XO) has suggested that there are X-linked parent-of-origin effects on brain development and cognitive functioning, although the interpretation of these data in terms of imprinted gene effects has been questioned. We used a 39,XO mouse model to examine the influence of the parental origin of the X chromosome on cognitive behaviors and expression of X-linked genes in brain. Our findings confirm the existence of X-linked imprinted effects on cognitive processes and identify a new maternally expressed imprinted gene candidate on the X chromosome, Xlr3b, which may be of importance in mediating the behavioral effects.
Sensory error signals have long been proposed to act as instructive signals to guide motor learning. Here we have exploited the temporal specificity of learning in smooth pursuit eye movements and the well-defined anatomical structure of the neural circuit for pursuit to identify a part of sensory cortex that provides instructive signals for motor learning in monkeys. We show that electrical microstimulation in the motion-sensitive middle temporal area (MT) of extrastriate visual cortex instructs learning in smooth eye movements in a way that closely mimics the learning instructed by real visual motion. We conclude that MT provides instructive signals for motor learning in smooth pursuit eye movements under natural conditions, suggesting a similar role for sensory cortices in many kinds of learned behaviors.
Goal-directed behavior is believed to involve interactions of prefrontal cortical and limbic inputs in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), and their modulation by mesolimbic dopamine (DA) seems to be of primary importance in NAcc function. Using in vivo electrophysiological recordings simultaneously with DA system manipulation in rats, we show that tonic and phasic DA release selectively modulates hippocampal and prefrontal cortical inputs through D1 and D2 receptors, respectively. In addition, we also found that D1 activation and D2 inactivation in the NAcc produced behaviorally selective effects (learning versus set shifting of response strategy) that correspond to specific afferents. These results suggest that the dynamics of DA release regulate the balance between limbic and cortical drive through activation and inactivation of DA receptor subtypes in the accumbens, and this regulates goal-directed behavior.
Parenchymal microglia are the principal immune cells of the brain. Time-lapse two-photon imaging of GFP-labeled microglia demonstrates that the fine termini of microglial processes are highly dynamic in the intact mouse cortex. Upon traumatic brain injury, microglial processes rapidly and autonomously converge on the site of injury without cell body movement, establishing a potential barrier between the healthy and injured tissue. This rapid chemotactic response can be mimicked by local injection of ATP and can be inhibited by the ATP-hydrolyzing enzyme apyrase or by blockers of G protein-coupled purinergic receptors and connexin channels, which are highly expressed in astrocytes. The baseline motility of microglial processes is also reduced significantly in the presence of apyrase and connexin channel inhibitors. Thus, extracellular ATP regulates microglial branch dynamics in the intact brain, and its release from the damaged tissue and surrounding astrocytes mediates a rapid microglial response towards injury.
Synaptic activity-dependent gene expression is critical for certain forms of neuronal plasticity and survival in the mammalian nervous system, yet the mechanisms by which coordinated regulation of activity-induced genes supports neuronal function is unclear. Here, we show that deletion of serum response factor (SRF) in specific neuronal populations in adult mice results in profound deficits in activity-dependent immediate early gene expression, but components of upstream signaling pathways and cyclic AMP-response element binding protein (CREB)-dependent transactivation remain intact. Moreover, SRF-deficient CA1 pyramidal neurons show attenuation of long-term synaptic potentiation, a model for neuronal information storage. Furthermore, in contrast to the massive neurodegeneration seen in adult mice lacking CREB family members, SRF-deficient adult neurons show normal morphologies and basal excitatory synaptic transmission. These findings indicate that the transcriptional events underlying neuronal survival and plasticity are dissociable and that SRF plays a prominent role in use-dependent modification of synaptic strength in the adult brain.
Despite enormous progress in fundamental knowledge in neuroscience, no revolutionary therapies in psychiatry (and neurology) have emerged in the past ten years. Most drugs alleviate symptoms, rather than restoring the 'set point' of brain function from a pathological position to a more normal one. We propose a hypothesis-driven, systems-level approach to drug discovery and development that is based on pathophysiology and which uses new animal models.
The use of zinc in medicinal skin cream was mentioned in Egyptian papyri from 2000 BC (for example, the Smith Papyrus), and zinc has apparently been used fairly steadily throughout Roman and modern times (for example, as the American lotion named for its zinc ore, 'Calamine'). It is, therefore, somewhat ironic that zinc is a relatively late addition to the pantheon of signal ions in biology and medicine. However, the number of biological functions, health implications and pharmacological targets that are emerging for zinc indicate that it might turn out to be 'the calcium of the twenty-first century'.
In addition to hepatolenticular degeneration in Wilson's disease, sensory and extrapyramidal motoric systems are also disturbed. In this study a classification on the basis of neurophysiological parameters (EAEP, VEP, MSEP, TSEP and MEP) was established according to subclinical disturbances of these pathways in patients with Wilson's disease on long-term treatment. A cluster analysis of latencies of these evoked potentials was performed. The results of cluster analysis revealed three types of electrophysiological profiles: type I with normal latencies and types II and III showing different patterns of prolonged latencies. However, there was no correlation between clinical classification and the results of cluster analysis based on the electrophysiological data. The neurophysiological based classification provides additional information about central manifestations and aids in characterizing the progress of the disease.
Models of auditory processing, particularly of speech, face many difficulties. These difficulties include variability among speakers, variability in speech rate and robustness to moderate distortions such as time compression. In contrast to the 'invariance of percept' (across different speakers, of different sexes, using different intonation, and so on) is the observation that we are sensitive to the identity, sex and intonation of the speaker. In previous work we have reported that a model based on ensembles of spectro-temporal feature detectors, derived from onset sensitive pre-processing of a limited class of stimuli, preserves significant information about the stimulus class. We have also shown that this is robust with respect to the exact choice of feature set, moderate time compression in the stimulus and speaker variation. Here we extend these results to show a) that by using a classifier based on a network of spiking neurons with spike-driven plasticity, the output of the ensemble constitutes an effective rate coding representation of complex sounds; and b) that the same set of spectro-temporal features concurrently preserve information about a range of qualitatively different classes into which the stimulus might fall. We show that it is possible for multiple views of the same pattern of responses to generate different percepts. This is consistent with suggestions that multiple parallel processes exist within the auditory 'what' pathway with attentional modulation enhancing the task-relevant classification type. We also show that the responses of the ensemble are sparse in the sense that a small number of features respond for each stimulus type. This has implications for the ensembles' ability to generalise, and to respond differentially to a wide variety of stimulus classes.
It has been proposed that sensory neurons are adapted to the statistical structure of the natural environment in order to encode natural stimuli efficiently. While spatiotemporal correlations in luminance signals may be decorrelated by neurons in early visual processing stages, higher-order correlations, such as those in the orientation domain, are likely to persist in the input representation until the cortical level. In this study, we first examine orientation correlations in natural stimuli across brief time intervals and across nearby regions of space, and find strong correlations in both domains. We then examine contextual modulation of orientation tuning. We find that both temporal and spatial contexts exert a common influence on orientation tuning, shifting tuning away from the orientation of either the adapting (temporal) or surrounding (spatial) grating. Finally, we incorporate this context-mediated repulsive shift in orientation tuning into a model of cortical responses. We find that a direct result of the shift is a reduction of the redundancy in the population responses evoked by the orientation configurations that are most common in natural stimuli. Thus, cortical neurons may be adapted to the statistics of orientation in natural stimuli in order to increase the efficiency of natural stimulus representation.
In this letter we describe a hippocampo-cortical model of spatial processing and navigation based on a cascade of increasingly complex associative processes that are also relevant for other hippocampal functions such as episodic memory. Associative learning of different types and the related pattern encoding-recognition take place at three successive levels: (1) an object location level, which computes the landmarks from merged multimodal sensory inputs in the parahippocampal cortices; (2) a subject location level, which computes place fields by combination of local views and movement-related information in the entorhinal cortex; and (3) a spatiotemporal level, which computes place transitions from contiguous place fields in the CA3-CA1 region, which form building blocks for learning temporospatial sequences. At the cell population level, superficial entorhinal place cells encode spatial, context-independent maps as landscapes of activity; populations of transition cells in the CA3-CA1 region encode context-dependent maps as sequences of transitions, which form graphs in prefrontal-parietal cortices. The model was tested on a robot moving in a real environment; these tests produced results that could help to interpret biological data. Two different goal-oriented navigation strategies were displayed depending on the type of map used by the system. Thanks to its multilevel, multimodal integration and behavioral implementation, the model suggests functional interpretations for largely unaccounted structural differences between hippocampo-cortical systems. Further, spatiotemporal information, a common denominator shared by several brain structures, could serve as a cognitive processing frame and a functional link, for example, during spatial navigation and episodic memory, as suggested by the applications of the model to other domains, temporal sequence learning and imitation in particular.
A neural network theory is proposed for some of the effects of verbal psychotherapy in individuals who are not seriously disturbed but seeking to function more effectively. The network theories are built on a combination of the supervised ARTMAP network and competitive attractor dynamics. The modeling exercise leads to some guidelines for psychotherapists that involve both cognitive and emotional reinforcement in a climate closer to skill learning than to medical treatment.

Hippocampus-mediated learning enhances neurogenesis in the adult dentate gyrus (DG), and this process has been suggested to be involved in memory formation. The hippocampus receives abundant cholinergic innervation and acetylcholine (ACh) plays an important role in learning and Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathophysiology. Here, we show that a selective neurotoxic lesion of forebrain cholinergic input with 192 IgG-saporin reduces DG neurogenesis with a concurrent impairment in spatial memory. Conversely, systemic administration of the cholinergic agonist physostigmine increases DG neurogenesis. We find that changes of forebrain ACh levels primarily influence the proliferation and/or the short-term survival rather than the long-term survival or differentiation of the new neurons. We further demonstrate that these newly born cells express the muscarinic receptor subtypes M1 and M4. Our data provide evidence that forebrain ACh promotes neurogenesis, and suggest that the impaired cholinergic function in AD may in part contribute to deficits in learning and memory through reductions in the formation of new hippocampal neurons.
Altered glutamate transport and aberrant EAAT1 expression were shown in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains. It is presently unknown whether these modifications are a consequence of neurodegeneration or play a pathogenetic role. However, recent findings of decreased glutamate uptake, EAAT1 protein and mRNA in AD platelets suggest that glutamate transporter modifications may be systemic and might explain the decreased glutamate uptake. We now used primary fibroblast cultures from 10 AD patients to further investigate the specific involvement of glutamate transporters in this disorder and in normal aging. Decreased glutamate uptake (p&lt;0.001), EAAT1 expression (p&lt;0.05) and mRNA (p&lt;0.01) were observed in aged people, compared to younger controls. In AD fibroblasts, compared to age-matched controls, we observed further reductions of glutamate uptake (p&lt;0.0005) and EAAT1 expression (p&lt;0.005), while EAAT1 mRNA increase (p&lt;0.001) was shown. EAAT1 parameters were mutually correlated (p&lt;0.01) and correlations were shown with dementia severity (p&lt;0.05 MMSE-expression, p&lt;0.005 MMSE-mRNA). We suggest fibroblast cultures as possible ex vivo peripheral model to study the glutamate involvement and possible molecular and therapeutic targets in AD.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is characterized by a progressive loss of large motor neurons in the brain and spinal cord. Amyloid precursor protein (APP), the transmembrane precursor of beta-amyloid (A beta), accumulates in the anterior horn motor neurons of ALS patients with mild lesions. APP undergoes an alternative proteolysis mediated by caspase-3, which is activated in motor neurons in a mouse model of ALS. The ALS spinal cord motor neurons also show evidence of increased oxidative damage, which is thought to alter APP processing. We sought to determine whether A beta42, the more pathogenic A beta species, accumulates in the postmortem lumbar spinal cord of ALS patients. While there was little or no A beta42 labeling in control spinal cord tissues, elevated A beta42 immunoreactivity occurred in ALS motor neuronal perikarya and axonal swellings in the anterior horn. A few A beta42-positive neurons exhibited thioflavine S staining. No extracellular A beta42 deposits were found. A beta42 coexisted with the oxidative damage markers malondialdehyde, 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine, heme oxygenase-1, and nitrotyrosine in abnormal neurons. The neurons with intracellular A beta42 accumulation also displayed robust cleaved caspase-3 immunoreactivity. Very little A beta40 immunoreactivity occurred in motor neurons of both control and ALS. These results suggest that aberrant accumulation of A beta42 in ALS spinal cord motor neurons is associated with oxidative stress, and may play a role in the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration in ALS.
Estrogen has demonstrated neuroprotective properties, which may underlie the observed preventive effect of estrogen-based hormone therapy (HT) against the development of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. Deleterious side effects of HT have increased efforts to develop safer compounds that selectively reproduce beneficial estrogen actions. Recently, 4-estren-3 alpha,17 beta-diol (estren) was identified as having estrogen agonist properties in bone, without significantly stimulating growth of reproductive tissues. Here, we examined whether estren parallels the neuroprotective actions of estrogen against beta-amyloid (A beta) in cultured cerebrocortical neurons. Estren increased neuronal viability to a similar extent to that observed with 17 beta-estradiol (E2) and 17 alpha-estradiol. As we previously reported for E2, estren rapidly increased PKC activity, and PKC inhibition prevented estren neuroprotection. In contrast, the estrogen receptor antagonist ICI 182,780 blocked E2, but not estren neuroprotection. Our results indicate that estren-induced activation of rapid cell signaling pathways protects cultured neurons from A beta toxicity.
Complement activation products C1q and C3d, serum amyloid P component (SAP) and activated glial cells accumulate in amyloid deposits of conformationally changed prion protein (PrP(Sc)) in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, Gerstmann-Strussler-Scheinker disease and scrapie-infected mouse brain. Biological properties, including the potential to activate microglia, relate to prion (PrP) peptide fibrillogenic abilities. We investigated if SAP and C1q influence the fibrillogenic properties of human and mouse PrP peptide and concomitantly their stimulatory effects on human microglia in vitro. PrP-peptide induced microglial IL-6 and TNF-alpha release significantly increased in the presence of SAP and C1q. Also, SAP and C1q enhanced PrP-peptide fibril formation as revealed by electron microscopy and thioflavin S-based quantitative assays. This suggests that SAP and C1q contribute to fibrillar state-dependent cellular effects of PrP. Combined, ultrastructural and thioflavin assays, together with microglial cytokine release measurements, provide a test system to screen potential, fibrillarity impeding therapeutics for prion disease.
Storage of motor memory involves the basal ganglia and more precisely the striatum, which receives afferents from all regions of the cerebral cortex. In Parkinsonian (MPTP) monkeys, we observed an increase in the dyskinetic response to dopaminergic agents when combined with opioid antagonists (naloxone or naltrexone) while morphine, attenuated the dyskinetic response. An interesting phenomenon observed after several acute co-administrations of naltrexone with dopaminergic agents was the manifestation of dyskinesias even after the injection of saline or naltrexone alone. However, this phenomenon was not observed when morphine was used in the same conditions. These unexpected observations concerning the acquisition of dyskinesias with saline or naltrexone alone, reported for the first time, might suggest the implication of a learning phenomenon in the induction of levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
Autoscopy is the experience of seeing an image of one's body in external space. We describe the case of a patient who reported longstanding autoscopic hallucinations following post-eclamptic brain damage. The MR scan demonstrated damage involving the occipital cortex and the basal ganglia bilaterally. We hypothesize that the image was the result of aberrant plasticity mechanisms involving cortical areas that play a central role in high-order body or representation of oneself.
Recent lesion studies have shown that left hemisphere lesions often give rise to frank sign language aphasias in deaf signers, whereas right hemisphere lesions do not, suggesting similar patterns of hemispheric asymmetry for signed and spoken language. We present here a case of a left-handed, deaf, life-long signer who became aphasic after a right-hemisphere lesion. The subject exhibits deficits in sign language comprehension and production typically associated with left hemisphere damaged signers. He also exhibits evidence of local versus global deficits similar to left-hemisphere lesioned hearing patients. This case represents reversed lateralization for sign language and also may represent reversed lateralization for visuo-spatial abilities in a deaf signer.
This article summarizes some of the recent progress in understanding the development of chromaffin cells. These cells are derivatives of the neural crest and are intimately associated with the sympathetic nervous system. Although a common sympathoadrenal (SA) progenitor cell for chromaffin cells and sympathetic neurons has been postulated, there is evidence to suggest that chromaffin progenitors are already distinct, at least in part, from neuronal SA progenitors prior to invading the adrenal gland. The concept of an essential role of glucocorticoid signalling for chromaffin cell development has been shaken by the observation that chromaffin cells in mice lacking the glucocorticoid receptor develop largely normal. Distinct developmental requirements of chromaffin cells and sympathetic neurons must also be assumed based on the analyses of mice carrying targeted mutations of the genes for two transcription factors, MASH1 and Phox2B. Both genes are expressed by SA progenitors, but are distinctly required for the development of chromaffin cells and sympathetic neurons. There is an ongoing search for molecules selectively operating at the sites, where chromaffin cells develop. Such molecules may be candidates for triggering the distinct developmental pathway of chromaffin cells, as opposed to sympathetic neurons.
The transcription factor nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-kappaB) is involved in regulating responses of neurons to activation of several different signaling pathways in a variety of physiological and pathological settings. During development of the nervous system NF-kappaB is activated in growing neurons by neurotrophic factors and can induce the expression of genes involved in cell differentiation and survival. In the mature nervous system NF-kappaB is activated in synapses in response to excitatory synaptic transmission and may play a pivotal role in processes such as learning and memory. NF-kappaB is activated in neurons and glial cells in acute neurodegenerative conditions such as stroke and traumatic injury, as well as in chronic neurodegenerative conditions such as Alzheimer's disease. Activation of NF-kappaB in neurons can promote their survival by inducing the expression of genes encoding anti-apoptotic proteins such as Bcl-2 and the antioxidant enzyme Mn-superoxide dismutase. On the other hand, by inducing the production and release of inflammatory cytokines, reactive oxygen molecules and excitotoxins, activation of NF-kappaB in microglia and astrocytes may contribute to neuronal degeneration. Emerging findings suggest roles for NF-kappaB as a mediator of effects of behavioral and dietary factors on neuronal plasticity. NF-kappaB provides an attractive target for the development of novel therapeutic approaches for a range of neurological disorders.
Glutamate receptor-induced cell death, known as excitotoxicity in both neurons and oligodendrocytes, has been implicated as a common pathway of cell death in numerous central nervous system (CNS) diseases and trauma. Research in both neuronal and oligodendrocyte excitotoxicity has examined glutamate's receptor-mediated effects on CNS cells, and explored strategies to protect cells exposed to the elevated glutamate levels that occur in CNS trauma and disease. Proinflammatory cytokines are also elevated in the injured CNS, and have also been implicated in CNS cell death. Recently, several laboratories have examined cytokines' effects on neuronal and glial excitotoxicity. Here, we review literature concerning the dynamic susceptibility of both neurons and oligodendrocytes to excitotoxicity, and present new data from our laboratory showing that the susceptibility of oligodendrocytes to excitotoxicity is acutely potentiated by the proinflammatory cytokine TNFalpha.
Glutamate release activates signaling pathways important for learning and memory, and over-stimulation of these pathways during seizures leads to aberrant synaptic plasticity associated with hyper-excitable, seizure-prone states. Seizures induce rapid accumulation of membrane lipid-derived fatty acids at the synapses which, evidence suggests, regulate maladaptive connectivity. Here we give an overview of the significance of the arachidonyl- and inositol-derived messengers, prostaglandins (PGs) and diacylglycerol (DAG), in experimental models of epilepsy. We use studies conducted in our own laboratory to highlight the pro-epileptogenic role of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and its products, the PGs, and we discuss the possible mechanisms by which PGs may regulate membrane excitability and synaptic transmission at the cellular level. We conclude with a discussion of AA-DAG signaling in synaptic plasticity and seizure susceptibility with an emphasis on recent studies in our laboratory involving DAG kinase epsilon (DGKepsilon)-knockout mice.
Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) enhance neurite outgrowth in nerve growth factor (NGF)-stimulated PC12 cells. To investigate the mechanism of this potentiating effect, real-time PCR was used to analyze the expression of 45 selected genes. A robust increase in expression of 10 immediate early genes including Egr1-4, Hes1, Junb, Jun and Fos was observed already after 1 h treatment with NGF alone. NGF plus BMP4 further increased these transcripts at 1 h and activated 18 additional genes. BMP4 alone induced Smad6, Mtap1b and Hes1. Egr3 was the gene most strongly upregulated by NGF and BMP4. However, luciferase assays showed that the cloned Egr3 proximal promoter was not involved in the BMP4 potentiation. Blocking Egr3 and Junb function by dominant-negative constructs reduced neurite outgrowth under stimulating conditions, proving that activation of members of both the Egr and Jun families is necessary for maximal PC12 cell response to NGF and BMP4.
The potential relationship between stress and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) symptomatology suggests a possible role for stress-mediating hormones, such as corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), in the altered perception of stimuli in IBS patients. In previous studies, Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats with genetic indices of high anxiety demonstrated colonic hypersensitivity coupled with a high basal level of CRF within the central nervous system. In the current study we tested the hypothesis that a selective, non-peptide CRF1 receptor antagonist, antalarmin, would inhibit hypersensitivity in the WKY rat colon. Colonic sensitivity was determined by monitoring a visceromotor behavioural response during innocuous levels of colorectal distention (30 mmHg). In high anxiety WKY rats we found that antalarmin (20 mg kg-1, i.p.) significantly decreased the visceromotor response induced by colorectal distention. In a second study central administration (i.c.v.) of CRF was used to induce colonic hypersensitivity in lower anxiety Fischer 344 (F-344) rats, and in this model, antalarmin significantly inhibited the CRF-induced colonic hypersensitivity. In summary, a selective CRF1 receptor antagonist, antalarmin, inhibits colonic hypersensitivity apparent in WKY rats or in F-344 rats given a central administration of CRF. Our findings suggest that CRF1 receptor antagonism may represent a novel therapeutic approach for the treatment of IBS.
This study examined what is communicated by facial expressions of anger and mapped the neural substrates, evaluating the motivational salience of these stimuli. During functional magnetic resonance imaging, angry and neutral faces were presented to human subjects. Across experimental runs, signal adaptation was observed. Whereas fearful faces have reproducibly evoked response habituation in amygdala and prefrontal cortex, angry faces evoked sensitization in the insula, cingulate, thalamus, basal ganglia, and hippocampus. Complementary offline rating and keypress experiments determined an aversive rank ordering of angry, fearful, neutral, and happy faces and revealed behavioral sensitization to the angry faces. Subjects rated angry faces, in contrast to other face categories such as fear, as significantly more likely to directly inflict harm. Furthermore, they rated angry faces as significantly less likely to produce positive emotional outcomes than the other face categories. Together these data argue that angry faces, a directly aversive stimulus, produce a sensitization response.
Spatially characterizing and quantifying the brain electromagnetic response using MEG/EEG data still remains a critical issue since it requires solving an ill-posed inverse problem that does not admit a unique solution. To overcome this lack of uniqueness, inverse methods have to introduce prior information about the solution. Most existing approaches are directly based upon extrinsic anatomical and functional priors and usually attempt at simultaneously localizing and quantifying brain activity. By contrast, this paper deals with a preprocessing tool which aims at better conditioning the source reconstruction process, by relying only upon intrinsic knowledge (a forward model and the MEG/EEG data itself) and focusing on the key issue of localization. Based on a discrete and realistic anatomical description of the cortex, we first define functionally Informed Basis Functions (fIBF) that are subject specific. We then propose a multivariate method which exploits these fIBF to calculate a probability-like coefficient of activation associated with each dipolar source of the model. This estimated distribution of activation coefficients may then be used as an intrinsic functional prior, either by taking these quantities into account in a subsequent inverse method, or by thresholding the set of probabilities in order to reduce the dimension of the solution space. These two ways of constraining the source reconstruction process may naturally be coupled. We successively describe the proposed Multivariate Source Prelocalization (MSP) approach and illustrate its performance on both simulated and real MEG data. Finally, the better conditioning induced by the MSP process in a classical regularization scheme is extensively and quantitatively evaluated.

A 62-year-old woman developed dysphasia, signs of intracranial hypertension and seizures. An MRI scan evidenced extra-axial contrast enhancement in the absence of mass lesions. CSF analysis was negative for malignant cytology and viral or bacterial microbiology. In the absence of other evidence, considering the acute clinical onset and MRI picture, a viral encephalitis was suspected and antiviral therapy was started, however, with no effect. Death occurred three weeks after presentation because of acute brain swelling. Autopsy revealed leptomeningeal gliomatosis and diffuse parenchymal infiltration at the cerebellar and left temporal lobe. Primary leptomeningeal gliomatosis (PLMG) is a rare event. The reported case and the reviewed literature evidence that clinical signs at presentation are non-specific, CSF negative findings are common, the diagnosis is always delayed and the prognosis dismal.
Miller Fisher syndrome is an autoimmune neuropathy characterised by ataxia, areflexia and ophthalmoplegia, with minimal if any limb weakness, and in the majority of cases by high titres of IgG anti-GQ1b ganglioside antibodies. In vitro electrophysiological experiments have demonstrated that these antibodies induce a transmission blockade at neuromuscular junction either pre- or post-synaptically. We report the case of a 63-year-old man with MFS that shows blood serum negative for anti-GQ1b but presents an impairment of neuromuscular transmission detected by single fibre electromyography. To the best of our knowledge, this represents the first case in the literature using jitter technique and suggests that other antibodies may be involved in the function of motor end plates by bindings to the synaptic membranes.
The Frontal Assessment Battery (FAB) is a short cognitive and behavioural six-subtest battery for the bedside screening of a global executive dysfunction; although recently devised, it is already extensively used thanks to its ease of administration and claimed sensitivity. The aim of the present study was to derive Italian normative values from a sample of 364 control subjects (215 women and 149 men) of different ages (mean: 57.4+/-17.9 years; range: 20-94 years) and educational level (mean: 10.4+/-4.3 years; range: 1-17 years); the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) was concurrently administered. Multiple linear regression analysis revealed significant effects for age and education whereas gender was not significant; thus, from the derived linear equation, a correction grid for FAB raw scores was built. Based on nonparametric techniques, inferential cut-off scores were subsequently determined and equivalent scores (ES) computed. Test-restest and interrater reliabilities were both satisfactory. Interestingly, MMSE was significantly correlated with FAB raw scores, whereas adjusted scores were not. The present data may improve the accuracy in the use of the FAB both for clinical and research purposes.
Primary lysosome-associated membrane protein-2 (LAMP-2) deficiency is an X-linked disease, characterized by the clinical triad of cardiomyopathy, vacuolar myopathy and mental retardation, previously known as Danon disease. Mutations of lamp-2 gene have been reported so far in about 20 patients, one of whom was Italian. We describe a new Italian case with persistent hyperCKemia, exercise intolerance and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy but with no muscle weakness or mental impairment. Muscle biopsy revealed a vacuolar myopathy with mild glycogen storage, and immunohistochemical studies detected LAMP-2 deficiency. A new nucleotide substitution (T961C) on exon 8 of lamp-2 gene was identified as responsible for the protein deficiency. This is the first missense mutation so far described. LAMP-2 deficiency should be considered as a cause of recurrent hyperCKemia and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.

The behavioural phenotype of transgenic mice (3-5-months old) overexpressing galanin (GalOE mice) under the platelet-derived growth factor B (PDGF-B) promoter was evaluated in a battery of tests, including locomotor cages, light-dark exploration test, elevated plus-maze and the Porsolt forced swim test. Learning and memory were assessed in the Morris water maze task. GalOE mice showed a slight increase in spontaneous locomotor activity assessed in the locomotor cages, but the amphetamine-induced increase in locomotor activity was somewhat lower in GalOE mice. Anxiety-like behaviour in light-dark exploration and elevated plus-maze tests did not differ between genotypes. In the Porsolt forced swim test, GalOE mice displayed an increased time of immobility, indicative of increased learned helplessness possibly reflecting increased stress-susceptibility and/or depression-like behaviour. GalOE mice showed normal learning and memory retention in the Morris water maze tasks. These data support the hypothesis that galanin may have a role in functions related to mood states, including affective disorders.
The distribution of galanin mRNA-expressing cells and galanin-immunoreactive (IR) cell bodies and processes was studied in the brain of mice overexpressing galanin under the PDGF-B promoter (GalOE mice) and of wild type (WT) mice, both in colchicine-treated and non-treated animals. A widespread ectopic expression of galanin (both mRNA and peptide) was found, that is when neither transcript nor peptide could be seen in WT mice, not even after colchicine treatment. However, in some regions, such as claustrum, basolateral amygdala, thalamus, CA1 pyramidal cells, and Purkinje cells only galanin mRNA could be detected. The highest levels of galanin expression were observed in the forebrain structures (the mitral cells of the olfactory bulb, throughout the cortex, granular and pyramidal cell layers of the hippocampus), in the mesencephalon (nucleus ruber), in the cerebellum (lateral cerebellar nucleus), in the pons (sensory and motor nuclei of the trigeminal nerve), within the medulla oblongata (facial, prepositus and spinal trigeminal nuclei). High densities of galanin-IR fibers were found in the axonal terminals of the lateral olfactory tract, hippocampal and presumably cerebellar mossy fiber system, in several thalamic and hypothalamic regions and the lower brain stem.
Galanin (GAL) is a potential target for novel antidepressant or anti-anxiety drug development. However, no integrated role for a &quot;brain galanin system&quot; in anxiety has yet emerged. It is possible that such a function may be revealed by examining the interaction of GAL with norepinephrine (NE), with which it is prominently co-localized. We showed previously that enhancing stress-activation of the NE system by yohimbine (YOH) pretreatment induced the release of GAL in central amygdala (CeA) to exert an anxiolytic effect on the elevated plus-maze. However, it remained to be demonstrated conclusively that GAL was co-released from NE terminals in CeA in this context, or if a multi-synaptic circuit activated GAL release from another afferent to CeA, or from local GAL neurons in the vicinity of CeA. In studies presented at the Third International Symposium on Galanin and Its Receptors, we utilized a combination of behavioral pharmacological approaches, testing the effects of YOH on the behavioral response to stress on the plus-maze after lesioning NE afferents to CeA with 6-OHDA, and anatomical approaches to identify GAL afferents to CeA that are activated in the context of stress with yohimbine pretreatment, to address these alternatives. Our results suggest that GAL was not co-released from noradrenergic terminals innervating CeA to exert an anxiolytic influence when noradrenergic activation was amplified by yohimbine pretreatment. Rather, it most likely originated from GAL neurons immediately adjacent to CeA that were activated by a non-noradrenergic afferent arising from elsewhere in the brain, itself activated by increasing NE activity. Thus, any role for brain GAL in anxiety remains region-specific, pathway specific, response specific and context-specific, which is likely to continue to present challenges to the development of novel agents targeting brain GAL for treatment of depression or anxiety.
The effects of galanin and galanin fragments have been studied on neurons in various brain regions of rodents using electrophysiological techniques. Here, we mainly review reports published during the last six years, that is after the second galanin symposium in 1998. These papers deal with locus coeruleus (LC), the hippocampal formation (HF), hypothalamus, the nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca (DBB) and the dorsal vagal complex (DVC). In most cases galanin has an inhibitory effect by increasing a potassium conductance or reducing a calcium conductance. In LC, beside a direct inhibitory effect, galanin exerts an indirect effect enhancing the noradrenaline-induced hyperpolarization. In the HF, galanin (1-15), but not galanin (1-29), induces hyperpolarization in CA3 pyramidal neurons. Inhibitory effects of galanin on several forms of synaptic plasticity including long-term potentiation, frequency facilitation and paired-pulse facilitation have also been demonstrated in normal and transgenic animals. In the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus galanin has a presynaptic action inhibiting glutamate release, as well as a postsynaptic effect via the galanin R1 receptor. In the DVC, galanin inhibits dorsal vagal motor neurons projecting to the stomach by activation of a postsynaptic galanin receptor. However, excitatory effects of galanin have also been reported in several regions, such as the DBB nucleus, where galanin increases excitability by decreasing a K+ conductance. Taken together, electrophysiological studies have further supported the role of galanin as a neurotransmitter/neuromodulator in the brain.
In the present study, electrophysiological recordings were made from hippocampal slices obtained from mice overexpressing galanin under the promoter for the platelet-derived growth factor-B (GalOE mice). In these mice, a particularly strong galanin expression is seen in the granule cell layer/mossy fibers. Paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) of excitatory postsynaptic field potentials (fEPSPs) at the lateral perforant path (LPP)-dentate gyrus synapses was elicited in the dentate gyrus after stimulation with different interpulse intervals. Slices from young adult wild-type (WT) animals showed significant PPF of the 2nd EPSP evoked with paired-pulse stimuli, while PPF was reduced in slices from young adult GalOE mice, as well as aged WT mice, but were not observed at all in slices from aged GalOE animals. Application of the putative galanin antagonist M35 increased PPF in slices from aged WT mice as well as from adult and aged GalOE mice, but had no effect in slices taken from young adult WT mice. These data indicate that galanin is involved in hippocampal synaptic plasticity, in particular in age-related reduction of synaptic plasticity in the LPP input to the dentate gyrus. Galaninergic mechanisms may therefore represent therapeutic targets for treatment of age-related memory deficits and Alzheimer's disease.
Neurochemical and behavioral studies in the rat have provided evidence for the view that galanin impairs learning via an inhibitory modulation of cholinergic neurons in the septohippocampal projection, believed to be important for learning and memory. To test this hypothesis, galanin was microinjected via a unilateral chronic cannula located in MS/dBB of rats. Infusion of galanin in the MS/dBB, which contains a high number of 125I-galanin binding sites, did not impair spatial acquisition or memory. On the contrary, spatial acquisition tended to be facilitated by 1 and 3 nmoles of galanin, while the 0.3 nmol dose had no effect. Intraseptal injections of scopolamine (10 microg/rat), a non-specific muscarinic antagonist, also failed to alter learning performance. In contrast, co-injections of galanin (3 nmol) and scopolamine (10 microg) resulted in a marked impairment of spatial acquisition. The effect of intraseptal galanin on basal acetylcholine release in the ventral hippocampus was examined by in vivo microdialysis and high-performance liquid chromatography. Both galanin (3 nmol/rat) and scopolamine (10 microg/rat) infused into the MS/dBB increased basal acetylcholine release in the ventral hippocampus. The combined injections of galanin and scopolamine resulted in an excessive increase in acetylcholine release. These results indicate, that galanin activates septohippocampal cholinergic neurons, suggesting that septal galanin may have a facilitatory role in spatial learning. Moreover, the level of muscarinic activity within the septal area appears to be critical for the effects of galanin on cognitive functions, since the combination of galanin and scopolamine produced a marked impairment in spatial learning, despite a marked increase in hippocampal acetylcholine release. In summary, a limited range of cholinergic muscarinic transmission may contribute to optimal hippocampal function, a finding that has important implications for therapeutic approaches in the treatment of disorders of memory function.
Galanin (GAL) impairs performance on cognitive tasks when administered centrally to rats. GAL transgenic (GAL-tg) mice overexpressing endogenous GAL show deficits on the probe trial of the Morris water maze spatial learning task, on the social transmission of food preference olfactory memory task, and on the trace cued fear conditioning emotional learning and memory task. Knockout mice deficient in the GAL-R1 receptor subtype were normal on most memory tasks, while showing a small deficit in trace cued fear conditioning, suggesting a selective role for the GAL-R1 in aversive memories, and implicating other GAL receptor subtypes in spatial learning and olfactory social memory. The growing body of rodent literature implicating excess GAL in cognitive impairment is relevant to the overexpression of GAL in the basal forebrain during the progression of Alzheimer's disease.
The Third Galanin Symposium presented many different and exciting results on galanin research reflecting a major progress since the previous symposium in 1998. A major impression was the many possible relationships of galaninergic mechanisms to important brain functions such as development, cognition and ageing as well as many aspects related to a wide spectrum of diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, anxiety/depression, addiction, obesity, pain and tumour growth. These studies were based on an extensive armament of methodologies including various strains of transgenic mice. Unfortunately, the pharmaceutical industry had only a minor participation. Nevertheless, exciting developments in the generation of agonists and antagonists are emerging, providing hope that we at the next symposium will be able to validitate many of the challenging hypotheses concerning galanin and disease with the help of pharmacological tools.
In the present experiments trafficking of the galanin R1-(GALR1) and, in particular, the galanin R2 receptor (GALR2) was studied after fusion with enhanced green fluorescent protein (GALR1-EGFP and GALR2-EGFP) and transfection into PC12 cells. Both fusion proteins were predominantly localized on the plasma membrane and internalized in a dose dependent manner after incubation with galanin. Preincubation with M35 or M40 did not prevent galanin-induced internalization of GALR1-EGFP or GALR2-EGFP. However, AR-M1896, a selective GALR2 agonist, caused GALR2, but not GALR1 internalization. Hyperosmotic sucrose inhibited internalization of GALR2-EGFP. After co-incubation with galanin, GALR2-EGFP was co-localized with internalized Texas Red transferrin, a marker of the clathrin endocytic pathway. Experiments with protein synthesis inhibition and Texas Red transferrin suggest that GALR2 is constitutively internalized. Studies in progress will show if this is the case also for GALR1.
Rats with a previous history of heroin self-administration were studied to assess interactions occurring between cannabinoids and opioids in an animal model of reinstatement of heroin-seeking behaviour. Rats were trained to self-administer heroin and after a long-term extinction were primed with one of the following non-contingent non-reinforced drug administrations: saline (or vehicle), heroin, synthetic cannabinoid CB(1) receptor agonists (WIN 55,212-2 or CP 55,940), opioid antagonist (naloxone) or CB(1) antagonist (SR 141716A), alone or in combination. After primings, lever-pressing activity was recorded and compared to those observed during previous phases of training and extinction. Results of this study showed that (i) priming injections of heroin (0.1 mg/kg) as well as CB(1) agonists WIN 55,212-2 (0.15 or 0.30 mg/kg) and CP 55,940 (0.05 or 0.1 mg/kg) completely restore heroin-seeking behaviour; (ii) primings of naloxone (1 mg/kg) and SR 141716A (0.3 mg/kg) had no effect when administered alone; (iii) heroin-induced reinstatement was fully prevented by pre-treatment with either naloxone or SR 141716A; (iv) pre-treatment with SR 141716A significantly reduced WIN 55,212-2 and CP 55,940 priming effects. These results suggest that cannabinoid CB(1) receptors play an important role in the mechanisms underlying relapse to heroin-seeking and depict CB(1) antagonists as possible therapeutic agents for use in the prevention of relapse to heroin abuse.
The purpose of the present studies was to compare anticonvulsant drugs with diverse mechanisms of action in a persistent pain model, the formalin test. In addition, the anticonvulsant effects of the compounds were determined in the threshold electroshock tonic seizure test and the 6-Hz limbic seizure test. The effects of the compounds were also determined on locomotor activity. Carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, lamotrigine, gabapentin and ethosuximide all produced statistically significant analgesic effects in the formalin test whereas phenytoin, topiramate, zonisamide, phenobarbital, tiagabine, valproate and levetiracetam did not. All compounds were anticonvulsant. In addition, morphine and phenobarbital increased locomotor activity while ethosuximide had no effect and all other compounds decreased locomotor activity. For those compounds that were analgesic, the doses required to produce analgesia were larger in magnitude than the anticonvulsant ED50 values in the threshold electroshock and 6-Hz tests, as well as larger than doses that altered locomotor activity. The present results demonstrate that the anticonvulsant and analgesic effects of clinically used antiepileptic drugs do not necessarily correlate and therefore suggest that the anticonvulsant and analgesic efficacy of these drugs may be due to different pharmacologic mechanisms.
(2S)-2-{[(3,5-Diflurophenyl)acetyl]amino}-N-[(3S)-1-methyl-2-oxo-5-phenyl-2,3-dihydro-1H-1,4-benzodiazepin-3-yl]propanamide (compound E) is a gamma-secretase inhibitor capable of reducing amyloid beta-peptide (1-40) and amyloid beta-peptide (1-42) levels. In this study we investigated the effect of in vivo administration of compound E on guinea-pig plasma, CSF and cortical amyloid beta-peptide (1-40) concentration. Using repeated sampling of CSF, compound E (30 mg/kg p.o.) was shown to cause a time-dependent decrease in CSF amyloid beta-peptide (1-40) levels, which was maximal at 3 h (70% inhibition), compared to baseline controls. After 3 h administration, compound E (3, 10 and 30 mg/kg p.o.), reduced plasma, CSF and DEA-extracted cortical amyloid beta-peptide (1-40) levels by 95, 97 and 99%; 26, 48 and 78%; 32, 33, and 47%, respectively, compared to vehicle control values. In the same animals, compound E (3, 10 and 30 mg/kg p.o.) inhibited cortical gamma-secretase activity, determined ex vivo using the recombinant substrate C100Flag, by 40, 71 and 79% of controls, respectively. These data demonstrate the value of determining not only the extent by which systemic administration of a gamma-secretase inhibitor reduces amyloid beta-peptide, but also the inhibition of brain gamma-secretase activity, as a more direct estimate of enzyme occupancy.
Depotentiation, the reversal of long-term potentiation (LTP), can be induced by activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) or NMDA receptors (NMDARs). Although NMDAR-dependent depotentiation is due to a protein phosphatase-dependent erasure of LTP, the notion that mGluR-dependent depotentiation also involves LTP erasure is controversial. To address this issue we used electrophysiological and biochemical approaches to investigate mGluR-dependent depotentiation in hippocampal slices. Activating group I mGluRs with (R,S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) induced robust depotentiation in both the CA1 and CA3 regions of hippocampal slices. Western immunoblotting of samples prepared from DHPG-treated slices revealed, however, that activation of group I mGluRs causes a transient increase in phosphorylation of AMPA receptor GluR1 subunits at sites crucial for LTP and under some conditions causes persistent activation of alphaCamKII. The paradoxical ability of DHPG to induce depotentiation while at the same time activating signaling pathways involved in LTP suggests that LTP might not be erased by mGluR-dependent depotentiation. Consistent with this, DHPG-induced depotentiation did not restore the ability of high-frequency stimulation to induce LTP at synapses that had previously undergone saturating levels of LTP. In addition, blocking the expression of DHPG-induced LTD revealed hidden LTP at depotentiated synapses. Our results indicate that LTP and mGluR-dependent LTD can co-exist at excitatory synapses.

The supramammillary nucleus (SUM), a dorsal layer of the mammillary body, has recently been implicated in positive reinforcement. The present study examined whether GABA(A) receptors in the SUM or adjacent regions are involved in primary reinforcement using intracranial self-administration procedures. Rats learned quickly to lever-press for infusions of the GABA(A) antagonist picrotoxin into the SUM. Although picrotoxin was also self-administered into the posterior hypothalamic nuclei and anterior ventral tegmental area, these regions were less responsive to lower doses of picrotoxin than the SUM. The finding that rats learned to respond selectively on the lever triggering drug infusions is consistent with picrotoxin's reinforcing effect. Coadministration of the GABA(A) agonist muscimol disrupted picrotoxin self-administration, and another GABA(A) antagonist, bicuculline, was also self-administered into the SUM; thus, the reinforcing effect of picrotoxin is mediated by GABA(A) receptors. Since rats did not self-administer the GABA(B) antagonist 2-hydroxysaclofen into the SUM, the role of GABA(B) receptors may be distinct from that of GABA(A) receptors. Pretreatment with the dopamine receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (0.05 mg/kg, i.p.) extinguished picrotoxin self-administration into the SUM, suggesting that the reinforcing effects of GABA(A) receptor blockade depend on normal dopamine transmission. In conclusion, the blockade of GABA(A) receptors in the SUM is reinforcing, and the brain 'reward' circuitry appears to be tonically inhibited via supramammillary GABA(A) receptors and more extensive than the meso-limbic dopamine system.
The abuse of substituted amphetamines such as methamphetamine (METH) and 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA/Ecstasy) can result in neurotoxicity, manifested as the depletion of dopamine (DA) and 5-hydroxytriptamine (5-HT; serotonin) axon terminal markers in humans and animal models. Human METH and MDMA users exhibit impairments in memory and executive functions, which may be a direct consequence of the neurotoxic potential of amphetamines. The objective of this study was to investigate the influence of amphetamines-induced neurotoxicity on Pavlovian learning. Using mouse models of selective DA neurotoxicity (METH; 5 mg/kg x 3), selective 5-HT neurotoxicity (fenfluramine /FEN; 25 mg/kg x 4) and dual DA and 5-HT neurotoxicity (MDMA; 15 mg/kg x 4), appetitive and aversive conditioning were investigated. Dopaminergic neurotoxicity significantly impaired METH and cocaine conditioned place preference (CPP), but had no effect on LiCl-induced conditioned place aversion (CPA). In contrast, serotonergic neurotoxicity significantly enhanced CPP, and had no effect on CPA. Dual dopaminergic/serotonergic neurotoxicity had no apparent effect on CPP; however, CPA was significantly attenuated. Postmortem analysis revealed that significantly diminished levels of DA and 5-HT markers persisted in the striatum, frontal cortex, hippocampus, and amygdala. These findings suggest that amphetamines-induced dopaminergic and serotonergic neurotoxicity exert opposing influences on the affective state produced by subsequent drug reward, while dual dopaminergic/serotonergic neurotoxicity impairs associative learning of aversive conditioning. Furthermore, results revealed that amphetamines-induced DA and 5-HT neurotoxicity modulates appetitive Pavlovian conditioning similar to other DA and 5-HT neurotoxins. Modulation of Pavlovian conditioning by amphetamines-induced neurotoxicity may be relevant to compulsive drug-seeking behavior in METH and MDMA abusers.

In addition to coordinating movement, the cerebellum participates in motor learning, emotional behavior, and fear memory. Fear learning is reflected in a change of autonomic and somatic responses, such as heart rate and freezing, elicited by a neutral stimulus that has been previously paired with a painful one. Manipulation of the vermis affects these responses, and its reversible inactivation during the consolidation period impairs fear memory. The neural correlate of cerebellar involvement in fear consolidation is provided by a behaviorally induced long-term increase of synaptic efficacy between parallel fibers and a Purkinje cell. Similar synaptic changes after fear conditioning are well documented in the amygdala and hippocampus, providing a link between emotional experiences and changes in neural activity. In addition, in hotfoot mice, with a primary deficiency of parallel fiber to Purkinje cell synapse, short- and long-term fear memories are affected. All these data support the idea that the cerebellum participates in fear learning. The functional interconnection of the vermis with hypothalamus, amygdala, and hippocampus suggests a more complex role of the cerebellum as part of an integrated network regulating emotional behavior.
Sensory experience is essential for the refinement of neuronal circuits during development and for learning and memory in the adult brain. Such experience-dependent plasticity is largely mediated by activity-dependent synaptic modification. In this review, we focus on a spike timing-dependent synaptic learning rule, in which the direction and magnitude of synaptic modification depend on the relative spike timing of presynaptic and postsynaptic neurons. We discuss a series of recent studies exploring the functional implications of this learning rule in the visual system. These studies show that temporally patterned visual stimuli can cause rapid changes in visual circuits, neuronal receptive fields, and visual perception, with a temporal specificity of tens of milliseconds. Particularly, motion stimuli that are common in natural scenes may interact strongly with the spike timing-dependent learning rule, leaving distinct marks in the perceptual function of the mature brain.
GABAergic interneurons regulate both the development and function of the cerebral cortex. Multiple studies have demonstrated that many cortical interneurons, possibly all of those in nonprimate mammals, originate in the subcortical telencephalon. Most of these derive from the medial ganglionic eminence, but based on varying degrees of evidence, other sources have been proposed, including the caudal and lateral ganglionic eminences, the septal region, and the cortex itself. Recent evidence also suggests that the spatial diversity of interneuron origins contributes to the remarkable diversity of their differentiated fate.


The concentration- and time-dependence of effects of methylmercury (MeHg) on voltage-gated outward K(+) (Kv) channels, inwardly rectifying K(+) (Kir) channels, voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels and GABA(A) receptor activated channels were compared in cerebellar granule cells in culture using whole cell patch clamp recording techniques. The objective was to determine if MeHg equally affects different types of ion channels. Under similar experimental conditions, these four ion channel types displayed markedly different sensitivity to MeHg. At 0.1-1 microM, MeHg caused apparent inhibition of Ca(2+)-channel and GABA(A) receptor-mediated currents, but did not cause any significant effect on Kv or Kir channels. Among the four channel types examined, GABA(A) receptors appeared to be the most sensitive to MeHg. The Kv channels, particularly the delayed rectifiers (DRs), appeared to be relatively resistant to MeHg compared with GABA(A) receptors and Ca(2+) channels. Kir channels were virtually unaffected by MeHg in the concentration range of 10-100 microM. The differential sensitivity of GABA(A) receptors and Kv channels to MeHg was also observed in granule and Purkinje cells in freshly isolated cerebellar slices of rat. The insensitivity of Kir channel to MeHg was also seen in Xenopus laevis oocytes expressing cloned Kir7.1 channels. Thus, these appear to be general properties of these channels as opposed to distinct effects associated with granule cells in culture. These results suggest that MeHg does preferentially affect certain types of ion channels. Hence, the effects of MeHg on membrane ion channels are not due simply to nonspecific actions on the membrane. Furthermore, at least certain types of Kir channels appear to be the most resistant type of ion channel reported to date to effects of MeHg.
In the neurotoxicology pediatric domain, few neuromotor tests are specifically designed to be sensitive enough for the early detection of subtle deficits in voluntary and involuntary movements. In research and clinical domains, an effort is done to objectify or quantify the qualitative aspects of a movement (pattern of movement) in predicting neurological problems. This study aimed to standardize quantitative motor measures initially developed for adults and adapted to the evaluation of preschoolers. The sample consisted of 110 healthy children aged 4-6. The following quantitative neuromotor tests were selected: alternating movements and pointing movements (DOCO Microsystmes Inc., Montral, Canada), postural tremor, postural sway and simple reaction time (Danish Product Development Ltd., Snekkersten, Denmark). Validation measures included global motor tasks and a neurological examination. Results indicate adequate test-retest reliability and complementarities amongst the selected voluntary and involuntary measures. Both the feasibility and relevance of quantitative neuromotor tests in preschool aged children were established. Results also provide a representation of intra-individual and inter-individual variability within this population. Lastly, the results highlight the importance of developmental factors, behavioral factors and testing conditions in the neuromotor evaluation of young children. The proposed tests could help in the early detection of children at risk for motor dysfunctions following neurotoxic exposure. The tests can also be used for the follow up of various conditions relating to motor functions (cerebral palsy, muscular dystrophy, preterm infants) and in the evaluation of the effects of medication.
Using dorsal root ganglion neurons (DRG), in vitro, we studied the effects of nerve growth factor (NGF) on a toxin extracted from ethylene oxide (EO) sterilized hemodialyzers. Tissue culture medium passed through dialyzers produced beading of DRG axons that was inhibited by increasing the concentration of NGF from 3.5 to 10 ng/ml. The antioxidant enzymes, catalase and glutathione peroxidase (GPx), prevented neurite beading while superoxide dismutase (SOD) alone did not. 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (Az), an inhibitor of catalase blocked the protective effects of catalase and NGF. 1,3 bis[chloromethyl]-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) inhibits glutathione reductase, and reduces intracellular glutathione levels; it blocked the protective effects of NGF. Dialyzer treated medium was found to have increased peroxide content. In parallel experiments, NGF protected DRG neurons from hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) toxicity that was inhibited by Az and BCNU. NGF was also shown to upregulate glutathione in DRG neurons. We propose that EO gas used in the sterilization of hemodialyzers is responsible for the neurotoxicity and is most likely due to oxidative damage in DRG neurons. NGF protects DRG from this toxin by upregulating antioxidants such as catalase, GPx and GSH.


Nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB is an important regulator of inflammatory gene expression. Transcriptional regulation of Nos2, the inducible nitric-oxide synthase (iNOS) gene, is complex and not fully understood, but appears to be regulated in part by NF-kappaB. To further understand the role of NF-kappaB in Nos2 expression, we compared three functionally distinct NF-kappaB inhibitors on NF-kappaB transactivation and iNOS induction by rat C6 glial cells. Cytokine-induced activation of a consensus NF-kappaB-reporter gene was concentration-dependently inhibited by BAY 11-7082, MG-132, and helenalin. The rank order of potency was MG-132&gt;helenalin&gt;BAY 11-7082, with low concentrations of helenalin stimulating reporter gene activity. Cytokine-stimulated iNOS expression, measured by nitrite accumulation and in vitro l-citrulline production, was similarly reduced by exposing C6 cells to the NF-kappaB inhibitors. Surprisingly, activation of Nos2-reporter gene constructs containing the proximal 188 bp (containing one kappaB site) or proximal 94 bp (no kappaB site) of the rat promoter also was inhibited with the same rank order of potency. Interestingly, low concentrations of helenalin increased activity of both promoter constructs, while BAY 11-7082 poorly inhibited the 94-bp activity. This is the first report describing BAY 11-7082 and helenalin effects on iNOS expression in astroglia. Given the reported mechanism of actions for these inhibitors, cytokine-induced glial iNOS expression appears more sensitive to disruption of proteasome degradation and p65 function than modulation of IkappaB phosphorylation. These findings may foster the design of therapeutic agents aimed at NF-kappaB-associated pathways involved in neuroinflammation, especially iNOS expression.



The authors report a family with familial Bell's palsy affecting seven individuals, six of whom are females. This is a distinct subtype of Bell's palsy with a predilection for juvenile females, previously reported only very rarely. In conjunction with a review of the literature, this case suggests that this phenotype carries with it a greater risk of serious complications affecting the eyelids and lacrimal gland. These carry significant functional and cosmetic implications owing to aberrant regeneration of the seventh, sixth and possibly third cranial nerves, chronicity and relapses. Clinical features include synkinesis of the eyelids with the orbicularis oris causing synkinetic ptosis, recurrent paralytic ectropion, paralysis of facial muscles of expression with dry eye, hyperlacrimation (crocodile tears), and transient strabismus. Clinically, the decision to offer surgery in place of conservative treatment should consider the natural history of chronicity and relapses often seen with this subtype of familial Bell's palsy. Botulinum toxin injections are especially versatile in managing the complications associated with this phenotype.
The parkinsonism-dementia complex (PDC) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) were the fatal neurological diseases, showing very high incidence during 1950-1970 and dramatic decrease after 1970 on Guam. Through the research, the present author insisted that; (1) NFTs in Guam ALS patients are merely a background feature widely dispersed in the population, (2) Guam ALS and PDC are basically different diseases, and (3) Guam ALS occurs initially as classic ALS. As pathogeneses of the diseases, intake of low calcium (Ca) and magnesium (Mg) and high aluminum water and of some plant excitatory neurotoxin has been speculated. To elucidate the pathogenesis, the author performed an experiment exposing rats to low Ca and/or Mg intake for two generations, so as to follow the actual way of human living on the island, since several generations live continuously in the same environment. The study indicates that continuous low Mg intake for two generations induces exclusive loss of dopaminergic neurons in in rats, and may support the Mg hypothesis in the pathogenesis of PDC of Guam.
To investigate the prevalence of Essential Tremor (ET) in Singapore and compare the rates between Singaporean Chinese, Malays, and Indians, a community-based survey among a disproportionate random sample of 15,000 individuals (9000 Chinese, 3000 Malays, 3000 Indians) aged 50 years and above was conducted. In phase 1, trained interviewers conducted a door-to-door survey using a screening questionnaire for Parkinson's disease. In phase 2, medical specialists examined participants who screened positive to evaluate for the presence of postural or kinetic tremor of the upper limbs, or head tremor. Participants with suspected ET had their diagnosis confirmed in phase 3 by a movement disorders specialist and fellow based on the latest core diagnostic criteria. Forty participants with classic ET were identified. The prevalence rate (PR) of ET was 2.37 per 1000 (95% CI: 1.65-3.32), age-adjusted to UICC world standard population. The PR was significantly higher in males (p=0.01) and increased significantly with age (p&lt;0.001). Indians (PR=4.94 per 1000, 95% CI: 2.63-9.04) were 1.8 times more likely to have ET than Chinese (PR=2.77 per 1000, 95% CI: 1.78-4.17) (p=0.08). No Malays with ET were identified. The data suggest that the prevalence of ET increases with age, is higher in males and may be higher amongst Indians.
We evaluated the quality of life (QoL) in 278 Indian patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) using PDQL questionnaire, with measures various aspects of health status in PD patients including parkinsonian symptoms, systemic symptoms, social and emotional functions. Apart from demographic and treatment details parkinsonian disability and stage was assessed by Hoehn and Yahr stage, Schwab and England scale and UPDRS scores. We conclude that female gender, presence of depression, low degree of independence, higher levodopa dose (&gt;400 mg/day) and higher UPDRS activity of daily living score have the most detrimental impact on QoL in patients with Parkinson's disease. Depression was the most significant factor impairing the QoL and it needs to be treated.

Investigation into the reach-to-grasp movement has indicated that this movement sequence is composed of two distinct movement components, independently influenced by the characteristics of the target. It remains undetermined whether properties other than those conveyed by the target also influence the strategy used to complete the task successfully. Here, we explored whether characteristics of the support structure influence reaching kinematics among younger adults. The purpose of the study was to assess whether support structure stability affected movement kinematics of the transport phase. Subjects were required to reach for a full glass of water on a stable or an unstable support structure. Kinematic measures of interest included transport time, peak transport velocity, peak transport acceleration, and timing of kinematic peaks. Analysis showed that reducing the stability of the support structure did not significantly affect any of the measures of interest. The results imply that stability of support structure does not influence transport kinematics among younger adults.
The present paper describes the results of recent pharmacological studies implicating the cannabinoid CB1 receptor in the neural circuitry regulating alcohol consumption and motivation to consume alcohol. Cannabinoid CB1 receptor agonists have been found to specifically stimulate alcohol intake and alcohol's motivational properties in rats. Conversely, the cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist, SR 141716, has been reported to specifically suppress acquisition and maintenance of alcohol drinking behavior, relapse-like drinking and alcohol's motivational properties in rats. More recent data indicate that opioid receptor antagonists a) blocked the stimulatory effect of cannabinoids on alcohol intake, and b) synergistically potentiated the suppressing effect of SR 141716 on alcohol intake and alcohol's motivational properties. Consistently, SR 141716 blocked the stimulatory effect of morphine on alcohol intake. These results suggest a) the existence of a functional link between the cannabinoid and opioid receptor systems in the control of alcohol intake and motivation to consume alcohol, and b) that novel and potentially effective therapeutic strategies for alcoholism may come from the combination of cannabinoid and opioid receptor antagonists.
Cannabinoids produce a variety of pharmacological effects very similar to those elicited by opioids. Direct and indirect interactions with opioid system have been proposed to explain some cannabinoid effects such as analgesia and attenuation of opioid-withdrawal syndrome, and evidence has been provided in support to the notion that rewarding properties of cannabinoids and opioids might be functionally linked. In particular, a growing body of studies points to an important role of the endogenous cannabinoid system in the modulation of opioid rewarding and addictive effects. The current review examines progresses in the past few years in the elucidation of cannabinoid-opioid interactions in drug abuse and dependence, focusing on recent findings from behavioural studies using different animal models of addiction. Specifically, here we review data on the behavioural aspects (i.e., drug abuse, dependence, tolerance, sensitization, relapse and drug vulnerability) of the specific, often reciprocal, cross-talk between cannabinoids and opioids with particular reference to the role of the endocannabinoid system in opioid addiction. The potential biochemical mechanisms involved in these pharmacological interactions are discussed together with possible therapeutic implications in the pharmacotherapy of opioid dependence. However, individuation of the precise anatomical substrates and molecular mechanisms of such interaction still remains a complex and challenging field for future research.
Since the discovery of anandamide in 1992, our knowledge of the endocannabinoid system and its physiological effects has increased greatly, not the least as a result of the availability of compounds affecting endocannabinoid function. In the present review, the pharmacology of the endocannabinoid system is discussed. At present, there are no compounds selectively inhibiting the synthesis of anandamide, and the mechanisms by which anandamide release and reuptake are blocked are a matter for current debate. In contrast, selective agonists and inverse agonists at the CB1 and CB2 receptors have been well characterised, as have inhibitors of the metabolism of anandamide by fatty acid amide hydrolase. Accumulating evidence has suggested that such compounds may be useful for the treatment of a number of disorders. With respect to the treatment of pain, topical CB1 agonists and CB2 agonists may prove therapeutically useful, and there is evidence that the non-steroidal inflammatory agent indomethacin produces effects secondary to activation of the endocannabinoid system. Modulation of the endocannabionid system may also produce neuroprotective effects, although present data would suggest that the observed effects are highly dependent upon the nature of the neurotoxic insult.
Drug self-administration behavior has been one of the most direct and productive approaches for studying the reinforcing effects of psychoactive drugs, which are critical in determining their abuse potential. Cannabinoids, which are usually abused by humans in the form of marijuana, have become the most frequently abused illicit class of drugs in the United States. The early elucidation of the structure and stereochemistry of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in 1964, which is now recognized as the principal psychoactive ingredient in marijuana, activated cannabinoid research worldwide. This review examines advances in research on cannabinoid self-administration behavior by humans and laboratory animals. There have been numerous laboratory demonstrations of the reinforcing effects of cannabinoids in human subjects, but reliable self-administration of cannabinoids by laboratory animals has only recently been demonstrated. It has now been shown that strong and persistent self-administration behavior can be maintained in experimentally and drug-nave squirrel monkeys by doses of THC comparable to those in marijuana smoke inhaled by humans. Furthermore, reinforcing effects of some synthetic CB1 cannabinoid agonists have been recently reported using intravenous and intracerebroventricular self-administration procedures in rats and mice. These findings support previous conclusions that THC has a pronounced abuse liability comparable to other drugs of abuse under certain experimental conditions. Self-administration of THC by squirrel monkeys provides the most reliable animal model for human marijuana abuse available to date. This animal model now makes it possible to study the relative abuse liability of other natural and synthetic cannabinoids and to preclinically assess new therapeutic strategies for the treatment or prevention of marijuana abuse in humans.
Cannabinoids and opioids have been shown to possess several similar pharmacological effects, including analgesia and stimulation of brain circuitry that are believed to underlie drug addiction and reward. In recent years, these phenomena have supported the possible existence of functional links in the mechanisms of action of both types of drugs. The present review addresses the recent advances in the study of biochemical and molecular mechanisms underlying opioid and cannabinoid interaction. Several hypothesis have been formulated to explain this cross-modulation including the release of opioid peptides by cannabinoids or endocannabinoids by opioids and interaction at the level of receptor and/or their signal transduction mechanisms. Moreover it is important to consider that the nature of cannabinoid and opioid interaction might differ in the brain circuits mediating reward and in those mediating other pharmacological properties, such as antinociception. While in vitro studies point to the presence of interaction at various steps along the signal transduction pathway, studies in intact animals are frequently contradictory pending on the used species and the adopted protocol. The presence of reciprocal alteration in receptor density and efficiency as well as the modification in opioid/cannabinoid endogenous systems often do not reflect the behavioral results. Further studies are needed since a better knowledge of the opioid-cannabinoid interaction may lead to exciting therapeutic possibilities.
Adenosine, acting through its receptors, is a potent endogenous regulator of endothelial cells. The cultured endothelial cells expressing adenosine receptors are thus important for elucidation of molecular mechanism of adenosine functions in these cell systems. Therefore, identification of adenosine receptors in the human ECV304 cell line derived from a human umbilical vein endothelial cell culture was performed. RT-PCR experiments revealed that ECV304 cells express mRNAs for A1 and A2B adenosine receptors. The expression of mRNA for A2A adenosine receptor was not in a significant level and that for A3 adenosine receptor was not detected. The binding study of ECV304 cell membrane fractions using various radiolabeled ligands for adenosine receptors indicated the presence of A1 adenosine receptors 245 fmol/mg of membrane proteins, but the specific binding for A2A and for A3 adenosine receptors were found to be negligible. The functional expression of A1 and A2B adenosine receptors in ECV304 cells was detected by assays for adenosine-3',5'-cyclic monophosphate and for extracellular signal-regulated kinase, but that of A2A adenosine receptors was not confirmed under the assay conditions employed. In conclusion, this study presented evidence for functional A1 and A2B adenosine receptors in human endothelial-like ECV304 cells, indicating that ECV304 cells can be a good model for the study of adenosine receptors, especially for A2B adenosine receptor, in endothelial cells.
This study aimed to determine the antinociceptive effect of Aralia continentalis extract (AC) on Freund's adjuvant-induced arthritis in rats. Adult Sprague-Dawley rats received an injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) into the articular cavity of the ankle joint, and then antinociceptive behaviors and spinal Fos expression were examined. AC was found to suppress significantly nociceptive behaviors caused by CFA injection. In addition, it also decreased adjuvant-induced Fos expression in the lumbar spinal cord induced by CFA. In conclusion, this study showed that AC produced significant antinociceptive effects on CFA-induced arthritis in rats, and it is suggested that AC is recommended to alleviate the arthritis-related symptoms in humans.
To clarify the mechanisms of cell wall construction, we used a proteomic approach to investigate the proteins secreted into cell wall spaces during cell wall regeneration from the protoplasts of Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells. We focused on cell wall proteins loosely bound to the cell wall architecture and extractable with 1 M KCl solutions from: (i) native suspension cultured cells; (ii) protoplasts that had been allowed to regenerate their cell walls for 1 h; and (iii) protoplasts allowed to regenerate their cell walls for 3 h. We adopted a non-destructive extraction procedure without disrupting cellular integrity, thereby avoiding contamination from cytoplasmic proteins. Using two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2-D PAGE) and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time-of-flight/mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF/MS), we separated, mapped and identified 71 proteins derived from the native cell wall, and 175 and 212 proteins derived from the 1 and 3 h regenerated protoplasts, respectively. Quite different sets of proteins with differing status of their post-translational modifications, including phosphorylation and glycosylation, were identified in the three protein fractions. This indicated dynamic in muro changes in the cell wall proteins during cell wall regeneration in the protoplasts. The analysis revealed a set of enzymes specifically involved in cell wall expansion and construction in suspension-cultured cells. This approach has also determined a set of cell wall proteins that had not been predicted to be localized in cell wall spaces.
Transitions between different behavioral states, such as sleep or wakefulness, quiescence or attentiveness, occur in part through transitions from action potential bursting to single spiking. Cortical activity, for example, is determined in large part by the spike output mode from the thalamus, which is controlled by the gating of low-voltage-activated calcium channels. In the subiculum--the major output of the hippocampus--transitions occur from bursting in the delta-frequency band to single spiking in the theta-frequency band. We show here that these transitions are influenced strongly by the inactivation kinetics of voltage-gated sodium channels. Prolonged inactivation of sodium channels is responsible for an activity-dependent switch from bursting to single spiking, constituting a novel mechanism through which network dynamics are controlled by ion channel gating.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) act as molecular coincidence detectors and allow for association or dissociation between pre- and postsynaptic neurons. NMDA receptors are central to remodeling of synaptic connections during postnatal development and associative learning abilities in adults. The ability to remodel neural networks is altered during postnatal development, possibly due to a change in the composition of NMDARs. That is, as forebrain systems (and cerebellum) develop, synaptic NR2B-containing NMDARs (NR2B-NMDARs) are replaced by NR2A-containing NMDARs (NR2A-NMDARs) and NR2B-NMDARs move to extrasynaptic sites. During the initial phase of the switch, synapses contain both NR2A- and NR2B-NMDARs and both long-term potentiation and long-term depression are enhanced. As NMDAR subunit expression decreases and NR2A-NMDARs come to predominate in the synapse, channel function and synaptic plasticity are reduced, and remodeling ability dissipates. The end result is a balance of plasticity and stability that is optimal for information processing and storage. Associative learning abilities involving different sensory modalities emerge sequentially, in accordance with synaptic maturation in related cortical and underlying brain structures. Thus, developmental alterations in NMDAR composition that occur at different ages in various brain structures may explain the protracted nature of the maturation of various associative learning abilities.
Schizophrenia is a highly complex disorder characterized by multiple independent domains of disease-namely positive, cognitive, and affective symptom clusters. Functional deficits associated with positive and (more recently) cognitive symptoms, as well as the deconstruction of these symptoms into their corresponding neural circuits, are widely discussed in the literature. To the contrary, while a link between affective symptoms and emotion processing circuitry has been hypothesized, it has been considerably less widely discussed in the literature. Here, we review deficits in the processing of emotion in schizophrenia, the role of the amygdala in the context of these deficits, and the functional implications of this relationship upon patient outcome.
Dopaminergic agonists and NMDA-receptor antagonists form the basis for the dopamine and glutamate models of schizophrenia, respectively. In human subjects dopaminergic agonists evoke a psychosis resembling positive symptoms of schizophrenia, while NMDA-receptor antagonists produce both positive and negative symptoms. Consequently, the glutamate model may be considered the most complete of the two models. Alterations in animal behaviour, in response to amphetamine or NMDA-receptor antagonists, are widely used to model schizophrenia. NMDA-receptor antagonist induced social withdrawal in rat is an established model for negative symptoms of schizophrenia. In this study we have set up an automated method, based on video tracking, to assess social behaviour, motor activity and movement pattern in rats. This method was then used to evaluate the effects of amphetamine and the NMDA-receptor antagonist (+)-MK-801, administered as single intraperitoneal injections, on rat behaviour. Amphetamine caused significantly increased motor activity and a tendency towards stimulation of social interactions. (+)-MK-801 also stimulated motor activity, but induced a significant inhibition of social interactions. These results indicate that a single injection of (+)-MK-801 to rats models both positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia. Amphetamine, in contrast, reflects only the positive symptoms of schizophrenia in this model.
Schizophrenia is manifested by positive and negative symptoms, as well as cognitive deficits. Most existing antipsychotic agents have poor effects on the negative symptoms of schizophrenia, thus emphasizing the necessity for developing new antipsychotic treatments. Dopaminergic stabilizers constitute one of the latest novelties in the quest for new antipsychotic drugs. Social withdrawal in rats, in response to treatment with NMDA-receptor antagonists such as (+)-MK-801, may be used to model negative symptoms. In this study we aimed to evaluate the dopaminergic stabilizers (-)-OSU6162 and ACR16, compared to haloperidol and clozapine, in a rat model for schizophrenia, focusing on (+)-MK-801 induced social withdrawal. Social behaviour and motor activity were assessed using a videotracking system, allowing automated analysis of the behaviour. Both (-)-OSU6162 and ACR16 were capable of restoring social behaviour, measured as proximity, to control level. These results indicate that these drugs may be effective in the treatments of negative symptoms.

Constant interaction with a dynamic environment-from riding a bicycle to segmenting speech-makes sensitivity to the sequential structure of the world a fundamental dimension of information processing. Accounts of sequence learning vary widely, with some authors arguing that parsing and segmentation processes are central, and others proposing that sequence learning involves mere memorization. In this paper, we argue that sequence knowledge is essentially statistical in nature, and that sequence learning involves simple associative prediction mechanisms. We focus on a choice reaction situation introduced by Lee (1997), in which participants were exposed to material that follows a single abstract rule, namely that stimuli are selected randomly, but never appear more than once in a legal sequence. Perhaps surprisingly, people can learn this rule very well. Or can they? We offer a conceptual replication of the original finding, but a very different interpretation of the results, as well as simulation work that makes it clear how highly abstract dimensions of the stimulus material can in fact be learned based on elementary associative mechanisms. We conclude that, when relevant, memory is optimized to facilitate responding to events that have not occurred recently, and that sequence learning in general always involves sensitivity to repetition distance.
The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA)-axis is a central component of the body's neuroendocrine response to stress. Its major end-product cortisol has profound effects on mood and behavior. Although it has often been suggested, it remains unknown whether differences in HPA-axis physiology are part of an individual's vulnerability to psychopathology, and constitute a causal factor in its development. In order to study the contribution of HPA-axis physiology to the development of psychopathology, we measured HPA-axis physiology in a community-cohort of 1768 10-12 year-old children. The aims of the here presented study were twofold: (1) to obtain data on HPA-axis function in a large cohort of pre- and early-adolescent children, both in terms of total hormonal output and in terms of the dynamics of cortisol secretion (by means of the cortisol awakening response); and (2) to study potential confounders of the cortisol-psychopathology relationship in this age group, such as season of sampling, age, gender, pubertal development, perinatal variables and BMI. We found a wide interindividual variability in HPA-axis function. An increase in cortisol in the first 30 min after awakening was present in 70.7% of children, but the increase appears lower in children than in adults. In addition, this study suggests that season of sampling and gender may act as potential confounders in the cortisol-psychopathology relationship. We will follow these children longitudinally for the development of psychopathology in the period from childhood into adulthood. This period covers adolescence, which is a critical time for the appearance and development of psychiatric disorders.




Adenosine is a neuromodulator that operates via the most abundant inhibitory adenosine A(1) receptors (A(1)Rs) and the less abundant, but widespread, facilitatory A(2A)Rs. It is commonly assumed that A(1)Rs play a key role in neuroprotection since they decrease glutamate release and hyperpolarize neurons. In fact, A(1)R activation at the onset of neuronal injury attenuates brain damage, whereas its blockade exacerbates damage in adult animals. However, there is a down-regulation of central A(1)Rs in chronic noxious situations. In contrast, A(2A)Rs are up-regulated in noxious brain conditions and their blockade confers robust brain neuroprotection in adult animals. The brain neuroprotective effect of A(2A)R antagonists is maintained in chronic noxious brain conditions without observable peripheral effects, thus justifying the interest of A(2A)R antagonists as novel protective agents in neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease, ischemic brain damage and epilepsy. The greater interest of A(2A)R blockade compared to A(1)R activation does not mean that A(1)R activation is irrelevant for a neuroprotective strategy. In fact, it is proposed that coupling A(2A)R antagonists with strategies aimed at bursting the levels of extracellular adenosine (by inhibiting adenosine kinase) to activate A(1)Rs might constitute the more robust brain neuroprotective strategy based on the adenosine neuromodulatory system. This strategy should be useful in adult animals and especially in the elderly (where brain pathologies are prevalent) but is not valid for fetus or newborns where the impact of adenosine receptors on brain damage is different.
Puberty is the attainment of fertility, a process encompassing morphological, physiological and behavioural development. The increased hypothalamic secretion of the gonadotrophin-releasing hormone decapeptide (GnRH) is essential for the activation of the pituitary-gonadal axis at puberty. The GnRH secretory network initially develops and is temporarily active during species-specific periods of fetal/neonatal development, so puberty is the secondary reactivation of an existing system. From a neurobiological perspective, the timing of puberty is therefore a function of changes in the neural systems controlling GnRH release. The large variability between individuals in the onset and progression of puberty indicates that the timing of puberty is not simply a function of chronological age. Rather, the neurotransmitter and neuromodulatory systems that impact upon the GnRH secretory network convey information about metabolic fuels, energy stores and somatic development and, for many species, information about season and social environment. The clear links demonstrated between metabolic fuel availability and reproductive function in many animal models provides evidence that the earlier onset of pubertal development observed in girls in certain US study populations is likely to relate to the increasing prevalence of overweight and obesity in adolescents.
Chemical irritation in the human nasal cavity is poorly documented. In this field, an important issue concerns the differential responses produced by successive stimulation. Repeated identical chemical irritant stimuli can produce increases or decreases in responses (two phenomena known as self-sensitization or self-desensitization). In the same way, different molecules can interact and produce cross-sensitization or cross-desensitization. The aim of this study was to contribute to this question using two specific molecules, acetic acid (AA) and allyl isothiocyanate (AIC). As the self-sensitization and -desensitization for AIC is known, a first experiment in the present work investigated the response, acute effects and time course of sensitization or desensitization to acetic acid. A second experiment tested the responses of acetic acid after a previous stimulation with allyl isothiocyanate (mustard oil) and inversely with a short inter-stimulus interval (ISI of 45 s). A third experiment similar to the second used a long inter-stimulus interval (ISI of 3 min 30). Twelve healthy subjects participated in the study using psychophysical (intensity ratings) and psychophysiological (skin conductance response) measurements. Firstly, the results showed that repeated nasal stimulation with acetic acid produced a self-desensitization whatever the ISI. Secondly, the results showed a cross-desensitization of allyl isothiocyanate by previous acetic acid stimulation. In contrast, previous stimulation with allyl isothiocyanate had no effect on the following acetic acid response. These findings confirm that trigeminal sensitization and desensitization in the nasal cavity do not follow the same processes in relation to molecules used.
We report here a 65-year-old man with ptosis, diplopia, and progressive lower limb muscle weakness without nasal symptoms. CA19-9 and CEA were elevated in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), but Squamous Cell Carcinoma Antigen (SCC) was not. CA19-9-positive atypical cells were found in the CSF. A right ethmoidal tumor was discovered by paranasal CT and 18F-Deoxyglucose Positron Emission Tomography (FDG-PET) studies. The ethmoidal tumor invaded to the orbits and disseminated into the CSF space through the cribriform plate. Biopsy demonstrated that the paranasal tumor consisted of mucoepidermoid carcinoma. We report here the first case of meningeal carcinomatosis due to mucoepidermoid carcinoma in the ethmoid sinus.

Parenteral phenobarbitone is an integral part of the management of status epilepticus, especially in the context of resource-poor countries. It is highly effective at controlling seizures. It is safe, cheap, can be given by rapid intravenous push or intramuscular route, boluses can be repeated, and it is recommended as part of the Advanced Paediatric Life Support guidelines. The proposed alternatives lack efficacy, practicality and/or place the child in status epilepticus at risk of respiratory compromise. The impact of the loss of parenteral phenobarbitone would be increased cardiac complications, lack of early seizure control, prolonged seizures resulting in brain damage and systemic complications. Increased numbers of patients will require artificial ventilation in centres without facilities, and centres with facilities will be unable to cope with the load of ventilated patients because of lack of safe transport systems and bed space.
The Nogo gene maps to 2p14-p13, a region consistently associated with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. The association of a polymorphism in Nogo was previously investigated by two groups, with divergent results. In this report, using an alternative approach, we evaluated this same polymorphism in 725 individuals, including patients with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, normal controls and non-human primate samples. Our results indicate that the polymorphism is not associated with any of these diseases, but has a remarkably biased distribution in ethnic groups. Genotyping of primate samples, suggest that this polymorphism is a recent event in human speciation.



Machamer, Darden, and Craver argue (Mechanism) that causal explanations explain effects by describing the operations of the mechanisms (systems of entities engaging in productive activities) which produce them. One of the aims of this paper is to take advantage of neglected resources of Mechanism to rethink the traditional idea (Regularism) that actual or counterfactual natural regularities are essential to the distinction between causal and non-causal co-occurrences, and that generalizations describing natural regularities are essential components of causal explanations. I think that causal productivity and regularity are by no means the same thing, and that the Regularists are mistaken about the roles generalizations play in causal explanation. Humean, logical empiricist, and other Regularist accounts of causal explanation have had the unfortunate effect of distracting philosophers from important non-explanatory scientific uses of laws and lesser generalizations which purport to describe natural regularities. My second aim is to characterize some of these uses, illustrating them with examples from neuroscientific research.
Philosophers of neuroscience have traditionally described interfield integration using reduction models. Such models describe formal inferential relations between theories at different levels. I argue against reduction and for a mechanistic model of interfield integration. According to the mechanistic model, different fields integrate their research by adding constraints on a multilevel description of a mechanism. Mechanistic integration may occur at a given level or in the effort to build a theory that oscillates among several levels. I develop this alternative model using a putative exemplar of reduction in contemporary neuroscience: the relationship between the psychological phenomena of learning and memory and the electrophysiological phenomenon known as Long-Term Potentiation. A new look at this historical episode reveals the relative virtues of the mechanistic model over reduction as an account of interfield integration.
This exploratory study compares elderly suicides with (n=13) and without (n=72) family member suicide. Previous episodes of suicidal behavior were more common among suicides who lost first-degree relatives by suicide (100% vs. 65%, p = .009). Six persons had lost an offspring by suicide prior to their own deaths. Substance use disorder was more prevalent among those with offspring suicide than those without (100% vs. 25%, p = .000). While informants reported that offspring suicides played a central role in the suicide of the elderly study case, sibbling suicides were not considered precipitating factors.
To compare the intraoperative costs of intravenous propofol-based anesthesia for laparoscopic cholecystectomy, a total of 42 patients were randomly assigned to receive remifentanil or fentanyl as adjuvant using the bispectral index anesthesia monitoring. The average anesthesia calculated costs per hour (and per minute) were 79.45 (1.32) in the fentanyl group and 65.36 (1.09) in the remifentanil group. The calculated mean cost per patient was 76.56 in the fentanyl group and 58.86 in the remifentanil group. In conclusion, for propofol-cisatracurium-based anesthesia for laparoscopic surgery, when applying the bispectral index to guide the administration of hypnotic anesthetic drugs and ensure an adequate and stable depth of anesthesia, the cost of anesthesia is lower using remifentanil as an adjuvant rather than fentanyl. The clinical relevance is that it could be the intravenous anesthesia technique of choice in laparoscopic surgery for cholecystectomy from a cost-minimization standpoint.
Neurotrophic factors and the signaling pathways they activate play a role in mediating long-term molecular, cellular, and behavioral adaptations associated with drug addiction. Here we mimicked the biological response of phospholipase C-gamma (PLC gamma) induction in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) observed after chronic morphine using viral-mediated gene transfer. Using a behavioral sensitization paradigm, we demonstrate that microinjections of PLC gamma 1 into distinct (rostral vs. caudal) regions of the VTA result in differential locomotor responses to morphine.
This study examines the temporal properties of geniculocortical and corticogeniculate (CG) pathways that link the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and primary visual cortex in the ferret. Using electrical stimulation in the LGN to evoke action potentials in geniculocortical and CG axons, results show that conduction latencies are significantly faster in geniculocortical neurons than in CG neurons. Within each pathway, axonal latency and visual physiology support the view of sub-classes of neurons. By examining the timing of visual responses and the latency of CG feedback, estimates indicate that visual information can reach the cortex and return to the LGN as early as 60 msec following the onset of a visual stimulus. These findings place constraints on the functional role of corticogeniculate feedback for visual processing.
Thalamic relay neurons have homogeneous, adult-like firing properties and similar morphology by 12 days postnatally (PN 12). Parafascicular (Pf) neurons have a different morphology compared with typical thalamic relay neurons, but the development of their electrophysiological properties is not well studied. Intracellular recordings in PN 12-50 Pf neurons revealed several heterogeneous firing patterns different from those in thalamic relay neurons. Two types of cells were identified: Type I cells displayed a fast afterhyperpolarization (AHP) followed by a large-amplitude, slow AHP; whereas Type II cells had only a fast AHP. These cell types had overlapping membrane properties but differences in excitability. Some properties of Pf neurons were adult-like by PN 12, but, unlike thalamic relay neurons, there were significant maturational changes thereafter, including decreased action potential (AP) duration, increased fast AHP amplitude and increased excitability. Pf neurons did not exhibit rhythmic bursting and generally lacked low-threshold spike (LTS) responses that characterize thalamic relay neurons. Pf neurons exhibited nonlinear I-V relationships, and only a third of the cells expressed the time and voltage-dependent hyperpolarization activated (Ih) current, which declined with age. These results indicate that the morphological differences between Pf neurons and typical thalamic relay neurons are paralleled by electrophysiological differences, and that Pf membrane properties change during postnatal development.
Layer 4 of the mouse somatosensory (barrel) cortex has a diversity of interneuron cell types. Tonic inhibition in other regions is cell type-specific and mediated, in part, by -subunit containing, extrasynaptic, GABA(A) receptors. We have investigated tonic inhibition in LTS cells, a major type of inhibitory neuron, and excitatory cells in layer 4 of the mouse barrel cortex using 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisothiazolo-[5,4-c]pyridine-3-ol (THIP), a superagonist of these receptors. Bath application of 20 M THIP produced baseline shifts, which indicates activation of tonic inhibition of both excitatory and LTS cells. The baseline shift was significantly larger in LTS cells. This finding of greater induced current in LTS cells was paralleled by a significantly greater increase in conductance with THIP application in LTS cells. The increase in conductance resulted in LTS cells requiring more current to reach threshold. Because of the differential effects of tonic inhibition on LTS cells and excitatory cells, bath application of THIP increased the network excitability, measured by multi-unit recordings. Thus, the network effect of tonic inhibition in horizontal layer 4 circuits is a paradoxical increase in excitation.
Increased hepatocyte growth factor receptor (HGFR) signaling correlates closely with neoplastic invasion and metastatic potential of many human cancers. Hepatocyte growth factor receptor signaling is initiated by binding the physiological ligand HGF or the internalin B (InlB) protein of Listeria monocytogenes. Subsequent degradation of endocytosed HGFR terminates receptor signaling. Previously reported discrepancies in InlB and HGF-induced HGFR signaling could reflect differences in receptor internalization and degradation in response to these distinct ligands. We report that soluble InlB and HGF are mechanistically equivalent in triggering clathrin-dependent endocytosis and lysosomal degradation of HGFR. After internalization, InlB and HGF colocalize with Rab5, EEA1 and the transferrin receptor in classical early endosomes. Hepatocyte growth factor receptor internalization was prevented by overexpression of dominant negative mutants of dynamin 1 and epidermal growth factor phosphorylation substrate 15, but not caveolin 1, the GTPase Arf6 or the cholesterol-chelating drug Nystatin. Thus, HGFR internalization is principally clathrin-mediated and is not regulated by clathrin- independent pathways. Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling and HGF-regulated tyrosine kinase substrate were not required for ligand-triggered internalization of HGFR but were essential for subsequent lysosomal degradation. Thus, soluble InlB and HGF induce HGFR endocytosis and degradation by indistinguishable mechanisms, suggesting that InlB may be exploited to regulate pathogenic HGFR signaling.
Despite the impressive complexity and processing power of the human brain, it is severely capacity limited. Behavioral research has highlighted three major bottlenecks of information processing that can cripple our ability to consciously perceive, hold in mind, and act upon the visual world, illustrated by the attentional blink (AB), visual short-term memory (VSTM), and psychological refractory period (PRP) phenomena, respectively. A review of the neurobiological literature suggests that the capacity limit of VSTM storage is primarily localized to the posterior parietal and occipital cortex, whereas the AB and PRP are associated with partly overlapping fronto-parietal networks. The convergence of these two networks in the lateral frontal cortex points to this brain region as a putative neural locus of a common processing bottleneck for perception and action.
The subjective experience of conscious intention is a key component of our mental life. Philosophers studying 'conscious free will' have discussed whether conscious intentions could cause actions, but modern neuroscience rejects this idea of mind-body causation. Instead, recent findings suggest that the conscious experience of intending to act arises from preparation for action in frontal and parietal brain areas. Intentional actions also involve a strong sense of agency, a sense of controlling events in the external world. Both intention and agency result from the brain processes for predictive motor control, not merely from retrospective inference.
Understanding developmental and evolutionary aspects of the language faculty requires comparing adult languages users' abilities with those of non-verbal subjects, such as babies and non-human animals. Classically, comparative work in this area has relied on the rich theoretical frameworks developed by linguists in the generative grammar tradition. However, the great variety of generative theories and the fact that they are models of language specifically makes it difficult to know what to test in animals and children lacking the expressive abilities of normal, mature adults. We suggest that this problem can be mitigated by tapping equally rich, but more formal mathematical approaches to language.
Are speech-specific processes localized in dedicated cortical regions or do they emerge from developmental plasticity in the connections among non-dedicated regions? Here we claim that all the brain regions activated by the processing of auditory speech can be re-classified according to whether they respond to non-verbal environmental sounds, pitch changes, unfamiliar melodies, or conceptual processes. We therefore argue that speech-specific processing emerges from differential demands on auditory and conceptual processes that are shared by speech and non-speech stimuli. This has implications for domain- vs. process-specific cognitive models, and for the relative importance of segregation and integration in functional anatomy.
Experiencing oneself as the cause of an action is a fundamental building block for a sense of self. A recent study by Sato and Yasuda provides evidence that motor prediction contributes to the experience of agency. Their findings demonstrate that agency is experienced not only for intended, but also for erroneous, unintended actions. This extends our knowledge on the phenomenology of action, and raises questions about the relation between explicit reports and agency-related changes in sensation and perception.
L-glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain and is responsible for normal brain function. However, high glutamate exposure triggers neuronal death, a process known as excitotoxicity. Excitotoxicity is associated with acute and chronic neurodegenerative diseases. Treating excitotoxicity using glutamate-receptor antagonists has not proven clinically viable, necessitating more sophisticated approaches. Rothstein and colleagues discovered that beta-lactam antibiotics protect neurons from excitotoxicity by increasing the number of glutamate transporters, which have a key role in clearing glutamate from the extracellular space. The design of compounds capable of modulating glutamate uptake represents a novel strategy for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
Brain function is fundamentally related in the most general sense to the richness of thalamocortical interconnectivity, and in particular to the rhythmic oscillatory properties of thalamocortical loops. Such rhythmicity is involved in the genesis of cognition, in the sleep-wake cycle, and in several neurological and psychiatric disorders. The role of GABA-mediated transmission in regulating these functional states is addressed here. At the cortical level, inhibition determines the spread of cortical activation by sculpting the precise activity patterns that underlie the details of cognition and motor control. At the thalamic level, GABA-mediated inhibition modulates and resets distribution of the ongoing thalamocortical rhythmic oscillations that bind multisensory inputs into a single cognitive experience and regulate arousal levels.
Tobacco dependence through cigarette smoking is the leading preventable cause of death in the world and kills nearly 4 million people annually. Nicotine, a psychoactive component of tobacco, is thought to have a major role in tobacco dependence by acting directly as a reinforcer of drug-seeking and drug-taking behavior. However, recent findings obtained with two procedures that are used widely to assess reinforcing effects of drugs in experimental animals, intravenous drug self-administration and conditioned place-preference procedures, demonstrate that environmental factors have a major influence on the reinforcing effects of nicotine. Under some experimental conditions, nicotine is also self-administered reliably by humans. Environmental stimuli that have been associated previously with the self-administration of nicotine can reinstate extinguished drug-seeking behavior in animals and precipitate relapse to smoking behavior in ex-smokers. Innovative medications that target cannabinoid CB(1) and dopamine D(3) receptors and might block specifically the influence of such conditioned environmental stimuli in smokers are in development.
Visual perception is limited by both the strength of the neural signals, and by the noise in the visual nervous system; however, little is known about what aspects of the input noise the human visual system is sensitive to, i.e., what is the signal in noise? In order to investigate this question we asked observers to discriminate differences in the strength of one-dimensional white noise. We measured their response consistency and classification images and compared the results with an ideal energy detector. Our results and modelling show that discrimination of noise is limited by the observer's template (i.e., the weighted combination of energy in each stimulus component) plus higher order nonlinearities (systematic noise), and by sources of random internal noise. We found that systematic noise is present only near detection threshold. Surprisingly, we found that the human template is &quot;adaptive&quot;-- its shape depends on the spatial frequency band of the noise-suggesting that sensitivity to spatial noise is not simply determined via passive filtering.
This study was concerned with what stimulus information humans with amblyopia use to judge the shape of simple objects. We used a string of four Gabor patches to define a contour. A fifth, center patch served as the test pattern. The observers' task was to judge the location of the test pattern relative to the contour. The contour was either a straight line, or an arc with positive or negative curvature. We asked whether phase shifts in the inner or outer pairs of patches distributed along the contour influence the perceived shape. That is, we measured the phase shift influence function. Our results, consistent with previous studies, show that amblyopes are imprecise in shape discrimination, showing elevated thresholds for both lines and curves. We found that amblyopes often make much larger perceptual errors (biases) than do normal observers in the absence of phase shifts. These errors tend to be largest for curved shapes and at large separations. In normal observers, shifting the phase of inner patches of the string by 0.25 cycle results in almost complete phase capture (attraction) at the smallest separation (2 lambda), and the capture effect falls off rapidly with separation. A 0.25 cycle shift of the outer pair of patches has a much smaller effect, in the opposite direction (repulsion). While several amblyopic observers showed reduced capture by the phase of the inner patches, to our surprise, several of the amblyopes were sensitive to the phase of the outer patches. We used linear multiple regression to determine the weights of all cues to the task: the carrier phase of the inner patches, carrier phase of the outer patches and the envelope of the outer patches. Compared to normal observers, some amblyopes show a weaker influence of the phase of the inner patches, and a stronger influence of both the phase and envelope of the outer patches. We speculate that this may be a consequence of abnormal &quot;crowding&quot; of the inner patches by the outer ones.
When components of a shape are presented asynchronously during smooth pursuit, the retinal image determines the perceived shape, as if the parts belong to the moving object that the eyes are pursuing. Saccades normally shift our gaze between structures of interest, so there is no reason to expect anything to have moved with the eyes. We therefore decided to examine how people judge the separation between a target flashed before and another flashed after a saccade. Subjects tracked a jumping dot with their eyes. Targets were flashed at predetermined retinal positions, with a 67-242 ms interval between the flashes. After each trial subjects indicated where they had seen the targets. We selected the trials on which subjects made a complete saccade between the presentations of the two targets. For short inter-target intervals, subjects' judgements depended almost exclusively on the retinal separation, even when there were conspicuous visual references nearby. Even for the longest intervals, only part of the change in eye orientation was taken into consideration. These findings cannot simply be accounted for on the basis of the mislocalisation of individual targets or a compression of space near saccades. We conclude that the retinal separation determines the perceived separation between targets presented with a short interval between them, irrespective of any intervening eye movements.

Several active transglutaminase (TGase) isoforms are known to be present in human and rodent tissues, at least three of which, namely, TGase 1, TGase 2 (tissue transglutaminase), and TGase 3, are present in the brain. TGase activity is known to be present in the cytosolic, nuclear, and extracellular compartments of the brain. Here, we show that highly purified mouse brain nonsynaptosomal mitochondria and mouse liver mitochondria and mitoplast fractions derived from these preparations possess TGase activity. Western blotting and experiments with TGase 2 knock-out (KO) mice ruled out the possibility that most of the mitochondrial/mitoplast TGase activity is due to TGase 2, the TGase isoform responsible for the majority of the activity ([14C]putrescine-binding assay) in whole brain and liver homogenates. The identity of the mitochondrial/mitoplast TGase(s) is not yet known. Possibly, the activity may be due to one of the other TGase isoforms or perhaps to a protein that does not belong to the classical TGase family. This activity may play a role in regulation of mitochondrial function both in normal physiology and in disease. Its nature and regulation deserve further study.
Molecular cloning revealed the unique serpin endopin 2C that demonstrates selective inhibition of cathepsin L compared to papain or elastase. Endopin 2C, thus, functions as a serpin with the property of cross-class inhibition. Endopin 2C possesses homology in primary sequence to endopin 2A and other isoforms of endopins related to alpha1-antichymotrypsin, yet endopin 2C differs in its target protease specificity. Recombinant endopin 2C showed effective inhibition of cathepsin L with a stoichiometry of inhibition (SI) of 1/1 (molar ratio of inhibitor/protease), with the second-order rate constant, k(ass), of 7.2 x 10(5) M(-1) s(-1). Less effective endopin 2C inhibition of papain and elastase occurred with k(ass) association rate constants of approximately 1 x 10(4) M(-1) s(-1) with high SI values. Endopin 2C formed SDS-stable complexes with cathepsin L, papain, and elastase that are typical of serpins. These results are among the first to demonstrate stable serpin complexes with target cysteine proteases. Interactions of endopin 2C with cathepsin L and elastase were indicated by protease cleavage of the RSL region between P1-P1' residues of Thr-Ser. The hydrophobic Phe residue in the P2 position of the RSL region is consistent with the specificity of cathepsin L for hydrophobic residues in the P2 position of its substrate cleavage site. The NH2-terminal signal sequence of endopin 2C, like that of cathepsin L, predicts their colocalization to subcellular organelles. These findings demonstrate endopin 2C as a novel serpin that possesses cross-class inhibition with selectivity for inhibition of cathepsin L.

To investigate the role of the estrogen receptor (ER) in mediating neuroprotection, the neuroprotective profiles of selective ER agonists for ERalpha and ERbeta, propylpyrazole triol (PPT) and 2,3-bis(4-hydroxyphenyl) proprionitrile (DPN), respectively, were compared to that of 17beta-estradiol and 17alpha-estradiol in primary neuron cultures challenged by beta-amyloid toxicity. All compounds were found to be neuroprotective in an ER-dependent manner. However, protein kinase C (PKC) inhibition completely blocked the protective effects of 17beta-estradiol and 17alpha-estradiol and significantly attenuated PPT but not DPN neuroprotection. These data indicate that estrogen-mediated neuroprotection likely involves a variety of mechanisms and that protection due to PKC activation is more likely due to ERalpha compared to ERbeta.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder, characterized by the degeneration of upper and lower motor neurons (MNs). Central nervous system features include a loss of Betz cells and other pyramidal cells from sensorimotor cortex. The intrinsic mechanism underlying this selective motor neuron loss has not been identified. A recent in vitro study has provided evidence of a novel programmed cell death (PCD) pathway that is unique to spinal cord MNs and is exacerbated by superoxide dismutase (SOD) mutations. This PCD pathway is triggered through the Fas receptor and involves the apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (ASK1), the p38 MAP kinase, and the neuronal form of nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). Previously, we found significant increases in the numbers of ventral horn MNs immunopositive for these enzymes in the spinal cords of mutant SOD transgenic (G93A) mice as early as 60 days of age, suggesting that this pathway may be active in vivo. Since the upper MNs of ALS patients and G93A mice are also known to degenerate, the purpose of the present study was to investigate the possible activation of this PCD pathway in the MNs of the sensorimotor cortex of G93A transgenic mice. Compared to non-transgenic littermates, the G93A mice showed significant increases in the numbers of MNs immunopositive for the active (phosphorylated) forms of ASK1, p38, MKK3/6 (the known activator of p38), and also active caspase-3, as early as 60 days of age. Another stress-activated protein kinase, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), commonly activated in other neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, showed no increases in G93A mice at any age. These results suggest that, not only has a PCD pathway been activated in the cortical MNs, but one that may be unique to ALS. Moreover, these findings suggest that earlier diagnosis and therapeutic intervention may be possible for successful treatment of ALS. Consequently, these enzymes may provide the biochemical markers to enable earlier diagnosis of ALS and molecular targets for the development of new therapeutic compounds.
Since H3 receptor (H3R) antagonists/inverse agonists can improve cognitive function in animal models, they may have the potential to be used as add-on therapy in the treatment of schizophrenia, a disease with significant cognitive deficits. However, a recent study showed potentiation of haloperidol-induced catalepsy by ciproxifan, an imidazole-containing H3R antagonist/inverse agonist, suggesting there is a potential risk of exacerbating extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) if H3R antagonists were used as adjunctive treatment [Pillot, C., Ortiz, J., Heron, A., Ridray, S., Schwartz, J.C. and Arrang, J.M., Ciproxifan, a histamine H3-receptor antagonist/inverse agonist, potentiates neurochemical and behavioral effects of haloperidol in the rat, J Neurosci, 22 (2002) 7272-80]. In order to clarify the basis of this finding, we replicated this result and extended the work with another imidazole and two non-imidazole H3R antagonists. The results indicate that ciproxifan significantly augmented the effects of haloperidol and risperidone on catalepsy. Another imidazole H3R antagonist, thioperamide, also potentiated the effect of risperidone on catalepsy. In contrast, no catalepsy-enhancing effects were observed when selective non-imidazole H3R antagonists, ABT-239 and A-431404, were coadministered with haloperidol and/or risperidone. As ciproxifan and thioperamide are inhibitors of cytochrome P450 enzymes, responsible for metabolizing risperidone and haloperidol, the possibility that the augmentation of antipsychotics by imidazoles resulted from drug-drug interactions was tested. A drug metabolism study revealed that an imidazole, but not a non-imidazole, potently inhibited the metabolism of haloperidol and risperidone. Furthermore, ketoconazole, an imidazole-based CYP 3A4 inhibitor, significantly augmented risperidone-induced catalepsy. Together, these data suggest the potentiation of antipsychotic-induced catalepsy may result from pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions and support the potential utility of non-imidazole H3R antagonists in treatment of cognitive impairment in schizophrenia without increased risk of increased EPS in patients.
Mechanical forces can alter the gating of several kinds of ion channels in many types of cells, but the mechanisms underlying the mechanosensitivity are not clearly understood. To date, there are very few reports on mechanosensitivity of Ca2+ channels, particularly neuronal Ca2+ channels. We examined the mechanical sensitivity of human recombinant L-type Ca2+ channels in response to fluid flow. Neuronal L-type Ca2+ channels (Ca(v) 1.2) were expressed transiently in HEK293 cells using expression cDNA clones of human alpha1C, alpha2delta, and beta subunits along with green fluorescent protein (GFP) as a reporter protein. Current (I(Ba)) through these heterologously-expressed channels was measured using whole cell recording technique with 20 mM Ba2+ as charge carrier. Transfected cells were exposed to a constant, increased fluid flow from a separate pipette during current recording. The L-type I(Ba) was found to be very sensitive to the flow-induced shear forces. Peak current amplitude increased by as much as approximately 50% during fluid flow as compared to that in the absence of fluid pressure. However, no change was observed in the amplitude of the average current during the final 5 ms of the 150-ms voltage step. Current amplitude promptly returned to normal control levels upon stopping fluid flow. The current-voltage relationship was not altered by fluid flow. The flow-induced increase in current amplitude exhibited an apparent shift in steady-state inactivation toward more negative potentials; inactivation was faster but was not voltage dependent. Activation was slightly faster under flow. Thus, increased mechanical tension associated with fluid flow can alter the fundamental properties of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels, even for channels which might not normally be exposed to fluid flow shear forces in their native environment.
Astrocytic gap junctional communication is important in steroid hormone regulation of reproductive processes at the level of the hypothalamus, including estrous cyclicity and sexual behavior. We examined the effects of estradiol and progesterone on the abundance of the gap junctional protein, connexin 43 (CX43), which is highly expressed in astrocytes. Gonadectomized rats received hormone treatments that induce maximal sexual behavior and gonadotropin surges in females (estrogen for 48 h followed by progesterone, estrogen alone or progesterone alone). Control animals received vehicle (oil) injections. In the female rat preoptic area (POA), containing the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) cell bodies, treatment with estrogen, progesterone or estrogen + progesterone significantly increased CX43 protein levels in immunoblots. In contrast, estrogen + progesterone significantly decreased CX43 levels in the male rat POA. This sexually dimorphic hormonal regulation of CX43 was not evident in the hypothalamus, which contains primarily GnRH nerve terminals. Treatment with estrogen + progesterone significantly decreased CX43 levels in both the male and female hypothalamus. To examine the role of CX43 in female reproductive function, we studied heterozygous female CX43 (CX43+/-) mice. Most mutant mice did not show normal estrous cycles. In addition, when compared to wild type females, CX43+/- mice had reduced lordosis behavior. These data suggest that hypothalamic CX43 expression is regulated by steroid hormones in a brain-region-specific and sexually dimorphic manner. Therefore, gap junctional communication in the POA and hypothalamus may be a factor regulating the estrous cycle and sexual behavior in female rodents.
We investigated the mechanisms of change blindness by measuring electrophysiological responses in humans to the prechange display. The change blindness paradigm included different attentional cueing (valid, invalid, no cue) conditions. The results showed that event-related potentials to the prechange display predicted change detection performance. After a valid cue, the prechange responses in detected change trials showed evidence of attentional focusing. However, in no cue and invalid cue conditions successful change detection was associated with electrophysiological responses indicating more globally distributed attention, whereas the electrophysiological pattern associated with strong attentional focusing predicted change blindness. The results suggest that specific patterns of encoding the prechange display predict change detection performance not only between different attention conditions but also within them.
According to a widely accepted idea, only the results of attentional selection reach visual awareness. A competing model postulates that awareness is independent of attentional selection: contents of subjective visual experience may also exist without the contribution of attention. We tested these competing models by tracking the independent contributions of selective attention and awareness to electrophysiological brain responses. Our results showed that the earliest effects of visual awareness emerged earlier than the effects of attention and regardless of the presence or absence of attention. The early effects of attention were elicited regardless of the presence or absence of awareness. The results suggest that visual awareness and selective attention are initially independent of each other.
In order to assess underlying structural differences between the male and female corpus callosum, the fractional anisotropy and volume of the corpus callosum, and also its T1 signal intensity, were measured. The corpus callosum of the 15 normal women and 15 normal men was drawn on the mid-sagittal T1-weighted image, for determining its volume and signal intensity, and this region of interest was projected onto the coregistered fractional anisotropy image, in order to obtain the value for the corpus callosum. We found increased T1 signal intensity and decreased fractional anisotropy in the female corpus callosum, as compared with that of the male. Despite the long-standing debates, the corpus callosum remains a region of sex differences.
Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are ubiquitous enzymes important to many cell types throughout the body. They help determine levels of H(+) and HCO(-)(3) and thereby regulate intracellular and extracellular pH and volume. CA XIV, an extracellular membrane-bound CA, was recently shown to be present in brain and retina. Here, we analyze the subcellular distribution of CA XIV in retina by high-resolution immunogold cytochemistry and show that the distribution in retina (on glial cells but not neurons) is different from that reported for brain (on neurons but not glia). In addition, CA XIV is strongly expressed on retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). The specific membrane domains that express CA XIV were endfoot and nonendfoot membranes on Muller cells and astrocytes and apical and basolateral membranes of RPE. Gold particle density was highest on microvilli plasma membranes of RPE, where it was twice that of glial endfoot and Muller microvilli membranes and four times that of other glial membrane domains. Neither neurons nor capillary endothelial cells showed detectable labeling for CA XIV. This enrichment of CA XIV on specific membrane domains of glial cells and RPE suggests specialization for buffering pH and volume in retinal neurons and their surrounding extracellular spaces. We suggest that CA XIV is the target of CA inhibitors that enhance subretinal fluid absorption in macular edema. In addition, CA XIV may facilitate CO(2) removal from neural retina and modulate photoreceptor function.
The expression and distribution of TTX-sensitive voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC) alpha subunits in the enteric nervous system (ENS) has not been described. Using RT-PCR, expression of Na(v)1.2, Na(v)1.3, Na(v)1.6, and Na(v)1.7 mRNA was detected in small and large intestinal preparations from guinea pigs. Expression of Na(v)1.1 mRNA as well as Na(v)1.1-like immunoreactivity (-li) were not observed in any intestinal region investigated. Na(v)1.2-li was primarily observed within the soma of the majority of myenteric and submucosal neurons, although faint immunoreactivity was occasionally observed in ganglionic and internodal fibers. Na(v)1.3-li was observed in dendrites, soma, and axons in a small group of myenteric neurons, as well as in numerous myenteric internodal fibers; immunoreactivity was rarely observed in the submucosal plexus. Na(v)1.6-li was primarily observed in the initial axonal segment of colonic myenteric neurons. Na(v)1.7-li was observed in dorsal root ganglia neurons but not in the myenteric plexus of the small and large intestine. In the ileum, 37% of Na(v)1.2-li cell bodies colocalized with calbindin-li while colocalization with calretinin-li was rare. In contrast, 22% of Na(v)1.3-li cell bodies colocalized with calretinin-li but colocalization with calbindin-li was not observed. In the colon, both Na(v)1.2-li and Na(v)1.3-li cell bodies frequently colocalized with either calretinin-li or calbindin-li. Na(v)1.2-li cell bodies also colocalized with the majority of NeuN-li cells in the small and large intestine. These data suggest that Na(v)1.1 may not be highly expressed in the ENS, but that Na(v)1.2, Na(v)1.3, and Na(v)1.6, and possibly Na(v)1.7, have broadly important and distinct functions in the ENS.
Complex spike activity of floccular Purkinje cells responds to patterns of rotational optic flow about the vertical axis (rVA neurons) or a horizontal axis 45 degrees to the midline (rH45 neurons). The pigeon flocculus is organized into four parasagittal zones: two rVA zones (zones 0 and 2) interdigitated with two rH45 zones (zones 1 and 3). Climbing fiber input to the rVA and rH45 zones arises in the caudal and rostral regions of the medial column of the inferior olive (mcIO), respectively. To determine whether the two rVA zones and the two rH45 zones receive input from different areas of the caudal and rostral mcIO and whether individual neurons project to both zones of the same rotational preference, different colors of fluorescent retrograde tracer were injected into the two rVA or two rH45 zones. For the rVA injections, retrogradely labeled cells from the two zones were intermingled in the caudal mcIO, but the distribution of cells labeled from zone 0 was slightly caudal to that from zone 2. On average, 18% of neurons were double labeled. For the rH45 injections, cells retrogradely labeled from the two zones were intermingled in the rostral mcIO, but the distribution of cells labeled from zone 1 was slightly rostral to that from zone 3. On average, 22% of neurons were double labeled. In sum, each of the two rVA zones and the two rH45 zones receives input from slightly different regions of the mcIO, and about 20% of the neurons project to both zones.
Cortical activity is the product of interactions among neuronal populations. Macroscopic electrophysiological phenomena are generated by these interactions. In principle, the mechanisms of these interactions afford constraints on biologically plausible models of electrophysiological responses. In other words, the macroscopic features of cortical activity can be modelled in terms of the microscopic behaviour of neurons. An evoked response potential (ERP) is the mean electrical potential measured from an electrode on the scalp, in response to some event. The purpose of this paper is to outline a population density approach to modelling ERPs. We propose a biologically plausible model of neuronal activity that enables the estimation of physiologically meaningful parameters from electrophysiological data. The model encompasses four basic characteristics of neuronal activity and organization: (i) neurons are dynamic units, (ii) driven by stochastic forces, (iii) organized into populations with similar biophysical properties and response characteristics and (iv) multiple populations interact to form functional networks. This leads to a formulation of population dynamics in terms of the Fokker-Planck equation. The solution of this equation is the temporal evolution of a probability density over state-space, representing the distribution of an ensemble of trajectories. Each trajectory corresponds to the changing state of a neuron. Measurements can be modelled by taking expectations over this density, e.g. mean membrane potential, firing rate or energy consumption per neuron. The key motivation behind our approach is that ERPs represent an average response over many neurons. This means it is sufficient to model the probability density over neurons, because this implicitly models their average state. Although the dynamics of each neuron can be highly stochastic, the dynamics of the density is not. This means we can use Bayesian inference and estimation tools that have already been established for deterministic systems. The potential importance of modelling density dynamics (as opposed to more conventional neural mass models) is that they include interactions among the moments of neuronal states (e.g. the mean depolarization may depend on the variance of synaptic currents through nonlinear mechanisms).Here, we formulate a population model, based on biologically informed model-neurons with spike-rate adaptation and synaptic dynamics. Neuronal sub-populations are coupled to form an observation model, with the aim of estimating and making inferences about coupling among sub-populations using real data. We approximate the time-dependent solution of the system using a bi-orthogonal set and first-order perturbation expansion. For didactic purposes, the model is developed first in the context of deterministic input, and then extended to include stochastic effects. The approach is demonstrated using synthetic data, where model parameters are identified using a Bayesian estimation scheme we have described previously.
The elucidation of the complex machinery used by the human brain to segregate and integrate information while performing high cognitive functions is a subject of imminent future consequences. The most significant contributions to date in this field, known as cognitive neuroscience, have been achieved by using innovative neuroimaging techniques, such as electroencephalogram (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), which measure variations in both the time and the space of some interpretable physical magnitudes. Extraordinary maps of cerebral activation involving function-restricted brain areas, as well as graphs of the functional connectivity between them, have been obtained from EEG and fMRI data by solving some spatio-temporal inverse problems, which constitutes a top-down approach. However, in many cases, a natural bridge between these maps/graphs and the causal physiological processes is lacking, leading to some misunderstandings in their interpretation. Recent advances in the comprehension of the underlying physiological mechanisms associated with different cerebral scales have provided researchers with an excellent scenario to develop sophisticated biophysical models that permit an integration of these neuroimage modalities, which must share a common aetiology. This paper proposes a bottom-up approach, involving physiological parameters in a specific mesoscopic dynamic equations system. Further observation equations encapsulating the relationship between the mesostates and the EEG/fMRI data are obtained on the basis of the physical foundations of these techniques. A methodology for the estimation of parameters from fused EEG/fMRI data is also presented. In this context, the concepts of activation and effective connectivity are carefully revised. This new approach permits us to examine and discuss some future prospects for the integration of multimodal neuroimages.
In this paper, we propose the use of bilinear dynamical systems (BDS)s for model-based deconvolution of fMRI time-series. The importance of this work lies in being able to deconvolve haemodynamic time-series, in an informed way, to disclose the underlying neuronal activity. Being able to estimate neuronal responses in a particular brain region is fundamental for many models of functional integration and connectivity in the brain. BDSs comprise a stochastic bilinear neurodynamical model specified in discrete time, and a set of linear convolution kernels for the haemodynamics. We derive an expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm for parameter estimation, in which fMRI time-series are deconvolved in an E-step and model parameters are updated in an M-Step. We report preliminary results that focus on the assumed stochastic nature of the neurodynamic model and compare the method to Wiener deconvolution.
There is much current interest in identifying the anatomical and functional circuits that are the basis of the brain's computations, with hope that functional neuroimaging techniques will allow the in vivo study of these neural processes through the statistical analysis of the time-series they produce. Ideally, the use of techniques such as multivariate autoregressive (MAR) modelling should allow the identification of effective connectivity by combining graphical modelling methods with the concept of Granger causality. Unfortunately, current time-series methods perform well only for the case that the length of the time-series Nt is much larger than p, the number of brain sites studied, which is exactly the reverse of the situation in neuroimaging for which relatively short time-series are measured over thousands of voxels. Methods are introduced for dealing with this situation by using sparse MAR models. These can be estimated in a two-stage process involving (i) penalized regression and (ii) pruning of unlikely connections by means of the local false discovery rate developed by Efron. Extensive simulations were performed with idealized cortical networks having small world topologies and stable dynamics. These show that the detection efficiency of connections of the proposed procedure is quite high. Application of the method to real data was illustrated by the identification of neural circuitry related to emotional processing as measured by BOLD.

Recent results suggest that a negative ERP potential emerges not only on error trials, but is also found after correct responses. There is broad evidence that this component is generated in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). The present study aimed to explore the influence of working memory demands on the evaluation process probably reflected by the negative potential. To this purpose, a modified continuous performance task (CPT) was used, with variations of the delay between cues and imperative stimuli. Data were analyzed using conventional averaging techniques as well as source localization with LORETA (low resolution brain electromagnetic tomography). Results suggest a significant effect of working memory delay on the amplitude of the post-response negative ERP component. Its source was located in the anterior cingulate cortex, with the exact location being dependent upon working memory demands. The results support the notion of a general response evaluation system reflected by a post-response negative component. The findings of a working memory dependent modification of this potential suggest a functional link between the medial frontal cortex and the lateral frontal regions primarily involved in working memory processing.
Sedative-hypnotic drugs commonly used in the elderly may affect functional recovery following cerebrovascular events. Previous research has shown that prolonged exposure to diazepam can interfere with recovery of function and exaggerate tissue loss after brain injury. The present study evaluated the effect of zopiclone, a widely used hypnotic drug, on functional and histological outcome after cortical photothrombosis in aged rats, which might be particularly vulnerable to brain insults and inhibitory sedative-hypnotic drugs. Aged Wistar rats were treated with zopiclone at a dose of 3 mg/kg (i.p., once a day) beginning 4 days before ischemia induction and continuing for 23 days. Sensorimotor recovery was assessed by a new ledged beam-walking test and spatial learning by the Morris water-maze. After a 7-day washout period all rats were administered a single dose of zopiclone (3 mg/kg, i.p.) and retested. Infarct volumes were measured from nitroblue tetrazolium-stained sections at the end of the experiment. Beam-walking data showed that ischemic rats treated with zopiclone were not more impaired than untreated rats. Indeed, they showed fewer faults with the impaired hindlimb than ischemic controls on post-operative day 16. Water-maze performance was not affected by zopiclone. After the washout period a single dose of zopiclone did not worsen forelimb or hindlimb function, but seemed to improve performance in the water-maze test. Cortical infarct volumes were similar in ischemic controls and ischemic rats treated with zopiclone. In conclusion, zopiclone was not detrimental and even seemed to improve behavioral outcome without affecting ischemic damage in aged rats subjected to cortical photothrombosis.
This study determined if the hippocampal theta rhythm showed phase relationships or changes in amplitude and frequency with the onset of stimuli and locomotion in a task in which auditory cues initiated and suppressed approach locomotion. Rats with electrodes in the dorsal hippocampus lapped at a milk dipper and were presented a tone which predicted the delivery of a food pellet. In some trials the pellet cue tone was negated by 60-Hz clicks beginning 0.3 s after onset, and no pellet was delivered. A video capture system (20-ms sampling) synchronized to the hippocampal recording system (10-ms sampling) was used to determine the onset of locomotor approach to the pellet area. The findings failed to support proposals that phase-related mechanisms play a role in encoding and retrieval of movement-related information. Neither the pellet cue nor the negating cue reset the theta rhythm, and they did not produce differential evoked potentials. During milk lapping, theta amplitude increased in the 1/2s prior to all pellet cues regardless of their locomotor effect. Frequency also rose but only when a non-negated pellet elicited short-latency locomotion. During locomotor execution, theta peak amplitude peaked earlier than theta frequency by approximately one period. In general during performance of this task, increasing theta amplitude reflected a general preparation to process the cue and increasing theta frequency reflected the readiness to respond to the cue with locomotion.
TRPM5, a member of the superfamily of transient receptor potential ion channels, is essential for the detection of bitter, sweet, and amino acid tastes. In heterologous cell types it forms a nonselective cation channel that is activated by intracellular Ca(2+). TRPM5 is likely to be part of the taste transduction cascade, and regulators of TRPM5 are likely to affect taste sensation. In this report we show that TRPM5, but not the related channel TRPM4b, is potently blocked by extracellular acidification. External acidification has two effects, a fast reversible block of the current (IC(50) pH = 6.2) and a slower irreversible enhancement of current inactivation. Mutation of a single Glu residue in the S3-S4 linker and a His residue in the pore region each reduced sensitivity of TRPM5 currents to fast acid block (IC(50) pH = 5.8 for both), and the double mutant was nearly insensitive to acidic pH (IC(50) pH = 5.0). Prolonged exposure to acidic pH enhanced inactivation of TRPM5 currents, and mutant channels that were less sensitive to acid block were also less sensitive to acid-enhanced inactivation, suggesting an intimate association between the two processes. These processes are, however, distinct because the pore mutant H896N, which has normal sensitivity to acid block, shows significant recovery from acid-enhanced inactivation. These data show that extracellular acidification acts through specific residues on TRPM5 to block conduction through two distinct but related mechanisms and suggest a possible interaction between extracellular pH and activation and adaptation of bitter, sweet, and amino acid taste transduction.

Potassium (K+) channel subunits of the Kv3 subfamily (Kv3.1-Kv3.4) display a positively shifted voltage dependence of activation and fast activation/deactivation kinetics when compared with other voltage-gated K+ channels, features that confer on Kv3 channels the ability to accelerate the repolarization of the action potential (AP) efficiently and specifically. In the cortex, the Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 proteins are expressed prominently in a subset of GABAergic interneurons known as fast-spiking (FS) cells and in fact are a significant determinant of the fast-spiking discharge pattern. However, in addition to expression at FS cell somata, Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 proteins also are expressed prominently at FS cell terminals, suggesting roles for Kv3 channels in neurotransmitter release. We investigated the effect of 1.0 mM tetraethylammonium (TEA; which blocks Kv3 channels) on inhibitory synaptic currents recorded in layer II/III neocortical pyramidal cells. Spike-evoked GABA release by FS cells was enhanced nearly twofold by 1.0 mM TEA, with a decrease in the paired pulse ratio (PPR), effects not reproduced by blockade of the non-Kv3 subfamily K+ channels also blocked by low concentrations of TEA. Moreover, in Kv3.1/Kv3.2 double knock-out (DKO) mice, the large effects of TEA were absent, spike-evoked GABA release was larger, and the PPR was lower than in wild-type mice. Together, these results suggest specific roles for Kv3 channels at FS cell terminals that are distinct from those of Kv1 and large-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ channels (also present at the FS cell synapse). We propose that at FS cell terminals synaptically localized Kv3 channels keep APs brief, limiting Ca2+ influx and hence release probability, thereby influencing synaptic depression at a synapse designed for sustained high-frequency synaptic transmission.
Decoding the activity of a population of neurons is a fundamental problem in neuroscience. A key aspect of this problem is determining whether correlations in the activity, i.e., noise correlations, are important. If they are important, then the decoding problem is high dimensional: decoding algorithms must take the correlational structure in the activity into account. If they are not important, or if they play a minor role, then the decoding problem can be reduced to lower dimension and thus made more tractable. The issue of whether correlations are important has been a subject of heated debate. The debate centers around the validity of the measures used to address it. Here, we evaluate three of the most commonly used ones: synergy, DeltaI(shuffled), and DeltaI. We show that synergy and DeltaI(shuffled) are confounded measures: they can be zero when correlations are clearly important for decoding and positive when they are not. In contrast, DeltaI is not confounded. It is zero only when correlations are not important for decoding and positive only when they are; that is, it is zero only when one can decode exactly as well using a decoder that ignores correlations as one can using a decoder that does not, and it is positive only when one cannot decode as well. Finally, we show that DeltaI has an information theoretic interpretation; it is an upper bound on the information lost when correlations are ignored.
Functional architectures facilitate orderly transmittal of representations between cortices, allow for local interactions between neurons, and ensure a uniform distribution of feature representations with respect to larger-scale topographies. We sought to correlate such topographies with internal cognitive states. A psychophysical task for which the monkey was required to detect a change in one of two identical peripheral expanding flow fields tested for spatial shifts of attention. The monkey was cued as to which flow would change with a small cue near the fixation points. Reaction time data indicate that the monkey's performance in the optic flow detection task depended on the location of the cue. Using optical imaging of intrinsic signals, we show that a monkey's internally generated locus of attention is correlated with an 800-860 microm patchy topological architecture across the cortical surface of the inferior parietal lobule. The attentional patches vary in location but are stable in spatial frequency. The patches are embedded in a larger-scale and stable representation of eye position. Trial-by-trial analysis of the images indicates that the organizational scheme with simultaneous stable and variable subcomponents occurs within the experiment of 1 d, as well as across days. This novel functional architecture is the first to be correlated with attentional mechanisms and could support a fine-scale functional architecture underlying hemispatial neglect, an attentional deficit caused by parietal lesions.
The pre-Btzinger complex (preBtC) in the ventrolateral medulla contains interneurons important for respiratory rhythm generation. Voltage-dependent sodium channels mediate transient current (I(NaT)), underlying action potentials, and persistent current (I(NaP)), contributing to repetitive firing, pacemaker properties, and the amplification of synaptic inputs. Voltage-clamp studies of the biophysical properties of these sodium currents were conducted on acutely dissociated preBtC region neurons. Reverse transcription-PCR demonstrated the presence of mRNA for Nav1.1, Nav1.2, and Nav1.6 alpha-subunits in individual neurons. A TTX-sensitive I(NaP) was evoked in all tested neurons by ramp depolarization from -80 to 0 mV. Including a constant in the Boltzmann equation for inactivation by estimating the steady-state fraction of Na+ channels available for inactivation allowed prediction of a window current that did not decay to 0 at voltages positive to -20 mV and closely matched the measured I(NaP). Riluzole (3 microM), a putative I(NaP) antagonist, reduced both I(NaP) and I(NaT) and produced a hyperpolarizing shift in the voltage dependence of steady-state inactivation. The latter decreased the predicted window current by an amount equivalent to the decrease in I(NaP). Riluzole also decreased the inactivation time constant at potentials in which the peak window/persistent currents are generated. Together, these findings imply that I(NaP) and I(NaT) arise from the same channels and that a simple modification of the Hodgkin-Huxley model can satisfactorily account for both currents. In the rostral ventral respiratory group (immediately caudal to preBtC), I(NaP) was also detected, but peak conductance, current density, and input resistance were smaller than in preBtC region cells.
Prior experiments have shown that a region of the medial and inferior vestibular nuclei contributes to cardiovascular and respiratory regulation. In addition to labyrinthine inputs, the majority of neurons in this region of the vestibular nuclei receive signals from the skin, muscle, and viscera, although the pathways conveying these nonlabyrinthine inputs to the vestibular nucleus neurons are unknown. To gain further insight into the afferent pathways to this functionally distinct subdivision of the vestibular complex, we combined monosynaptic mapping with viral transneuronal tracing in the ferret. First order afferent projections were defined by retrograde transport of the beta-subunit of cholera toxin (CTbeta), and the extended polysynaptic circuitry was defined in the same animals by injection of a recombinant of pseudorabies virus Bartha (PRV) into the contralateral vestibular nuclei. Neurons containing CTbeta or infected by retrograde transneuronal transport and replication of PRV were distributed throughout the spinal cord, but were 10 times more prevalent in the cervical cord than the lumbar cord. The labeled spinal neurons were most commonly observed in Rexed's laminae IV-VI and the dorsal portions of laminae VII-VIII. Both the CTbeta and PRV injections also resulted in labeling of neurons in all four vestibular nuclei, the prepositus hypoglossi, the reticular formation, the inferior olivary nucleus, the medullary raphe nuclei, the spinal and principal trigeminal nuclei, the facial nucleus, and the lateral reticular nucleus. Following survival times &gt;/=3 days, PRV-infected neurons were additionally present in nucleus solitarius and the gracile and cuneate nuclei. These data show that an anatomical substrate is present for somatosensory and visceral inputs to influence the activity of cells in the autonomic region of the vestibular nuclei and suggest that these signals are primarily transmitted through brainstem relay neurons.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF)-related peptides modulate stress-related physiology and behavior. Some of the physiological and behavioral effects of CRF-related peptides may be due to actions on CRF type 2 (CRF2) receptors modulating serotonergic systems in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DR). To determine if CRF2 receptor activation has effects on serotonergic neurons in the DR in conscious behaving rats, we gave intracerebroventricular (icv) injections of the selective CRF2 receptor agonist urocortin 2 (0, 0.01, 0.1, or 1.0 mug in 2 microl saline) to adult male Wistar rats and quantified c-Fos expression in topographically organized subpopulations of serotonergic neurons within the DR. In addition, home cage behaviors were recorded for 30 min prior to drug treatment and for 2 h following drug treatment. Two hours following drug treatment, rats were anesthetized, transcardially perfused with fixative, and brain tissues were processed for immunohistochemistry. Urocortin 2, in the absence of any effects on most behavioral endpoints studied, consistently increased c-Fos expression in subpopulations of serotonergic neurons identified by either tryptophan hydroxylase or serotonin immunostaining within specific subdivisions of the DR, particularly the dorsal region of the mid-rostrocaudal and caudal DR (-7.64, -8.18, -8.54, and -9.16 mm bregma). These studies demonstrate that urocortin 2 has selective actions on a subset of DR serotonergic neurons. Urocortin 2 actions on serotonergic systems described here may contribute to delayed behavioral effects of urocortin 2 described previously, including orexigenic, locomotor, and anxiety-related effects in a variety of behavioral tests as well as potentiation of conditioned fear and induction of escape deficits in a model of learned helplessness.

The authors prospectively studied the value of clinical and neurophysiologic measurements in assessing progression in ALS. Motor unit number estimation (MUNE) and the neurophysiologic index (NI) were significantly correlated with ADM strength (maximal voluntary isometric contraction force in the abductor digiti minimi muscle [MVIC-ADM]). MUNE and the NI were reliable, but the NI showed a lower variation. On assessing progression at 3, 6, and 12 months, MUNE, NI, and MVIC-ADM showed the highest rate of change. The NI is a potentially useful new neurophysiologic measurement.
The determinants of ALS caregiver burden and the feeling of the patients as being a burden were assessed using the Caregiver Burden Inventory and the Self-Perceived Burden Scale in 60 caregiver-patient couples. Caregiver burden was correlated to their level of depression and quality of life and, differently from other chronic disorders, increased with the worsening of patients' disability. ALS patients have a good objective perception of their impact on caregivers.
Primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) is a diagnosis of exclusion in patients with progressive spinobulbar spasticity and could be part of the clinical spectrum of ALS. Unlike ALS, which is familial in 5 to 10% of the cases, PLS has been described as a sporadic disorder in adults. The authors report two patients with PLS from unrelated SOD1-negative familial ALS families. These observations provide further evidence that PLS can be linked pathophysiologically to ALS.

Synthetic vectors based on reducible polycations consisting of histidine and polylysine residues (HIS RPCs) were evaluated for their ability to deliver nucleic acids. Initial experiments showed that RPC-based vectors with at least 70% histidine content mediated efficient levels of gene transfer without requirement for the endosomolytic agent chloroquine. Significant gene transfer was observed in a range of cell types achieving up to a 5-fold increase in the percentage of transfected cells compared to 25 kDa PEI, a gold standard synthetic vector. In contrast to 25 kDa PEI, HIS RPCs also mediated efficient transfer of other nucleic acids, including mRNA encoding green fluorescent protein in PC-3 cells and siRNA directed against the neurotrophin receptor p75(NTR) in post-mitotic cultures of rat dorsal root ganglion cell neurons. Experiments to elevate intracellular glutathione and linear profiling of cell images captured by multiphoton fluorescent microscopy highlighted that parameters such as the molecular weight and rate of cleavage of HIS RPCs were important factors in determining transfection activity. Altogether, these results demonstrate that HIS RPCs represent a novel and versatile type of vector that can be used for efficient cytoplasmic delivery of a broad range of nucleic acids. This should enable different or a combination of therapeutic strategies to be evaluated using a single type of polycation-based vector.
One of the most intriguing of the many discrepancies between perceived spatial relationships and the physical structure of visual stimuli is the Poggendorff illusion, when an obliquely oriented line that is interrupted no longer appears collinear. Although many different theories have been proposed to explain this effect, there has been no consensus about its cause. Here, we use a database of range images (i.e., images that include the distance from the image plane of every pixel in the scene) to show that the probability distribution of the possible locations of line segments across an interval in natural environments can fully account for all of the behavior of this otherwise puzzling phenomenon.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative condition characterized by motoneuron degeneration and muscle paralysis. Although the precise pathogenesis of ALS remains unclear, mutations in Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) account for approximately 20-25% of familial ALS cases, and transgenic mice overexpressing human mutant SOD1 develop an ALS-like phenotype. Evidence suggests that defects in axonal transport play an important role in neurodegeneration. In Legs at odd angles (Loa) mice, mutations in the motor protein dynein are associated with axonal transport defects and motoneuron degeneration. Here, we show that retrograde axonal transport defects are already present in motoneurons of SOD1(G93A) mice during embryonic development. Surprisingly, crossing SOD1(G93A) mice with Loa/+ mice delays disease progression and significantly increases life span in Loa/SOD1(G93A) mice. Moreover, there is a complete recovery in axonal transport deficits in motoneurons of these mice, which may be responsible for the amelioration of disease. We propose that impaired axonal transport is a prime cause of neuronal death in neurodegenerative disorders such as ALS.
Timely differentiation of progenitor cells is critical for development. In this study we asked whether global epigenetic mechanisms regulate timing of progenitor cell differentiation into myelin-forming oligodendrocytes in vivo. Histone deacetylation was essential during a specific temporal window of development and was dependent on the enzymatic activity of histone deacetylases, whose expression was detected in the developing corpus callosum. During the first 10 postnatal days, administration of valproic acid (VPA), the specific inhibitor for histone deacetylase activity, resulted in significant hypomyelination with delayed expression of late differentiation markers and retained expression of progenitor markers. Differentiation resumed in VPA-injected rats if a recovery period was allowed. Administration of VPA after myelination onset had no effect on myelin gene expression and was consistent with changes of nucleosomal histones from reversible deacetylation to more stable methylation and chromatin compaction. Together, these data identify global modifications of nucleosomal histones critical for timing of oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelination in the developing corpus callosum.
Voluntary exercise produces a dramatic increase in the number of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-positive cells in the adult dentate gyrus (DG); however, it has never been determined whether this increase reflects neurogenic activity or some exercise-induced change in the metabolic processing of systemically injected BrdU. In these experiments, we show that 1) 200 mg/kg is a saturating dose for single injections of BrdU in both control and voluntary exercise animals; 2) there is significantly more cell labeling in animals that exercise when saturating doses of BrdU are employed; 3) high doses of BrdU do not affect the number, appearance, or distribution of labeled cells; 4) voluntary exercise leads to similar increases in the number of cells expressing Ki67, an intrinsic marker of cellular proliferation; 5) both dendritic length and complexity are significantly increased in the DG of animals that exercise; and 6) spine density is significantly greater on dendrites in the DG following voluntary exercise. This study demonstrates that exercise up-regulates neurogenic activity in the DG of adult rats, independently of any putative changes in altered BrdU metabolism, and that it also substantially alters the morphology of dentate granule cell dendrites. The dramatic changes in the cytoarchitecture of the DG induced by voluntary exercise might underlie the enhancement of hippocampal long-term potentiation and hippocampal-dependent memory that our group has previously described. These results suggest that exercise may be an effective component of therapeutic regimes aimed at improving the functioning of individuals with neuropathologies that involve the degradation of cells in the hippocampus.

APH-1 is one of the four essential components of the presenilin-gamma-secretase complex and has two human homologs, APH-1a, and APH-1b, both of which are seven-pass membrane proteins. Here, we identified a novel splice variant of human APH-1b. This variant lacks exon 4, which encodes the entire fourth transmembrane domain. The mRNA expression of this variant was detected in most tissues at low levels. In transiently transfected cells, protein expression of the APH-1b variant was much lower than that of the wild-type. Furthermore, exogenous expression of the APH-1-interacting protein, nicastrin, significantly increased the variant protein levels. These data suggest that the APH-1b variant protein is destabilized, and implies that the fourth transmembrane domain plays an important role in the protein stability and function of APH-1.
It is not known how the brain modifies its regulatory systems in response to the application of a drug, especially over the long term of weeks and months. We have developed a model system approach to this question by manipulating cholinergic cell groups of the laterodorsal and pedunculopontine tegmental (LDT/PPT) nuclei in the pontomesencephalic tegmentum (PMT), which are known to be actively involved in the timing and quantity of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. In a freely moving feline model, a single microinjection of the cholinergic agonist carbachol conjugated to a latex nanosphere delivery system into the caudolateral PMT elicits a long-term enhancement of one distinguishing phasic event of REM sleep, ponto-geniculo-occipital (PGO) waves, lasting 5 days but without any significant change in REM sleep or other behavioral state. Here, we test the hypothesis that cholinergic activation within the caudolateral PMT alters the postsynaptic excitability of the PGO network, stimulating the prolonged expression of c-fos that underlies this long-term PGO enhancement (LTPE) effect. Using quantitative Fos immunohistochemistry, we found that the number of Fos-immunoreactive (Fos-IR) neurons surrounding the caudolateral PMT injection site decreased sharply by postcarbachol day 03, while the number of Fos-IR neurons in the more rostral LDT/PPT increased &gt;30-fold and remained at a high level following the course of LTPE. These results demonstrate a sustained c-fos expression in response to pharmacological stimulation of the brain and suggest that carbachol's acute effects induce LTPE via cholinergic receptors, with subsequent transsynaptic activation of the LDT/PPT maintaining the LTPE effect.
Nicastrin is a type 1 transmembrane glycoprotein that interacts with presenilin, Aph-1, and Pen-2 proteins to form a high molecular complex with gamma secretase activity. Then, nicastrin has a central role in presenilin-mediated processing of beta-amyloid precursor protein and in some aspects of Notch/glp-1 signaling in vivo. Here, we isolated a rat nicastrin cDNA and investigated gene expression in embryonic and adult rat tissues. The predicted amino acid sequence is comprised of 708 residues and showed a high degree of identity with other vertebrate orthologs. Besides full-length nicastrin mRNA, we identified an alternative spliced variant lacking the whole exon 3 and predicted to encode a 62-residue-long truncated protein. Full-length nicastrin mRNA was observed to be ubiquitously expressed, while the spliced variant was preferentially transcribed in the nervous system, whether in embryonic or adult neural tissues. Studies performed on primary cell cultures demonstrated that the short isoform was expressed in neurons, but not in astrocyte and microglial cells. Further experiments performed to verify the presence of the variant in neuroblastoma culture failed to show any truncated protein. Treatments by cyclohexamide showed the involvement of a quality control-based surveillance mechanism, which selectively degrades the exon 3-skipped isoform. In summary, this is the first report describing a novel skipped isoform of nicastrin which may suggest a new possible control mechanism based on the alternative splicing and nonsense-mediated mRNA decay to regulate brain protein expression and provide newer insights into potential implication in Alzheimer's disease.
Increasing evidence suggests that the low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP) affects the processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and amyloid beta (Abeta) protein production as well as mediates the clearance of Abeta from the brain. Recent studies indicate that the cytoplasmic domain of LRP is critical for this modulation of APP processing requiring perhaps a complex between APP, the adaptor protein FE65, and LRP. In this study, we expressed a small LRP domain consisting of the C-terminal 97 amino acids of the cytoplasmic domain, or LRP-soluble tail (LRP-ST), in CHO cells to test the hypothesis that the APP.LRP complex can be disrupted. We anticipated that LRP-ST would inhibit the normal interaction between LRP and APP and therefore perturb APP processing to resemble a LRP-deficient state. Surprisingly, CHO cells expressing LRP-ST demonstrated an increase in both sAPP secretion and Abeta production compared with control CHO cells in a manner reminiscent of the cellular effects of the APP &quot;Swedish mutation.&quot; The increase in sAPP secretion consisted mainly of sAPPbeta, consistent with the increase in Abeta release. Further, this effect is LRP-independent, as the same alterations remained when LRP-ST was expressed in LRP-deficient cells but not when the construct was membrane-anchored. Finally, deletion experiments suggested that the last 50 amino acid residues of LRP-ST contain the important domain for altering APP processing and Abeta production. These observations indicate that there are cellular pathways that may suppress Abeta generation but that can be altered to facilitate Abeta production.
beta-Arrestins regulate the functioning of G protein-coupled receptors in a variety of cellular processes including receptor-mediated endocytosis and activation of signaling molecules such as ERK. A key event in these processes is the G protein-coupled receptor-mediated recruitment of beta-arrestins to the plasma membrane. However, despite extensive knowledge in this field, it is still disputable whether activation of signaling pathways via beta-arrestin recruitment entails paired activation of receptor dimers. To address this question, we investigated the ability of different muscarinic receptor dimers to recruit beta-arrestin-1 using both co-immunoprecipitation and fluorescence microscopy in COS-7 cells. Experimentally, we first made use of a mutated muscarinic M(3) receptor, which is deleted in most of the third intracellular loop (M(3)-short). Although still capable of activating phospholipase C, this receptor loses almost completely the ability to recruit beta-arrestin-1 following carbachol stimulation in COS-7 cells. Subsequently, M(3)-short was co-expressed with the M(3) receptor. Under these conditions, the M(3)/M(3)-short heterodimer could not recruit beta-arrestin-1 to the plasma membrane, even though the control M(3)/M(3) homodimer could. We next tested the ability of chimeric adrenergic muscarinic alpha(2)/M(3) and M(3)/alpha(2) heterodimeric receptors to co-immunoprecipitate with beta-arrestin-1 following stimulation with adrenergic and muscarinic agonists. beta-Arrestin-1 co-immunoprecipitation could be induced only when carbachol or clonidine were given together and not when the two agonists were supplied separately. Finally, we tested the reciprocal influence that each receptor may exert on the M(2)/M(3) heterodimer to recruit beta-arrestin-1. Remarkably, we observed that M(2)/M(3) heterodimers recruit significantly greater amounts of beta-arrestin-1 than their respective M(3)/M(3) or M(2)/M(2) homodimers. Altogether, these findings provide strong evidence in favor of the view that binding of beta-arrestin-1 to muscarinic M(3) receptors requires paired stimulation of two receptor components within the same receptor dimer.
The classic neurotrophin hypothesis is based on the idea that innervating neurons derive 'mature' neurotrophin provided by the target for their survival. Yet large precursor forms of the neurotrophin nerve growth factor (NGF) have been reported in both central and peripheral tissues. In the present study, immunoblotting was used to survey peripheral tissues containing NGF-responsive neurons and to characterize various NGF species. These results demonstrate that 'mature' forms of NGF, i.e., the 13 and 16kDa species, are rare in sympathetic and sensory ganglia and in their peripheral targets, and that large molecular weight NGF precursors are abundant. In addition, certain NGF forms predominate in a given tissue, with each tissue exhibiting a characteristic NGF expression pattern. These findings suggest that NGF processing in peripheral tissues and in NGF-responsive ganglia may involve a variety of NGF species.
Both reaction time (RT) and evoked potential (EP) studies have shown that interhemispheric transfer is faster from the right to the left hemisphere than vice versa. This has been explained either in terms of an asymmetry of callosal fibres or as a result of hemispheric specialization. Here we suggest that it may be due to greater activity resulting from a greater number of fast-conducting, myelinated fibres in the right hemisphere than in the left. Interhemispheric transfer times (IHTTs) were measured in 13 males by comparing latencies and amplitudes of N160 EPs ipsilateral and contralateral to checkerboard stimuli presented to the left or right visual field. IHTT estimates were obtained from three homologous electrode pairs. The shorter IHTT from right-to-left was associated with a concomitant increase in N160 negativity in the right hemisphere. There was no evidence from RTs to stimuli in each visual field to suggest that the right hemisphere was dominant for this task, suggesting that the faster speed of transfer from the right-to-left hemisphere may depend on faster axonal conduction in the right hemisphere relative to the left.
A renin-angiotensin system, separate to that in the periphery, has been found in the brain. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) is crucial in the synthesis of angiotensin II, breakdown of bradykinin and the hydrolysis of several other neuropeptides such as enkephalin, substance P, dynorphin and neurotensin. Changes in the levels of ACE have been found in brains of schizophrenia patients, suggesting an involvement of ACE in the illness which awaits further investigation. Prepulse inhibition (PPI) has been suggested to be an operational measure of sensorimotor gating and is disrupted in patients with schizophrenia. We found that ACE knockout mice have increased startle responses but no differences in baseline PPI compared to wildtype controls. Treatment with the dopamine receptor agonist, apomorphine, or the dopamine-releasing drug, amphetamine, produced significant disruption of PPI in control mice but not in ACE knockout mice. Pretreatment with the ACE inhibitor, captopril, which itself did not affect PPI, caused a reduction in the effect of apomorphine on PPI, similar to that seen in the ACE knockout mice. These data suggest an important role of ACE substrates in modulating dopaminergic mechanisms involved in PPI. Further studies are needed to ascertain if angiotensin or other neuropeptides are involved in these interactions and to investigate the neurochemical mechanism behind these effects.
LY354740 (1) is a highly potent and selective agonist of metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors 2 and 3. In the present study, we have prepared C3- and C4-methyl-substituted variants of rac-1, compounds 5, 9, and 13. Each of these racemic methyl-substituted analogues displaced specific binding of the mGlu2/3 receptor antagonist (3)H-2S-2-amino-2-(1S,2S-2-carboxycycloprop-1-yl)-3-(xanth-9-yl)propanoic acid ((3)H-LY341495) from membranes expressing mGlu2 or mGlu3 receptor subtypes. Evaluation of the functional effects of this series on second messenger responses in cells expressing human mGlu2 or mGlu3 receptors revealed C3beta-methyl analogue 5 to possess antagonist properties at both mGlu2 and mGlu3 receptors while C4beta-methyl analogue 9 acts as a full agonist at each of these targets. Unexpectedly, we found that incorporation of a methyl substituent at the C4alpha-position as in analogue 13 results in a mixed mGlu2 agonist/mGlu3 antagonist pharmacological profile. All of the mGlu2 agonist and mGlu3 antagonist activity of rac-13 was found to reside in its resolved (+)-isomer.
A series of benzodioxanylpiperazine derivatives possessing a 4-aryl amide substituent was prepared and evaluated for 5-HT(1A) affinity and functional antagonist activity in vitro and in vivo. All of the compounds in this series possessed high affinity for the human 5-HT(1A) receptor and many displayed potent antagonist activity in vitro and varying degrees of intrinsic activity in vivo. Compound 11c (Lecozotan) was selected for further development and is currently in clinical trials.
ERbeta has been associated with estrogen-induced promotion of memory function and neuronal survival. Based on the optimized complex structure of human ERbeta LBD bound with genistein, computer-aided structure-based virtual screening against a natural source chemical database was conducted to determine the occurrence of plant-based ERbeta-selective ligands. Twelve representative hits derived from database screening were assessed for their binding profiles to both ERs, three of which displayed over 100-fold binding selectivity to ERbeta over ERalpha.




Uncertainty in various forms plagues our interactions with the environment. In a Bayesian statistical framework, optimal inference and prediction, based on unreliable observations in changing contexts, require the representation and manipulation of different forms of uncertainty. We propose that the neuromodulators acetylcholine and norepinephrine play a major role in the brain's implementation of these uncertainty computations. Acetylcholine signals expected uncertainty, coming from known unreliability of predictive cues within a context. Norepinephrine signals unexpected uncertainty, as when unsignaled context switches produce strongly unexpected observations. These uncertainty signals interact to enable optimal inference and learning in noisy and changeable environments. This formulation is consistent with a wealth of physiological, pharmacological, and behavioral data implicating acetylcholine and norepinephrine in specific aspects of a range of cognitive processes. Moreover, the model suggests a class of attentional cueing tasks that involve both neuromodulators and shows how their interactions may be part-antagonistic, part-synergistic.
In rod photoreceptors, arrestin localizes to the outer segment (OS) in the light and to the inner segment (IS) in the dark. Here, we demonstrate that redistribution of arrestin between these compartments can proceed in ATP-depleted photoreceptors. Translocation of transducin from the IS to the OS also does not require energy, but depletion of ATP or GTP inhibits its reverse movement. A sustained presence of activated rhodopsin is required for sequestering arrestin in the OS, and the rate of arrestin relocalization to the OS is determined by the amount and the phosphorylation status of photolyzed rhodopsin. Interaction of arrestin with microtubules is increased in the dark. Mutations that enhance arrestin-microtubule binding attenuate arrestin translocation to the OS. These results indicate that the distribution of arrestin in rods is controlled by its dynamic interactions with rhodopsin in the OS and microtubules in the IS and that its movement occurs by simple diffusion.
Postsynaptic AMPA receptor (AMPAR) trafficking mediates some forms of synaptic plasticity that are modulated by NMDA receptor (NMDAR) activation and N-ethylmaleimide sensitive factor (NSF). We report that NSF is physiologically S-nitrosylated by endogenous, neuronally derived nitric oxide (NO). S-nitrosylation of NSF augments its binding to the AMPAR GluR2 subunit. Surface insertion of GluR2 in response to activation of synaptic NMDARs requires endogenous NO, acting selectively upon the binding of NSF to GluR2. Thus, AMPAR recycling elicited by NMDA neurotransmission is mediated by a cascade involving NMDA activation of neuronal NO synthase to form NO, leading to S-nitrosylation of NSF which is thereby activated, enabling it to bind to GluR2 and promote the receptor's surface expression.
Dendritic spines are tiny protrusions on dendritic shafts where most excitatory synapses are located. Recent advances in imaging technologies have given us great insight into the function of spines as biochemical compartments. Here we review recent evidence suggesting that the geometry of dendritic spines controls postsynaptic calcium signaling and is bidirectionally regulated during synaptic plasticity.
An important aspect of decision-making is the need to make interpretations and predictions in the face of uncertain information. In this issue of Neuron, Yu and Dayan describe a model of the role of acetylcholine and norepinephrine in balancing top-down expectation and bottom-up sensory input in guiding behavior. The model builds from data on physiological effects of modulators regulating the balance of cortical feedback and thalamic input.
The molecular specification of central circuits that coordinate expression of innate behaviors in response to specific sensory cues from the environment remains a puzzle. In this issue of Neuron, Choi, Dong, and colleagues used expression profiling and genetic axonal tracing to visualize a hypothalamic point of convergence for defensive and reproductive olfactory cues that may function as a gating mechanism for sensory activation of defensive responses over reproduction.
Rats learn to avoid palatable saccharin solutions that predict the systemic administration of reinforcing drugs as well as malaise-inducing lithium chloride (conditioned saccharin avoidance, CSA). In the present study the involvement of dopamine (DA) transmission in the acquisition of morphine, nicotine and lithium-conditioned CSA was investigated in a two-bottle choice paradigm. Nicotine tartrate (0.2 and 0.4 mg/kg s.c.) administered 15 min after saccharin presentation induced CSA, with a maximum effect at 0.4 mg/kg. The DA D1 receptor antagonist, SCH 39166 (0.1 mg/kg s.c.) and the DA D2 receptor antagonist raclopride (0.3 mg/kg s.c.), administered immediately after saccharin, prevented CSA induced by the lower but not by the higher dose of nicotine. However, combined administration of the two antagonists prevented CSA induced by the higher dose of nicotine. SCH 39166 prevented CSA induced by all morphine doses while raclopride prevented only CSA induced by the lowest dose of morphine (1.75 mg/kg). CSA induced by different doses of lithium given by the same schedule of drug-CSA (i.e. two pairings, 15 min after saccharin) was not affected by SCH 39166. However SCH 39166 impaired the acquisition of lithium-CSA when lithium was given 60 min after saccharin. In contrast, raclopride failed to affect lithium-CSA independently from the delay between saccharin and lithium. These results suggest that DA can play different roles in drug- and in lithium-CSA and are consistent with a different mechanism of drug- as compared to lithium-CSA.
Since nutrition-sensitive feedback signals normally act to maintain relatively stable levels of both available and stored nutritional resources, failure in one or more of these feedback signals could plausibly lead to obese phenotypes. The glucostatic hypothesis in its original form posited that glucose serves as a physiological satiety factor (in the sense that post-prandial increases in plasma glucose cause meal termination), but in this form the hypothesis has been difficult to prove, and, especially since the discovery of leptin, the glucostatic hypothesis has largely been abandoned. Nevertheless, reduction of plasma glucose levels or glucose signaling produces a profile of neuroendocrine responses similar to those produced by leptin deficiency. Since leptin is not a physiological satiety factor (because it does not increase before meal termination), yet leptin deficiency causes obesity, we suggest that the glucostatic hypothesis be re-formulated without reference to satiety (i.e., short-term effects on food intake). Instead we argue that like leptin signaling, glucose signaling regulates long-term energy balance, in part by regulating metabolic rate but also by chronically regulating food intake. We further speculate that high-fat diets produce obesity in part because carbohydrates are, per calorie, more effective than lipids to reduce food intake and increase metabolic rate. In support of this glucoadipostatic hypothesis, the 5 present review examines evidence that obesity and the metabolic syndrome may be due to reduction in neuroendocrine sensitivity to glucose leading to increased metabolic efficiency.
Although metabolites and energy balance have long been known to play roles in the regulation of food intake, the potential role of fatty acid metabolism in this process has been considered only recently. Fatty acid synthase (FAS) catalyzes the condensation of acetyl-CoA and malonyl-CoA to generate long-chain fatty acids in the cytoplasm, while the breakdown of fatty acids (beta-oxidation) occurs in mitochondria and is regulated by carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1 (CPT-1), the rate-limiting step for the entry of fatty acids into the mitochondria. Inhibition of FAS using cerulenin or synthetic FAS inhibitors such as C75 reduces food intake and induces profound reversible weight loss. Subsequent studies reveal that C75 also stimulates CPT-1 and increases beta-oxidation. Hypotheses as to the mechanisms by which C75 and cerulenin mediate their effects have been proposed. Centrally, these compounds alter the expression profiles of feeding-related neuropeptides, often inhibiting the expression of orexigenic peptides. Whether through centrally mediated or peripheral mechanisms, C75 also increases energy consumption, which contributes to weight loss. In vitro and in vivo studies demonstrate that at least part of C75's effects is mediated by modulation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a known peripheral energy-sensing kinase. Collectively, these data suggest a role for fatty acid metabolism in the perception and regulation of energy balance.
In addition to mediating sexual maturation and reproduction through stimulation of classical intracellular receptors that bind DNA and regulate gene expression, estradiol is also thought to influence various brain functions by acting on receptors localized to the neuronal membrane surface. Many intracellular signaling pathways and modulatory proteins are affected by estradiol via this unconventional route, including regulation of the transcription factor cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB). However, the mechanisms by which estradiol acts at the membrane surface are poorly understood. Because both estradiol and CREB have been implicated in regulating learning and memory, we characterized the effects of estradiol on this transcription factor in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. Within minutes of administration, estradiol triggered mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-dependent CREB phosphorylation in unstimulated neurons. Furthermore, after brief depolarization, estradiol attenuated L-type calcium channel-mediated CREB phosphorylation. Thus, estradiol exhibited both positive and negative influences on CREB activity. These effects of estradiol were sex specific and traced to membrane-localized estrogen receptors that stimulated group I and II metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) signaling. Activation of estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) led to mGluR1a signaling, triggering CREB phosphorylation through phospholipase C regulation of MAPK. In addition, estradiol stimulation of ERalpha or ERbeta triggered mGluR2/3 signaling, decreasing L-type calcium channel-mediated CREB phosphorylation. These results not only characterize estradiol regulation of CREB but also provide two putative signaling mechanisms that may account for many of the unexplained observations regarding the influence of estradiol on nervous system function.
When projection analyses placed the nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle in the striatal system, functional links between these sites began to emerge. The accumbens has been implicated in the rewarding effects of psychomotor stimulants, whereas recent work suggests that the medial accumbens shell and medial olfactory tubercle mediate the rewarding effects of cocaine. Interestingly, anatomical evidence suggests that medial portions of the shell and tubercle receive afferents from common zones in a number of regions. Here, we report results suggesting that the current division of the ventral striatum into the accumbens core and shell and the olfactory tubercle does not reflect the functional organization for amphetamine reward. Rats quickly learned to self-administer D-amphetamine into the medial shell or medial tubercle, whereas they failed to learn to do so into the accumbens core, ventral shell, or lateral tubercle. Our results suggest that primary reinforcement of amphetamine is mediated via the medial portion of the ventral striatum. Thus, the medial shell and medial tubercle are more functionally related than the medial and ventral shell or the medial and lateral tubercle. The current core-shell-tubercle scheme should be reconsidered in light of recent anatomical data and these functional findings.
Genetic and pharmacological approaches were used to examine kappa-opioid receptor (KOR-1) regulation of dopamine (DA) dynamics in the nucleus accumbens and vulnerability to cocaine. Microdialysis revealed that basal DA release and DA extraction fraction (Ed), an indirect measure of DA uptake, are enhanced in KOR-1 knock-out mice. Analysis of DA uptake revealed a decreased Km but unchanged Vmax in knock-outs. Knock-out mice exhibited an augmented locomotor response to cocaine, which did not differ from that of wild-types administered a behavioral sensitizing cocaine treatment. The ability of cocaine to increase DA was enhanced in knock-outs, whereas c-fos induction was decreased. Although repeated cocaine administration to wild types produced behavioral sensitization, knock-outs exhibited no additional enhancement of behavior. Administration of the long-acting KOR antagonist nor-binaltorphimine to wild-type mice increased DA dynamics. However, the effects varied with the duration of KOR-1 blockade. Basal DA release was increased whereas Ed was unaltered after 1 h blockade. After 24 h, release and Ed were increased. The behavioral and neurochemical effects of cocaine were enhanced at both time points. These data demonstrate the existence of an endogenous KOR-1 system that tonically inhibits mesoaccumbal DA neurotransmission. Its loss induces neuroadaptations characteristic of &quot;cocaine-sensitized&quot; animals, indicating a critical role of KOR-1 in attenuating responsiveness to cocaine. The increased DA uptake after pharmacological inactivation or gene deletion highlights the plasticity of mesoaccumbal DA neurons and suggests that loss of KOR-1 and the resultant disinhibition of DA neurons trigger short- and long-term DA transporter adaptations that maintain normal DA levels, despite enhanced release.
In vivo extracellular recording studies have traditionally shown that dopamine (DA) transiently inhibits prefrontal cortex (PFC) neurons, yet recent biophysical measurements in vitro indicate that DA enhances the evoked excitability of PFC neurons for prolonged periods. Moreover, although DA neurons apparently encode stimulus salience by transient alterations in firing, the temporal properties of the PFC DA signal associated with various behaviors is often extraordinarily prolonged. The present study used in vivo electrophysiological and electrochemical measures to show that the mesocortical system produces a fast non-DA-mediated postsynaptic response in the PFC that appears to be initiated by glutamate. In contrast, short burst stimulation of mesocortical DA neurons that produced transient (&lt;4 s) DA release in the PFC caused a simultaneous reduction in spontaneous firing (consistent with extracellular in vivo recordings) and a form of DA-induced potentiation in which evoked firing was increased for tens of minutes (consistent with in vitro measurements). We suggest that the mesocortical system might transmit fast signals about reward or salience via corelease of glutamate, whereas the simultaneous prolonged DA-mediated modulation of firing biases the long-term processing dynamics of PFC networks.
Recent neuroscience studies have been concerned with how aimed movements are generated on the basis of target localization. However, visual information from the surroundings as well as from the target can influence arm motor control, in a manner similar to known effects in postural and ocular motor control. Here, we show an ultra-fast manual motor response directly induced by a large-field visual motion. This rapid response aided reaction when the subject moved his hand in the direction of visual motion, suggesting assistive visually evoked manual control during postural movement. The latency of muscle activity generating this response was as short as that of the ocular following responses to the visual motion. Abrupt visual motion entrained arm movement without affecting perceptual target localization, and the degrees of motion coherence and speed of the visual stimulus modulated this arm response. This visuomotor behavior was still observed when the visual motion was confined to the &quot;follow-through&quot; phase of a hitting movement, in which no target existed. An analysis of the arm movements suggests that the hitting follow through made by the subject is not a part of a reaching movement. Moreover, the arm response was systematically modulated by hand bias forces, suggesting that it results from a reflexive control mechanism. We therefore propose that its mechanism is radically distinct from motor control for aimed movements to a target. Rather, in an analogy with reflexive eye movement stabilizing a retinal image, we consider that this mechanism regulates arm movements in parallel with voluntary motor control.
The retinohypothalamic tract, a monosynaptic retinal projection to the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), is the path by which light entrains the circadian system to the external photoperiod. Serotonergic neurons in the mesencephalic median raphe nucleus (MnR) also give rise to a major SCN afferent projection. The present study was designed to determine the extent to which MnR serotonergic projections regulate sensitivity of the circadian rhythm system to light. Serotonergic neurons in the MnR were destroyed by the direct application of the neurotoxin, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine. Animals in constant darkness were given 5-min white light pulses at circadian time 19. Light intensity varied from 0.0011 to 70 microW/cm2. Assessment of rhythm phase response to light by lesioned and control animals revealed that animals lacking the MnR serotonergic projection are considerably more sensitive to light at high irradiances. The results are consistent with behavioral and physiological evidence implicating serotonin as an inhibitory modulator of the effects of light on circadian rhythmicity.
Though its function remains obscure, olfactory marker protein (OMP) has been implicated in olfactory transduction and the enhancement of neurogenesis within olfactory epithelium. Here we show, using Western blot analysis and immunocytochemistry, that unilateral naris occlusion (UNO) on postnatal day 1 alters OMP immunoreactivity (IR) differentially on the occluded and non-occluded sides of the nasal cavity in 18, 24 and 70-day-old mice. Compared to untreated animals, UNO-treated animals had a decrease in OMP-IR in olfactory receptor neurons on the non-occluded side and an increase in OMP-IR in olfactory receptor neurons on the occluded side of the nasal cavity. These results suggest that OMP concentration is up- or down-regulated depending on the amount of odor stimulation olfactory receptor neurons receive. It is proposed that this apparent change in protein concentration may be part of a more general compensatory response by olfactory neurons to levels of odor in the environment.
The testosterone derivative 4,16-androstadien-3-one (AND) and the estrogen-like steroid estra-1,3,5(10),16-tetraen-3-ol (EST) are candidate compounds for human pheromones. AND is detected primarily in male sweat, whereas EST has been found in female urine. In a previous positron emission tomography study, we found that smelling AND and EST activated regions covering sexually dimorphic nuclei of the anterior hypothalamus, and that this activation was differentiated with respect to sex and compound. In the present study, the pattern of activation induced by AND and EST was compared among homosexual men, heterosexual men, and heterosexual women. In contrast to heterosexual men, and in congruence with heterosexual women, homosexual men displayed hypothalamic activation in response to AND. Maximal activation was observed in the medial preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus, which, according to animal studies, is highly involved in sexual behavior. As opposed to putative pheromones, common odors were processed similarly in all three groups of subjects and engaged only the olfactory brain (amygdala, piriform, orbitofrontal, and insular cortex). These findings show that our brain reacts differently to the two putative pheromones compared with common odors, and suggest a link between sexual orientation and hypothalamic neuronal processes.
The development of a novel series of 4-aryl, 4-phenylsulfonyl cyclohexananone-derived gamma-secretase inhibitors for the potential treatment of Alzheimer's disease is described.
An SAR study of histamine H3 receptor antagonists based on substituted (R)-2-methyl-1-[2-(5-phenyl-benzofuran-2-yl)-ethyl]-pyrrolidines is presented.
The present study examined the multi-variable locomotor activity effects of lithium chloride (LiCl) treatment in male rats. Of interest was a determination of which variables might show a dose-response relationship in LiCl-induced conditioned place aversions. Automated open-fields were partitioned into two chambers distinct in tactile and visual cues. A control group [n=8] received saline (NaCl; 0.15 M) paired with both chambers while three LiCl groups (0.15 M; 32 mg/kg [n=7], 95 mg/kg [n=7], 127 mg/kg [n=7]) received LiCl paired with the normally preferred chamber and saline paired with the non-preferred chamber. During extinction trials, rats were allowed to choose between the two chambers to provide an index of conditioned place aversions. Locomotor activity and its distribution within the chambers were also assessed during both conditioning and extinction trials. Dose-dependent decreases occurred in all measures of locomotor activity following LiCl administration during conditioning. During extinction trials, place aversions developed in animals conditioned with LiCl. LiCl-treated rats spent significantly less time in the LiCl-paired chamber relative to controls but not in a dose-dependent manner. Animals that had been conditioned with 95 or 127 but not 32 mg/kg LiCl, displayed significantly more vertical activity in the LiCl-paired chamber than controls during extinction trials. These findings indicate that, in addition to producing dose-dependent unconditioned effects on locomotor activity, LiCl also produces dose-dependent conditioned effects on vertical activity. These conditioned rearing response effects provide a valid measure of the conditioned avoidance response that provides evidence for dose-dependent LiCl-induced conditioned place aversions.
Effects of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(1A/1B/2C) receptor agonist N-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] piperazine (TFMPP, 0-3.0 mg/kg s.c.) and the 5-HT2C receptor agonist 8,9-dichloro-2,3,4,4a-tetrahydro-1H-pyrazino[1,2-a]quinoxalin-5(6H)-one (WAY 161503, 0-3.0 mg/kg s.c.) in place conditioning were measured in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Effects of TFMPP, alone and with the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl] ethyl]-N-2-pyridinyl-cyclohexanecarboxamine (WAY 100635), the 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist N-[4-methoxy-3-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl) phenyl]-2'-methyl-4'-(5-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)-1,1'-biphenyl-4-carboxamide (GR 127935) or the 5-HT2C receptor antagonist 6-chloro-5-methyl-1-[[2-(2-methylpyrid-3-yloxy)pyrid-5-yl]carbamoyl]indoline (SB 242084) and of WAY 161503 alone and with SB 242084 on locomotor activity were also assessed. Neither TFMPP nor WAY 161503 induced place conditioning. WAY 161503 (1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg s.c.) decreased locomotor activity; SB 242084 (1.0 mg/kg i.p.) blocked this effect. Reduced locomotor activity following TFMPP was blocked by SB 242084 but not WAY 100635 (0.1 mg/kg s.c.) or GR 127935 (3.0 mg/kg s.c.). Behaviourally relevant levels of 5-HT2C receptor stimulation may not exert reinforcing effects, although other studies indicate that such manipulations alter reinforcing effects of drugs of abuse.
This study tested the hypothesis that a binge type of ethanol intake and ethanol withdrawal disturbs protein kinase C (PKC) homeostasis in a manner protected by 17beta-estradiol. Ovariectomized rats implanted with 17beta-estradiol or oil pellets received ethanol (7.5% weight/volume, 7 days) or control solution by a gavage method. The cerebelli were collected during ethanol exposure or ethanol withdrawal to assess the activity, protein levels, and cellular distribution of PKC(epsilon) and total PKC, using an ATP phosphorylation and immunoblot assays. While both ethanol exposure and ethanol withdrawal increased membrane protein levels and membrane translocation, only ethanol withdrawal enhanced activity of PKC(epsilon). Ethanol withdrawal not ethanol exposure increased the three parameters of total PKC. 17beta-Estradiol treatment prevented these changes in PKC profiles. These data suggest that an excessive episodic intake of ethanol followed by ethanol withdrawal disturbs PKC homeostasis and cellular distribution of PKC, in particular PKC(epsilon), in a manner that is protected by estrogen. PKC(epsilon) appears more vulnerable during ethanol withdrawal than during ethanol exposure.
Chronic treatment of mice with the specific gamma-aminobutyric acid(B) (GABA(B)) receptor antagonist (2S)(+)-5,5-dimethyl-2-morpholineacetic acid (SCH 50,911) increased both the number of GABA(B) receptors in the whole brain (measured as [3H]CGP 54626 [S-(R,R)]-3-[[1-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)amino]-2-hydroxypropyl](cyclohexylmethyl)phosphinic acid hydrochloride binding) and the ability of baclofen to activate GABA(B) receptor coupled G-protein (measured as % reduction of the EC50 of baclofen to activate [35S]GTP(gamma)S binding). The results indicate that persistent blockade of GABA(B) receptors leads to their compensatory up-regulation and suggest that GABA(B) receptors are tonically activated by endogenous GABA.



Paired appendages were a key developmental innovation among vertebrates and they eventually evolved into limbs. Ancient developmental control systems for paired fins and limbs are broadly conserved among gnathostome vertebrates. Some lineages including whales, some salamanders, snakes, and many ray-fin fish, independently lost the pectoral, pelvic, or both appendages over evolutionary time. When different taxa independently evolve similar developmental morphologies, do they use the same molecular genetic mechanisms? To determine the developmental genetic basis for the evolution of pelvis loss in the pufferfish Takifugu rubripes (fugu), we isolated fugu orthologs of genes thought to be essential for limb development in tetrapods, including limb positioning (Hoxc6, Hoxd9), limb bud initiation (Pitx1, Tbx4, Tbx5), and limb bud outgrowth (Shh, Fgf10), and studied their expression patterns during fugu development. Results showed that bud outgrowth and initiation fail to occur in fugu, and that pelvis loss is associated with altered expression of Hoxd9a, which we show to be a marker for pelvic fin position in three-spine stickleback Gasterosteus aculeatus. These results rule out changes in appendage outgrowth and initiation genes as the earliest developmental defect in pufferfish pelvic fin loss and suggest that altered Hoxd9a expression in the lateral mesoderm may account for pelvis loss in fugu. This mechanism appears to be different from the mechanism for pelvic loss in stickleback, showing that different taxa can evolve similar phenotypes by different mechanisms.
The super-family of G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) is one of the largest groups of proteins in vertebrate species. The receptors are very diverse in structure and function but they still share some common structural elements. Our recent phylogenetic studies indicate that most human GPCRs can be grouped into five main families named; Glutamate, Rhodopsin, Adhesion, Frizzled/Taste2, and Secretin, forming the GRAFS classification system. The rhodopsin family is the largest and forms four main groups termed alpha, beta, gamma, and delta with 13 sub-branches. We have evidence that the main families of the GRAFS classification system arose prior to the split of nematodes from the lineage leading to chordates. The major part of all GPCRs in mammalian, fish, tunicate, insect, and nematode species belong to the GRAFS families. The evolution of GPCRs in different phylogenetic branches are, however, very variable as some of the branches are specific for certain lineages such as vertebrates or mammals, while others are found in a much larger variety of species. In this review, we provide an insight in several studies that are being performed to elucidate the evolutionary history of the GPCR family.
Recent successes in treating neurological disorders with electrical stimulation of the brain have spurred interest in studying the neuronal mechanisms by which such therapies work. However, microelectrode recordings can be confounded by stimulation artifact. Also, large microelectrode arrays now allow recording amounts of data that would otherwise overwhelm current analytic methods that depend heavily on human intervention and interpretation. A set of algorithms is described for automatically removing stimulus artifacts that minimize signal loss with minimum human involvement. Other algorithms automatically differentiate between the extracellular action potentials of individual neurons.
One step in the conventional analysis of extracellularly recorded neuronal data is spike sorting, which separates electrical signal into action potentials from different neurons. Because spike sorting involves human judgment, it can be subjective and time intensive, particularly for large sets of neurons. Here we propose a simple, automated way to construct alternative representations of neuronal activity, called spectral representation (SR). In this approach, neuronal spikes are mapped to a discrete space of spike waveform features and time. Spectral representation enables us to find single-unit stimulus-related changes in neuronal activity without spike sorting. We tested the ability of this method to predict stimuli using both simulated data and experimental data from an auditory mapping study in anesthetized marmoset monkeys. We find that our approach produces more accurate classification of stimuli than spike-sorted data for both simulated and experimental conditions. Furthermore, this method lends itself to automated analysis of extracellularly recorded neuronal ensembles. Additionally, we suggest ways in which these representations can be readily extended to assist in spike sorting and the evaluation of single-neuron peri-stimulus time histograms.
In this study, we quantify the severity of drug-induced dyskinesias in the arms of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients using digitised spiral-drawing tasks. Two spiral drawings, namely a circular and a square spiral, are designed to, respectively, represent the continuous and discrete arm motions, and the size of the spiral is decided so that both the distal and proximal arm joints are involved. Fifteen PD patients, average disease duration 14.4+/-7.4 years, were assessed 30 min after a levodopa challenge whilst performing circular and square spiral-drawing tasks. The velocity of drawing movements was computed and the amplitude of the involuntary dyskinetic movements was measured as the standard deviation of the drawing velocity (SD-DV). The mean amplitude of dyskinetic movements was compared between arms and tasks and was correlated with clinical measures including the Bain dyskinesia scale and the total unified Parkinson's disease rating scale (UPDRS) score. The results showed that there was no statistically significant difference in the amplitude of dyskinesias either between the arms or between the continuous (circular) and discrete (square) spiral drawings in this group of PD patients, but interestingly the interaction between arm and drawing pattern was significant. Significant correlations were found between the magnitude of dyskinesia measured from the spiral-drawing tasks and both the 'on' or 'off' UPDRS and also the Bain dyskinesia scale. We conclude that the drawing tasks may be used to provide an objective method of quantifying the severity of drug-induced dyskinesias in the arm in PD patients.
Caspase-2 has been reported to play a role in the cell death observed under a number of different conditions; however, it is unclear whether caspase-2 plays a role in cell death triggered by endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. The purpose of this study was to determine whether caspase-2 is involved in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell death caused by thapsigargin-induced ER stress. Thapsigargin treatment (1 microM, 16 hr) stimulated the proteolytic processing of caspases-2, -3, and -7, suggesting that these caspases are activated by ER stress. The role of these caspases in thapsigargin-induced cell death was examined by using cell-permeable caspase inhibitors. In the absence of pretreatment with caspase inhibitors, thapsigargin (0.1 microM, 20 hr) reduced the number of viable cells to 53.9% +/- 3.3% of starting-time control. Pretreatment for 90 min with either the pan-caspase inhibitor Z-VAD-FMK or the caspase-2-selective inhibitor Z-VDVAD-FMK inhibited thapsigargin-stimulated cell death, resulting in the number of viable cells being 115.6% +/- 5.3% (P &lt; 0.001) and 69.3% +/- 2.9% (P &lt; 0.01), respectively, of starting-time control. Neither the caspase-3- and -7-selective inhibitor Z-DEVD-FMK nor the caspase-9-selective inhibitor Z-LEHD-FMK significantly affected thapsigargin-stimulated cell death. An anticaspase-12-reactive protein was also identified in SH-SY5Y cells, but thapsigargin had no effect on proteolysis of this protein. These data demonstrate that caspases-2, -3, and -7 are involved in ER stress-mediated death of SH-SY5Y cells.
Embryonic stem (ES) cells proliferate and maintain their pluripotency for over 1 year in vitro and may therefore provide a sufficient source for cell therapies. However, most of the previously reported methods for obtaining a source for cell therapies have not been simple. We describe here a novel method for induction of neurospheres from mouse ES cells by coculturing on PA6 cells instead of the formation of embryoid bodies. The ES cells cocultured with the PA6 stromal cell line for at least 3 days were capable of differentiating into spheres. The cells in the spheres were all green fluorescent protein (GFP) positive, showing that they were derived from GFP-expressing D3-ES cells. The spheres contained nestin-positive cells. The number of spheres increased when they were cocultured with PA6 for a longer period. Sphere formation was observed even after 10 mechanical dissociations and subculturings, showing its self-renewal ability. The cells differentiated into microtubule-associated protein-2 (MAP2)-positive neuronal cells and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive glial cells. gamma-Aminobutyric acid-positive cells and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells were also observed in the spheres. The percentages of the MAP2- or GFAP-positive cells in the sphere changed according to the period of coculture on PA6 cells. At an early stage of coculture, more neurons were generated and, at a later period, more glial cells were generated. These results suggested that neurosphere could be generated from ES cells by coculturing with PA6, and that these cells resembled neural stem cells derived from mouse fetal brain tissue.
We describe the use of near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) as a suitable means of assessing hemodynamic changes in the cerebral cortex of awake and behaving monkeys. NIRS can be applied to animals performing cognitive tasks in conjunction with electrophysiological methods, thus offering the possibility of investigating cortical neurovascular coupling in cognition. Because it imposes fewer constraints on behavior than fMRI, NIRS appears more practical than fMRI for certain studies of cognitive neuroscience on the primate cortex. In the present study, NIRS and field potential signals were simultaneously recorded from the association cortex (posterior parietal and prefrontal) of monkeys performing two delay tasks, one spatial and the other non-spatial. Working memory was accompanied by an increase in oxygenated hemoglobin mirrored by a decrease in deoxygenated hemoglobin. Both the trends and the amplitudes of these changes differed by task and by area. Field potential records revealed slow negative potentials that preceded the task trials and persisted during their memory period. The negativity during that period was greater in prefrontal than in parietal cortex. Between tasks, the potential differences were less pronounced than the hemodynamic differences. The present feasibility study lays the groundwork for future correlative studies of cognitive function and neurovascular coupling in the primate.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to the human primary motor cortex (M1) causes bidirectional changes in corticospinal excitability depending on the stimulation frequency used. We used functional brain imaging to compare the effects of 5 Hz and 1 Hz-rTMS on local and inter-regional connectivity within the motor system. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured as a marker of synaptic activity at rest and during freely selected finger movements. We hypothesized that increased cortical excitability induced by 5 Hz-rTMS over M1 has an opposite effect on the synaptic activity and the connectivity of the motor network from the decreased cortical excitability induced by 1 Hz-rTMS. rTMS at both frequencies induced similar changes in rCBF at the site of stimulation and within areas of the motor network engaged by the task. The two frequencies showed different effects on movement-related coupling between motor areas. Connectivity analyses also indicated a differential effect of 5 and 1 Hz-rTMS on motor network connectivity, suggesting a role for an inferomedial portion of left M1 and left dorsal premotor cortex in maintaining performance. These results suggest that rapid reorganization of the motor system occurs to maintain task performance during periods of altered cortical excitability. This reorganization differs according to the modulation of excitability which is a function of rTMS frequency. This study extends the work of Lee et al. (Lee, L., Siebner, H.R., Rowe, J.B., Rizzo, V. Rothwell, J.C. Frackowiak, R.S. Friston, K.J., 2003. Acute remapping within the motor system induced by low-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation. J. Neurosci. 23, 5308-5318.) by providing evidence that the pattern of acute reorganization in the motor network following rTMS depends on the direction of conditioning.
Visuo-spatial attention tends to be prioritized towards emotionally negative stimuli such as fearful faces, as opposed to neutral or positive stimuli. Using a covert orienting task, we previously showed that a lateral occipital P1 component, with extrastriate neural sources, was selectively enhanced to lateralized visual targets replacing a fearful face (fear-valid trial) than the same targets replacing a neutral face (fear-invalid trial), providing evidence for exogenous spatial orienting of attention towards threat cues. Here, we describe a new analysis of these data, using topographic evoked potentials mapping methods combined with a distributed source localization technique. We show that an early field topography (40-80 ms post-target onset) with a centro-parietal negativity and a left posterior parietal source distinguished fear-valid from fear-invalid trials, whereas a distinct activity with anterior cingulate sources was selectively evoked during fear-invalid trials. At the same latency, or later, no difference in field topography was found for valid compared to invalid trials with happy faces. The early parietal map preceded a modulation in amplitude of the field strength (approximately 130 ms), corresponding to the enhanced lateral occipital P1 during valid trials in the fear condition. Furthermore, this early topography at 40-80 ms was positively correlated with the subsequent amplitude modulation of P1 at 130-160 ms in the fear condition, suggesting a possible functional coupling between these two successive events. These data have important implications for models of spatial attention and interactions with emotion. They suggest two successive stages of neural activity during exogenous orienting of attention towards visual targets following fearful faces, including an early posterior parietal negativity, followed by gain control mechanisms enhancing visual responses in extrastriate occipital cortex.
Effective perception of fear signals is crucial for human survival and the importance of the amygdala in this process is well documented. Animal, lesion and neuroimaging studies indicate that incoming sensory signals of fear travel from thalamus to amygdala via two neural pathways: a direct subcortical route and an indirect pathway via the sensory cortex. Other lines of research have demonstrated prefrontal modulation of the amygdala. However, no study to date has examined the prefrontal modulation of the thalamo-cortico-amygdala pathways in vivo. We used psychophysiological and physiophysiological interactions to examine the functional connectivity within thalamus, amygdala and sensory (inferior occipital, fusiform) cortices, and the modulation of these networks by the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data were acquired for 28 healthy control subjects during a fear perception task, with neutral as the 'baseline' control condition. Main effect analysis, using a region of interest (ROI) approach, confirmed that these regions are part of a distributed neural system for fear perception. Psychophysiological interactions revealed an inverse functional connectivity between occipito-temporal visual regions and the left amygdala, but a positive connectivity between these visual region and the right amygdala, suggesting that there is a hemispheric specialization in the transfer of fear signals from sensory cortices to amygdala. Physiophysiological interactions revealed a dorsal-ventral division in ACC modulation of the thalamus-sensory cortex pathway. While the dorsal ACC showed a positive modulation of this pathway, the ventral ACC exhibited an inverse relationship. In addition, both the dorsal and ventral ACC showed an inverse interaction with the direct thalamus-amygdala pathway. These findings suggest that thalamo-amygdala and cortical regions are involved in a dynamic interplay, with functional differentiation in both lateralized and ventral/dorsal gradients. Breakdowns in these interactions may give rise to affect-related symptoms seen in a range of neuropsychiatric disorders.
The object of the present study was to compare stereological estimates of brain volumes obtained in vivo by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to corresponding volumes from physical sections in vitro. Brains of ten domestic pigs were imaged using a 3-T scanner. The volumes of different brain compartments were obtained from MR images by two observers and from physical sections using the Cavalieri estimator in combination with point counting. Paired t tests revealed no significant differences between the two methods for any of the five compartments considered, except for the basal gray compartment. However, although intraobserver difference of MRI estimates was acceptable, the interobserver difference was not. A statistical highly significant difference of 11-41% was observed between observers for volume estimates of all compartments considered. The study demonstrates that quantitative MRI is susceptible to observer dependent interpretation of images.
Recent animal studies highlighting the relationship between functional imaging signals and the underlying neuronal activity have revealed the potential capabilities of non-invasive methods. However, the valuable exchange of information between animal and human studies remains restricted by the limited evidence of direct physiological links between species. In this study we used magnetoencephalography (MEG) to investigate the occurrence of 30-70 Hz (gamma) oscillations in human visual cortex, induced by the presentation of visual stimuli of varying contrast. These oscillations, well described in the animal literature, were observed in retinotopically concordant locations of visual cortex and show striking similarity to those found in primate visual cortex using surgically implanted electrodes. The amplitude of the gamma oscillations increases linearly with stimulus contrast in strong correlation with the gamma oscillations found in the local field potential (LFP) of the macaque. We demonstrate that non-invasive magnetic field measurements of gamma oscillations in human visual cortex concur with invasive measures of activation in primate visual cortex, suggesting both a direct representation of underlying neuronal activity and a concurrence between human and primate cortical activity.
We have studied the properties of the permeability transition pore (PTP) in mitochondria from the liver of mice where the Ppif gene encoding for mitochondrial Cyclophilin D (CyP-D) had been inactivated. Mitochondria from Ppif-/- mice had no CyP-D and displayed a striking desensitization of the PTP to Ca2+, in that pore opening required about twice the Ca2+ load necessary to open the pore in strain-matched, wild-type mitochondria. Mitochondria lacking CyP-D were insensitive to Cyclosporin A (CsA), which increased the Ca2+ retention capacity only in mitochondria from wild-type mice. The PTP response to ubiquinone 0, depolarization, pH, adenine nucleotides, and thiol oxidants was similar in mitochondria from wild-type and Ppif-/- mice. These experiments demonstrate that (i) the PTP can form and open in the absence of CyP-D, (ii) that CyP-D represents the target for PTP inhibition by CsA, and (iii) that CyP-D modulates the sensitivity of the PTP to Ca2+ but not its regulation by the proton electrochemical gradient, adenine nucleotides, and oxidative stress. These results have major implications for our current understanding of the PTP and its modulation in vitro and in vivo.
Plasma membrane neurotransmitter transporters rapidly traffic to and from the cell surface in neurons. This trafficking may be important in regulating neuronal signaling. Such regulation will be subject to the number of trafficking transporters and their trafficking rates. In the present study, we define an acutely recycling pool of endogenous gamma-aminobutyric acid transporters (GAT1) in cortical neurons that comprises approximately one-third of total cellular GAT1. Kinetic analysis of this pool estimates exocytosis and endocytosis time constants of 1.6 and 0.9 min, respectively, and thus approximately one-third of the recycling pool is plasma membrane resident in the basal state. Recent evidence shows that GAT1 substrates, second messengers, and interacting proteins regulate GAT1 trafficking. These triggers could act by altering trafficking rates or by changing the recycling pool size. In the present study we examine three GAT1 modulators. Calcium depletion decreases GAT1 surface expression by diminishing the recycling pool size. Sucrose increases GAT1 surface expression by blocking clathrin- and dynamin-dependent endocytosis, but it does not change the recycling pool size. Protein kinase C decreases surface GAT1 expression by increasing the endocytosis rate, but it does not change the exocytosis rate or the recycling pool size. Based upon estimates of GAT1 molecules in cortical boutons, the present data suggest that approximately 1000 transporters comprise the acutely recycling pool, of which 300 are on the surface in the basal state, and five transporters insert into the plasma membrane every second. This insertion could represent the fusion of one transporter-containing vesicle.
Familial Alzheimer disease-causing mutations in the presenilins increase production of longer pathogenic amyloid beta-peptides (A beta(42/43)) by altering gamma-secretase activity. The mechanism underlying this effect remains unknown, although it has been proposed that heteromeric macromolecular complexes containing presenilins mediate gamma-secretase cleavage of the amyloid beta-precursor protein. Using a random mutagenesis screen of presenilin-1 (PS1) for PS1 endoproteolysis-impairing mutations, we identified five unique mutants, including R278I-PS1 and L435H-PS1, that exclusively generated a high level of A beta43, but did not support physiological PS1 endoproteolysis or A beta40 generation. These mutants did not measurably alter the molecular size or subcellular localization of PS1 complexes. Pharmacological studies indicated that the up-regulation of activity for A beta43 generation by these mutations was not further enhanced by the difluoroketone inhibitor DFK167 and was refractory to inhibition by sulindac sulfide. These results suggest that PS1 mutations can lead to a wide spectrum of changes in the activity and specificity of gamma-secretase and that the effects of PS1 mutations and gamma-secretase inhibitors on the specificity are mediated through a common mechanism.
The human norepinephrine (NE) transporter (hNET) attenuates neuronal signaling by rapid NE clearance from the synaptic cleft, and NET is a target for cocaine and amphetamines as well as therapeutics for depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and post-traumatic stress disorder. In spite of its central importance in the nervous system, little is known about how NET substrates, such as NE, 1-methyl-4-tetrahydropyridinium (MPP+), or amphetamine, interact with NET at the molecular level. Nor do we understand the mechanisms behind the transport rate. Previously we introduced a fluorescent substrate similar to MPP+, which allowed separate and simultaneous binding and transport measurement (Schwartz, J. W., Blakely, R. D., and DeFelice, L. J. (2003) J. Biol. Chem. 278, 9768-9777). Here we use this substrate, 4-(4-(dimethylamino)styrl)-N-methyl-pyridinium (ASP+), in combination with green fluorescent protein-tagged hNETs to measure substrate-transporter stoichiometry and substrate binding kinetics. Calibrated confocal microscopy and fluorescence correlation spectroscopy reveal that hNETs, which are homomultimers, bind one substrate molecule per transporter subunit. Substrate residence at the transporter, obtained from rapid on-off kinetics revealed in fluorescence correlation spectroscopy, is 526 micros. Substrate residence obtained by infinite dilution is 1000 times slower. This novel examination of substrate-transporter kinetics indicates that a single ASP+ molecule binds and unbinds thousands of times before being transported or ultimately dissociated from hNET. Calibrated fluorescent images combined with mass spectroscopy give a transport rate of 0.06 ASP+/hNET-protein/s, thus 36,000 on-off binding events (and 36 actual departures) occur for one transport event. Therefore binding has a low probability of resulting in transport. We interpret these data to mean that inefficient binding could contribute to slow transport rates.
A new member of a family of proteins characterized by structural similarity to dipeptidyl peptidase (DPP) IV known as DPP10 was recently identified and linked to asthma susceptibility; however, the cellular functions of DPP10 are thus far unknown. DPP10 is highly homologous to subfamily member DPPX, which we previously reported as a modulator of Kv4-mediated A-type potassium channels (Nadal, M. S., Ozaita, A., Amarillo, Y., Vega-Saenz de Miera, E., Ma, Y., Mo, W., Goldberg, E. M., Misumi, Y., Ikehara, Y., Neubert, T. A., and Rudy, B. (2003) Neuron. 37, 449-461). We studied the ability of DPP10 protein to modulate the properties of Kv4.2 channels in heterologous expression systems. We found DPP10 activity to be nearly identical to DPPX activity and significantly different from DPPIV activity. DPPX and DPP10 facilitated Kv4.2 protein trafficking to the cell membrane, increased A-type current magnitude, and modified the voltage dependence and kinetic properties of the current such that they resembled the properties of A-type currents recorded in neurons in the central nervous system. Using in situ hybridization, we found DPP10 to be prominently expressed in brain neuronal populations that also express Kv4 subunits. Furthermore, DPP10 was detected in immunoprecipitated Kv4.2 channel complexes from rat brain membranes, confirming the association of DPP10 proteins with native Kv4.2 channels. These experiments suggest that DPP10 contributes to the molecular composition of A-type currents in the central nervous system. To dissect the structural determinants of these integral accessory proteins, we constructed chimeras of DPPX, DPP10, and DPPIV lacking the extracellular domain. Chimeras of DPPX and DPP10, but not DPPIV, were able to modulate the properties of Kv4.2 channels, highlighting the importance of the intracellular and transmembrane domains in this activity.
Inflammation is profoundly involved in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other neurodegenerative diseases. Chemokine, CXC motif, ligand 1 (CXCL1; or GRO1) is an inflammatory cytokine and appears to be implicated in the pathogenesis of AD. It is of interest and importance to see if the CXCL1 gene, mapped on chromosome 4q12-q13, has potential for conferring the predisposition to AD. Here we report on an association study of the CXCL1 gene with sporadic AD patients in a Japanese population; three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the CXCL1 locus were investigated in 103 AD patients and 130 healthy individuals. The results indicate that neither genotype frequencies nor allele frequencies of the examined SNPs attained statistical significance even after being stratified by the presence or absence of the Apolipoprotein E epsilon4 allele. Therefore, the data presented here suggests that the CXCL1 gene could not be associated with the susceptibility to AD in a Japanese population.

The development of the cortical vascular tree depends on functional development. External inputs are an essential requirement in the modeling of the visual cortex, mainly during the critical period, when congruous blood supply is needed. The blood brain barrier (BBB) function regulates the passage of substances between the blood and the brain parenchyma, which is one of the main differential features of central nervous system (CNS) microvessels. The endothelial barrier antigen (EBA) has been reported as a specific marker for the BBB physiological function in rats. We studied the postnatal development of EBA expression in the visual cortex of rats reared under opposite paradigms of visual experience, e.g., standard laboratory conditions, dark rearing, and enriched environment at 14, 21, 28, 35, 42, 49, 56, and 63 days postnatal (dpn). Parallel sections were immunohistochemically processed for endothelial barrier antigen (EBA) and glucose transporter-1 (GluT-1). Total vasculature was quantified by Lycopersicon esculentum (LEA) lectin histochemistry. No differences in EBA expression were found between groups, although quantitative differences were recorded paralleling differences in vascular density. Paradoxically, there was no expression in certain cortical vessels which were GluT-1 immunopositive and positivity was consistent in non-barrier areas such as the pineal gland. These findings were completely independent of age or experimental conditions. Therefore, the role of the EBA antigen in the BBB remains unclear: it has been undeniably linked to vascular permeability, but its presence in non-barrier vessels suggests another vascular function. Although visual experience modifies vascular density in the visual cortex, it has not been shown to have an influence on the maturation of the BBB function.
Changes in expression of P2X receptors (P2X1-7) during postnatal development of the rat cerebellum are described. At P3, immunoreactivity (ir) to all the P2X receptors, except for P2X3 receptors, was found in Purkinje cells and deep cerebellar nuclei, P2X5-ir being most prominent. Granular and microglial cells were labeled for P2X5 (weakly) and P2X4 receptors, respectively. At P7, expression of all the P2X receptors (with the exception of P2X3) was up-regulated, P2X5 and P2X6 receptors being most prominent. Scattered P2X receptor-ir in unipolar brush cells in the granular cell layer and P2X1- and P2X7-ir of microglial cells was also present. At P14, the dendritic trees of Purkinje cells were intensely labeled by P2X1-7 receptor antibodies, except for P2X3, while P2X1, P2X4 and P2X7 receptor immunostaining in microglial cells and P2X5 receptor immunostaining in granular cells was up-regulated. At P21, expression of all P2X receptors (except P2X3) was down-regulated in the Purkinje cells and deep cerebellar nuclei; P2X1, P2X4 and P2X7 receptors-ir was present in microglial cells. In contrast, expression of P2X5-ir in granular cells was up-regulated. At P60, expression levels of all the P2X receptors (except P2X3) were similar with those at P21. In double-labeling experiments, almost all the P2X-ir Purkinje cells were immunoreactive for calbindin-D28k, while 60-80% of P2X-ir cells in the granular cell layer were immunoreactive for calretinin. The possible short- and long-term functional significance of the changes in expression of P2X receptors during postnatal development is discussed.
Integrins are cell surface receptors known to be important for regeneration in the peripheral nervous system. We have investigated the expression of integrin messenger RNAs in red nucleus neurons of adult rats after axotomy and administration of neurotrophic factors. Using radioactive in situ hybridization, messenger RNA for integrin subunits beta1, alpha3, alpha7 and alphaV could be detected. No change of any alpha subunit could be detected after axotomy. In contrast, a small upregulation of beta1 was detected after lesion. Administration of neurotrophin-3 induced a robust further increase in beta1 messenger RNA levels, whereas brain-derived neurotrophic factor did not. By analogy to the peripheral nervous system, we propose that integrins may be important for a regenerative response in central nervous system neurons.
Long-term intrinsic enhanced excitability is a characteristic of cellular plasticity and learning-dependent modifications in the activity of neural networks. The regulation of voltage-dependent K+ channels by phosphorylation/dephosphorylation and their localization is proposed to be important in the control of cellular plasticity. One-trial conditioning in Hermissenda results in enhanced excitability in sensory neurons, type B photoreceptors, of the conditioned stimulus pathway. Conditioning also regulates the phosphorylation of conditioned stimulus pathway phosphoprotein 24 (Csp24), a cytoskeletal-related protein containing multiple beta-thymosin-like domains. Recently, it was shown that the downregulation of Csp24 expression mediated by an antisense oligonucleotide blocked the development of enhanced excitability in identified type B photoreceptors after one-trial conditioning without affecting short-term excitability. Here, we show using whole-cell patch recordings that one-trial in vitro conditioning applied to isolated photoreceptors produces a significant reduction in the amplitude of the A-type transient K+ current (I(A)) detected 1.5-16 h after conditioning. One-trial conditioning produced a depolarized shift in the steady-state activation curve of I(A) without altering the inactivation curve. The conditioning-dependent reduction in I(A) was blocked by preincubation of the photoreceptors with Csp antisense oligonucleotide. These results provide an important link between Csp24, a cytoskeletal protein, and regulation of voltage-gated ion channels associated with intrinsic enhanced excitability underlying pavlovian conditioning.
Genetically encoded fluorescent probes of neural activity represent new promising tools for systems neuroscience. Here, we present a comparative in vivo analysis of 10 different genetically encoded calcium indicators, as well as the pH-sensitive synapto-pHluorin. We analyzed their fluorescence changes in presynaptic boutons of the Drosophila larval neuromuscular junction. Robust neural activity did not result in any or noteworthy fluorescence changes when Flash-Pericam, Camgaroo-1, and Camgaroo-2 were expressed. However, calculated on the raw data, fractional fluorescence changes up to 18% were reported by synapto-pHluorin, Yellow Cameleon 2.0, 2.3, and 3.3, Inverse-Pericam, GCaMP1.3, GCaMP1.6, and the troponin C-based calcium sensor TN-L15. The response characteristics of all of these indicators differed considerably from each other, with GCaMP1.6 reporting high rates of neural activity with the largest and fastest fluorescence changes. However, GCaMP1.6 suffered from photobleaching, whereas the fluorescence signals of the double-chromophore indicators were in general smaller but more photostable and reproducible, with TN-L15 showing the fastest rise of the signals at lower activity rates. We show for GCaMP1.3 and YC3.3 that an expanded range of neural activity evoked fairly linear fluorescence changes and a corresponding linear increase in the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). The expression level of the indicator biased the signal kinetics and SNR, whereas the signal amplitude was independent. The presented data will be useful for in vivo experiments with respect to the selection of an appropriate indicator, as well as for the correct interpretation of the optical signals.
Our previous research demonstrated that the neuroactive progesterone metabolite allopregnanolone (3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one) rapidly induced hippocampal neuron neurite regression (Brinton, 1994). We hypothesized that allopregnanolone-induced neurite regression was a prelude to mitogenesis initiated by a rise in intracellular calcium. Supporting this hypothesis, the current data demonstrate that allopregnanolone, in a dose-dependent manner, induces a significant increase in proliferation of neuroprogenitor cells (NPCs) derived from the rat hippocampus and human neural stem cells (hNSCs) derived from the cerebral cortex. Proliferation was determined by incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine and [3H]thymidine, fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis of murine leukemia virus-green fluorescent protein-labeled mitotic NPCs, and total cell number counting. Allopregnanolone-induced proliferation was isomer and steroid specific, in that the stereoisomer 3beta-hydroxy-5beta-pregnan-20-one and related steroids did not increase [3H]thymidine uptake. Immunofluorescent analyses for the NPC markers nestin and Tuj1 indicated that newly formed cells were of neuronal lineage. Furthermore, microarray analysis of cell-cycle genes and real-time reverse transcription-PCR and Western blot validation revealed that allopregnanolone increased the expression of genes that promote mitosis and inhibited the expression of genes that repress cell proliferation. Allopregnanolone-induced proliferation was antagonized by the voltage-gated L-type calcium channel (VGLCC) blocker nifedipine, consistent with the finding that allopregnanolone induces a rapid increase in intracellular calcium in hippocampal neurons via a GABA type A receptor-activated VGLCC (Son et al., 2002). These data demonstrate that allopregnanolone significantly increased rat NPC and hNSC proliferation with concomitant regulation in mitotic cell-cycle genes via a VGLCC mechanism. The therapeutic potential of allopregnanolone as a neurogenic molecule is discussed.
In the present study, behavioral and in vivo electrophysiological methods were used to examine the peripheral effects of propofol on tonic ongoing pain-related responses produced by subcutaneous bee venom-induced inflammatory pain state. Local administration of 0.5 microg propofol produced significant suppression of the well-established ongoing pain responses in both conscious rats and dorsal horn nociceptive neurons. The locally antinociceptive action of propofol is not caused by systemic effect, because contralateral administration of the same dose of drug did not produce any effect. This result indicates that besides central actions, propofol has peripherally antinociceptive action as well.

In vertebrates, auditory and vestibular transduction occurs on apical projections (stereocilia) of specialized cells (hair cells). Mutations in myosin VIIA (myoVIIA), an unconventional myosin, lead to deafness and balance anomalies in humans, mice, and zebrafish; individuals are deaf, and stereocilia are disorganized. The exact mechanism through which myoVIIA mutations result in these inner-ear anomalies is unknown. Proposed inner-ear functions for myoVIIA include anchoring transduction channels to the stereocilia membrane, trafficking stereocilia linking components, and anchoring hair cells by associating with adherens junctions. The Drosophila myoVIIA homolog is crinkled (ck). The Drosophila auditory organ, Johnston's organ (JO), is developmentally and functionally related to the vertebrate inner ear. Both derive from modified epithelial cells specified by atonal and spalt homolog expression, and both transduce acoustic mechanical energy (and references therein). Here, we show that loss of ck/myoVIIA function leads to complete deafness in Drosophila by disrupting the integrity of the scolopidia that transduce auditory signals. We demonstrate that ck/myoVIIA functions to organize the auditory organ, that it is functionally required in neuronal and support cells, that it is not required for TRPV channel localization, and that it is not essential for scolopidial-cell-junction integrity.
One of the most commonly cited examples of human multisensory integration occurs during exposure to natural speech, when the vocal and the visual aspects of the signal are integrated in a unitary percept. Audiovisual association of facial gestures and vocal sounds has been demonstrated in nonhuman primates and in prelinguistic children, arguing for a general basis for this capacity. One critical question, however, concerns the role of attention in such multisensory integration. Although both behavioral and neurophysiological studies have converged on a preattentive conceptualization of audiovisual speech integration, this mechanism has rarely been measured under conditions of high attentional load, when the observers' attention resources are depleted. We tested the extent to which audiovisual integration was modulated by the amount of available attentional resources by measuring the observers' susceptibility to the classic McGurk illusion in a dual-task paradigm. The proportion of visually influenced responses was severely, and selectively, reduced if participants were concurrently performing an unrelated visual or auditory task. In contrast with the assumption that crossmodal speech integration is automatic, our results suggest that these multisensory binding processes are subject to attentional demands.

We investigated 185 families with ALS for evidence of anticipation and mitochondrial inheritance. Although initial analysis demonstrated significant anticipation of age at death between generations in patients with familial ALS, further analysis demonstrated features of regression to the mean, suggesting that the perceived differences are the result of bias. In addition, there was no evidence of an effect of preferential maternal inheritance, which would have supported transmission of mitochondrial DNA mutations.




Initially identified in Caenorhabditis elegans Lin-2 and Lin-7, L27 domain is a protein-protein interaction domain capable of organizing scaffold proteins into supramolecular assemblies by formation of heteromeric L27 domain complexes. L27 domain-mediated protein assemblies have been shown to play essential roles in cellular processes including asymmetric cell division, establishment and maintenance of cell polarity, and clustering of receptors and ion channels. The structural basis of L27 domain heteromeric complex assembly is controversial. We determined the high-resolution solution structure of the prototype L27 domain complex formed by mLin-2 and mLin-7 as well as the solution structure of the L27 domain complex formed by Patj and Pals1. The structures suggest that a tetrameric structure composed of two units of heterodimer is a general assembly mode for cognate pairs of L27 domains. Structural analysis of the L27 domain complex structures further showed that the central four-helix bundles mediating tetramer assembly are highly distinct between different pairs of L27 domain complexes. Biochemical studies revealed that the C-terminal alpha-helix responsible for the formation of the central helix bundle is a critical specificity determinant for each L27 domain in choosing its binding partner. Our results provide a unified picture for L27 domain-mediated protein-protein interactions.
Abused inhalants are a large class of compounds that are inhaled for their intoxicating and mood altering effects. They include chemicals with known therapeutic uses such as anesthetic gases as well as volatile organic solvents like toluene that are found in paint thinners and adhesives. Because of their widespread commercial use and availability, inhalants are often among the first drugs that children encounter and use of these compounds is often associated with adverse acute and long-term consequences. The cellular and molecular sites of action for abused inhalants is not well known although recent studies report that toluene and other organic solvents alter the activity of specific ligand- and voltage-gated ion channels that regulate cellular excitability. As part of an ongoing effort to define molecular sites of action for abused inhalants, this study examined the effect of toluene on the function of gap junction proteins endogenously expressed in human embryonic kidney (HEK 293) cells. Gap junctions allow cell-to-cell electrical communication as well as passage of small molecular weight substances and are critical for synchronizing cellular activity in certain tissues. Gap junction currents in HEK 293 cells were measured during brief voltage steps using patch-clamp electrophysiology and were blocked by known gap junction blockers confirming expression of connexin proteins in these cells. Toluene dose-dependently inhibited these conductances with threshold effects appearing at approximately 0.4 mM and near complete inhibition occurring at concentrations of 1 mM and higher. The estimated EC50 value for toluene inhibition of gap junction currents in HEK 293 cells was 0.57 mM. The results of these studies suggest that volatile solvents including toluene may produce some of their effects by disrupting inter-cellular communication mediated by gap junction proteins.
Human functional imaging and neurocytology have produced important revisions to the organization of the cingulate gyrus and demonstrate four structure/function regions: anterior, midcingulate (MCC), posterior (PCC), and retrosplenial. This study evaluates the brain of a rhesus and 11 cynomolgus monkeys with Nissl staining and immunohistochemistry for neuron-specific nuclear binding protein, intermediate neurofilament proteins, and parvalbumin. The MCC region was identified along with its two subdivisions (a24' and p24'). The transition between areas 24 and 23 does not involve a simple increase in the number of neurons in layer IV but includes an increase in neuron density in layer Va of p24', a dysgranular layer IV in area 23d, granular area 23, with a neuron-dense layer Va and area 31. Each area on the dorsal bank of the cingulate gyrus has an extension around the fundus of the cingulate sulcus (f 24c, f 24c', f 24d, f 23c), whereas most cortex on the dorsal bank is composed of frontal motor areas. The PCC is composed of a dysgranular area 23d, area 23c in the caudal cingulate sulcus, a dorsal cingulate gyral area 23a/b, and a ventral area 23a/b. Finally, a dysgranular transition zone includes both area 23d and retrosplenial area 30. The distribution of areas was plotted onto flat maps to show the extent of each and their relationships to the vertical plane at the anterior commissure, corpus callosum, and cingulate sulcus. This major revision of the architectural organization of monkey cingulate cortex provides a new context for connection studies and for devising models of neuron diseases.

The histaminergic system has been speculated to be involved in the inhibitory control of drug reward, H1 and H2 antagonists having been found to potentiate conditioned place preference induced by morphine or cocaine. In contrast, the role of H3 receptors in cocaine-induced place preference is still unknown. The present study tested the effects of thioperamide (0, 10 and 20 mg/kg, i.p.), an H3 autoreceptor antagonist, on the development of a conditioned place preference induced by cocaine (0, 2 and 8 mg/kg, i.p.) in C57BL/6J mice. Thioperamide was injected 10 min before each cocaine-pairing session. The activity scores recorded on the first cocaine-pairing session were also used to test the effects of thioperamide on cocaine-induced locomotor activity. Thioperamide alone had no reinforcing effects and did not affect the conditioned place preference induced by 8 mg/kg cocaine. However, thioperamide dose-dependently revealed a conditioned place preference induced by 2 mg/kg cocaine, a dose that was inactive per se. Finally, thioperamide dose-dependently potentiated the stimulant effects of cocaine, in spite of its slight hypolocomotor effect when given alone. Our results strongly suggest that H3 antagonists potentiate the stimulant and reinforcing effects of cocaine in mice.
There are reports that melatonin secretion from the pineal gland gradually diminishes with advancing age. It has been suggested that various forms of neuropsychiatric disease, in particular, Parkinson's disease (PD), is consequentially related to this decrease by virtue of increased oxidative stress which enhances the process of dopamine (DA) degeneration. There is, however, considerable disagreement on this theme as very little is generally known about the role of the pineal gland in the aetiology and treatment of PD. To assess the role of the pineal gland in PD and in dopamine replacement therapy (DART), the effect of three anti-Parkinsonian drugs on motor and psychiatric function was assessed in normal, pinealectomized (PX) and DA deficient, PX rats. In the first study, rats underwent PX or sham operation and were then injected (IP) with Amantadine (30 or 50 mg/kg), Bromocriptine (5 or 10 mg/kg) or L-Dopa (30 or 60 mg/kg plus 50 mg/kg of R-044602) 3-8 weeks after surgery. Open field performance and motor reflex tests were assessed during the light and dark phases of the L/D cycle. In a second study, clinically effective doses of Bromocriptine (10 mg/kg) and L-Dopa (30 and 100 mg/kg with 50 mg/kg R-044602) were injected into depleted, PX or sham operated rats. In study I, sham operated and PX rats responded differently to Bromocriptine and L-Dopa, while Amantadine did not differentially effect motor performance in the two groups. In study II, 6-OHDA induced degeneration of the nigro-striatal system abolished the effects of Bromocriptine and dramatically altered the effects of L-Dopa seen in study I, in sham operated versus PX rats. DART significantly altered emotionality, as measured by escape attempts, agitation and rage in sham operated animals, compared to PX rats. DA deficiency abolished the tendency to escape in all groups except those treated with 100mg/kg of L-Dopa. Conversely, agitation and rage scores were greater after 100 mg/kg of L-Dopa, in rats with intact pineal function, than in PX rats. These results provide compelling evidence that altered pineal function plays a major role in the aetiology of PD, the therapeutic effect of anti-Parkinsonian drugs and in the psychiatric side effects of DART.
Pro-inflammatory cytokines and other molecules traditionally associated with immune function have been implicated in mediating behavioral and physiological consequences of stressor exposure. There is also evidence that cytokines are aberrantly expressed in depressive populations, suggesting they may play an etiological role in the development of depression/despair-related processes. Thus, we conducted a series of experiments to determine whether agents known to suppress cytokine activity or inflammatory responses in the CNS would alter the normal progression of behavioral responses during the forced swim test (FST, an animal model of depression/behavioral despair). Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with indomethacin (1 or 10 mg/kg intraperitoneally (i.p.)), alpha-MSH (0.25 or 0.5 microg icv), or minocycline (20 or 40 mg/kg i.p.) prior to each day of the FST and behavioral assessments were performed. Injection of indomethacin, alpha-MSH, or minocycline had no effect on the development of the immobility response during the FST on either day of testing. In a second series of experiments, we examined whether behavioral responses during forced swim would be affected by acute illness induced by a single injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Acute injection of LPS (10 or 100 microg/kg i.p.) had no effect on behavioral responding during the FST irrespective of when it was injected, despite pronounced reductions in social behavior following these same doses of LPS. From these studies, we conclude that (a) endogenous inflammatory mediators do not appear to be involved in the normal progression of behavioral responses during the FST, and (b) behavioral responses during the FST are not affected by acute systemic injection of LPS.
The purpose of these experiments was to determine whether secondary hypoxia exacerbates the metabolic consequences of fluid percussion injury (FPI). In Experiment I, rats were trained to press a lever for their entire daily ration of food at any time during a 12-h light/dark cycle and run in an activity wheel. After food intake and body weight stabilized, rats were surgically prepared, assigned to one of four groups [FPI+Hypoxia (IH), FPI+Normoxia (IN), Sham Injury+Hypoxia (SH), Sham Injury+Normoxia (SN)] and, after recovery from surgery, anesthetized with halothane delivered by a 21% O2 source. Immediately after injury or sham injury, the O2 source was switched to 13% for rats in Groups IH and SH for 30 min. Post-traumatic hypoxemia exacerbated the ensuing FPI-induced reductions of food intake and body weight, but did not change FPI-induced reduction in wheel running. In Experiment II, rats were assigned to one of three groups (SH, IN, or IH) and subjected to sham injury and 13% O2 or FPI and either 13 or 21% O2. Immediately after 30 min of hypoxia or normoxia, rats were confined to metabolism cages that were used to quantify rates of oxygen consumption (VO2), carbon dioxide production (VCO2), and heat production (H). Post-traumatic hypoxia exacerbated the FPI-induced increases in VO2, VCO2, and H. The results of Experiments I and II provide convergent confirmation that secondary hypoxemia exacerbates the FPI-induced hypermetabolic state in rats and therefore might significantly exacerbate the brain injury-induced disruptions of energy metabolism in humans.
Acute systemic treatment with the selective orexin-1 (OX1R) antagonist SB-334867 reduces food intake in rats, an effect associated with an acceleration in behavioural satiety and unrelated to gross behavioural disruption, alterations in palatability, or toxicity. However, as enhanced satiety is behaviourally indexed by an earlier-than-normal transition from eating to resting, and since orexin-A has been implicated in mechanisms of arousal, it remains possible that sedation contributes to the anorectic effect of acute OX1R blockade. Previous work has shown that, when treated with SB-334867 (30 mg/kg, i.p.) 30 min before a 1h test with palatable food, rats begin to show appreciable levels of resting 10-15 min earlier than under control conditions (i.e. around 20 min versus 30-35 min into the session). The present results demonstrate that a 20 min increase in the injection-test interval (i.e. 50 min) had no significant impact on the anorectic, behavioural or weight gain effects of SB-334867 in non-deprived male rats. Most importantly, this altered treatment regimen led to a temporal profile of resting virtually identical to that previously observed with the more conventional 30 min injection-test interval. Although parallel studies indicated that the OX1R antagonist accelerated the onset of resting (and suppressed most active behaviours) even in the absence of food, an equianorectic dose of the natural satiety-related signal cholescystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8S; 5 microg/kg, i.p.) also produced very similar behavioural effects regardless of the presence of food. Together with evidence that SB-334867 preserves the structural integrity of natural feeding behaviour, does not induce nausea/illness or alter taste/palatability and fails to influence EEG measures of arousal/sleep, the present findings are consistent with the view that acute OX1R antagonism selectively enhances satiety. However, unlike the immediate short-circuiting of the satiety sequence induced by CCK-8S, the slower response to SB-334867 implies a more indirect mechanism of action.
Bacterial enterotoxins may cause life-threatening diarrhoeal fluid loss in part because they stimulate enterocytes to secrete fluid into the small intestine as well as preventing normal fluid uptake. Abnormal chloride ion secretion is believed to provide the osmotic driving force for the inappropriate fluid movement. Evidence for enhanced chloride secretion consists of isotopic flux measurements in Ussing chambers, the standard apparatus for permeation studies. Flux from the lumen of the intestine is assumed to be determined solely by absorptive processes and flux towards the lumen solely by secretory processes. Bacterial enterotoxin increased flux towards the lumen is taken as an evidence of enhanced secretion. Examination of the flux equation solutions shows that the existing theoretical treatment of the Ussing chamber consists of the super-imposition of two contradictory unidirectional models. In contrast, the present analysis shows that a measured 'unidirectional' flux contains information both about absorptive and secretory processes, regardless of which flux is measured. Reciprocity is predicted for the fluxes, as decreases in the absorptive processes will cause increases in apparent secretory flux. Data from the literature show that mucosal-to-serosal chloride ion flux in rabbit ileum after exposure to secretagogues correlates inversely and highly significantly (r=0.74, n=17, p&lt;0.001) with increases in serosal-to-mucosal chloride ion flux. As a category of evidence, flux data do not provide conclusive evidence of enhanced chloride secretion after exposure to enterotoxins, since an apparently enhanced serosal-to-mucosal flux would also be noted after inhibition of the mucosal-to-serosal flux. As interruption of absorptive processes can be misinterpreted as enhanced secretion in the Ussing chamber, this is a serious deficiency in the evidence for direct enterotoxin enhancement of the intestinal chloride ion channel as a basis for diarrhoeal disease.
Mammalian RYK is a receptor related to tyrosine kinase without detectable catalytic activity. We have previously reported that rat RYK is dominantly expressed in neural progenitor cells and mature neurons in the developing central nervous system. Mouse RYK has been found to bind to EphB2/B3 receptors, which have diverse functions during development. In this study, we demonstrated that RYK, EphB2, EphB3, ephrinB1, and ephrinB2 are expressed in embryonic brain. In vitro analysis using COS-7 cells revealed binding between rat RYK and EphB3, and that the RYK deletion mutant without extracellular leucine-rich motifs lacked this binding ability. To investigate the function of RYK in vivo, embryonic cortical slice cultures were analyzed after electroporation of expression plasmids for RYK or its deletion mutants. The results showed that overexpression of RYK suppressed cell migration from the ventricular zone to the pial surface, however, overexpression of the RYK deletion mutant without leucine-rich motifs had no effect on cell migration. These results suggest that RYK regulates cell migration during mammalian cortical development through the binding to Eph receptors.
Mutation S218L in the Ca(V)2.1 alpha(1) subunit of P/Q-type Ca(2+) channels produces a severe clinical phenotype in which typical attacks of familial hemiplegic migraine (FHM) triggered by minor head trauma are followed, after a lucid interval, by deep (even fatal) coma and long lasting severe cerebral edema. We investigated the functional consequences of this mutation on human Ca(V)2.1 channels expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells and in neurons from Ca(V)2.1 alpha(1)(-/-) mice by combining single channel and whole cell patch clamp recordings. Mutation S218L produced a shift to lower voltages of the single channel activation curve and a consequent increase of both single channel and whole cell Ba(2+) influx in both neurons and human embryonic kidney 293 cells. Compared with the other FHM-1 mutants, the S218L shows one of the largest gains of function, especially for small depolarizations, which are insufficient to open the wild-type channel. S218L channels open at voltages close to the resting potential of many neurons. Moreover, the S218L mutation has unique effects on the kinetics of inactivation of the channel because it introduces a large component of current that inactivates very slowly, and it increases the rate of recovery from inactivation. During long depolarizations at voltages that are attained during cortical spreading depression, the extent of inactivation of the S218L channel is considerably smaller than that of the wild-type channel. We discuss how the unique combination of a particularly slow inactivation during cortical spreading depression and a particularly low threshold of channel activation might lead to delayed severe cerebral edema and coma after minor head trauma.
Disruption of the dystroglycan gene in humans and mice leads to muscular dystrophies and nervous system defects including malformation of the brain and defective synaptic transmission. To identify proteins that interact with dystroglycan in the brain we have used immunoaffinity purification followed by mass spectrometry (LC/MS-MS) and found that the GTPase dynamin 1 is a novel dystroglycan-associated protein. The beta-dystroglycan-dynamin 1 complex also included alpha-dystroglycan and Grb2. Overlay assays indicated that dynamin interacts directly with dystroglycan, and immunodepletion showed that only a pool of dynamin is associated with dystroglycan. Dystroglycan was associated and colocalized immunohistochemically with dynamin 1 in the central nervous system in the outer plexiform layer of retina where photoreceptor terminals are found. Endocytosis in neurons is both constitutive, as in non-neural cells, and regulated by neural activity. To assess the function of dystroglycan in the former, we have assayed transferrin uptake in fibroblastic cells differentiated from embryonic stem cells null for both dystroglycan alleles. In wild-type cells, dystroglycan formed a complex with dynamin and codistributed with cortactin at membrane ruffles, which are organelles implicated in endocytosis. Dystroglycan-null cells had a significantly greater transferrin uptake, a process well known to require dynamin. Expression of dystroglycan in null cells by infection with an adenovirus containing dystroglycan reduced transferrin uptake to levels seen in wild-type embryonic stem cells. These data suggest that dystroglycan regulates endocytosis possibly as a result of its interaction with dynamin.



Previous results from our genetic analyses using pedigrees from a French Canadian population suggested that the interval delimited by markers D12S86 and D12S378 on chromosome 12 was the most probable genomic region to contain a susceptibility gene for affective disorders. Here we present a more detailed genetic analysis of a 7.7 Mb genomic region located on 12q24.31. This region was saturated with 20 microsatellite markers to refine the candidate region and linkage analysis performed in 41 families from the Saguenay-Lac-St-Jean (SLSJ) region of Quebec. The results of two point parametric analysis using MFLINK supported the presence of a susceptibility locus on chromosome 12q24.31. Association studies with microsatellite markers using a case/control sample from the same population (n = 401) and analyzed with CLUMP revealed significant allelic associations between the bipolar phenotype and markers NBG6 (P = 0.008) and NBG12 (P &lt; 10(-3)). According to these results, we investigated candidate genes in the NBG12 area. We analyzed 32 genes for the presence of polymorphisms in coding sequences and intron/exon junctions and genotyped 22 non-synonymous SNPs in the SLSJ case/control sample. Two uncommon polymorphisms (minor allele frequency &lt; or = 0.03) found in KIAA1595 and FLJ22471 genes, gave P-values below 0.05 with the T1 statistic. Moreover, using haplotype analysis, a nearly significant haplotypic association was observed at the HM74 gene. These results do not give strong support for a role in the susceptibility to bipolar disorder of any of these genes analyzed. However, the significance of rare polymorphisms should be explored by further analyses.
Here, we provide evidence for a detrimental role of tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) in neural death in T cell-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of multiple sclerosis (MS). Clinical severity and neuronal apoptosis in brainstem motor areas were substantially reduced upon brain-specific blockade of TRAIL after induction of EAE through adoptive transfer of encephalitogenic T cells. Furthermore, TRAIL-deficient myelin-specific lymphocytes showed reduced encephalitogenicity when transferred to wild-type mice. Conversely, intracerebral delivery of TRAIL to animals with EAE increased clinical deficits, while naive mice were not susceptible to TRAIL. Using organotypic slice cultures as a model for living brain tissue, we found that neurons were susceptible to TRAIL-mediated injury induced by encephalitogenic T cells. Thus, in addition to its known immunoregulatory effects, the death ligand TRAIL contributes to neural damage in the inflamed brain.
Great neuroanatomists of the twentieth century recognized that the cerebral cortex of mammals is the single most complex structure of the central nervous system both in terms of neuronal diversity and connectivity. Understanding the cellular and molecular mechanisms specifying the afferent and efferent connectivity in the neocortex may seem like a daunting task. However, recent technical advances have greatly improved our ability to (1) profile gene expression of neuronal populations isolated based on their connectional properties, (2) manipulate gene expression in specific neuronal populations, and (3) visualize their axonal projections in vivo. These new tools are revolutionizing our ability to identify the molecular mechanisms patterning afferent and efferent cortical projections.
The TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) has well-described anti-inflammatory effects in models of autoimmune disease, including experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). In this issue of Neuron, Aktas, Smorodchenko, and colleagues present evidence that TRAIL exerts anti-inflammatory effects, but also induces neuronal apoptosis, in EAE. This report poses the therapeutic challenge of facilitating TRAIL expression in the periphery while inhibiting TRAIL in the CNS.
A key aspect of postsynaptic function, also important for plasticity, is the segregation within dendritic spines of Ca2+ rises attributable to release from intracellular stores. Previous studies have shown that overexpression in hippocampal neurons of two postsynaptic density (PSD) scaffold proteins, Shank1B and Homer1b, induces spine maturation, including translocation of the intracellular Ca2+ channel inositol trisphosphate receptor (IP3R). The structural and functional significance of these processes remained undefined. Here, we show that in its relocation, IP3R is accompanied by other endoplasmic reticulum (ER) proteins: the Ca2+ pump sarcoendoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase, the lumenal Ca2+-binding protein calreticulin, the ER lumen-addressed green fluorescent protein, and, to a lesser extent, the membrane chaperone calbindin. The specificity of these translocations was demonstrated by their inhibition by both a Shank1 fragment and the dominant-negative Homer1a. Activation in Shank1B-transfected neurons of the metabotropic glutamatergic receptors 1/5 (mGluRs1/5), which induce IP3 generation with ensuing Ca2+ release from the stores, triggered considerable increases in Ca2+-dependent responses: activation of the big K+ channel, which was revealed by patch clamping, and extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) phosphorylation. The interaction of Shank1B and Homer1b appears as the molecular mechanism linking mGluRs1/5, strategically located in the spines, to IP3R with the integration of entire ER cisternas in the PSD and with consequences on both local Ca2+ homeostasis and overall neuronal signaling.
Amygdala ablation disrupts reinforcer &quot;devaluation&quot; in monkeys (Malkova et al., 1997). Here, we tested the hypothesis that transient inactivation of amygdala by the GABA(A) agonist muscimol (MUS), specifically during the period of reward satiation, would have a similar effect. Six pigtail macaques were trained on a visual object discrimination task in which 60 objects were associated with one of two specific food rewards. Subsequently, we evaluated the selective satiation-induced change (devaluation) in object preference in probe sessions. We also examined the effect of the amygdala inactivation during the probe sessions to determine whether the inactivation limited to the testing period (and not during the satiation period) is sufficient to impair the expression of reinforcer devaluation. MUS infusions were aimed at basolateral amygdala (BLA) in a pseudorandomized design; each monkey received MUS or saline either before or after selective satiation with each of the two food rewards (six infusions total). Under the control (saline) condition, the monkeys significantly shifted their preference from objects representing the sated food rewards to those representing the nonsated rewards (30% change). When BLA was inactivated during selective satiation (i.e., MUS infused before satiation), this devaluation effect was blocked. In contrast, MUS infusion after satiation, so that it was present just during the testing period, did not impair the shift in object preference (27% change). Thus, BLA is necessary for the appropriate registration of the change in the reinforcer value but not for the subsequent expression of the devaluation involving its transfer to secondary reinforcers.
The vertebrate retina is composed of cellular arrays that are nonrandom across two-dimensional space. The determinants of these nonrandom two-dimensional cellular patterns in the inner nuclear layer of the retina were investigated using empirical and computational modeling techniques. In normal and experimental models of goldfish retinal growth, the patterns of tyrosine hydroxylase- and serotonin-positive cells indicated that neither cell death nor lateral migration of differentiated cells were dominant mechanisms of cellular pattern formation. A computational model of cellular pattern formation that used a signaling mechanism arising from differentiated cells that inhibited homotypic cell-fate decisions generated accurate simulations of the empirically observed patterns in normal retina. This model also predicted the principal atypical cellular pattern characteristic, a transient cell-type-specific hyperplasia, which was empirically observed in the growing retina subsequent to selective ablation of differentiated retinal cells, either tyrosine hydroxylase positive or serotonin positive. The results support the hypothesis that inhibitory spatiotemporal regulation of homotypic cell-fate decisions is a dominant mechanistic determinant of nonrandom cellular patterns in the vertebrate retina.
Although seasonal changes in brain morphology and function are well established in songbirds, seasonal plasticity of brain structure and function remain less well documented in mammals. Nontropical animals display many adaptations to reduce energy use to survive winter, including cessation of reproductive activities. Because of the high energetic costs of brain tissue, we hypothesized that male white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus) would reduce brain size in response to short days as well as regress their reproductive systems. Because short days may decrease hippocampal volume and impair spatial learning and memory in rodents and because of the potential for seasonal plasticity in the hippocampus, we hypothesized that photoperiod alters hippocampal morphology to affect spatial learning and memory. Mice housed in either long or short days for 10 weeks were examined for performance in a water maze; brains were then removed and weighed, and hippocampal volumes were determined. We also measured dendritic morphology and spine density in the CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus. Short days decreased brain mass and hippocampal volume compared with long days. Short days also impaired long-term spatial learning and memory relative to long days but did not affect sensory discrimination or other types of memory. Short days decreased apical (stratum lacunosum-moleculare) CA1 spine density, as well as increased basilar (stratum oriens) CA3 spine density. Results from this study suggest that photoperiod alters brain size and morphology, as well as cognitive function. Understanding the mechanisms mediating these photoperiod-induced alterations may provide insight for treatment of seasonal cognitive and affective disorders.
The projection from the nucleus accumbens to the ventral pallidum regulates the reinstatement of cocaine seeking in rats extinguished from cocaine self-administration. This projection coexpresses GABA and enkephalin, posing a role for mu-opioid receptors in the ventral pallidum in mediating the reinstatement of cocaine seeking. Rats were extinguished from cocaine self-administration, and the reinstatement of active lever pressing by cocaine was blocked by intra-ventral pallidum administration of the mu receptor antagonist Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 (CTAP) (0.03-3.0 microg). Conversely, stimulating mu receptors with morphine (1-30 microg) in the ventral pallidum reinstated cocaine seeking. The ability of intra-ventral pallidum morphine to reinstate lever pressing was blocked by co-microinjection of the mu antagonist CTAP and was augmented by systemic cocaine administration. The reinstatement of cocaine seeking was associated with reduced extracellular GABA in the ventral pallidum, and the reduction in GABA was also prevented by blocking mu receptors with CTAP (10 microm). Although immunoblotting revealed that neither the total tissue concentration nor the membrane insertion of mu receptors in the ventral pallidum was altered by withdrawal from cocaine, the capacity of morphine (0.01-10 microm) to reduce ventral pallidum levels of extracellular GABA was augmented in rats extinguished from cocaine self-administration. These data are consistent with the reinstatement of cocaine seeking being modulated in part by coreleased enkephalin and GABA from the accumbens-ventral pallidal projection, a modulation that may involve the inhibition of GABA release by presynaptic mu receptors.
Kainate receptors (KARs) are highly expressed throughout the neonatal brain, but their function during development is unclear. Here, we show that the maturation of the hippocampus is associated with a switch in the functional role of presynaptic KARs. In a developmental period restricted to the first postnatal week, endogenous L-glutamate tonically activates KARs at CA3 glutamatergic synapses to regulate release in an action potential-independent manner. At synapses onto pyramidal cells, KARs inhibit glutamate release via a G-protein and PKC-dependent mechanism. In contrast, at glutamatergic terminals onto CA3 interneurons, presynaptic KARs can facilitate release in a G-protein-independent mechanism. In both cell types, however, KAR activation strongly upregulates inhibitory transmission. We show that, through the interplay of these novel diverse mechanisms, KARs strongly regulate the characteristic synchronous network activity observed in the neonatal hippocampus. By virtue of this, KARs are likely to play a central role in the development of hippocampal synaptic circuits.
