Low-frequency (&lt; 1 Hz) oscillations in intracellular recordings from cortical neurons were first reported in the anaesthetized cat and then also during natural sleep. The slow sequences of hyperpolarization and depolarization were reflected by slow oscillations in the electroencephalogram. The aim of the present study was to examine whether comparable low-frequency components are present in the human sleep electroencephalogram. All-night sleep recordings from eight healthy young men were subjected to spectral analysis in which the low-frequency attenuation of the amplifier was compensated. During sleep stages with a predominance of slow waves and in the first two episodes of non-rapid-eye-movement sleep, the mean power spectrum showed a peak at 0.7-0.8 Hz (range 0.55-0.95 Hz). The typical decline in delta activity from the first to the second non-rapid-eye-movement sleep episode was not present at frequencies below 2 Hz. To detect very low frequency components in the pattern of slow waves and sleep spindles, a new time series was computed from the mean voltage of successive 0.5 s epochs of the low-pass (&lt; 4.5 Hz) or band-pass (12-15 Hz) filtered electroencephalogram. Spectral analysis revealed a periodicity of 20-30 s in the prevalence of slow waves and a periodicity of 4 s in the occurrence of activity in the spindle frequency range. The results demonstrate that distinct components below 1 Hz are also present in the human sleep electroencephalogram spectrum. The differences in the dynamics between the component with a mean peak value at 0.7-0.8 Hz and delta waves above 2 Hz is in accordance with results from animal experiments.
The expression of the constitutive transcription factors activating transcription factor-2 (ATF-2), serum response factor (SRF) and cAMP/Ca response element binding factor (CREB), and the phosphorylation of SRF and CREB were studied in the untreated adult rat nervous system and following seizure activities and neurodegenerative stimuli. In the untreated rat, intense nuclear SRF immunoreactivity was present in the vast majority of neurons in the forebrain, cortex, striatum, amygdala and hippocampus, and in some scattered neurons in the medulla and spinal cord. In contrast, SRF immunoreactivity was absent in the midline areas of the forebrain, e.g., the globus pallidum and septum, and in the hypothalamus, thalamus, mesencephalon and motoneurons. Nuclear ATF-2 was expressed at high levels in apparently all neurons, but not glial cells, throughout the neuraxis except for those neuronal populations which exhibit a high basal level of c-Jun, i.e. dentate gyrus and the motoneurons of cranial and somatosensory neurons. CREB immunoreactivity was present at a rather uniform intensity in all neuronal and glial cells throughout the neuraxis. Two hours, but not 5 h or 24 h, following systemic application of kainic acid, an increase in SRF was detectable by western blot analysis in hippocampal and cortical homogenates whereas the expression of ATF-2 and CREB did not change. Phosphorylation of CREB at serine 133 and of SRF at serine 103 were studied with specific antisera. In untreated rats, intense phosphoCREB and phosphoSRF immunoreactivities labelled many glial cells and/or neurons with the highest levels in the dentate gyrus, the entorhinal cortex and the retrosplenial cortex. Following kainate-induced seizures, phosphoSRF-IR but not phosphoCREB-IR transiently increased between 0.5 h and 2 h. Following transection of peripheral or central nerve fibres such as optic nerve, medial forebrain bundle, vagal and facial nerve fibres, ATF-2 rapidly decreased in the axotomized neurons during that period when c-Jun was rapidly expressed. SRF remained unchanged and CREB disappeared in some axotomized subpopulations. Similar to axotomy, c-Jun increased and ATF-2 decreased in cultured adult dorsal root ganglion neurons following ultraviolet irradiation. The distribution of SRF and ATF-2 suggests that their putative target genes c-fos, junB, krox-24 and c-jun can be independently regulated from SRF and ATF-2. The suppression of ATF-2 and the expression of c-Jun following axotomy and ultraviolet irradiation might be part of a novel neuronal stress response in the brain that strongly resembles the stress response characterized in non-neuronal cells.
An in vitro model of epileptiform activity was developed to study the role of excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters in the epileptogenesis. Intracellular recordings were obtained from rat neocortical slices exposed to 4-aminopyridine in a magnesium-free solution. Spontaneous epileptiform activity consisting of paroxysmal depolarization shifts with associated spontaneous depolarizing postsynaptic potentials were observed. The paroxysmal depolarization shifts were blocked either by D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (50 microM), an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, or by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2.3-dione (10 microM), a non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist. These glutamate receptor antagonists also reduced the occurrence of spontaneous depolarizing postsynaptic potentials. Bicuculline methiodide, an antagonist of GABAA receptors, suppressed spontaneous depolarizing postsynaptic potentials, while it reduced the frequency of paroxysmal depolarization shifts and increased their duration. Hyperpolarization of the membrane potential by continuous current injection increased the frequency of paroxysmal depolarization shifts and reduced their duration, but it reduced the occurrence of spontaneous postsynaptic potentials. Paroxysmal depolarization shifts were blocked by tetrodotoxin (1 microM). The duration and the frequency of paroxysmal depolarization shift were reduced by dopamine (30-300 microM) in a dose-dependent manner. Our model suggests a different involvement of excitatory and inhibitory processes in the generation of epileptiform activity.
The role of ubiquitin in development of the mammalian brain has been studied using a monoclonal antibody, RHUb1, specific for ubiquitin. Immunodevelopment of western blots of homogenate samples of the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum prepared from animals of known postnatal age show marked developmental changes in conjugate level. Striking decreases in the level of a prominent conjugate of molecular weight 22,000, which is identified as ubiquitinated histone, are observed during the first postnatal week in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, but not the cerebellum. A marked overall developmental decrease in the level of high-molecular-weight (&gt; 40,000) ubiquitin conjugates which occurs predominantly during the third, but also the fourth, postnatal week is observed in all three regions. Immunocytochemical data obtained with the RHUb1 antibody show intense staining of neuronal perikarya, nuclei and dendrites in early postnatal cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Staining of pyramidal cell perikarya and dendrites is particularly prominent. The intensity of dendritic staining, particularly for the cerebral cortex, shows a striking decrease after postnatal day 14 and only faint dendritic staining is observed in the adult. In early postnatal cerebellum, immunoreactivity is predominantly nuclear, though some staining of the proximal regions of Purkinje cell dendrites is observed between postnatal days 4 and 19. As with the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, most of the ubiquitin reactivity is lost in adult animals. The loss of dendritic staining, particularly in the cerebral cortex, correlates with the decrease in the level of high-molecular-weight ubiquitin conjugates observed on the western blots. Immunodevelopment of western blots of a range of subcellular fractions prepared from developing rat forebrain shows that the developmental decrease in the level of high-molecular-weight ubiquitin conjugates is not uniform for all fractions. The decrease in conjugate level is most marked for the cell-soluble, mitochondrial and detergent-insoluble cytoskeletal fractions. Taken overall, the data suggest a role for ubiquitin in dendrite outgrowth and arborization, loss of dendritic ubiquitin immunoreactivity correlating with completion of these processes.
Using in situ patch-clamp techniques, we have studied K current expression in rat telencephalon from embryonic day 12 to 21. For cells recorded in the ventricular zone, the K current consisted of a delayed rectifier and a large-conductance calcium-activated component, and displayed little variation from embryonic day 12 to 21. Cells recorded in pial regions could be separated into two classes: radially oriented, putatively migrating cells, and cells tangentially oriented in layer I, which were assumed to be Cajal-Retzius cells. When using a voltage-clamp protocol that included a prepulse to -120 mV, Cajal-Retzius cells displayed a larger density of total K current than radial cells, and both types revealed an inactivating component (IA). The proportion of this component increased from embryonic day 18 to 21 in both cell types, although the amplitude of total K current, in the respective cell type, did not vary. This suggested a concomitant decrease in delayed rectifier current, which was verified directly with an appropriate protocol. The activation rate of the delayed rectifier current was slower for ventricular zone cells than for radial or Cajal-Retzius cells. IA was studied in Cajal-Retzius cells and displayed a strikingly negative (approximately -100 mV) voltage of half-maximal steady-state inactivation. Tetraethylammonium ions only blocked the non-inactivating component(s) of K current whereas 4-aminopyridine appeared to decrease both inactivating and non-inactivating components. The quantitative changes in K current expression are likely to underlie the overall increase in excitability of differentiating cells. On the other hand, the observation of qualitative differences among channel properties opens an interesting area of investigation into their physiological significance.
Regulated exocytosis from cultured rat cerebellar granule cells can be localized by the vesicle specific marker FM2-10 to specific sites, the highest density of which are at visible varicosities coinciding with neurite-neurite contacts. Exocytosis can be evoked by uniform electrical field pulses, which initiate tetrodotoxin-sensitive action potentials, or by elevated KCl. [3H]D-Aspartate is an authentic false transmitter in this preparation, judged by sensitivity of release to bafilomycin A1 and tetanus toxin. The coupling of presynaptic voltage-activated Ca2+ channels to [3H]D-aspartate exocytosis was determined during field stimulation. The peak cytoplasmic free Ca2+ concentration achieved in the varicosities was proportional to Ca2+ entry during a 10 strain of pulses. L-type Ca2+ channels did not contribute to either Ca2+ entry or [3H]D-aspartate exocytosis. The P-type Ca2+ channel antagonist omega-agatoxin-IVA (30 nM) only inhibited at 75% of the varicosities, although a mean 15% inhibition of Ca2+ entry caused a 39% inhibition of exocytosis. In contrast the N-type Ca2+ channel inhibitor omega-conotoxin-GVIA (1 microM), which inhibited at virtually all varicosities, caused mean inhibitions of Ca2+ entry and exocytosis of 26% and 24% respectively. The toxin omega-conotoxin-MVIIC (5 microM), which inhibits N-, P- and Q-type Ca2+ channels, was effective at all varicosities. The Q-type component of Ca2+ entry was calculated to be only 5-10%; however, the additional inhibition of exocytosis was 30%. Thus P-type and particularly Q-type channels appear to be more closely coupled to exocytosis than N-type Ca2+ channels. The residual Ca2+ entry following 5 microM omega-conotoxin-MVIIC is scarcely coupled to release. The omega-agatoxin-IVA and omega-conotoxin-GVIA inhibitions of both Ca2+ entry and exocytosis were additive and varied stochastically between individual varicosities. These results demonstrate that both Q- and P-type Ca2+ channels are highly efficient in their coupling to amino acid exocytosis, with N-type less efficient, and L-type channels not at all. The Ca2+ channel types coupled to exocytosis are also able to support exocytosis when evoked by either brief field-evoked action potentials or prolonged depolarization with KCl, indicating that these presynaptic channels, in contrast to those on the somata of the cells, can respond to widely different patterns of activation.
The putative neuroprotective effect of riluzole was investigated in a rat model of progressive striatal neurodegeneration induced by prolonged treatment (three weeks, intraperitoneal) with 3-nitropropionic acid, an irreversible inhibitor of succinate dehydrogenase. Quantitative analysis of motor behaviour indicated a significant protective effect (60%) of riluzole (8 mg/kg/day) on 3-nitropropionic acid-induced motor deficits as assessed using two independent motor tests. Furthermore, quantitative analysis of 3-nitropropionic acid-induced lesions indicated a significant 84% decrease in the volume of striatal damage produced by 3-nitropropionic acid, the neuroprotective effect apparently being more pronounced in the posterior striatum and pallidum. In addition, it was checked that this neuroprotective effect of riluzole against systemic 3-nitropropionic acid did not result from a decreased bioavailability of the neurotoxin or a direct action of riluzole on 3-nitropropionic acid-induced inhibition of succinate dehydrogenase. We found that riluzole significantly decreased by 48% the size of striatal lesions produced by stereotaxic intrastriatal injection of malonate, a reversible succinate dehydrogenase inhibitor. Furthermore, the inhibition of cortical and striatal succinate dehydrogenase activity induced by systemic 3-nitropropionic acid was left unchanged by riluzole administration. The present results, consistent with a beneficial effect of riluzole in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, suggest that this compound may be useful in the treatment of chronic neurodegenerative diseases.
The potential influence of glucocorticoids on fetal brain development was investigated after corticosterone administration via pellets to pregnant rats during the last trimester of gestation. We examined both spontaneous motor activity and dopamine-mediated motor responses to apomorphine, a D1, D2 and D3 receptor agonist, given at a postsynaptic dose (1 mg/kg, s.c.) to both prepubertal and adult male and female offspring. Prenatal corticosterone was found to produce the following alterations in the offspring. (1) Prepubertal stage: Male offspring: a statistically significant (P &lt; 0.05) increase was observed in spontaneous rearing, motility and locomotion (activity measured during the first 30 min) without changes in apomorphine-induced motor responses. Female offspring: a reduction (P &lt; 0.05) only in spontaneous rearing activity was observed during the exploratory phase (activity measured during the first 10 min) without significant changes in apomorphine-induced motor responses. (2) Adult stage: Male offspring: the exploratory activity to the novel environment was increased (P &lt; 0.05) without significant changes in apomorphine-induced motor activity. Female offspring: an increase (P &lt; 0.05) in spontaneous locomotion was observed during the first 30 min of testing without significant changes in exploratory activity to the novel environment. However, the apomorphine-induced motility and locomotion were reduced (P &lt; 0.05) during the first 30 min. These observations indicate that prenatal corticosterone induces both short-term and long-term changes in spontaneous motor activity as well as long-lasting alterations in dopamine receptor response in the motor network mechanisms controlled by DA receptors. These changes are in part age and sex-dependent. The possible relationship between prenatal programming of the mesolimbic and nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathways by corticosterone and the observed changes in motor function is discussed.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked release of [3H]acetylcholine previously formed from [3H]choline was estimated in striosome- (identified by [3H]naloxone binding) or matrix-enriched areas of the rat striatum using an in vitro microsuperfusion procedure. Experiments were performed in either the absence or the presence of dopaminergic and/or GABAergic receptor antagonists. Although the cell bodies of the cholinergic interneurons were mainly found in the matrix, in the absence of magnesium, N-methyl-D-aspartate (50 microM) stimulated the release of [3H]acetylcholine in both striatal compartments. These responses were blocked by either magnesium, dizocilpine maleate, 7-chlorokynurenate or tetrodotoxin. N-Methyl-D-aspartate responses were concentration-dependent, but the 1 mM N-methyl-D-aspartate response was higher in striosomes than in the matrix. The co-application of D-serine (10 microM) enhanced the 10 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate response in both compartments, but reduced those induced by 1 mM N-methyl-D-aspartate, this reduction being higher in striosomes. The blockade of dopaminergic transmission with the D2 and D1 dopaminergic receptor antagonists, (-)-sulpiride (1 microM) and SCH23390 (1 microM), was without effect on the 50 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked release of [3H]acetylcholine, but markedly enhanced the 1 mM N-methyl-D-aspartate+D-serine-evoked response in striosomes and to a lesser extent in the matrix. Disinhibitory responses of similar amplitude were observed not only in striosomes but also in the matrix when (-)-sulpiride was used alone, while SCH23390 alone enhanced the 1 mM N-methyl-D-aspartate+D-serine response only in striosomes and to a lower extent than (-)-sulpiride. These results indicate that D2 receptors are mainly involved in the inhibitory effect of dopamine on the 1 mM N-methyl-D-aspartate+D-serine-evoked release of [3H]acetylcholine. They also show that the stimulation of D1 receptors can either reduce (striosomes) or enhance (matrix) this response, since in the latter case the effect induced by the combined application of the D1 and D2 receptor antagonists was smaller than that observed with the D2 receptor antagonist alone. Indicating that released GABA facilitates N-methyl-D-aspartate responses, the blockade of GABAA receptors with bicuculline (5 microM) reduced the 50 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked release of [3H]acetylcholine in both striatal compartments and the 1 mM N-methyl-D-aspartate+D-serine response in the matrix. These effects result from an inhibition by GABA of the evoked release of dopamine, since the reducing effects of bicuculline on N-methyl-D-aspartate responses were not observed under the complete blockade of dopaminergic transmission by the D1 and D2 receptor antagonists. Further demonstrating a facilitatory role of GABA in the control of N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked release of [3H]acetylcholine, in the presence of bicuculline, (-)-sulpiride and SCH23390 alone or in combination enhanced, in both compartments, the responses induced not only by 1 mM N-methyl-D-aspartate+D-serine, but also by 50 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate.
The protein Fos is a transcription factor which is quickly induced in response to a variety of extracellular signals. Since this protein is expressed in a variety of neuronal systems in response to activation of synaptic afferents, it has been suggested that it might contribute to activity-dependent plasticity in neural networks. The present study investigated the effect of cortical electrical stimulation on the expression of Fos in the basal ganglia in the rat, a group of structures that participate in sensorimotor learning. Results show that the repetitive application of electrical shocks in restricted areas of the cerebral cortex induces an expression of Fos mostly confined to the striatum and the subthalamic nucleus. The induction which can be elicited from different cortical areas (sensorimotor, auditory and limbic areas) does not require particular temporal patterns of stimulation but rather depends on the total number of shocks delivered during a given period of time. Moreover, it appears to be rather independent of the number of spikes discharged by the activated cells. In the striatum, the distribution of immunoreactive neurons is precisely delineated and conforms to the known topographical organization of stimulated corticostriatal projections. As demonstrated using a variety of double labelling techniques (combination of the immunocytochemical detection of Fos with the autoradiography of mu opioid receptors, calbindin immunocytochemistry, in situ hybridization of preproenkephalin and preprotachykinin A messenger RNAs), striatal neurons which express Fos are mostly localized in the matrix compartment and concern equally enkephaline and substance P containing efferent neurons. In the subthalamic nucleus, Fos expression evoked by cortical stimulation is also confined to discrete regions of the nucleus, the localizations corresponding to the primary projection site of the stimulated cortical cells. These results indicate that in addition to its phasic synaptic influence on the basal ganglia, the cerebral cortex could exert a long-term effect on the functional state of this system via a genomic control. Since the basal ganglia are involved in sensorimotor learning and motor habit formation, it is tempting to speculate that the activity-dependent Fos induction at corticostriatal and subthalamic synapses may contribute to consolidate the functionality of the neuronal networks activated during the completion of given motor tasks.
Dopamine agonists increase the activity of globus pallidus neurons, as shown electrophysiologically and with Fos expression. More recently it has been shown that decreased D2 receptor activity also causes pallidal Fos expression. Similar responses occur in the striatum, where both dopamine agonists and D2 blockade induce Fos, although in separate neuronal populations (i.e. striatonigral and -pallidal). The present experiments investigate the possible differential dopaminergic regulation of Fos within pallidal neuronal populations, which were classified as parvalbumin-positive or -negative (with parvalbumin immunostaining), or as projecting to various target nuclei (with retrograde transport of FluoroGold iontophoresed into these nuclei). Rats with prior nigrostriatal lesions received saline, D1 agonist, or D2 agonist. Rats with no lesions received saline, combined D1/D2 agonists, or the D2 antagonist eticlopride. Two hours after drug injection, rats were perfused and their brains processed for double-labeling: either Fos staining with parvalbumin staining, or Fos or parvalbumin staining in FluoroGold-labeled sections. Overall, dopamine drug treatments induced more Fos in parvalbumin-negative than -positive cells. However, unlike dopamine agonists, eticlopride induced significant Fos only in the parvalbumin-negative cells. Dopamine agonist-induced Fos was found in pallidal neurons projecting to each of the target nuclei examined, in both normal and nigrostriatal-lesioned rats. Eticlopride-induced Fos occurred only in pallidal neurons projecting to the striatum, providing functional evidence for pallidostriatal cells without axon collaterals to other nuclei. It was also found that pallidostriatal neurons were distinguished from other projection populations by a relative lack of parvalbumin immunoreactivity. Pallidal cells respond heterogeneously to dopaminergic treatments based on their projection target and expression of parvalbumin. The smaller Fos responses in parvalbumin-containing cells may be due largely to the calcium buffering by the parvalbumin itself. Also, the pattern of Fos expression in pallidostriatal neurons suggests that dopamine regulates activity in these cells differently than in other projection populations.
The aim of the present study was to further characterize the involvement of the mesolimbic dopamine system in central blood pressure regulation, with particular emphasis on the interaction of this system with the effects of circulating vasopressin. In conscious rats we stimulated the release of endogenous dopamine from mesolimbic/mesocortical terminals by administration of the substance P analogue DiMe-C7 ([pGlu5, MePhe8, Sar9]-Substance P5-11; 10 nmol) into the ventral tegmental area. Chemical stimulation of the ventral tegmental area resulted in a significant increase in blood pressure and heart rate. These effects were prevented by either bilateral electrolytic lesions of the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus or by systemic pretreatment with the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist raclopride (0.5 mg/kg). Stimulation of the ventral tegmental area also produced a marked increase in the expression of the proto-oncogene c-fos in the supraoptic nucleus and a significant increase in plasma vasopressin levels, suggesting activation of vasopressinergic neurons in this nucleus. However, this effect of stimulation of the ventral tegmental area was not significantly inhibited by pretreatment with raclopride. We suggest that the effects on blood pressure and heart rate of stimulation of the ventral midbrain by micro-injection of DiMe-C7 are the result of combined activation of both dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic cell bodies in this region. Stimulation of non-dopaminergic cells in the ventral midbrain may induce a moderate increase in plasma vasopressin levels by activation of the supraoptic nucleus. An additional stimulation of dopaminergic cells in the ventral midbrain allows the increase in circulating vasopressin levels to become manifest as a pressor response, possibly by inhibition of vasopressin-induced facilitation of baroreflex responses.
The actions of vasopressin on acutely dissociated neurons within the rat horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca were examined using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Vasopressin elicited two distinct responses in 45 of 62 neurons. In one group of cells, 300 nM vasopressin decreased voltage-activated outward currents (26/45 cells) whereas in a second group, vasopressin increased outward currents (19/45 cells). The vasopressin-mediated decrease in outward currents was blocked by 1 microM Manning compound, a V1 receptor antagonist, suggesting that this response was mediated via V1 receptors. In contrast, the vasopressin-induced increase in outward current was blocked by 1 microM d(CH2)5)1,D-Ile2,Ile4,Arg8,Ala9, a V2 receptor antagonist, indicating that V2 receptor activation underlies this second response. When cells were perfused with 0 Ca2+/50 microM Cd2+, application of vasopressin did not cause any change in voltage-activated outward currents, suggesting that vasopressin modulates a calcium-dependent conductance. In the presence of 25 nM charybdotoxin, an Ic channel antagonist, vasopressin application did not influence outward currents, indicating that vasopressin modulates Ic. Currents through voltage-gated calcium channels which are responsible for activation of Ic were unaffected by vasopressin, suggesting a direct effect of vasopressin on Ic channels. These observations indicate a differential modulation of Ic channels by vasopressin via V1 and V2 receptors in the horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca. Our data also demonstrate the ionic mechanisms whereby vasopressin may act at V1 for V2 receptors to influence the excitability of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca neurons.
Known to exert an important modulatory influence on the cerebral cortex, the cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain are modulated in turn by neurotransmitters which may include acetylcholine released from processes of brainstem or forebrain neurons. In the present study, we examined the effect of carbachol, a non-specific cholinergic agonist, either alone or in the presence of N-methyl-D-aspartate upon electrophysiologically identified cholinergic basalis neurons in guinea-pig basal forebrain slices. Carbachol produced a direct postsynaptic hyperpolarization, accompanied by a decrease in membrane resistance. Muscarine could mimic this hyperpolarizing effect, whereas nicotine produced a direct postsynaptic membrane depolarization. The interaction of carbachol with N-methyl-D-aspartate was subsequently tested since, in a prior study, N-methyl-D-aspartate was shown to induce rhythmic bursting in cholinergic cells when they were hyperpolarized by continuous injection of outward current. Applied simultaneously with N-methyl-D-aspartate in the absence of current injection, carbachol was also found to promote rhythmic bursting in half of the cells tested. Since the bursts under these conditions were markedly longer in duration than those observed in the presence of N-methyl-D-aspartate alone, it was hypothesized that carbachol might have another action, in addition to the membrane hyperpolarization. Using dissociated cells, it was found that brief applications of carbachol could indeed diminish the slow afterhyperpolarizations that follow single spikes, short bursts or long trains of action potentials in cholinergic basalis neurons. These results indicate that, through its dual ability to hyperpolarize cholinergic neurons and to reduce their afterhyperpolarizations, acetylcholine can promote the occurrence of rhythmic bursting in the presence of N-methyl-D-aspartate. Accordingly, whether derived from brainstem or local sources, acetylcholine may facilitate rhythmic discharge in cholinergic basalis neurons which could in turn impose a rhythmic modulation upon cortical activity during particular states across the sleep-waking cycle.
The expression of the transcription factor c-JUN was investigated in the rat fascia dentata under normal conditions and after entorhinal cortex lesion. As shown by immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization histochemistry c-JUN and its messenger RNA are present in the principal cell layers of the dentate gyrus and Ammon's horn (except hippocampal region CA2). Pre-embedding immunogold electron microscopy revealed an almost exclusive nuclear localization of c-JUN, where it is associated with chromatin. In addition, double immunolabelling for c-JUN and parvalbumin demonstrated that c-JUN immunoreactivity is primarily found in principal neurons since GABAergic parvalbumin-positive interneurons did not express c-JUN. After unilateral electrolytic lesion of the entorhinal cortex c-JUN was strongly up-regulated in the ipsilateral dentate gyrus within 2 h postlesion. This up-regulation was also present in the contralateral fascia dentata 12 h after entorhinal cortex lesion and returned to control levels on both sides 24 h postlesion. The cellular distribution of c-JUN did not change after entorhinal cortex lesion: parvalbumin-positive interneurons never contained c-JUN. These results point to a specific role of c-JUN in the granule cells of the fascia dentata in the normal animal and in rats with entorhinal cortex lesions. The selective induction of c-JUN after entorhinal lesion could be one of the first molecular steps that regulate transneuronal changes within granule cells after their denervation. A different mechanism has to be assumed for GABAergic interneurons known to receive an entorhinal innervation as well.
L-Glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate, DL-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) and kainate increased the release of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity from primary cultures of rat hippocampal neurons incubated in Mg2+(1.2 mM)-containing medium. The neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity released by 100 microM glutamate was mainly accounted for by neuropeptide Y (1-36), but consisted in part (about 20%) of peptide YY. The effect of 100 microM glutamate on neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity release was largely (about 70%) prevented by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate (10 microM), while the remainder (about 30%) was sensitive to the AMPA/ kainate receptor antagonist 6-nitro-7-sulphamoylbenzo(f)quinoxaline-2-3-dione (10 microM). The AMPA(100 microM)-evoked release of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was strongly antagonized by 6-nitro-7-sulphamoylbenzo(f)quinoxaline-2-3-dione and by 1-aminophenyl-4-methyl-7,8-methylenedioxy-5H-2,3-benzodiazepine, but it was in part (15-20%) sensitive to dizocilpine. The releases of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity elicited by glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate, AMPA and kainate were all strongly Ca(2+)-dependent. Tetrodotoxin (1 microM) abrogated the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked release and partly inhibited the release caused by glutamate, but did not modify significantly AMPA- or kainate-evoked release. Removal of Mg2+ from the medium caused increase of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity release, an effect prevented by dizocilpine maleate or 7-Cl-kynurenate. Cyclothiazide (10 microM), a drug known to prevent AMPA receptor desensitization, enhanced the neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity release elicited by 100 microM AMPA, but not that caused by 100 microM kainate. However, when used at a lower concentration (50 microM), kainate elicited a response that was potentiated significantly by cyclothiazide. It is concluded that glutamate can stimulate Ca(2+)-dependent release of neuropeptide Y from hippocampal neurons mainly through N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and, less so, by activating cyclothiazide-sensitive receptors of the AMPA-preferring type.
It has been previously reported that block of high-frequency stimulation-induced long-term potentiation of synaptic transmission in the hippocampus does not necessarily lead to impairment of spatial learning. Here we show that (1S,3S)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid, an agonist at group II metabotropic glutamate receptors, completely blocked long-term potentiation induced by a theta-burst type of stimulation protocol (five pulses at 75 Hz per train, 200 ms inter-train interval) in the CA1 region in vivo. The drug did not significantly affect synaptic responses during each train whereas inter-train facilitation of excitatory postsynaptic potentials was slightly reduced. It also produced a large reduction in paired-pulse facilitation (50 ms inter-stimulus interval), possibly indicating that an increase in inhibition might be involved in the block of long-term potentiation. The drug dose used (5 microliters of a 10 mM solution i.c.v.) was half the dose which inhibited high-frequency stimulation-induced long-term potentiation in earlier experiments but which did not prevent learning of spatial tasks. We conclude that long-term potentiation induced by a more physiological stimulation protocol which uses theta-like inter-train intervals does not appear to accurately model the synaptic changes which are believed to occur during learning either.
The ability of aged rats to sustain long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus is impaired and this impairment correlates with decreased release of glutamate and a decrease in membrane arachidonic acid concentration. Twenty-two-month-old rats receiving a diet supplemented with arachidonic acid and its precursor, gamma-linolenic acid, sustained long-term potentiation in a manner indistinguishable from four-month-old controls. Dietary supplementation also restored arachidonic acid concentrations in membranes prepared from hippocampus of these aged animals to levels observed in hippocampus of four-month-old rats. Glutamate release stimulated by depolarization was similar in dentate gyrus prepared from young rats and aged rats which received the experimental diet, but was markedly reduced in aged animals which received the control diet. In addition, the synergism between arachidonic acid and the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist, trans-1-amino-cyclopentyl-1,3-dicarboxylate, on glutamate release, which was observed in hippocampal synaptosomes prepared from four-month-old rats, was also observed in hippocampal preparations obtained from aged rats which had been fed with the experimental diet, but was absent in hippocampal preparations obtained from aged animals which were fed with control diet. Thus, reversing the age-related decrease in membrane arachidonic acid concentration restored ability of aged animals to sustain long-term potentiation and reversed age-related changes in glutamate release.
Changes in membrane potentials were recorded from rat hippocampal slices with a voltage-sensitive dye using a real-time optical recording system, which had high spatial resolution of 128 x 128 points with a high time resolution of 0.6 ms. Serial excitatory propagation was recorded in the dentate gyrus. CA3 and CA1 after stimulation of the perforant pathway, and the optical signals were clearly divided into two components in the dentate gyrus adjacent to the stimulus site. The slow component was suppressed in Ca(2+)-free solution, but the fast component in the molecular layer was not affected. However, the application of 1 microM tetrodotoxin fully abolished both components. These results suggest that the fast and slow components mainly reflect Na(+)-dependent action potentials and excitatory postsynaptic potentials, respectively. The excitatory response duration in the stratum radiatum of CA3 was significantly longer than that in other hippocampal areas. The long-lasting excitation in CA3 is probably related to the CA3 associational projections, because direct stimulation of CA3 pyramidal cell layer also produced similar results. The long-lasting dendritic excitation is probably important to integrate synaptic transmission and may be related to epileptogenesis. When long-term potentiation was induced by a tetanic stimulation (100 Hz for 1 s), the onset latency in the stratum radiatum of CA1 was reduced to as much as 65%, suggesting an increase of excitatory propagation. The analysis of the spatial-temporal optical signals contributes to understanding information processes in the hippocampus, related to learning and memory including long-term potentiation.


The medical management of the subarachnoid hemorrhage patient has changed considerably over the past two decades. The widespread acceptance of early aneurysm obliteration allows the aggressive prophylaxis and treatment of many of the serious complications of this condition. Recognition of cerebral vasospasm and the prevention of the delayed ischemic deficits it can produce are the cornerstones of critical care for these patients. Analysis of their fluid and electrolyte disturbances is complex, but important for the optimization of intravascular volume and consequent cerebral blood flow. Recognition of the numerous infectious and other medical complications that can befall these patients aids in the attempt to restore them to as normal a functional capacity as is possible.

The sex of an individual is established as a consequence of molecular events that occur in the complex genetic cascade. During sexual development, morphological changes are closely associated with the action of genes expression of which is tightly regulated according to the genetic program. Recently, a number of genes that are involved in this process have been isolated. WT-1 and SF-1 are required for the early formation of the gonadal primordium. SRY is the switch to start the male sexual differentiation by triggering the Sertoli cell lineage. An autosomal gene SOX9, which can cause the sex reversal, might also be involved in the male sex determination. SF-1 is a key factor for the male sexual differentiation, regulating the expression of MIS and the synthesis of testosterone in the fetal testis. DAX1 might be responsible for the female sexual development. The mutation or abnormal expression of these regulatory genes and their downstream genes can cause a variety types of the sex reversal and/or malformation of the gonad and the internal and external genitalia.
Eleven patients with mild or moderate acute idiopathic peripheral facial palsy, so-called Bell's palsy, were serially examined by gadolinium-DTPA-enhanced MRI on mean days 11, 40, and 97 (third examination, n = 10) after the onset of palsy. Results of the clinical and neurophysiologic assessment of facial nerve function were compared with the gadolinium-enhanced MRI findings. Eight of the 11 patients demonstrated contrast enhancement of the facial nerve at the initial examination, but in 7 of them, the enhancement had disappeared by the time of the serial follow-up gadolinium-enhanced MRI scans. The disappearance of facial nerve enhancement was found to be related to clinical and neurophysiologic improvements in facial nerve function during recovery from Bell's palsy. The three patients whose scans were negative at the initial gadolinium-enhanced MRI examination had the same clinical severity of palsy, but initially they had milder neurophysiologic involvement than those who demonstrated enhancement; these three patients did not exhibit enhancement at serial follow-up scans. These findings indicate that the presence of enhancement at the initial MRI scan is not necessarily indicative of a poor prognosis for recovery.
The influence of restraint stress (0, 15, 30, or 60 min), uncontrollable footshock (0, 15, 30, or 60 shocks), or intraventricular CCK-8S administration (0, 5, 25, or 50 ng delivered in a 1 microliter volume) were evaluated on transition frequency and cumulative time in light among CD-1 mice in the light-dark paradigm. Mice exposed to restraint stress of either 15 or 60 min were indistinguishable from nonrestrained animals, while the 30-min session of restraint decreased time in light and transition scores. The presentation of 15, 30, or 60 uncontrollable footshocks were equally effective in decreasing cumulative time in light but had no effect on transition scores. Intraventricular infusion of 25 and 50 ng doses of cholecystokinin-8S reduced cumulative time in light and transition frequency in CD-1 mice relative to vehicle or 5 ng CCK-8S-treated animals in the light-dark paradigm. The time in light and transition data secured among mice with repeated light-dark exposure and 30 min of restraint were comparable to the corresponding scores secured when performance was only evaluated on trial 1. Transition scores were reduced on trial 1 of mice exposed to 30 min of footshock, but time in light was reminiscent of the performance detected among mice with prior light-dark experience. Potential neurochemical correlates associated with the anxiogenic effects associated with stressor exposure and CCK-8S administration in the light-dark task are discussed.
Lateral hypothalamic area dopamine activity (LHA-DA) appears to play a contributory role in regulating food intake, in particular, meal size. In this study we examined our hypothesis that bilateral LHA-DA injection induced depression of food intake via reduced meal size. Dopamine (11 mg/ml) or vehicle was infused into bilateral LHA at 0.5 microliter/h via two osmotic minipumps in six study or six control obese male Zucker rats for 13 days, respectively. Meal size, meal number, as well as food intake were continuously measured before, during, and after dopamine infusion. Intra-LHA-DA infusion significantly depressed food intake. The decreased food intake was solely caused by a significant and profound reduction in meal size. There was a modest compensatory rise in meal number that gradually increased food intake so that it reached control level on 10th dopamine infusion day. However, feeding pattern did not normalize until dopamine infusion ceased. The findings support our hypothesis that LHA-DA may participate in regulating meal size. Data also demonstrate that meal size and meal number are regulated in a reciprocal and independent manner to compensate for each other.
Cardiomyopathic hamsters (CMH) develop heart disease early in life which leads to congestive heart failure and death as these hamsters age. We have previously shown that living in constant light or other non-24-h light-dark (LD) cycles can increase longevity in these hamsters, and the current experiment examined potential mechanisms for this effect. Thus, CMH were orchidectomized, pinealectomized, or given melatonin treatment and then placed on either 1:23 or 1:23.6 LD cycles. Orchidectomy had no effect on longevity in either LD cycle, but in 1:23.6 it did lead to death with a greater degree of heart failure. On the other hand, pinealectomy of 1:23 CMH led to changes in life span similar to those produced by placing the hamsters in 1:23.6. Moreover, melatonin implant treatment of CMH in 1:23.6 led to changes in life span that were similar to those caused by life in 1:23, at least over the first half of the survival curves. Thus, it appears that the pineal gland and melatonin may be involved in mediating the effects of non-24-h LD cycles, whether these effects are beneficial or detrimental. In addition, the testes and testosterone appear to have no role in mediating these effects. These data suggest that inhibition, rather than stimulation, of pineal function might be beneficial for those with congestive heart failure, but further experiments are necessary to clarify when during the disease process potential treatments might be helpful.
1. Abnormalities in association circuits have been described in Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) and may reflect neurodevelopmental abnormalities. Primary and association cortices are topographically mapped in the corpus callosum (CC). The authors hypothesized alterations in CC subdivisions that connect association, but not primary cortices in pediatric OCD. The authors predicted that normal age-related increases in CC area would be absent in OCD. 2. The authors compared the midsagittal magnetic resonance images of 21 psychotropic-naive, nondepressed OCD patients, 7.2-17.7 years, and 21 case-matched healthy controls. Total CC area as well as that of the anterior, middle and posterior genu, anterior and posterior bodies, isthmus, and the anterior, middle and the posterior splenii were measured. 3. All of the CC regions except the isthmus were significantly larger in OCD patients than in controls. CC area correlated significantly with OCD symptom severity but not illness duration. The age-related increase in CC size seen in normal subjects was absent in OCD patients. 4. These findings support theories of abnormal association cortex development in OCD but also suggest possible abnormalities of other primary cortical regions as well.
Stress in males via the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis may set into motion varied physiological alterations, including dysfunction of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis. However, the influence of the HPA on the HPG axis may not always be inhibitory. Presence or absence of stimuli of sexual significance that typically activates the HPG axis may alter the influence of the adrenal axis on gonadal axes. In this project, we used male rats and chronic social stimulation that included brief or extended periods with female rats to examine HPA-HPG axes interactions. In experiment 1, we used intact males and a 'chronic social stress' paradigm developed in our previous research that induces social instability by daily changing the membership of group-housed males with females. Thymus weight was reduced and corticosterone levels were marginally increased by chronic social stress, indicating a HPA axis hyperactivity. The HPG axis was also activated as shown by the increased weight of the androgen-sensitive sex structures. These results indicate that when these two axes are stimulated together, neither interferes with nor suppresses activities of the other. Implants of corticosterone pellets to adrenalectomized animals that maintained constant, high corticosterone levels failed to reverse the gonadal hyperactivity induced by sexual stimulation. In a second experiment, we studied the influence of different intensity of sexual stimulations on HPA-HPG axes interactions. Increased corticosterone levels and adrenal weight, indicating a HPA hyperactivity, failed to inhibit HPG hyperactivity as measured by the increased sexual organs weight, whatever the sexual intensity of the stimulation. This work demonstrates that the gonadal axis is freed from suppression when sexual stimulation occurs together with stress. The general conclusion is that the nature of complex social settings is important in determining interactions between the two neuroendocrine axes.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether feature conjunctions are stored in transient auditory memory. The mismatch negativity (MMN), an event-related potential that is elicited by stimuli that differ from a series of preceding stimuli, was used in this endeavour. A tone that differed from the preceding series of stimuli in the conjunction of two of its features, both present in preceding stimuli but in different combinations, was found to elicit the MMN. The data are interpreted to indicate that information about the conjunction of features is stored in the memory.
Three experiments concerning the processing of syntactic and semantic violations were conducted. Event-related potentials (ERPs) showed that semantic violations elicited an N400 response, whereas syntactic violations elicited two early negativities (150 and 350 ms) and a P600 response. No interaction between the semantic and early syntactic ERP effects was found. Sentence complexity and violation probability (25% vs. 75%) affected only the P600 and not the early negativities. The probability effect was taken as evidence that the P600 resembles the P3b. The temporal order of word processing in a sentence as suggested by the data was such that a more automatic syntactic analysis was performed (earlier syntactic-related negativities) in parallel with a semantic analysis (N400), after which a syntactic reanalysis was performed (P600). A reanalysis interpretation of the P600 could explain why the extent of the reanalysis differed with syntactic complexity and probability of ungrammaticality.

Several studies have stated that rates of premature mortality of schizophrenic patients are increased. Morbidity, however, is less often examined. In the present study we have compared the number of hospitalizations due to different somatic diseases in 775 schizophrenic patients with their sex- and age-matched controls. The total number of patients hospitalized due to somatic diseases was significantly greater among the schizophrenics than among the controls. In the former group, 523 out of 775 and in the latter 373 out of 775 had been admitted at least once during a 15 y period. If the schizophrenic patients who also had been diagnosed as substance abusers at least once were excluded from the analysis there was still a significant difference between the remaining patients and their controls. The patients exhibited an over-morbidity in almost all diagnostic groups, the most prominent excess morbidity appeared in the groups of injuries and symptoms, signs and ill-defined conditions, when compared with the controls. Even if there are confounding factors which should be taken into consideration when interpreting morbidity data, the pattern of excess morbidity among schizophrenic patients found in this study is so definite that it cannot be considered merely coincidental.


We investigated the distribution and regulation of the optic nerve head (ONH) tissue partial pressure of oxygen (PO2) under various stimuli and the role of the nitric oxide in the ONH circulation. Tissue PO2 was measured using double-barreled recess microelectrodes in the intact eyes of miniature pigs during normoxia, hyperoxia, hypoxia, variations of systemic blood pressure, and after inhibition of the endothelial nitric oxide synthesis by the administration of nitro-L-arginine. Measurements were performed in front of the ONH at intervascular and juxta-arteriolar areas and at a depth of 50 and 200 microm within the ONH at the center and the rim. During normoxia, PO2 was heterogeneously distributed in the ONH, higher close to the arterioles than in intervascular areas. Hyperoxia induced a significant increase of juxta-arteriolar tissue PO2, while in intervascular areas no change was noticed. Hypoxia did not modify intervascular tissue PO2 at 200 microm depth within the ONH. Variations of the systemic blood pressure did not induce any significant change in ONH tissue PO2. Similarly, no modification was noticed after the administration of nitro-L-arginine. There is a remarkable autoregulatory capacity of the ONH circulation that may compensate for parameters such as hyperoxia, hypoxia, and variations of the systemic blood pressure. Endothelially derived nitric oxide inhibition does not modify the ONH tissue PO2, probably because the tissue PO2 is stabilized by compensatory regulation.
Axotomy-induced degradation of retinal ganglion cells (RGC) can be delayed if the destructive features of activated microglial cells are pharmacologically neutralized, and prevented if the axons are permitted to regrow into transplanted autologous peripheral nerve (PN) pieces. Axotomized central nervous system neurons, whose regenerating axons are guided to their natural target areas in the brain with the aid of PN grafts, are capable of establishing synaptic contacts with normal morphological and electrophysiological properties. This study was undertaken to 1) morphometrically characterize and classify the regenerating rat RGC, 2) examine target-dependent effects on survival of subsets of neurons, and 3) investigate whether reconnected neurons are capable of restoring visual functions. In analogy to the normal rat retina, as a first step, the retrogradely labeled, regenerating RGC were categorized into five classes which are morphologically distinct and reminiscent of normal RGC correlates (called types RI, RII, RIII, Rdelta-cells, and displaced RGC). It appeared that all types of ganglion cells contributed proportionally to regeneration of axons. Transplantation of a PN graft which was not reconnected with a central target (blind-ending group) and monitoring of the extant neurons showed a progressive disappearance of the regenerating RGC, such that 6 months after surgery predominantly few, large cells survived. When the retinas were treated with macrophage/microglia inhibiting factor (MIF), and the regenerating axons were guided into the pretectum, predominantly large RGC of type RI survived. Guidance of the axons into their major natural target, the superior colliculus (SC), resulted in selective survival of many small, RII-like RGC. Calculation of the dendritic coverage factors for the major types of RGC revealed that dendrites of the most abundant, small cells of type RII overlapped uniformly and covered the retinal surface completely, whereas cells of types RI and RIII did not suffice for surface coverage. The results of this first part of the work suggest that combined suppression of axotomy-induced microglial activation and guidance of regenerating axons with a PN graft into central targets is a suitable technique to produce sufficient numbers of regenerating axons which may retrieve some functional properties. Target-specific neuronal contacts are likely involved in morphological stabilization and better survival of regenerating neurons. The second goal of this study was to analyze the functional significance of the reestablished synaptic contacts made by regenerated retinocollicular neurons. Adult rats were trained in a T- or Y-maze to obtain a food reward with the aid of visual cues. One of their optic nerves was transected and the regenerating axons were guided into the optic tract with a PN graft, to enable them to reinnervate the SC and thalamus. Postoperative testing of the animals showed a drastic improvement of visual perception. The protocol of denervation of the SC (prior to, simultaneous with, or with a delay with respect to fiber arrival) determined the performance of the animals. Rats belonging to the first two groups performed almost as well as they had before the transplantation. The functional integrity of the retina was assessed by electroretinography, which revealed typical rod spectral sensitivity at 380 and 500 nm but reduced responsiveness to illumination. In accordance, neuroanatomical assessment of the functionally relevant RGC revealed intact morphologies and multiple synaptic contacts both within the retina and within the SC. Neuroanatomical tracing of small contingents of axons throughout the regenerative pathway revealed a rough retinotopic arrangement within the graft and the area of termination. Thus, animals could discriminate between simplified vertical versus horizontal stripes, and visual evoked potentials were positive after grafting. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

[123I]FP-CIT (N-omega-fluoropropyl-2 beta-carbomethoxy-3 beta-(4-iodophenyl)-tropane), a radioiodinated cocaine analogue, was evaluated as an agent for the in vivo labeling of dopamine (DA) transporters by biodistribution studies in rats and by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) studies in unilateral 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned monkeys. In rats, intravenous injection of [123I]FP-CIT resulted in high accumulation of radioactivity in the striatum. Less pronounced uptake was seen in brain areas with high densities of serotonergic uptake sites. While striatal uptake of radioactivity after injection of [123I]FP-CIT was displaced significantly by GBR12,909 but not by fluvoxamine, the opposite was observed in brain areas known to be rich of serotonin transporters. Monkeys which were unilaterally treated with neurotoxic doses of MPTP showed severe loss of striatal [123I]FP-CIT uptake at the side of treatment. The results of this study indicate that [123I]FP-CIT, although not being a selective radioligand, binds specifically to the striatal DA transporter in vivo and thus suggest that [123I]FP-CIT promises to be a suitable radioligand for SPECT imaging of DA transporters in humans.
Epithelial shedding, even to the point of airway denudation, had already been described as a common and unifying feature of asthma by the latter half of the 19th century. However, the repair processes that specifically follow the shedding-like loss of epithelial cells have only recently been examined in vivo. This paper discusses the exceedingly fast epithelial restitution and the potential pathogenic sequelae to epithelial shedding alone that have been unravelled. Epithelial cytoprotection emerges as an important property of future therapeutic drugs for the treatment of airways inflammatory conditions.
A remarkable finding to emerge in recent years is that the early brain neuroepithelium is highly patterned before axonogenesis begins. Growth factors are among a variety of classes of molecules whose regionalized expression divides the early brain into molecularly distinct domains. Thus, when axons first grow to their synaptic targets, growth factor signalling may help them to navigate. This review discusses recent studies that reveal that growth factors can act as chemoattractants and repellents and that growth factor signalling is important for target entry. These new findings raise the compelling idea that growth factors play an active role in axon navigation.
Recurrent models of orientation selectivity in the visual cortex postulate that an initially broad tuning given by the pattern of geniculate afferents is substantially sharpened by intracortical feedback. We show that these models can be tested on the basis of their predicted responses to certain visual stimuli, without the need for pharmacological or physiological manipulations. First, we consider a detailed recurrent model proposed by Somers, Nelson and Sur [(1995) Journal of Neuroscience, 15, 5448-5465] and show that it can be simplified to a single equation: a center-surround feedback filter in the orientation domain. Then, we explore the responses of the simplified model to stimuli containing two or more orientations. We find that the model exhibits peculiar responses to stimuli containing two orientations, such as plaids or crosses: if the component orientations differ by less than 45 deg the model cannot distinguish between them; if the orientations differ by more than 45 deg the model overestimates their angle by as much as 30 deg. Moreover, the model cannot signal the presence of three orientations separated by 60 deg (it responds as if there were only two orientations), and the addition of two-dimensional visual noise to an oriented stimulus results in strong spurious responses at the orthogonal orientation. We argue that the effects of attraction and repulsion between orientations and the emergence of responses at off-optimal orientations are common to a wide class of feedback models of orientation selectivity. These models could thus be tested by measuring the visual responses of cortical neurons to stimuli containing multiple orientations.
Anatomical evidence exists for projections to the tuberomammillary nucleus (TM) from the nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca (DBB) and the lateral preoptic area (LPO). The physiological effects of activating these inputs were studied by recording postsynaptic responses intracellularly from TM cells during both electrical stimulation and local nanodrop application of glutamate in horizontally cut brain slices. Electrical stimulation of the DBB, LPO and anterior lateral hypothalamic area (LH) usually evoked fast IPSPs (approximately 75% of responses) which were blocked by bicuculline or picrotoxin, suggesting GABA(A) mediation. The remaining excitatory responses evoked by stimulation of the LPO and LH were blocked by non-NMDA receptor antagonists (CNQX or NBQX) and the NMDA receptor antagonist, AP-5. Glutamate applied to the above areas induced postsynaptic responses in TM cells similar to those seen with electrical stimulation. Spontaneous firing in TM cells was suppressed by glutamate applied in the DBB. Glutamate applied in the LPO or LH evoked both inhibitory and excitatory responses. Changes in PSPs and firing rates were interpreted to result from glutamate activation of the neurons in the DBB, LPO and LH areas with inhibitory or excitatory connections to recorded TM neurons. These results support previous anatomical findings and suggest that inhibitory and excitatory synaptic control of TM activity is exerted by the DBB, LPO and LH areas.
Arachidonic acid (AA), the putative retrograde messenger in long-term potentiation, enhanced extracellular aspartate, glutamate, and GABA levels in rat hippocampus synaptosomes. Whether this effect was determined by stimulating the release and/or inhibiting the uptake of amino acids was further investigated using different experimental conditions. To approach physiological conditions, a static incubation assay was used where both release and uptake occur. Under these conditions, AA dose-dependently (10-25 microM) enhanced basal extracellular amino acid levels in a completely Ca2+-independent way. AA still exerted this effect in the presence of inhibitors of PKC or of AA metabolism. When using the superfusion release assay, in which amino acid uptake cannot occur, no potentiating effect of AA on superfusate amino acid levels was observed. Therefore, AA possibly enhances the extracellular levels of aspartate, glutamate and GABA by inhibiting the uptake of these amino acids and not their efflux. Indeed, AA reduced the Na+-dependent uptake of endogenously released amino acids, which were labelled with traces of tritiated D-aspartate and GABA. When stimulating hippocampus synaptosomes with 4-aminopyridine, AA (2 microM) potentiated the Ca2+-dependent release of glutamate, but not of GABA, synergistically with PKC activation by 4beta-phorbol-12,13-dibutyric acid. In rat hippocampus, AA exerts different presynaptic effects to regulate extracellular amino acid levels, by inhibiting carrier-mediated uptake and, for glutamate, by stimulating exocytosis.
The immunophilin FKBP12 is one of the most abundant and conserved proteins in biology. It is the primary receptor for the immunosuppressant actions of the drug FK506 in whose presence FKBP12 binds to and inhibits calcineurin, disrupting interleukin formation in lymphocytes. The physiologic functions of FKBP12 are less clear, although the protein has been demonstrated to physiologically interact with the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R), the ryanodine receptor, and the type 1 transforming growth factor beta receptor. We now report that FKBP12 binds the IP3R at residues 1400-1401, a leucyl-prolyl dipeptide epitope that structurally resembles FK506. We further demonstrate that binding to IP3R at this site enables FKBP12 to interact with calcineurin, presumably to anchor the phosphatase to IP3R and modulate the receptor's phosphorylation status. We propose that FK506 promotes an FKBP12-calcineurin interaction by mimicking structurally similar dipeptide epitopes present within proteins that use FKBP12 to anchor calcineurin to the appropriate physiologic substrates.
We examined the effects of N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG), an endogenous peptide thought to be involved in neurotransmission and neuromodulation, on striatal quinolinate lesions, a rodent model of Huntington's disease. We found that NAAG (500 and 1000 nmol) co-injected with quinolinic acid significantly reduced lesion volumes (by 50% and 65%, respectively). A 1000 nmol dose of the non-hydrolyzable analogue, beta-NAAG, also reduced quinolinic acid lesion volumes by 78.4%, indicating that the protection observed was not secondary to cleavage of NAAG into N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA) and glutamate. Likewise, co-injection of both NAA and glutamate (1000 nmol each) with quinolinic acid did not significantly alter the size of lesions. NAAG's protective effect may be mediated through actions on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors or metabotropic glutamate receptors.
Acetylcholine, synthesized in the cytoplasm of cholinergic neurons by choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), is packaged in synaptic vesicles by vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT). The entire VAChT gene has been reported to be located within the first intron of the ChAT gene. In order to examine whether or not ChAT and VAChT transcription may be coordinately regulated, the levels of ChAT and VAChT mRNAs in hypoglossal neurons were analyzed by in situ hybridization following transection of the hypoglossal nerve in adult rats. After unilateral transection, the levels of expression of ChAT and VAChT mRNAs were dramatically reduced in the ipsilateral hypoglossal nucleus 1 week after the surgery. However the expression of both mRNAs gradually recovered thereafter. These results suggest that the transcription of the two cholinergic genes is tightly linked in motor neurons.

The human IGF2 gene lies on chromosome 11p15.5 and encodes for a mitogenic peptide. IGF2 is often overexpressed in many tumours including adrenal carcinomas. In this study while screening 12 adrenocortical carcinomas for heterozygosity at the Apa I and (CA)n repeat polymorphisms we observed a novel splicing event in two samples which showed both an allelic expression imbalance and preferential splicing for one of the alleles. Further examination revealed that the splicing was not confined to one particular site. Three of such splice products were isolated and cloned. Using RNase protection analysis the presence of this splicing event was demonstrated for both adrenocortical carcinoma samples and also in a Hep3B cell line. This suggested that the event may be occurring in all the samples. The presence of this splicing was then confirmed in all 12 adrenocortical carcinoma samples by PCR. These data suggest that the splicing event may be a general feature for IGF2 transcripts.
Allocentric spatial learning can sometimes occur in one trial. The incorporation of information into a spatial representation may, therefore, obey a one-trial correlational learning rule rather than a multi-trial error-correcting rule. It has been suggested that physiological implementation of such a rule could be mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus, as its induction obeys a correlational type of synaptic learning rule. Support for this idea came originally from the finding that intracerebral infusion of the NMDA antagonist AP5 impairs spatial learning, but studies summarized in the first part of this paper have called it into question. First, rats previously given experience of spatial learning in a watermaze can learn a new spatial reference memory task at a normal rate despite an appreciable NMDA receptor blockade. Second, the classical phenomenon of 'blocking' occurs in spatial learning. The latter finding implies that spatial learning can also be sensitive to an animal's expectations about reward and so depend on more than the detection of simple spatial correlations. In this paper a new hypothesis is proposed about the function of hippocampal LTP. This hypothesis retains the idea that LTP subserves rapid one-trial memory, but abandons the notion that it serves any specific role in the geometric aspects of spatial learning. It is suggested that LTP participates in the automatic recording of attended experience': a subsystem of episodic memory in which events are temporarily remembered in association with the contexts in which they occur. An automatic correlational form of synaptic plasticity is ideally suited to the online registration of context event associations. In support, it is reported that the ability of rats to remember the most recent place they have visited in a familiar environment is exquisitely sensitive to AP5 in a delay-dependent manner. Moreover, new studies of the lasting persistence of NMDA-dependent LTP, known to require protein synthesis, point to intracellular mechanisms that enable transient synaptic changes to be stabilized if they occur in close temporal proximity to important events. This new property of hippocampal LTP is a desirable characteristic of an event memory system.
When a hair cell is stimulated by positive deflection of its hair bundle, increased tension in gating springs opens transduction channels, permitting cations to enter stereocilia and depolarize the cell. Ca2+ is thought to be required in mechanoelectrical transduction, for exposure of hair bundles to Ca2+ chelators eliminates responsiveness by disrupting tip links, filamentous interstereociliary connections that probably are the gating springs. Ca2+ also participates in adaptation to stimuli by controlling the activity of a molecular motor that sets gating-spring tension. Using a flexible glass fiber to measure hair-bundle stiffness, we investigated the effect of Ca2+ concentration on stiffness before and after the disruption of gating springs. The stiffness of intact hair bundles depended nonmonotonically on the extracellular Ca2+ concentration; the maximal stiffness of approximately 1200 microN.m-1 occurred when bundles were bathed in solutions containing 250 microM Ca2+, approximately the concentration found in frog endolymph. For cells exposed to solutions with sufficient chelator capacity to reduce the Ca2+ concentration below approximately 100 nM, hair-bundle stiffness fell to approximately 200 microN.m-1 and no longer exhibited Ca2+-dependent changes. Because cells so treated lost mechanoelectrical transduction, we attribute the reduction in bundle stiffness to tip-link disruption. The results indicate that gating springs are not linearly elastic; instead, they stiffen with increased strain, which rises with adaptation-motor activity at the physiological extracellular Ca2+ concentration.
A study was made of the possible basis for naturally occurring variations in the number of segments in individual dendritic trees. Distributions of the number of terminal segments have been studied in dendrites from rat, cat, and frog motoneurons, basal dendrites from rat visual cortex pyramidal and non-pyramidal neurons, in rat cerebellar Purkinje cell dendritic trees, and in human hippocampal dentate granule cells. By means of a mathematical model for dendritic branching, it was shown that the variation in the number of dendritic segments can be accounted for by assuming that new branches during neurite outgrowth are formed randomly at terminal segments. The observed terminal segment number distributions could be closely approximated by additionally assuming that branching probabilities decline with increasing number of terminal segments in growing dendrites. The pyramidal neuron group differed significantly from the other neuron groups in such a way as to suggest that this decline is stronger than in the dendrites of other types of neurons. By using literature data on the mean number of terminal segments in rat cerebellar Purkinje cells, measured at different times during early development, an estimate could be obtained of the time-course of the branching probabilities. The branching probability of a terminal segment was found to be in the order of 0.002 per hour in the first 4 weeks postnatal with a 5-fold transient increase in the second week.
The effect of spermine (Spm) and of omega-conotoxin GVIA (CTX) on the population excitatory postsynaptic potentials (pEPSP) in stratum radiatum of the CA1 area were compared. CTX decreased irreversibly the initial slope of pEPSP by 57%. Spm produced a maximum inhibition of 85% with an apparent dissociation constant of 0.85 mM and a maximum Hill coefficient larger than 3. The effect of Spm was mostly reversible. Preincubation with Spm did not protect the slice from the irreversible effect of CTX suggesting that they interact with different sites. Since CTX and Spm inhibited pEPSPs with very different affinities and reversibilities a kinetic model was developed to compare their effects. This model relates the inhibitors' binding to presynaptic voltage-activated Ca2+ channels (VACC) with inhibition of pEPSP. The model suggest that: all CTX and Spm effects can be explained by inhibition of VACC. Spm and CTX do not compete for the same site. CTX inhibits 20% (N-type) and Spm 40% of channels (probably the Q-type). More than three Spm molecules bind per one channel molecule, while one CTX is sufficient to inhibit channel function. The model also illustrates that the inhibitor concentration-pEPSP inhibition curves display a Hill coefficient similar to that for inhibitor binding.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor is thought to mediate the postsynaptic effects of excitatory amino acids released from primary afferent terminals in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord where synergistic associations with substance P (SP) have been implicated in the production of hyperalgesia. We examined the electron microscopic dual immunocytochemical localization of SP and the R1 subunit of the NMDA receptor (NMDAR1) in this region to determine the cellular basis for interactions between SP and NMDA receptor ligands. Of 971 profiles immunolabeled for NMDAR1, 40% were dendrites and the remainder were primarily unmyelinated axons and astrocytic processes. In dendrites, NMDAR1-like immunoreactivity (NMDAR1-LI) was associated with synaptic and non-synaptic portions of the plasma membrane, as well as intracellular membranes including smooth endoplasmic reticulum. These NMDAR1-labeled dendrites received synaptic input from unlabeled terminals and from terminals containing SP and/or NMDAR1-LI and they occasionally (25/389) also contained SP. In contrast, of 540 SP-immunoreactive profiles, 60% were axon terminals and the majority (252/324) of these SP-labeled terminals were presynaptic to NMDAR1-containing dendrites. These results provide anatomical evidence that the synergistic nociceptive effects of SP and NMDA ligands are attributed mainly to dual modulation of the activity of single dendritic targets in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. They also suggest that activation of NMDA receptors may also play a role in the modulation of SP neurons, presynaptic release of SP or other neurotransmitters, and in glial function in the dorsal horn.
We previously reported that iron deposition was seen in the cerebral cortex and hippocampal CA1 area late after transient forebrain ischemia generated by four-vessel occlusion in rats. Iron deposition in the hippocampal CA1 area was coupled with delayed pyramidal cell death, while that in the cerebral cortex was not accompanied by neuronal death or atrophy until 6 months after ischemia. Iron is involved in the formation of free radicals, thus contributing to lipid peroxidation. To elucidate whether this iron has deleterious effects on neurons, we investigated changes in the levels of lipid peroxidation and resulting neuronal damage in this ischemia model. The level of malondialdehyde plus 4-hydroxynonenal as major decomposition products of lipid peroxidation, monitored for 6 months beginning just after 30 min of transient forebrain ischemia, was significantly increased in the cerebral cortex at 6 months, and in the striatum from 1 week to 6 months compared to that in sham-operated controls. Histological changes were also examined up to 1 year after reperfusion by immunohistochemical methods. In contrast with the hippocampus and striatum, the cerebral cortex did not develop severe neuronal cell death and atrophy until 1 year after the ischemic insult. We showed that lipid peroxidation took place not only immediately after ischemia-reperfusion but also late after the ischemic insult in regions where iron was deposited, and we showed that neuronal cell death in the cerebral cortex appeared extremely late, suggesting that iron-mediated lipid peroxidation may be of importance in some slowly progressive forms of neurodegeneration.
Previous studies have identified changes in the activities of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDHC) and cytochrome c oxidase during early recirculation following short-term cerebral ischemia. However, the relationship of these changes to the delayed selective neuronal loss that develops as a result of short-term ischemia is incompletely defined. The effects of ischemia and recirculation on the activities of these enzymes in the dorsolateral striatum, a region containing many susceptible neurons, and the ischemia-resistant paramedian cortex have been compared. No significant loss of activity of cytochrome c oxidase was seen in either region during the first few hours of recirculation following 30 min of ischemia. A decrease (of 32%) was observed at 24 h in the dorsolateral striatum. However, this probably resulted from changes in the mitochondrial fraction due to advanced neuronal degeneration. By contrast, there was a significant decrease (by 24%) in activity of PDHC at 3 h following a 30-min, but not a 10-min, ischemic period. Only the 30-min ischemic period resulted in extensive delayed neuronal loss. In the paramedian cortex, there was no significant change in PDHC and no neuronal loss following either ischemic period. These results provide strong evidence for a close association between neuronal loss and changes in the activity of PDHC but not cytochrome c oxidase in the dorsolateral striatum.
The dipeptide N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG) may be involved in the process of glutamatergic signaling by both acting at glutamate receptors and as a glutamate protransmitter. In the present study we determined the cellular localization and distribution of NAAG-like immunoreactivity (NAAG-LI) in normal human brain and in neurodegenerative disorders to ascertain the degree of NAAG's colocalization to putative glutamatergic pathways. Immunohistochemistry with an antibody against NAAG was performed on control, Huntington's disease (HD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) human autopsy and biopsy brain sections from the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, amygdala, neostriatum, brainstem and spinal cord. In normal human brain, NAAG-LI was widespread localized to putative glutamatergic pyramidal neurons of the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Punctate NAAG-LI was present in areas known to receive neuronal glutamatergic input, such as layer IV of the cerebral cortex, striatal neuropil, and the outer portion of the molecular layer of the hippocampal dentate gyrus. In the two pathologic brain regions examined, the HD neostriatum and the AD temporal cortex, we observed a widespread loss of NAAG-LI neurons. In addition NAAG-LI reactive microglia surrounding plaques were seen in AD temporal cortex but not in the HD striatum. Our results suggest that NAAG is substantially localized to putative glutamatergic pathways in human brain and that NAAG-LI neurons are vulnerable to the neurodegenerative process in HD and AD.
Proteins of the achaete-scute family of transcription factors play important roles in neurogenesis in both invertebrates and vertebrates. Here, we report the cloning and characterization of a Japanese pufferfish, Fugu rubripes achaete-scute homolog 1, Fash1. Sequence alignment of the predicted amino acid sequence of Fash1 with other vertebrate homologs of the achaete scute homolog 1 subclass shows that the carboxyl 2/3 of the protein, including the basic helix-loop-helix, a putative nuclear localization signal and several consensus phosphorylation sites, is highly conserved. Strikingly, the similarity in this region between eight vertebrate species is close to 90%.
Bradykinin (BK) given into the plantar (i.pl.) of the mouse hind-limb produced a flexor response. The flexor responses were dependent on BK doses (0.02-20 pmol, i.pl.), and were completely abolished by Hoe140, a B2-type BK receptor antagonist. Kyotorphin, an analgesic neuropeptide which shows enkephalin release in brain slices, produced a dose-dependent reduction of the BK-induced nociceptive responses in ranges of 10 pmol to 1 nmol (i.pl.). Such analgesic effects of kyotorphin were reversed by leucine-arginine, a specific kyotorphin receptor antagonist, but not by naloxone. The kyotorphin-analgesia was also abolished by pertussis toxin (PTX) pretreatment. These results suggest that peripheral analgesic effects of kyotorphin are mediated through mechanisms of kyotorphin specific receptor and PTX-sensitive Gi/Go, and that the enkephalin release is not necessary for this analgesia.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1-like immunoreactivity (NMDAR1-LI) was investigated in the brain of Rana pipiens during optic nerve regeneration. Following unilateral optic-nerve crush, frogs were tested for prey-catching and optokinetic nystagmus responses to assess return of visual function. At 1, 2, 3 and 5 months after the surgery, NMDAR1-LI was assessed in central visual pathways. At 3 and 5 months, conspicuous ipsilateral NMDAR1-LI fibers were detected in the thalamic and pretectal nuclei, and the time of their appearance coincided with the onset of behavioral recovery. Also, only ipsilateral retinorecipient layers in the optic tectum showed increased NMDAR1-LI during optic nerve regeneration. These results suggest that NMDA receptors may be present on retinal ganglion cell axons and terminals that have been misrouted during regeneration.

Synaptic transmission involves the regulated exocytosis of vesicles filled with neurotransmitter. Classical transmitters are synthesized in the cytoplasm, and so must be transported into synaptic vesicles. Although the vesicular transporters for monoamines and acetylcholine have been identified, the proteins responsible for packaging the primary inhibitory and excitatory transmitters, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glutamate remain unknown. Studies in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans have implicated the gene unc-47 in the release of GABA. Here we show that the sequence of unc-47 predicts a protein with ten transmembrane domains, that the gene is expressed by GABA neurons, and that the protein colocalizes with synaptic vesicles. Further, a rat homologue of unc-47 is expressed by central GABA neurons and confers vesicular GABA transport in transfected cells with kinetics and substrate specificity similar to those previously reported for synaptic vesicles from the brain. Comparison of this vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT) with a vesicular transporter for monoamines shows that there are differences in the bioenergetic dependence of transport, and these presumably account for the differences in structure. Thus VGAT is the first of a new family of neurotransmitter transporters.
The pineal organ of vertebrates produces melatonin and adenosine. In lower vertebrates, adenosine modulates melatonin production. We report herein that 2-chloro-cyclopentyl-[3H]-adenosine ([3H]CCPA: adenosine A1 receptor agonist) and [3H]-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine ([3H]DPCPX: adenosine A1 receptor antagonist), bind specifically to sheep pineal membranes. Binding of [3H]CCPA reached equilibrium at 90 min and dissociation revealed the presence of two components. Saturation analysis suggested the presence of a single population of binding sites (Kd = 1.67 +/- 0.06 nM, Bmax = 2386 fmol/mg protein). Binding was sensitive to GTP and GTPgammaS. Binding of [3H]DPCPX reached equilibrium at 60 min and dissociation was monophasic. Saturation analysis revealed a single population of binding sites (Kd = 5.8 +/- 1.12 nM, Bmax = 1116 fmol/mg protein). The specificity of the [3H]-analogues used and the rank order potency of the competitors tested in the competition experiments suggested the presence of A1 receptors. Future investigations are necessary to elucidate the significance of the differences observed between the binding properties of the adenosine A1 receptor agonist and adenosine A1 receptor antagonist.
The effects of 7-nitroindazole, a putative selective inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide (NO) synthase and zaprinast, a cGMP-selective phosphodiesterase inhibitor, were evaluated on recognition memory of rats in the object recognition test. This test is based on the differential exploration of a new and a familiar object. Two doses of 7-nitroindazole (10 and 30 mg/kg) and zaprinast (3 and 10 mg/kg) were used. The substances were administered i.p. immediately after the exposure to two identical objects, i.e., at the start of the delay interval. After a delay interval of 1 h, control rats spent more time exploring the new object which demonstrates that they recognized the familiar one. Both doses of 7-nitroindazole impaired the discrimination between the two objects after the 1 h interval. After a 4 h interval, control rats did not discriminate between the objects. The highest dose of zaprinast facilitated object recognition after the 4 h interval. In addition, this dose of zaprinast (10 mg/kg) reversed the recognition memory deficit induced by 7-nitroindazole (10 mg/kg) at the 1 h interval. The highest dose of 7-nitroindazole slightly increased mean arterial blood pressure 1 h after its administration. 4 h after administration of zaprinast (10 mg/kg), mean arterial blood pressure was also slightly increased, but not after 1 h after zaprinast administration. However, these effects on blood pressure do not explain the differential effects on object recognition memory. These results therefore suggest that NO-cGMP signal transduction is involved in object recognition memory independently of its cardiovascular role. Finally, since 7-nitroindazole affected mean arterial blood pressure it can not be regarded as a selective inhibitor of neuronal NO synthase.
Experimental autoimmune myositis (EAM) was induced in Lewis rats by immunization with partially purified and purified skeletal myosin. Although clinical signs such as muscle weakness were very mild, multiple inflammatory lesions in the skeletal muscle, but not in the heart, were found by histological examination. Immunohistochemical staining revealed that muscle fiber-infiltrating cells were CD8+ and CD11b+ cells and that CD4+, TCR alphabeta+, B and NK cells were mainly located in the endomysium and interfiber connective tissue. These findings were in contrast to those obtained in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis lesions in which CD4+ cells predominate over CD8+ cells. T cells and sera isolated from myosin-immunized animals responded vigorously to myosin. However, neither sensitized lymphoid cells mainly comprising CD4+ cells nor purified anti-myosin immunoglobulin G mediated the disease into naive rats, suggesting that T cells other than CD4+ cells such as CD8+ cells may be the final effector. Taken together, EAM induced in Lewis rats is similar to human polymyositis (PM). EAM can serve as a good model for human PM and give insight into the pathogenesis of the disease.
The aim of this study was to identify developmentally regulated immunocytochemical markers to assess development in the cervical spinal cord of Monodelphis domestica. We demonstrate that two commercially available antibodies exhibit altered patterns of distribution during early postnatal development. Although neurofilament staining was present at birth, only the phosphorylated form, recognised by monoclonal antibodies 2F11 or SMI31 could be detected. Non-phosphorylated neurofilament, recognised by monoclonal antibody SMI32, only became detectable around postnatal day 4 (P4) but was restricted to cells in the ventral horn until 5 weeks postnatum. By 7.5 weeks, SMI32 immunoreactivity (IR) was found throughout the grey matter in a pattern similar to that in the adult for both SMI32 and microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2). The intermediate filament proteins, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin (VIM), were detectable at birth in radially oriented, fibrous cells, but GFAP-IR was restricted to the ventral half of the cord. This ventral to dorsal gradient of GFAP-IR diminished during the first week of postnatal life, disappearing by P8. Many astrocyte-like, GFAP-positive cells were clearly present by 38 days and, in the adult, were abundant in the white matter. A few VIM-IR cells remained in the adult cord, also within the white matter. We suggest that SMI32 and GFAP are useful, developmentally regulated markers for studies of opossum spinal cord development. We are currently using these markers to investigate the pronounced rostral to caudal gradient in the postnatal spinal cord and to assess development in the cultured spinal cord.
The importance of calcium in neuronal function has been amply demonstrated in recent years. The discovery of a class of proteins within neurons which bind calcium, therefore, has proven to be a catalyst for the generation of theories and hypotheses regarding mechanisms of neurotoxicity in the CNS. In addition, the distribution of certain calcium-binding proteins changes during neural development, suggesting that they may play a role in organization or pattern generation. We have examined the ontogeny of three related calcium-binding proteins, calbindin-D28, parvalbumin and calretinin, with respect to the ventral and dorsal compartments or tiers of the dopaminergic population in the ventral midbrain. Single and dual-label immunocytochemistry was employed to map the distributions of calcium-binding proteins and tyrosine hydroxylase from E18 through adulthood. The results show that each of the three proteins exhibits a unique developmental sequence and compartment preference, with calbindin D28 clearly related to the later-developing dorsal tier, and parvalbumin and calretinin to the ventral tier of the dopaminergic ventral mesencephalon.
The ferret has emerged as an important animal model for the study of neocortical development. Although detailed studies of the birthdates of neurons populating the ferret visual cortex are available, the birthdates of neurons that reside in somatosensory cortex have not been determined. The current study used bromodeoxyuridine to establish when neurons inhabiting the somatosensory cortex are generated in the ferret; some animals also received injections of [3H]thymidine. In contrast to reports of neurogenesis in ferret visual cortex, most neurons populating the somatosensory cortex have been generated by birth. Although components of all somatosensory cortical layers have been produced at postnatal day 0, the layers are not distinctly formed but develop over a period of several weeks. A small number of neurons continue to be produced for a few days postnatally. The majority of cells belonging to a given layer are born over a period of approximately 3 days, although the subplate and last (layer 2) generated layer take somewhat longer. Although neurogenesis of the neocortex begins along a similar time line for visual and somatosensory cortex, the neurons populating the visual cortex lag substantially during the generation of layer 4, which takes more than 1 week for ferret visual cortex. Layer formation in ferret somatosensory cortex follows many established principles of cortical neurogenesis, such as the well-known inside-out development of cortical layers and the rostro-to-caudal progression of cell birth. In comparison with the development of ferret visual cortex, however, the generation of the somatosensory cortex occurs remarkably early and may reflect distinct differences in mechanisms of development between the two sensory areas.
Immunocytochemical techniques were employed to examine the changes in the GABA receptor subunits beta2/3 within the dentate gyrus of the rat brain 1, 3, 7, 14, 30 and 90 days after a unilateral perforant pathway lesion. Three days post-lesion we observed a decrease in beta2/3 immunolabeling in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus followed by a comparable decrease in the outer molecular layer 7 days post-lesion. These decreases were transient; 30 and 90 days post-lesion, beta2/3 immunolabeling appeared similar to controls in the inner portion of the molecular layer, while in the outer region the labeling was increased. In this latter region we also observed a dense band of AChE fibers. Following survival times of 3 days we observed a diffuse staining of the neuropil in the hilar region, and a dense amorphous accumulation of peroxidase reaction product in the polymorphic region. These responses were transient and by 14 days the hilar/polymorphic region appeared indistinguishable from controls. These data suggest a unique pattern of immunoabeling in the molecular and polymorphic region in response to perforant pathway lesion. A putative explanation for this response is discussed.
The role of a newly identified component of the postsynaptic dorsal column (PSDC) system in viscerosensory processing has been recently described. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of colon inflammation on the responses of single PSDC cells, located in the vicinity of the central canal at L6-S1 spinal segments, to graded colorectal distension (CRD) and to cutaneous stimulation. Experiments were conducted on seven male Sprague-Dawley rats anesthetized with pentobarbital. Recordings were made from seven PSDC cells located around the central canal at L6-S1 in response to CRD and cutaneous stimulation before and after colon inflammation. Inflammation of the colon with mustard oil (MO) induced an increase in the background activity of these cells. Colon inflammation also potentiated the responses of the PSDC cells to graded CRD but not to cutaneous stimulation. This is consistent with previously observed effects of colon inflammation on the responses of viscerosensitive cells in the ventral posterolateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus and in the nucleus gracilis (NG). These observations support a role of the PSDC system in viscerosensory processing and primary visceral hyperalgesia.
In order to investigate the effect on tau of manipulating glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3beta activity in the brain, we created transgenic mice harbouring wild-type GSK-3beta genes or a mutant GSK-3beta that is predicted to be more active. Transgene-derived mRNAs were detected in the brains of a number of the transgenic mouse lines and several of these transgenic lines displayed transgenic GSK-3beta activity. Western blot analyses of the two lines with the highest levels of transgenic GSK-3beta activity revealed that the phosphorylation status of tau was elevated at the AT8 epitope. These observations strongly suggest that GSK-3beta is an in vivo tau kinase in the brain. Only low levels of expression of GSK-3beta were obtained and it is possible that high levels of GSK-3beta activity are lethal.
The effect of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) on neonatal plasticity was studied using the rat olivocerebellar projection as a model. Unilateral removal of climbing fibres in the rat before postnatal day 7 induces re-innervation of the deafferented hemi-cerebellum, which does not occur after postnatal day 10. Rats aged 11 or 12 days underwent climbing fibre transection followed by IGF-1 injection into the denervated cerebellar cortex 24 h later. The exogenous IGF-1 induced climbing fibre re-innervation of the denervated hemicerebellum in a pattern similar to that seen in the immature rat. Thus IGF-1 can extend the window of neonatal plasticity of the brain and therefore may be of potential therapeutic use post-trauma.
Hepoxilin A3-methyl ester is taken up by intact human neutrophils where it is first hydrolyzed into the free acid which is subsequently converted into a single major metabolite. The structure of this metabolite was determined through mass spectral analysis of several derivatives, and through identity with an authentic compound prepared by chemical synthesis. The metabolite was identified as omega-hydroxy-hepoxilin A3 showing that the epoxide functionality of the parent hepoxilin is not opened during incubation with human neutrophils. All attempts to investigate hepoxilin metabolism in broken cells, despite the presence of protease inhibitors (Aproteinin, PMSF, DFP) and supplementation with NADPH were unsuccessful. Metabolism of hepoxilin A3 required the intact cell, while parallel experiments with LTB4 as substrate demonstrated that this eicosanoid was metabolized into its omega-hydroxy metabolite regardless of whether intact or broken cell preparations were used provided that NADPH was present in the latter. Hepoxilin metabolism in intact cells was inhibited dose-dependently by CCCP (0.01-100 microM), a mitochondrial uncoupler, whereas LTB4 metabolism was unaffected by CCCP. This data suggests that metabolism of hepoxilin A3 occurs in intact human neutrophils through omega-oxidation, is likely located in the mitochondrial compartment of the cell (inhibition by CCCP) and is carried out by an activity that is independent of the well characterized, relatively stable microsomal LTB4 omega-hydroxylase.


Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) catalyzes the rate-limiting step in the synthesis of serotonin and participates (in a non-rate-limiting fashion) in melatonin biosynthesis. In rabbit, TPH exists as a tetramer of four identical 51007 dalton (444 amino acids) protein subunits. An intersubunit binding domain responsible for tetramer formation of TPH was identified by assessing the role of a carboxyl terminal leucine heptad and 4-3 hydrophobic repeat. These repeats are conserved in all of the aromatic amino acid hydroxylases and have been shown to be required for the assembly of tyrosine hydroxylase tetramers. Polymerase chain reaction was utilized to create three TPH carboxyl terminal deletions (C delta8, C delta12 and C delta17) that sequentially remove members of the leucine heptad and 4-3 hydrophobic repeat. Each deletion and full-length recombinant TPH was expressed in bacteria to obtain soluble enzyme extracts for subsequent activity and structural analysis. It was found that removal of 8, 12 or 17 amino acids from the carboxyl terminus of TPH did not significantly alter enzymatic activity when compared to full-length recombinant TPH. However, the macromolecular structure of the deletions was dramatically affected as determined by dimeric and monomeric profiles on size exclusion chromatography. It can be concluded that amino acids 428-444 (the C-terminal 17 amino acids) comprise an intersubunit binding domain that is required for tetramer formation of TPH, but that tetramer assembly is not essential for full enzymatic activity.
EphA4 is a receptor tyrosine kinase of the Eph family previously designated Cek8 in chicken, Tyro1 in rat, and Sek1 in mouse, which is preferentially expressed in the embryonic and adult nervous system. We have mapped the distribution of EphA4 in the adult rat brain and spinal cord using a polyclonal antibody raised against a synthetic carboxy-terminal peptide. Immunoblotting experiments revealed that EphA4 is widely distributed in various regions of the adult rat brain. At the light microscopic level, intense immunoreactivity was apparent in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, matrix compartment of the neostriatum, cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain, cerebellar Purkinje cells, and substantia gelatinosa of the spinal cord. Among white matter tracts, EphA4 expression was detected in the corpus callosum, fornix, and posterior portion of the anterior commissure, but not in the lateral olfactory tract, mammillothalamic tract, or optic chiasm. Interestingly, expression in the optic chiasm is high at postnatal day 6, but decreases with the maturation of this structure. While in some regions of the neuropil neuronal cell bodies were prominently labeled, in others EphA4 immunoreactivity was detected in a punctate pattern. This punctuate staining did not coincide with synaptophysin localization. At the electron microscopic level, EphA4 immunoreactivity was observed in dendrites in the gray matter, particularly associated with dendritic spines, and in myelinated axons, but not their myelin sheaths in the white matter. The widespread distribution and diverse subcellular compartmentalization of EphA4 suggest that this receptor is important for the maintenance of multiple structures in the adult nervous system.
In the course of pulse-label studies on the axonal transport of the small, basic, actin-binding proteins--actin depolymerizing factor, cofilin and profilin--in chicken motor neurones, we observed a heavily labelled protein of M(r) 18 kDa and pI 8.2 on fluorographs of two-dimensional polyacrylamide gels. On the basis of its M(r), pI and amino acid composition, we tentatively identified it by database searching as cyclophilin A and subsequently confirmed its identity by immunostaining. Like actin and its associated proteins, cyclophilin A was transported in slow component b of axonal transport, but unlike these proteins, cyclophilin A did not copurify with actin on DNase I. It was not found amongst labelled proteins transported by fast axonal transported by fast axonal transport. Immunostaining of chicken dorsal root ganglion cells revealed that it accumulated in neurites at points of branching, varicosities and growth cones. Our results raise the possibility that cyclophilin A is important in maintaining the native folding of actin and associated proteins during transit in axons and assembly in growth cones.
We have shown previously that a bovine peripheral nerve protein with a molecular mass of about 30 kDa binds laminin in blot overlay assay. In this paper, we have characterized this 30-kDa laminin-binding protein (LBP30). LBP30 was extracted from the crude bovine peripheral nerve membranes at pH 12 or by 0.5 M NaCl but not by 2% Triton X-100. LBP30 bound to heparin-Sepharose in the presence of 0.5 M NaCl. The results of lectin staining indicated that LBP30 contained both terminally sialylated and nonsialylated Ser/Thr-linked oligosaccharides. LBP30 bound laminin-2 as well as laminin-1 but not fibronectin or collagen type IV. When immobilized LBP30 was incubated with the crude peripheral nerve membrane extracts, all of the endogenous peripheral nerve laminin chain isoforms, the alpha1, alpha2, beta1, beta2, and gamma1 chains, were detected bound to LBP30. The binding of LBP30 to laminin was inhibited by heparin, heparan sulfate, dextran sulfate, or NaCl but was not affected significantly by chondroitin sulfate, dextran, or EDTA. Although LBP30 bound to laminin-1 denatured with SDS in a nonreducing condition, the binding was reduced drastically when laminin-1 was denatured with SDS in a reducing condition, suggesting that the binding of LBP30 is somewhat dependent on the high order structure of laminin-1. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated the broad distribution of LBP30 in the perineurium and endoneurium of bovine peripheral nerve. These results indicate that LBP30 is a laminin- and heparin-binding glycoprotein localized in the perineurium and endoneurium of bovine peripheral nerve.

A mechanism by which members of the ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF)-leukemia inhibitory factor cytokine family regulate gliogenesis in the developing mammalian central nervous system was characterized. Activation of the CNTF receptor promoted differentiation of cerebral cortical precursor cells into astrocytes and inhibited differentiation of cortical precursors along a neuronal lineage. Although CNTF stimulated both the Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK-STAT) and Ras-mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathways in cortical precursor cells, the JAK-STAT signaling pathway selectively enhanced differentiation of these precursors along a glial lineage. These findings suggest that cytokine activation of the JAK-STAT signaling pathway may be a mechanism by which cell fate is controlled during mammalian development.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) is considered an important neuronal mechanism of learning and memory. Currently, however, there is no direct experimental link between LTP of an identified synapse and learning. A cellular analog of classical conditioning in Aplysia was used to determine whether this form of invertebrate learning involves N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type LTP. The NMDA receptor-antagonist dl-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate significantly disrupted synaptic enhancement after associative training but did not disrupt synaptic enhancement after nonassociative training. Thus, classical conditioning in Aplysia appears to be mediated, in part, by LTP due to activation of NMDA-related receptors.
Neurodegenerative disorders are characterized by extensive neuron death that leads to functional decline, but the neurobiological correlates of functional decline in normal aging are less well defined. For decades, it has been a commonly held notion that widespread neuron death in the neocortex and hippocampus is an inevitable concomitant of brain aging, but recent quantitative studies suggest that neuron death is restricted in normal aging and unlikely to account for age-related impairment of neocortical and hippocampal functions. In this article, the qualitative and quantitative differences between aging and Alzheimer's disease with respect to neuron loss are discussed, and age-related changes in functional and biochemical attributes of hippocampal circuits that might mediate functional decline in the absence of neuron death are explored. When these data are viewed comprehensively, it appears that the primary neurobiological substrates for functional impairment in aging differ in important ways from those in neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease.



A reciprocal chromosome translocation between 13q12 and 8p11 is the consistent cytogenetic abnormality seen in a nonspecific myeloproliferative disorder that is associated with T-cell leukemia/lymphoma and peripheral blood eosinophilia. Detailed molecular analyses of the translocation breakpoints associated with this rearrangement have not been reported to date. We have now generated somatic cell hybrids from a newly described patient with this specific structural rearrangement and analyzed the breakpoints on the derivative chromosomes. We have shown that the breakpoint on chromosome 13 lies within a 300- to 500-kb region defined by the KIAA177 gene and D13S1123 marker. In addition, we have identified a 1.2-Mb YAC, 959A4, that crosses the translocation breakpoint on the short arm of chromosome 8 in this patient. The location of this breakpoint in 8p11 is distinct from the t(8;16) and t(8;22) translocations associated with M4/M5 myeloid leukemias, and suggests that three distinct loci located within 8p11 are involved in the pathogenesis of myeloid neoplasias.
The establishment of a focus of epileptiform activity in the hippocampus of the rat, using the kindling paradigm, leads to enhanced voltage-dependent calcium conductance of CA1 pyramidal neurones (G.C. Faas, M. Vreugdenhil, W.J. Wadman, Calcium currents in pyramidal CA1 neurones in vitro after kindling epileptogenesis in the hippocampus of the rat, Neuroscience 75 (1996) 57-67; M. Vreugdenhil, W.J. Wadman, Kindling-induced long-lasting enhancement of calcium in hippocampal CA1 area of the rat: relation to calcium-dependent inactivation, Neuroscience 59 (1994) 105-114). Using semi-quantitative in situ hybridization techniques, we investigated whether these changes were associated with an altered expression of the genes that encode for the alpha1A-E-subunits of the voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCC). Kindling epileptogenesis was induced in rats that received an electrical tetanic stimulation of the Schaffer collateral/commissural fibre pathway in the hippocampus twice daily. Two groups of rats were studied before the appearance of generalized seizures, one group after at least 5 generalized seizures (fully kindled) and one group was investigated at long-term (28 days) after the last seizure. During the initial stages of epileptogenesis, the alpha1A-, alpha1D- and alpha1E-subunit mRNA levels were significantly increased in the different hippocampal subareas in comparison to the levels in control animals. In contrast, alpha1B-subunit gene expression decreased in the CA area and dentate gyrus. No significant change was observed in the alpha1C-I and alpha1C-II expression. At the fully kindled stage, the only significant change was an up-regulation of the alpha1B-subunit mRNA levels in the CA3 area, 24 h after the last seizure. No change in VDCC alpha1-subunit gene expression was found in animals investigated long-term after the establishment of the fully kindled state. Thus, the VDCC alpha1-subunit gene expression is altered in a subclass-specific manner during the early stages of kindling and may play a role in the establishment of a kindled focus, possibly caused by an alteration of the population of VDCCs involved in neurotransmitter release. The absence of long-lasting changes suggests that the maintenance of a kindled focus is not due to persisting alterations in VDCC alpha1 mRNA levels.
We compared the cytotoxic effects of oxidative stress on neuronal and glial cells in vitro by examining the cell viability and changes in DNA-binding activities of transcription factors, AP-1 and CREB, using Trypan blue exclusion and electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA), respectively. Neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) and H2O2 reduced the viability of both types of cells in time- and concentration-dependent manner. Both neurotoxins dose-dependently decreased DNA-binding activities in neuronal cells. The results of cell viability assay suggested that these changes may reflect the reduction in neuronal cell viability. In contrast, both reagents increased DNA-binding activities in glial cells, although they decreased cell numbers. These results suggest that the effects of oxidative stress on transcription factors is different in neuronal and glial cells. We also examined the effect of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on 6-OHDA- or H2O2-induced changes in DNA-binding activities. In neuronal cells, pre-treatment with BDNF prevented the decrease in DNA-binding activities induced by 6-OHDA or H2O2. In glial cells, the effect of BDNF on oxidative stress-induced changes in DNA-binding activities in the 6-OHDA-treated group were opposite to those in H2O2-treated group. Our results suggest that 6-OHDA and H2O2 may exert their cytotoxic mechanisms through different signal transduction systems.
After unilateral adjuvant-induced inflammation, expression of neuropeptides believed to be involved in the inflammatory response, e.g. substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), is upregulated in innervating sensory neurons. Islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP) is structurally related to CGRP and constitutively expressed in sensory CGRP-containing neurons; the role of IAPP in sensory neurons is unknown. To examine whether IAPP could play a role in inflammation, IAPP expression in L5 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and its distribution in the dorsal horn were investigated after unilateral adjuvant-induced inflammation in the rat paw and compared with CGRP, using in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry. At 12 h and day 3, but not day 21, the percentage of nerve cell profiles expressing IAPP and CGRP mRNA was greater in the ipsilateral L5 DRG; these changes paralleled the occurrence of edema around the tarsotibial joint and a slight limp. IAPP expression in individual nerve cell profiles was higher in the ipsilateral L5 DRG at 12 h, but not at days 3 and 21; the corresponding CGRP mRNA level was higher at days 3 and 21. At day 3, the higher expression of IAPP and CGRP on the ipsilateral side was accompanied by increased numbers of immunoreactive DRG neurons and fibers in the spinal cord dorsal horn. Largely, expression of IAPP and CGRP seems to be co-ordinately regulated by localized inflammation, although the rapid, but transient, upregulation in DRG neurons of IAPP mRNA expression and the slower, but sustained, upregulation of CGRP mRNA expression may indicate dissociated regulation of the peptides. Thus, IAPP could play a role in the initial phase of localized inflammation.
We studied the presence of microsatellite instability (MSI) in a series of 108 gastric cancers (GCs) previously identified in an epidemiological study carried out in a high-risk area around Florence. To investigate associations between MSI and GC family history, 34 cases (31.5%) who had a GC-affected first-degree relative were included in the series. A family history positive for colorectal cancer was reported quite rarely (5.6%). The analysis of 6 microsatellite loci in DNA from paired normal tissue and tumor samples microdissected from paraffin-embedded specimens revealed varying degrees of instability: 56 cases (51.8%) did not show instability at any of the 6 loci; 19 (17.6%) showed instability at 1 locus; 16 (14.8%) showed instability at 2 loci; 11 (10.2%) showed instability at 3 loci; 4 (3.7%) showed instability at 4 loci; and 2 (1.9%) showed instability at 5 loci. The replication error-positive (RER+) phenotype, defined as the presence of MSI at 2 or more loci, had a frequency of 30.6% (33 of 108) and tended to be positively associated with female sex, intestinal histological type, advanced tumor stage, vascular invasion, positive GC family history, and blood group of A type. No correlation emerged between age at diagnosis and RER+ phenotype, whereas a significant association with the RER+ phenotype was shown by the antral location. A multivariate analysis adjusting for a selected group of potential confounding factors confirmed the strong association of the RER+ phenotype with the antral location (P = 0.001) and with a positive GC family history (P &lt; 0.05). Survival analyses at 5 and 8 years showed no difference between RER+ and RER- patients, even when corrected for stage distribution. By the microdissection technique, we also used microsatellite allele patterns to investigate intratumoral heterogeneity and genetic relationships between tumors and adjacent dysplasia and/or intestinal metaplasia. Areas of metaplasia and dysplasia demonstrated MSI only in cases with MSI-positive tumors. In MSI-positive tumors, there was consistent evidence of intratumoral microsatellite allele heterogeneity, indicating the presence of genetically divergent tumor cell clones within the same neoplasm.
Although the neurokinin-1 (NK-1)/substance P (SP) receptor is expressed by neurons throughout the spinal dorsal horn, noxious chemical stimulation in the normal rat only induces internalization of the receptor in cell bodies and dendrites of lamina I. Here we compared the effects of mechanical and thermal stimulation in normal rats and in rats with persistent hindpaw inflammation. Electron microscopic analysis confirmed the upregulation of receptor that occurs with inflammation and demonstrated that in the absence of superimposed stimulation, the increased receptor was, as in normal rats, concentrated on the plasma membrane. In general, noxious mechanical was more effective than noxious thermal stimulation in inducing NK-1 receptor internalization, and this was increased in the setting of inflammation. Although a 5 sec noxious mechanical stimulus only induced internalization in 22% of lamina I neurons in normal rats, after inflammation, it evoked near-maximal (98%) internalization in lamina I, produced significant changes in laminae III-VI, and expanded the rostrocaudal distribution of neurons with internalized receptor. Even non-noxious (brush) stimulation of the inflamed hindpaw induced internalization in large numbers of superficial and deep neurons. For thermal stimulation, the percentage of cells with internalized receptor increased linearly at &gt;45 degrees C, but in normal rats, these were restricted to lamina I. After inflammation, however, the 52 degrees C stimulus also induced internalization in 25% of laminae III-IV cells. These studies provide a new perspective on the reorganization of dorsal horn circuits in the setting of persistent injury and demonstrate a critical contribution of SP.
D1 receptors located on striatonigral neurons and D2 receptors located, together with A2A receptors, on striatopallidal neurons are known to interact functionally. Using in situ hybridization, we examined the effects of D1 and D2 agonists and of an A2A antagonist on c-fos mRNA in identified striatal neurons and in globus pallidus. The full D1 agonist, SKF 82958 (1 mg/kg), induced a homogenous increase of c-fos mRNA in the striatum. This increase occurred to a similar extent in D1 and D2 receptor-containing striatal neurons. Conversely, the D2 agonist, quinelorane (2 mg/kg), decreased c-fos mRNA in these populations but increased it in globus pallidus. The adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, SCH 58261 (5 mg/kg), also decreased c-fos mRNA in D2 receptor-containing neurons in striatum but did not affect pallidal c-fos mRNA. Concomitant administration of either D1 plus D2 agonists or D1 agonist plus A2A antagonist caused a potentiation of c-fos mRNA in striatal neurons expressing the D1 receptor and in globus pallidus. However, only the combination of D1 and D2 agonists modified the c-fos mRNA expression to a &quot;patchy&quot; distribution. Our data show that (1) c-fos expression can be activated through D1 and inhibited through A2A or D2 receptors in both striatal output pathways in normal rats, and (2) D2 receptor stimulation as well as A2A receptor blockade can interact with D1 receptor activation to potentiate c-fos expression in the striatum and the globus pallidus. The data also suggest that the topological alteration of c-fos expression after coadministration of D1 and D2 agonists involves D2 receptors located on interneurons or presynaptically on dopaminergic nerve terminals.
The mu-opioid [D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly-ol5]-enkephalin (DAMGO) exerts a peripheral antinociceptive effect against prostaglandin E2 (PGE2)-induced mechanical hyperalgesia in the hindpaw of the rat. Tolerance and dependence develop to this effect. We have shown previously that tolerance and dependence can be dissociated and are mediated by different second messenger systems. In the present study, we evaluated whether the same or different second messenger systems mediate the development of this peripheral opioid tolerance or dependence compared with the expression of the loss of antinociceptive effect or rebound opioid antagonist hyperalgesia (i. e., expression of tolerance and dependence). DAMGO-induced tolerance was prevented by pretreatment with the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor NG-methyl-L-arginine (NMLA) but not by the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor chelerythrine, the adenylyl cyclase inhibitor 2',5'-dideoxyadenosine (ddA), or the calcium chelators 3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoic acid 8-(diethylamino)-octyl ester (TMB-8) and 2-[(2-bis-[carboxymethyl]amino-5-methylphenoxy)-methyl]-6-methoxy-8-bis [carboxymethyl]aminoquinoline (Quin-2). Once established, however, expression of DAMGO tolerance was acutely reversed by TMB-8 or Quin-2 but not by chelerythrine or NMLA. In contrast, naloxone-precipitated hyperalgesia in DAMGO-tolerant paws, a measure of dependence, was blocked by pretreatment with chelerythrine but not by NMLA, ddA, TMB-8, or Quin-2. Naloxone-precipitated hyperalgesia in DAMGO-tolerant paws was acutely reversed by chelerythrine, ddA, TMB-8, or Quin-2 but not by NMLA. Taken together, these results provide the first evidence that different mechanisms mediate the development and expression of both tolerance and dependence to the peripheral antinociceptive effect of DAMGO. However, although the development of tolerance and dependence are entirely separable, the expression of tolerance and dependence shares common calcium-dependent mechanisms.
It is increasingly appreciated that the sexes differ in their perception of noxious stimuli and in their responsivity to exogenous and endogenous analgesic manipulations. We previously reported the existence of qualitative sex differences in the neurochemical mediation of nonopioid (i.e., naloxone-insensitive) stress-induced analgesia (SIA) produced by forced swims and suggested that female mice possess a sex-specific SIA mechanism. This female-specific system is now known to be estrogen-dependent, to be ontogenetically organized, and to vary with reproductive status; however, its neurochemical identity remains obscure. In an attempt to identify candidate genes underlying SIA in both sexes, we performed a two-phase quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping experiment using the BXD/Ty recombinant inbred (RI) set derived from DBA/2J (D2) and C57BL/6J (B6) inbred mouse strains and (B6xD2)F2 hybrid mice derived from these same progenitors. All mice were subjected to 3 min forced swims in 15 degrees C water; nociceptive sensitivity on the 54 degrees C hot-plate assay was assessed immediately before and 2 min after cessation of the swim. We report the localization of a QTL statistically associated with SIA magnitude [p = 0.00000012; logarithm of the odds (LOD) = 6.1] in female mice only. This female-specific QTL, which we name Fsia1, is located on chromosome 8 at 52-84 cM from the centromere and accounts for 17-26% of the overall trait variance in this sex. The present data provide further evidence of the existence of a female-specific SIA mechanism and highlight the important role of both genetic background and gender in the inhibition of pain.
Neurotrophins constitute a family of trophic factors with profound effects on the survival and differentiation of the nervous system. Addition of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) or neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), but not nerve growth factor (NGF), increased the survival of embryonic Xenopus spinal neurons in culture, although all three neurotrophins enhanced neurite outgrowth. Here we report that neurotrophins also exert acute actions on the morphology and motility of 1-day-old cultured Xenopus spinal neurons. Bath application of BDNF induced extensive formation of lamellipodia simultaneously at multiple sites along the neurite shaft as well as at the growth cone. The BDNF-induced lamellipodia appeared within minutes, rapidly protruded to their greatest extent in about 10 min, and gradually disappeared thereafter, leaving behind newly formed thin lateral processes. When applied as microscopic concentration gradients, both BDNF and NT-3, but not NGF, induced the growth cone to grow toward the neurotrophin source. Our results suggest that neurotrophic factors, when delivered to responsive neurons, may serve as morphogenic and chemotropic agents during neuronal development.
To identify the cellular cues that guide zebrafish neuronal growth cones to their targets, we examined interactions between identified motor growth cones and identified muscle fibers and tested whether these fibers were required for growth cone navigation. Caudal primary motoneurons (CaPs) and middle primary motoneurons (MiPs) are identified motoneurons that innervate cell-specific regions of the myotome. Growth cones of both cells initially extend along a common pathway and then pause at a set of identified muscle fibers, called muscle pioneers, before diverging along cell-specific pathways. Muscle pioneers are intermediate targets of both CaP and MiP (Westerfield et al., 1986; Liu and Westerfield, 1990); both motoneurons extend their growth cones directly to the muscle pioneers on which the first functional neuromuscular contacts form, suggesting that muscle pioneers may provide guidance information to these growth cones. We tested this idea by ablating muscle pioneers and observing the resulting motor axonal trajectories. Both CaP and MiP ultimately formed normal axonal arbors after muscle pioneer ablation, showing that muscle pioneers are unnecessary for formation of correct axonal trajectories; however, although final cellular morphology was correct in the absence of muscle pioneers, MiP growth cones branched abnormally or extended ventrally beyond the common pathway. Ablation of CaP and the muscle pioneers together increased the aberrant behavior of the MiP growth cone. Our results provide evidence that an intermediate target, the muscle pioneers, affects motor axonal extension without altering target choice, suggesting that other cues also contribute to proper pathway navigation.
There are multiple mechanisms by which adenine nucleotides can be released into the extracellular space in brain. Adenine nucleotides are converted extracellularly to adenosine, which then acts on adenosine receptors to elicit physiological responses, but the rate at which this conversion takes place is unknown. In the present experiments, adenine nucleotides were applied to individual hippocampal neurons, and the subsequent activation of a postsynaptic K+ conductance by adenosine A1 receptors was used to determine the rate of adenosine formation. None of the adenine nucleotides tested (cAMP, AMP, ADP, and ATP) activated A1 receptors directly at the concentrations tested (&lt;/=200 microM). AMP, ADP, and ATP were all rapidly converted to adenosine, with a T1/2 for ATP conversion to adenosine of approximately 200 msec, and the last step in this pathway (transformation of AMP to adenosine by 5'-nucleotidase) seems to be the rate-limiting step. As we have reported previously, cAMP is converted to adenosine as well, but on a much slower time scale than any of the other nucleotides tested. These experiments demonstrate that fast, localized release of AMP, ADP, or ATP can result in a transient activation of adenosine receptors but that this is unlikely to occur with cAMP. The existence of a highly active ecto-nucleotidase pathway in brain provides a mechanism for the rapid generation of adenosine after the release of adenine nucleotides into the extracellular space.
2',3'-Cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (CNP) is highly enriched in myelin-forming cells where it is concentrated at the cytoplasmic side of all surface membranes except those of compact myelin. Previous studies have provided evidence that CNP is functionally involved in migration or expansion of membranes during myelination. This hypothesis is supported, in part, by the production of aberrant myelin membranes in transgenic mice that have a 6-fold increase in CNP expression. In addition, many myelin lamellae in these CNP-overexpressing mice lacked major dense lines (MDLs). The purpose of the present study was to determine if CNP overexpression altered: (1) oligodendrocyte and myelin membrane production during early stages of myelination, and (2) the ultrastructural distribution of CNP and myelin basic protein (MBP) in myelin membranes. We identified aberrant membrane expanses that extended from premyelinating oligodendrocyte processes, the periaxonal membrane, and the contact point between oligodendrocyte processes and myelin internodes. Myelin membranes without MDLs were deficient in MBP and enriched in CNP. These data support a functional role for CNP during oligodendrocyte membrane expansion and indicate, for the first time, that CNP may help target MBP to compact myelin.
Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) induces proliferation and alters differentiation of cultured oligodendrocyte lineage cells. In situ, bFGF is present in normal adult central nervous system (CNS) and upregulated during an early stage of various pathological conditions. We examined the expression of receptors for bFGF (FGFRs) by oligodendrocyte progenitors and oligodendrocytes in situ in normal adult mouse CNS to further understand the potential in situ response to bFGF. We found FGFR immunoreactivity in oligodendrocyte progenitors, identified by expression of NG2 or platelet-derived growth factor alpha receptor (PDGFalphaR), and in oligodendrocytes expressing 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3' phosphodiesterase. Particularly interesting is the demonstration that oligodendrocyte progenitors simultaneously expressing receptors for both bFGF and PDGF-AA are present in normal adult CNS. Since in vitro bFGF and PDGF-AA in combination induce oligodendrocyte progenitors from normal adult CNS to undergo rapid proliferation and migration, the in situ coexpression of FGFRs and PDGFalphaR supports the hypothesis that oligodendrocyte progenitors can respond to bFGF and PDGF-AA in situ, and that both growth factors may be critical for repopulation of demyelinated lesions during remyelination.
Oligodendrocytes are responsible for myelin formation in spinal cord white matter. In the mature spinal cord, the majority of white matter is localized peripherally. During early development, however, the first oligodendrocyte precursors arise in the ventral ventricular zone of the developing cord. Thus, prior to myelination, both migration and proliferation of oligodendrocyte precursors must occur. When and where these events occur is currently unclear. In the chick spinal cord, oligodendrocyte precursors express antigens recognized by the monoclonal antibody O4. Here we show that all chick spinal cord oligodendrocytes are derived from O4+ cells and all O4+ cells appear to give rise to oligodendrocytes. Analysis of the number and distribution of oligodendrocyte precursors in chick spinal cord at different stages of development suggests that relatively few cells migrate from the ventricular source which then proliferate extensively in white matter. This migration is guided by general dispersive cues. Clonal analysis of oligodendrocyte development in cultures derived from different regions of the rodent spinal cord indicated that the cells that initially populate dorsal and peripheral spinal cord retained similar clonal properties to those in ventral spinal cord, suggesting the migrating cells were immature, highly proliferative precursors. Consistent with these results, BrdU incorporation studies indicate that glial proliferation is extensive and persistent in postnatal rat spinal cord white matter. Together, these studies suggest that spinal cord white matter is initially populated by very immature precursors that then undergo extensive local proliferation prior to myelination.
1. The resting and agonist-stimulated properties of endothelial cells and electrical communication between the endothelium and smooth muscle were investigated in open segments of guinea-pig mesenteric lymphatic vessels using intracellular microelectrodes. 2. Endothelial cells had a mean resting membrane potential (RMP) of -71.5 +/- 0.5 mV (n = 100) which was significantly different from the value of -60.8 +/- 1.1 mV (n = 75) recorded in smooth muscle. 3. Acetylcholine (ACh, 5-10 microM) generally evoked an initial hyperpolarization followed by depolarization (mean 3.4 +/- 0.5 mV and 15.4 +/- 1.0 mV, respectively, n = 75). 4. Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels were likely to underlie the ACh-induced hyperpolarization as this response exhibited an increased in membrane conductance, was larger in 0.5 mM K+ solution and was blocked by charybdotoxin (50 nM). 5. The endothelium did not exhibit a response to nitric oxide (NO) as the NO-donor sodium nitroprusside did not alter the RMP and the electrical responses to ACh were not affected by the NO-synthase inhibitor N omega-nitro L-arginine at a concentration which markedly inhibited smooth muscle hyperpolarization. 6. Electrical coupling between the endothelium and smooth muscle was not functional as there was extremely limited electrical continuity (1 in 12, endothelial/smooth muscle cell simultaneous recordings) and bradykinin, noradrenaline and isoprenaline caused different electrical responses in the two cell types. 7. These results provide the first description of RMP and electrical responses to various agonists in the lymphatic endothelium and its lack of functional electrical coupling with the smooth muscle.
The mammalian anterior pituitary was not known to be innervated other than by a few autonomic nerve fibers. Recent studies, however, have demonstrated otherwise. A hypothesis of neural-humoral dual regulation of the mammalian anterior pituitary has been postulated based on the following findings: (1) the presence of substantial amounts of nerve fibers in the anterior pituitary of a number of mammalian species; (2) close contact of the nerve fibers with the gland cells, even forming synapses; (3) the nerve fibers originate, as least partly, from the hypothalamus; (4) the nerve fibers respond actively to changes in hormonal levels of the organism; and (5) stimulation of the nerve fibers changes the secretory activities of the gland cells.
Human ether-a-gogo related gene (HERG) K+ channels are key elements in the control of cell excitability in both the cardiovascular and the central nervous systems. For this reason, the possible modulation by reactive oxygen species (ROS) of HERG and other cloned K+ channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes has been explored in the present study. Exposure of Xenopus oocytes to an extracellular solution containing FeSO4 (25-100 microM) and ascorbic acid (50-200 microM) (Fe/Asc) increased both malondialdehyde content and 2',7'-dichlorofluorescin fluorescence, two indexes of ROS production. Oocyte perfusion with Fe/Asc caused a 50% increase of the outward K+ currents carried by HERG channels, whereas inward currents were not modified. This ROS-induced increase in HERG outward K+ currents was due to a depolarizing shift of the voltage-dependence of channel inactivation, with no change in channel activation. No effect of Fe/Asc was observed on the expressed K+ currents carried by other K+ channels such as bEAG, rDRK1, and mIRK1. Fe/Asc-induced stimulation of HERG outward currents was completely prevented by perfusion of the oocytes with a ROS scavenger mixture (containing 1,000 units/ml catalase, 200 ng/ml superoxide dismutase, and 2 mM mannitol). Furthermore, the scavenger mixture also was able to reduce HERG outward currents in resting conditions by 30%, an effect mimicked by catalase alone. In conclusion, the present results seem to suggest that changes in ROS production can specifically influence K+ currents carried by the HERG channels.
Perforant path long-term potentiation (LTP) in intact mouse hippocampal dentate gyrus increased the neuron-specific, growth-associated protein GAP-43 mRNA in hilar cells 3 days after tetanus, but surprisingly not in granule cells, the perforant path target. This increase was positively correlated with level of enhancement and restricted to central hilar cells on the side of stimulation. Blockade of LTP by puffing DL-aminophosphonovalerate (APV), an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor blocker into the molecular layer, eliminated LTP-induced GAP-43 mRNA elevation in hilar cells. To determine whether the mRNA elevation was mediated by transcription, LTP was studied in transgenic mice bearing a GAP-43 promoter-lacZ reporter gene. Promoter activity as indexed by Transgene expression (PATE) increased as indicated by blue staining of the lacZ gene product, beta-galactosidase. Potentiation induced a blue band bilaterally in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus along the entire septotemporal axis. Because mossy cells are the only neurons in the central hilar zone that project to the inner molecular layer bilaterally along the entire septotemporal axis and LTP-induced activation of PATE in this zone was confined to the side of stimulation, we concluded that mossy cells were unilaterally activated, increasing synthesis of beta-galactosidase, which was transported bilaterally. Neither granule cells nor pyramidal cells demonstrated increased PATE or increased GAP-43 mRNA levels. These results and recent evidence indicating the necessity of hilar neurons for LTP point to previously unheralded mossy cells as potentially critical for perforant path LTP and the GAP-43 in these cells as important for LTP persistence lasting days.
Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) protein levels increase in particulate fractions in association with cell death in HEK293 cells, S49 cells, primary thymocytes, PC12 cells, and primary cerebral cortical neuronal cultures. Subcellular fractionation and immunocytochemistry reveal that this increase primarily reflects nuclear translocation. Nuclear GAPDH is tightly bound, resisting extraction by DNase or salt treatment. Treating primary thymocytes, PC12 cells, and primary cortical neurons with antisense but not sense oligonucleotides to GAPDH prevents cell death. Because cell-death-associated nuclear translocation of GAPDH and antisense protection occur in multiple neuronal and nonneuronal systems, we propose that GAPDH is a general mediator of cell death and uses nuclear translocation as a signaling mechanism.
Neurons undergoing targeted photolytic cell death degenerate by apoptosis. Clonal, multipotent neural precursor cells were transplanted into regions of adult mouse neocortex undergoing selective degeneration of layer II/III pyramidal neurons via targeted photolysis. These precursors integrated into the regions of selective neuronal death; 15 +/- 7% differentiated into neurons with many characteristics of the degenerated pyramidal neurons. They extended axons and dendrites and established afferent synaptic contacts. In intact and kainic acid-lesioned control adult neocortex, transplanted precursors differentiated exclusively into glia. These results suggest that the microenvironmental alterations produced by this synchronous apoptotic neuronal degeneration in adult neocortex induced multipotent neural precursors to undergo neuronal differentiation which ordinarily occurs only during embryonic corticogenesis. Studying the effects of this defined microenvironmental perturbation on the differentiation of clonal neural precursors may facilitate identification of factors involved in commitment and differentiation during normal development. Because photolytic degeneration simulates some mechanisms underlying apoptotic neurodegenerative diseases, these results also suggest the possibility of neural precursor transplantation as a potential cell replacement or molecular support therapy for some diseases of neocortex, even in the adult.
Neurotoxicity induced by overstimulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors is due, in part, to a sustained rise in intracellular Ca2+; however, little is known about the ensuing intracellular events that ultimately result in cell death. Here we show that overstimulation of NMDA receptors by relatively low concentrations of glutamate induces apoptosis of cultured cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs) and that CGNs do not require new RNA or protein synthesis. Glutamate-induced apoptosis of CGNs is, however, associated with a concentration- and time-dependent activation of the interleukin 1beta-converting enzyme (ICE)/CED-3-related protease, CPP32/Yama/apopain (now designated caspase 3). Further, the time course of caspase 3 activation after glutamate exposure of CGNs parallels the development of apoptosis. Moreover, glutamate-induced apoptosis of CGNs is almost completely blocked by the selective cell permeable tetrapeptide inhibitor of caspase 3, Ac-DEVD-CHO but not by the ICE (caspase 1) inhibitor, Ac-YVAD-CHO. Western blots of cytosolic extracts from glutamate-exposed CGNs reveal both cleavage of the caspase 3 substrate, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase, as well as proteolytic processing of pro-caspase 3 to active subunits. Our data demonstrate that glutamate-induced apoptosis of CGNs is mediated by a posttranslational activation of the ICE/CED-3-related cysteine protease caspase 3.
Four unrelated patients are described with a syndrome that included developmental delay, seizures, ataxia, recurrent infections, severe language deficit, and an unusual behavioral phenotype characterized by hyperactivity, short attention span, and poor social interaction. These manifestations appeared within the first few years of life. Each patient displayed abnormalities on EEG. No unusual metabolites were found in plasma or urine, and metabolic testing was normal except for persistent hypouricosuria. Investigation of purine and pyrimidine metabolism in cultured fibroblasts derived from these patients showed normal incorporation of purine bases into nucleotides but decreased incorporation of uridine. De novo synthesis of purines and cellular phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate content also were moderately decreased. The distribution of incorporated purines and pyrimidines did not reveal a pattern suggestive of a deficient enzyme activity. Assay of individual enzymes in fibroblast lysates showed no deficiencies. However, the activity of cytosolic 5'-nucleotidase was elevated 6- to 10-fold. Based on the possibility that the observed increased catabolic activity and decreased pyrimidine salvage might be causing a deficiency of pyrimidine nucleotides, the patients were treated with oral pyrimidine nucleoside or nucleotide compounds. All patients showed remarkable improvement in speech and behavior as well as decreased seizure activity and frequency of infections. A double-blind placebo trial was undertaken to ascertain the efficacy of this supplementation regimen. Upon replacement of the supplements with placebo, all patients showed rapid regression to their pretreatment states. These observations suggest that increased nucleotide catabolism is related to the symptoms of these patients, and that the effects of this increased catabolism are reversed by administration of uridine.
The objective of the present study was to determine the effect of vestibular stimulation on the sympathetic outflow to muscle in humans. Fourteen healthy volunteers were studied while in the supine position with electrocardiography, blood pressure monitoring and electro-oculography. The muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) was recorded directly from the bilateral tibial nerves by using microneurographic double recording technique. Caloric vestibular stimulation was loaded by alternate irrigation with 50 ml of cold (10 degrees C) water and 50 ml of hot (44 degrees C) water into the left and right external meatus. After cold water irrigation, two MSNA response peaks were elicited, respectively, before and after the maximum slow phase velocity (SPV) of nystagmus. The first peak of the MSNA enhancement was caused by non-specific factors because its time course coincided with that in cold pressor test with immersion of the subject's hand in ice/water (4 degrees C). Transient suppression of MSNA after cold water irrigation in the period of maximum SPV of nystagmus was observed by cross correlogram analysis between the SPV of the nystagmus and MSNA. After hot water irrigation, only one MSNA response peak was elicited after the period of strong nystagmus. The second peak of MSNA enhancement evoked by cold irrigation (379.4 +/- 221.8%, with the control value set as 100%, mean +/- SE) was significantly higher than that evoked by hot irrigation (243.0 +/- 14.5%). The degree of MSNA enhancement by either cold (the second peak) or hot stimulation was proportional to the maximum SPV of the nystagmus. There was no significant difference between the MSNA responses ipsilateral to and contralateral to the irrigated side. In conclusion, the caloric vestibular stimulation can influence the bilateral sympathetic outflow to muscle in humans. The degree of MSNA enhancement is proportional to the magnitude of vestibular excitement indicated by maximum slow phase velocity of the nystagmus.
After norepinephrine (NE) is deaminated by monoamine oxidase (MAO), the aldehyde formed is either metabolized to 3,4-dihydroxy-mandelic acid (DHMA) by aldehyde dehydrogenase or is converted to 3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG) by aldehyde or aldose reductase. The present study examined the effects of inhibition of aldehyde and aldose reductase on production of DHPG and DHMA in rats. Mean (+/- S.E.) baseline plasma concentrations of DHPG (4.73 +/- 0.21 pmol/ml) were 60-fold higher than those of DHMA (0.08 +/- 0.01 pmol/ml). Inhibition of aldose and aldehyde reductase reduced plasma DHPG concentrations to 1.88 +/- 0.14 pmol/ml and increased plasma DHMA to 4.43 +/- 0.29 pmol/ml; additional inhibition of MAO reduced plasma DHPG to 0.16 +/- 0.06 pmol/ml and DHMA to 0.19 +/- 0.02 pmol/ml. Inhibition of aldehyde and aldose reductase also increased brain tissue levels of DHMA from 8 +/- 2 to 384 +/- 47 pmol/g and decreased levels of DHPG from 70 +/- 9 to 44 +/- 5 pmol/g. The results show that DHMA is normally a minor metabolite of NE, but becomes a major metabolite after aldehyde/aldose reductase inhibition.
Detachment of the neural retina from the retinal pigment epithelium induces photoreceptor degeneration. We studied the effects of this degeneration on the localization of two photoreceptor outer segment-specific integral membrane proteins, opsin and peripherin/rds, in rod photoreceptors. Results from laser scanning confocal microscopic and electron microscopic immunolocalization demonstrate that these two proteins, normally targeted to the newly-forming discs of the outer segments, accumulate in different sub-cellular compartments during photoreceptor degeneration: opsin immunolabeling increases throughout the photoreceptor cell's plasma membrane, while peripherin/rds immunolabeling occurs within cytoplasmic vesicles. The simplest hypothesis to explain our results is that these proteins are transported in different post-Golgi transport vesicles and separately inserted into the plasma membrane. More complex mechanisms involve having the two co-transported and then opsin finds its way into the plasma membrane but peripherin/rds does not, remaining behind in vesicles. Alternatively, both insert into the plasma membrane but peripherin/rds is recycled into cytoplasmic vesicles. We believe the data most strongly supports the first possibility. Although the transport pathways for these proteins have not been fully characterized, the presence of peripherin/rds-positive vesicles adjacent to the striated rootlet suggests a transport role for this cytoskeletal element. The accumulation of these proteins in photoreceptors with degenerated outer segments may also indicate that their rate of synthesis has exceeded the combined rates of their incorporation into newly forming outer segment disc membranes and their degradation. The accumulation may also provide a mechanism for rapid recovery of the outer segment following retinal reattachment and return of the photoreceptor cell to an environment favorable to outer segment regeneration.
Neuropeptide Y is one of the most powerful neurochemical stimulants of food intake known. The neuronal substrate for this action is believed to be the neuropeptide Y-expressing cell population in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus. In this study, mice homozygous for the anorexia mutation (anx) were investigated histochemically; anx is a recessive mutation that causes decreased food intake and starvation, leading to death 22 days after birth. We were interested to see whether any hypothalamic neurochemical abnormalities could be detected in this genetic model of starvation. By using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, the hypothalamic distributions of neuropeptide Y, cholecystokinin, galanin, and serotonin, all messenger molecules postulated to be involved in the regulation of food intake and energy metabolism, were investigated. Immunoreactivities for somatostatin, the excitatory amino acid aspartate, and acetylcholinesterase were also studied. Neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was increased markedly in arcuate cell bodies and decreased in terminals in the arcuate nucleus and other hypothalamic regions of anx/anx mice compared with normal litter mates. In situ hybridization for neuropeptide Y mRNA, however, showed no significant difference in gene expression in the arcuate nucleus. In addition, immunoreactivities for aspartate, acetylcholinesterase, and somatostatin in the arcuate nucleus were decreased in anx/anx mice. For cholecystokinin, galanin, and serotonin, no certain differences in hypothalamic immunoreactivity could be seen. These data suggest that a defect in neuropeptide Y-ergic signalling in the arcuate neurons may contribute to the failure to thrive in anx/anx mice.
We investigated the spatial patterns of synaptic profiles in en passant synapses between the premotor axon of a peripherally synapsing interneuron (PAPSI) and a set of individually identifiable motoneuron axons in Drosophila melanogaster. These synaptic profiles are distributed as the axons travel parallel to each other in a bundle; the synapses begin as the axons leave the thoracic ganglion and continue peripherally for 45-65 microm. We found that the number of synaptic profiles per micron length of the motoneuron axons was greatest close to the ganglion; the cumulative distribution of profiles could be fitted to curves of the form f(x) = alpha(1 - e(-beta x)), where x = the distance from the thoracic ganglion, and alpha and beta are constants. The distribution of synaptic profiles was also examined in a mutant strain, Passover (Pas), known to affect connectivity in a pathway that includes the PAPSI. The synaptic profiles between the PAPSI and the motoneuron axons appeared ultrastructurally unremarkable in Pas. Also, the total number of synaptic profiles between the PAPSI and the motoneuron axons did not differ between Pas and wild type flies. However, the distribution of synaptic profiles among the individual motoneuron axons did differ significantly from wild type flies, as did the area of contiguity between the motoneuron axons and the PAPSI, which was much greater in Pas than in wild type flies.
While much is known about the neural and endocrine mechanisms that control egg laying in the gastropod mollusk Aplysia, relatively little is known about the regulation of male reproductive activity in this simultaneous hermaphrodite. In the present study, we have cloned and sequenced a cDNA that encodes a precursor protein, the predicted posttranslational processing of which presumably generates nine copies of the neuropeptide Ala-Pro-Gly-Trp-NH2 (APGWamide), five connecting peptide sequences, and a C-terminal peptide. The sequence of one connecting peptide is identical to the previously characterized cerebral peptide 1. Northern blot analysis identified two major APGWamide mRNA transcripts (approximately 1.3 kb, approximately 2.4 kb), which were present in central nervous system ganglia, but were most abundant in the right cerebral and right pedal ganglia. Immunohistochemical studies using sexually mature Aplysia demonstrated that the vast majority of APGWamide-like immunoreactivity was localized in 30-40 neurons along the anterior and medial margins of the right cerebral ganglion and in a cluster of 15-20 neurons in the right pedal ganglion. A total of only about ten immunoreactive neurons were located in other ganglia. Immunohistochemistry also demonstrated that APGWamide was present in the reproductive organs that participate in the storage or transport of sperm, including the small hermaphroditic duct (site of sperm storage before mating), the white hemiduct (also known as the copulatory duct), and penial complex. As a group, these data suggest that APGWamide may play a role in regulating male reproductive function in Aplysia, as it does in other gastropods.

The expression of c-Jun in the brains of young (8-week-old) and older (52-week-old) mice following administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) was investigated immunocytochemically. Both age groups exhibited reduction in the number of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra after administration of MPTP. There was a significant difference in the magnitude of decrease in the number of dopaminergic neurons between the two groups, as has previously been reported, and the older mice exhibited more extensive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra after MPTP administration than did the young mice. Prolonged c-Jun expression was induced in the substantia nigra following administration of MPTP, and this induction was more prominent in the older mice than in the young mice. Maximum expression of c-Jun occurred on day 7 after the administration of MPTP in both groups. Double staining for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH; a dopaminergic neuron marker) and c-Jun revealed their co-localization indicating that the cells expressing c-Jun were dopaminergic neurons. Cytoplasmic volumes of strongly c-Jun positive cells were reduced, suggesting that they may have been degenerating. In situ end labeling revealed no apoptotic neurons after MPTP administration. These results suggest the existence of some cascade mechanism of nonapoptotic death of dopaminergic neurons following administration of MPTP.
An interesting feature of the kindling phenomenon relates to the finding that kindling established in one region of the brain may reduce the number of stimulations required to establish the phenomenon in a second region. It has been proposed that this 'transfer' phenomenon reflects the extent to which seizures arising in two distinct regions share common underlying mechanisms. The perirhinal cortex (PRC) is currently receiving considerable attention with regard to its possible role in epileptogenesis. Although the role of this region in limbic seizures is unclear, the existence of reciprocal connections between the PRC and amygdala provides a possible neural substrate through which these two regions may influence one another. On the basis of this connectivity, one might expect a transfer between PRC kindling and amygdaloid kindling. Using kindling transfer, the present study was formulated to determine the nature of the relationship between electrical kindling of the PRC and amygdala. Animals previously kindled from the PRC to a cortico-generalised level displayed significantly more advanced behavioural seizures during the early stages of amygdaloid kindling than either controls or those partially kindled. This suggests that primary PRC kindling may facilitate amygdaloid access to systems responsible for the generation of motor seizures. Thus, in terms of kindling, the PRC and amygdala appear to be functionally related, with generalised seizures elicited from the PRC and amygdala sharing, at some level, common underlying mechanisms. Finally, the finding that seizures kindled from the dorsal component of the PRC tended to exhibit characteristics which were quite distinct from those elicited by ventral PRC kindling suggests that these two subregions may have different kindling characteristics and/or different patterns of connectivity with the amygdaloid complex.
We have recently determined that microinfusions of atropine sulphate into the perirhinal cortex (PRC) of adult Sprague-Dawley rats result in the dose dependent generation of epileptiform spike activity. Several observations suggested that atropine-induced spiking (AIS) and amygdaloid kindled seizures may share common neuronal mechanisms: (a) PRC atropine infusions occasionally resulted in the development of generalised seizures resembling those produced by amygdaloid kindling and which were accompanied by simultaneous discharge recorded from the PRC and amygdala, and (b) concurrent low amplitude spiking was occasionally recorded from the amygdala during non-seizure inducing infusions. Using kindling transfer, the present study sought to determine whether AIS possesses some epileptogenic characteristics which are common to an electrically generated afterdischarge. Repeated PRC infusions of atropine sulphate supra-threshold for the elicitation of spiking appeared to produce a positive transfer in that significantly more advanced behavioural seizures were elicited during initial amygdaloid kindling. These findings suggest that AIS (and/or atropine-induced behavioural seizures) and amygdala-kindled seizures share, at some level, common neuronal mechanisms.
Dopamine (DA) at ca. ED50 (16 microg) or saline was stereotaxically microinjected unilaterally 2 h after pretreatment with an MAO inhibitor into left or right nucleus accumbens septi of 697 freely moving rats (1394 injections) to define subregions involved in DA-induced behavioral arousal throughout the anatomical extent of the accumbens. Locomotion was quantified electronically and behavioral responses were assigned to histologically verified injection sites; postural or stereotyped behaviors characteristic of DA injections in caudate-putamen did not occur. Screening with 60 injections across mid-accumbens (2.2-3.2 mm rostral to bregma) indicated that locomotion was elicited non-homogeneously, and was particularly intense dorsomedially. Sites yielding intense arousal and their inactive surround were mapped along the rostrocaudal axis (1.4-4.2 mm anterior to bregma) in coronal sections. Responses to DA showed lateral symmetry and were similar across rostrocaudal levels, with intense responses in dorsomedial accumbens along its border with the caudate-putamen. This functional localization does not coincide closely with reported distributions of DA or its receptors, nor with histologically or histochemically defined core-shell regions of this limbic structure. Nucleus accumbens in rat brain thus appears to be organized functionally into distinct subregions differing markedly in ability to produce locomotor hyperactivity in response to exogenous DA.
Retinoblastoma is an intraocular malignancy of childhood, which is very radiosensitive. gamma-irradiation, however, induces side effects, and the precise mechanisms of tumor cell death after the treatment remain unknown. In this study, we demonstrated that gamma-irradiation induced apoptosis (programmed cell death) in human retinoblastoma cell lines Y79 and WERI-Rb-1. The expression levels of p53, tumor suppressor gene product, and its-associated protein, WAF1/CIP1, were both up-regulated, and function of p53 was remarkably activated after the treatment. Moreover, apoptosis was induced in the absence of gamma-irradiation by overexpression of the WAF1/CIP1 gene in both retinoblastoma cells. These results indicate that the transfer of the WAF1/CIP1 gene may have potential for the treatment of human retinoblastomas instead of gamma-irradiation.
The ability to detect unusual and novel events is an important prerequisite for storage of information in memory. Non-tonal novel sounds that deviate from an ongoing auditory environment elicit a positive event-related potential (ERP) component, the so-called novel P3. Though there is converging evidence on the neuronal network engaged in novelty detection, little attention has been paid to the properties of novel sounds, such as their typicality or relationship to mental concepts. Here we report the ERPs evoked by two types of generically novel stimuli, namely identifiable (meaningful) and non-identifiable (non-meaningful) novel sounds. The ERP analysis revealed a novel P3 for both types of sounds. However, when subjects actively attended to the stimuli only identifiable novel sounds evoked a right-lateralized negativity (N4) that peaked shortly after the novel P3. We conclude that novelty detection not only includes the registration of deviancy but also fast access and identification of related semantic concepts.
Regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc) was studied in 19 patients with a clinical diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and 19 patients with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose ([18F]FDG) and positron emission tomography (PET). The two groups were matched with age, gender, disease duration and severity of cognitive disturbances. In 'dementia with Lewy bodies' (DLB) patients, when compared with AD patients, significant rCMRglc decreases were distributed in the temporo-parieto-occipital association cortices and the cerebellar hemispheres. In contrast, the medial temporal and cingulate rCMRglc were significantly lower in AD patients than those in DLB patients. These different regional emphases of glucose hypometabolism are consistent with the pathological and neurochemical differences between DLB and AD and explain the different clinical features of the two diseases.
The present study was designed to further investigate the effects of intrinsic or extrinsic influences on the development of the efferent connectivity of frontal neocortical neurons. The lateral or medial parts of the frontal neocortex of embryonic (E) day 16 fetuses were grafted into homo- (medial-to-medial) or heterotopic (lateral-to-medial) position in the medial part of the left frontal cortex of newborn hosts. Three to four months after grafting, a retrograde neurotracer was injected into the dorsomedial or ventrolateral quadrant of the left caudate-putamen (CPU). The ensuing retrograde labeling in the transplants was then compared to that found in an equivalent cortical area in control animals. Medial-to-medial transplants developed a striatal projection whose mediolateral organization conforms to that of the projection arising from the medial part of the intact frontal cortex. The mediolateral distribution of the projection arising from lateral-to-medial transplants was not fundamentally different from that originating from medial-to-medial transplants, a finding which stands in marked contrast with what was found recently [7] with medial-to-lateral transplants. These results indicate that inside the frontal cortex, different subregions are not totally interchangeable, at least in terms of development of efferent connectivity.
The presenilin-1 (PS-1) and amyloid precursor protein (APP) genes carry mutations which co-segregate with early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease. The APP and PS-1 gene products may be involved in the aetiology of the more common late onset form of Alzheimer's disease, where increasing age is a major risk factor. To investigate whether age affected mRNA expression of these genes, we quantified PS-1, total APP, APP containing the kunitz-type protease inhibitor (KPI) domain and amyloid precursor-like protein 2 (APLP2) mRNAs in post-mortem superior frontal cortices from 23 control subjects aged 38 to 89 years using solution hybridisation-RNase protection assays. PS-1, total APP, APP KPI and APLP2 mRNA levels were unchanged over this age range. PS-1 was the least abundant mRNA, at approximately 7% of total APP, the most highly expressed mRNA studied (10.8 copies/pg total RNA). The proportion of total APP encoding the KPI domain (approximately 52%) was unaffected by age. APLP2 mRNA was present at approximately 29% of the total APP mRNA level. Significant positive correlations were present between total APP, APP KPI and APLP2 mRNA levels. These results indicate that the increased prevalence of Alzheimer's disease cannot be attributed to alterations in cortical PS-1, APP and APLP2 mRNA levels or APP KPI splicing during aging.
Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is known to have neurotrophic effects but little information is available on the signaling pathways activated by APP. Since neurotrophic factors activate tyrosine phosphorylation signaling pathway in general, we investigated whether or not APP activates tyrosine phosphorylation pathway. Alpha-secretase derived APP (sAPP alpha) increased the number of neurites per cell and enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation levels on distinct 125 and 200 kDa protein bands. The APP3 19-335 17-mer peptide, which has been reported to be responsible for the neurotrophic effect of sAPP alpha [Jin, L.-W., Ninomiya, H., Roch, J.-M., Schubert, D., Masliah, E., Otero, D.A.C. and Saitoh, T., J. Neurosci., 14 (1994) 5461-5470], increased neurite extension as well as tyrosine phosphorylation on 125 and 200 kDa proteins in a similar manner to sAPP alpha. Both effects were blocked by an antagonist peptide to 17-mer ERMSQ (APP329-333). These results indicate that the 17-mer domain of APP induces tyrosine phosphorylation on distinct proteins under the condition that induces neurite extension.
Progress in biological psychiatry is contingent on progress in neurobiology and on research into proper characterisation and assessment of abnormal behavior. Advances in neurobiology are rapid and steady; diagnostic research does not keep pace. On the contrary, the diagnostic approach seems solidified, as today's basic premises are uncritically accepted. The diagnostic requirements for meaningful biological psychiatric research are discussed and contrasted with present-day diagnostic practices. Serious reflection on the state of psychiatric diagnosing is urgently needed.
Gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) is a mammalian bombesin-like peptide which is widely distributed in the central nervous system as well as in the gastrointestinal tract. GRP binds to its high affinity receptor (GRPR) to elicit a wide spectrum of biological effects on behavior, digestion, and metabolism. To define the in vivo function of GRPR, we generated GRPR null mutant mice by gene targeting. The intracerebroventricular administration of GRP caused hypothermia in wild-type mice, but not in mutant mice. The GRPR deficient mice showed significantly increased locomotor activity during the dark period, and social responses scored by sniffing, mounting, and approaching behaviors against an intruder. Aggressive scores such as fighting and biting were not altered in the mutant mice. These phenotypes were observed in mice generated from two independent ES cell clones and backcrossed to a C57BL/6J background. The GRPR deficient mice should be useful for studying the bombesin system in vivo.
The purpose of this study was to clarify the effects of iboga agents on cocaine-induced hyperactivity. Both inhibition and enhancement of cocaine-induced activity by ibogaine have been reported. In the present study, rats were treated with either ibogaine (40 mg/kg, i.p.), noribogaine (40 mg/kg, i.p.), 18-methoxycoronaridine (40 mg/kg, i.p.), or saline, 1 or 19 h prior to the administration of cocaine (20 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline. Motor activity was monitored thereafter for 3 h. All three iboga agents had acute inhibitory effects and delayed potentiating effects on cocaine-induced hyperactivity. These time-dependent effects, which could not be attributed to the motor activity induced by the iboga agents alone, account for divergent results reported in the literature.

Sorcin is a 22 kDa calcium binding protein that is widely distributed in mammalian tissues, including brain, and is associated with the ryanodine receptor (RyR) family of intracellular calcium-release channels in the heart. To determine the cellular sites for potential central functions of sorcin, we examined the electron microscopic immunocytochemical localization of antipeptide antisera against sorcin and against cardiac and brain RyR in the rat caudate-putamen nucleus (CPN), one of the few regions expressing high levels of brain RyR. Sorcin-like immunoreactivity (S-LI) was detected in both neurons and glia by using immunoperoxidase and immunogold methods. Of 1,735 profiles containing immunogold-silver labeling for sorcin, almost 50% were dendrites and many of these dendrites were spiny. The remainder were mainly small axons, axon terminals, and, more rarely, glia. Furthermore, analysis of dually labeled tissue sections showed the presence of sorcin in many of the dendrites and some of the axonal and glial processes containing RyR. In dendrites, gold-silver deposits showing S-LI were prominently localized to saccules of smooth endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria, both of which are known to store calcium. These labeled structures were located near the plasma membrane at sites postsynaptic to excitatory-type asymmetric junctions, as well as non-synaptic portions of the plasma membrane. In axons, S-LI was also often seen at extrasynaptic sites on, or near, the plasma membrane. We conclude that in the rat CPN, sorcin may act independently or, in conjunction with RyR, to modulate cytoplasmic release of calcium, mainly from smooth endoplasmic reticulum and/or mitochondria in neurons.
Nitric oxide (NO) has been proposed to trigger long-term potentiation (LTP) at CA3 to CA1 synapses. We previously reported that NO synthesis inhibitors and blockers reduce an electrophysiological index of NMDA receptor activation in acute hippocampal slices. We now show that the NOS inhibitor, NG-methyl-L-arginine (MLA), also reversibly prevents LTP induction in organotypic hippocampal slices and significantly reduces a biochemical index of NMDA receptor function. These results results further indicate that MLA inhibits LTP induction by interfering with NMDA receptor functions.
Astrocytes promote the survival of neurons. Conditions characterized by loss of neurons, such as aging and aging-related neurodegenerative disorders, are accompanied by both disturbances in astrocyte-neuron interactions and signs of oxidative damage. Neuronal glutathione, a major antioxidant in the brain, is maintained by astrocytes and brain levels of glutathione are reduced in named conditions. Therefore, we focused on a possible link between glutathione deficiency and loss of astrocyte-derived neuronal support. For this purpose, we used a coculture system consisting of rat striatal astrocytes and mesencephalic, dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons. Using tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry and radiolabeled dopamine uptake as parameters, an increase in the number and outgrowth of DAergic neurons was noted in cocultures as compared to cultures of mesencephalic neurons alone. This enhanced survival of DAergic neurons in cocultures was abolished following depletion of glutathione with buthionine sulfoximine. As demonstrated by glial fibrillary acidic protein immunocytochemistry and a microtiter tetrazolium assay, under these conditions no change in astrocyte survival occurred. However, glutathione depletion in cocultures was accompanied by loss of astrocyte-mediated neuroprotection against hydrogen peroxide toxicity. Thus, our results indicate that glutathione is important for the maintenance of the neuronal support function of astrocytes and that glutathione deficiency in the brain may lead to enhanced vulnerability of neurons to (oxidative) damage.
The objective of the present study was to identify the retinal ganglion cells projecting to the lateral hypothalamic area of the rat. The retinohypothalamic tract has been divided into a medial and a lateral component on anatomical and developmental grounds. The medial component projects to the suprachiasmatic nucleus and adjacent structures such as the anterior hypothalamic and retrochiasmatic areas. The lateral component terminates in the lateral hypothalamic are dorsal to the supraoptic nucleus. Injections of the retrograde tracer FluoroGold were made into the retinorecipient region of the lateral hypothalamic area and retinal whole mounts were immunohistochemically processed for retrogradely labeled retinal ganglion cells. With FluoroGold injections confined to the lateral hypothalamic area, retrogradely labeled retinal ganglion cells are located almost exclusively in the superior temporal quadrant of the retina. Their size and morphology indicates that they are a homogeneous subset of type III cells, but a definitive classification would require a more complete fill of dendritic arbors than is available in our retrograde material. In contrast, injections involving fibers of passage in the optic tract, or centered in the medial terminal nucleus of the accessory optic system, label cells distributed across the entire retinal surface. Unlike the retinal ganglion cells projecting to the suprachiasmatic nucleus [Moore et al., J. Comp. Neurol., 352 (1995) 351-366], the cells labeled after restricted lateral hypothalamic injections are not distributed evenly across the retinal surface. The difference in location of the retinal ganglion cells projecting to the lateral hypothalamic area supports the view that this retinohypothalamic projection is anatomically and functionally distinct from the projection to the suprachiasmatic nucleus and adjacent medial hypothalamus.
Systemic administration of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK) slows gastric emptying, inhibits feeding, and stimulates pituitary hormone release in rats and primates. To characterize the central neural circuits that mediate these effects in primates, the present study analyzes the distribution and chemical phenotypes of caudal medullary neurons that are activated in rhesus and cynomolgus macaque monkeys after CCK treatment. Monkeys were injected intravenously with CCK (3 or 15 micrograms/kg b.wt) or vehicle solution (0.15 M NaCl), then were anesthetized and perfused with fixative 75 min later. Coronal tissue sections through the caudal medulla were processed for immunocytochemical localization of the immediate-early gene product Fos as a marker of stimulus-induced neuronal activation, and were double-labeled for tyrosine hydroxylase to identify catecholaminergic cells. Many neurons in the area postrema, nucleus of the solitary tract, and ventrolateral medulla were activated to express Fos in monkeys after CCK treatment, similar to previous reports in rats. Treatment-activated neurons included substantial proportions of the A1/C1 and A2/C2 catecholaminergic cell groups, whereas neurons in the locus coeruleus (A6 cell group) were not activated. These results indicate that the autonomic, behavioral, and neuroendocrine effects produced by systemic administration of CCK involve hindbrain neural systems whose anatomical and chemical features are comparable in rats and primates.
Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) is a biologically active polypeptide with mitogenic, angiogenic, and neurotrophic properties. In the present study, we examined the temporal and spatial expression profiles of bFGF mRNA and protein concentration in a focal cerebral ischemia model induced by transient occlusion of the right middle cerebral artery (MCA) and both common carotid arteries (CCAs). Results of Northern blot analysis shows a transient 2.5-fold increase in the 6.0 kb transcript of bFGF mRNA within the ischemic cortex of rats subjected to 60 min ischemic insult followed by 12 h of reperfusion. Although enhanced expression of bFGF mRNA was also noted in the ipsilateral hippocampus, the temporal induction profile appeared to be different from that of the ischemic cortex. A significant increase in bFGF mRNA was observed as early as 60 min following ischemia and remained elevated for up to 2 weeks after the onset of reperfusion. In situ hybridization studies revealed constitutive expression of bFGF mRNA in discrete brain regions of sham-operated animals. Following 60 min ischemia and 12 h reperfusion, increased expression of bFGF mRNA was observed in the ischemic cortex (both peri-infarct and infarct area). Increased expression of bFGF mRNA within the infarcted area is largely confined rostrally to the outer cortical layers of the infarct, an area with increased density of blood vessels. bFGF-like immunoreactivity was also detected in areas expressing bFGF mRNA. Furthermore, a striking increase in bFGF-like immunoreactivity was observed in the ipsilateral hippocampus. Double-staining with anti-GFAP antibody indicated that the majority of the bFGF-like immunoreactivity was localized in the astrocytes, however, not all astrocytes showed bFGF-like immunoreactivity. Some GFAP negative cell also showed bFGF-like immunoreactivity. In summary, increased expression of both bFGF mRNA and immunoreactivity following ischemia were located in the same brain regions. An increase in bFGF-like immunoreactivity after ischemic insult is likely due to an increase in the expression of its 6.0 kb bFGF mRNA transcripts. Although increased bFGF mRNA was observed in both ischemic cortex and ipsilateral hippocampus after ischemic insult, the temporal expression profiles differed. Results from the present study raise the possibility that increased expression of bFGF in the peri-infarcted area may limit the spread of ischemic injury.
The dopamine transporter (DAT) in pre-synaptic membranes and the vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2) in membranes of synaptic vesicles are involved in mediating the acute effects of amphetamine on dopamine transmission. Therefore, using a quantitative method of in situ hybridization and computerized image analysis, the expression of DAT and VMAT2 mRNAs was examined in rats treated for 5 days with amphetamine and killed 3 or 14 days after the last injection. We examined ventral tegmental area (VTA), substantia nigra (SN) and the transitional zone between VTA and SN. Each of these regions was further subdivided into rostral, intermediate and caudal portions. In control rats, autoradiographs revealed a gradient of both DAT and VMAT2 mRNA levels, decreasing gradually from rostral to caudal rat midbrain. After 3 days of withdrawal, a significant increase in DAT mRNA levels was found in rostral portions of VTA (117.9 + 5.8% of control group), SN (116.5 + 4.5%) and the transitional zone (119.6 + 5.6%) and in the intermediate portion of SN (113.5 + 4.3%). VMAT2 mRNA was significantly increased only in rostral and intermediate portions of the transitional zone (120.9 + 4.8 and 113.6 + 4.1%). After 14 days of withdrawal, there was a trend towards increased DAT mRNA levels in intermediate-caudal portions of midbrain, but a statistically significant increase was observed only in the intermediate portion of VTA (120.2 + 7.9%). No changes in VMAT2 mRNA levels were found. Thus, repeated amphetamine administration exerts modest and regionally selective effects on DAT and VMAT2 mRNA expression in subpopulations of midbrain dopamine neurons.
In a rabbit spinal cord ischemia model (RSCIM), the time courses of neuropathological damage of the spinal cord and neurological impairment of the motor functions are well established, demonstrating that the extent of neuropathological damage and the severity of neurological impairment are closely correlated. We used the RSCIM to elucidate the effects of reversible (15 min) and irreversible (60 min) ischemia on the endogenous levels of amyloid protein precursors (APPs) at both the mRNA and protein levels in the caudolumbar/sacral region of the spinal cord. We speculate that endogenous APPs are induced by ischemia as either trophic factors or stress-induced proteins in the RSCIM. A 15-min occlusion transiently increased the APP protein levels in neurons, which returned to the original levels by the end of 60 min occlusion. The increase in APP protein levels during 15-min ischemic insult does not appear to involve regulation at the mRNA level. The increased level of APPs, particularly of the soluble form, could support the possibility that APPs play a neuroprotective role in the RSCIM as stress-induced proteins. In contrast, failure to maintain the increased APP protein levels or to increase the mRNA, as seen in the 60-min ischemia samples, may be one of the causal factors that induce necrosis and neuronal cell death leading to irreversible neurological impairment.
We constructed a cell line which stably expresses glycine transporter 1 (GlyT1) proteins. The cell line showed significant [14C]glycine uptake and could keep steep glycine concentration gradient between intracellular and extracellular space (in &gt; out). Using this cell line, we investigated glycine release mediated by this transporter. The [14C]glycine release was enhanced by extracellular glycine and sarcosine, a selective inhibitor of the transporter, in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, the replacement of extracellular Na+ with Li+ or extracellular Cl- with acetate- markedly increased the release. Furthermore, we investigated the effects of extracellular Ca2+ and K+. The removal of these ions also showed enhancement of the release. These results suggest that glycine transporter 1 protein, which might be involved in the NMDA receptor neurotransmission, can release glycine into the extracellular space in the vicinity of synapses, and that the release might be influenced by the extracellular substrate concentration and ion composition in the synaptic cleft.
The discharge pattern of two thalamic neurones was recorded from a conscious monkey performing voluntary movements about the wrist joint. The neuronal discharge was displayed as a raster centred on movement of the wrist. The discharge patterns of both neurones was very strongly correlated with movement. Three experienced researchers were asked to examine the data and to classify every part of each trial as background discharge, 'on' (increased firing rate) or 'off' (decreased or zero firing rate) and to mark the times that neuronal discharge changed state. A 'standard output' was made from these classifications. A back-propagation artificial Neural Network (the Network) was used to model the standard output and cumulative sums (CUSUMs) and maximum likelihood was then performed on the data and compared with the Network. There was a high correlation between the output of each observer (r &gt; 0.61) and the standard output and between the Network and the standard output (r &gt; 0.99). However the correlation between standard output and CUSUMs (r = 0.06) and standard output and maximum likelihood (r = 0.36) was much lower. The Network could be trained with as few as 12 trials, indicating a high degree of constancy in the methods employed by the observers. The Network was also highly efficient at detecting changes in state of neuronal activity (r &gt; 0.99). In summary, when used on single trial data, visual inspection is a reliable method for detecting timing of change neuronal discharge and is superior to CUSUM and maximum likelihood. As well it is capable of detecting neuronal discharge state: that is whether firing rate is increased, normal or decreased. Neural Networks promise to be a useful method of confirming the consistency of visual inspection as a means of detecting changes in neuronal discharge pattern.
In the cell cycle, p27/kip1 acts as an inhibitory protein of cyclin-cdk complexes. p27/kip1 immunohistochemistry was performed in 50 gliomas (15 astrocytomas, 15 anaplastic astrocytomas and 20 glioblastomas) by a polyclonal antiserum. In the same tumours, proliferation marker Ki-67 was studied by MIB-1 antibody. For both, a labelling index (LI) was calculated after counting at least 1000 cells at x1000 magnification. p27 is diffusely and strongly expressed in astrocytomas (LI mean = 44.4%), whereas positive nuclei decrease in number and in staining intensity in anaplastic astrocytomas (LI mean = 5.86%) and glioblastomas (LI mean = 2.1%). An inverse correlation has been found between MIB-1 LI and p27 LI calculated in the same areas. Interestingly, in malignant gliomas the absence of p27 was independent from any histological feature of differentiation or anaplasia. p27 expression is thus reduced in malignant gliomas as in other malignancies. Since mutations of p27/kip1 are extremely rare, posttranslational changes are hypothesised also in astrocytic gliomas.
Understanding the neurobiological mechanisms of addiction requires an integration of basic neuroscience with social psychology, experimental psychology, and psychiatry. Addiction is presented as a cycle of spiralling dysregulation of brain reward systems that progressively increases, resulting in compulsive drug use and a loss of control over drug-taking. Sensitization and counteradaptation are hypothesized to contribute to this hedonic homeostatic dysregulation, and the neurobiological mechanisms involved, such as the mesolimbic dopamine system, opioid peptidergic systems, and brain and hormonal stress systems, are beginning to be characterized. This framework provides a realistic approach to identifying the neurobiological factors that produce vulnerability to addiction and to relapse in individuals with a history of addiction.
Brain weight, total solids, protein, and major lipids have been determined in 83 female and 101 male brains from subjects 20-100 years of age. The brain weight began to diminish at 20 years of age. The brain weight at 20 years for females: 1,368 +/- 26 and for males 1,632 +/- 27 g diminished at 100 years for females to 1,100 +/- 25 and for males to 1,266 +/- 25 g, a decrease of 20% for female and 22% for male brains. The decrease in dry solids was larger during the same period, 36% for females and males. Proteins decreased by 39% in females and 37% in males. Phospholipids decreased by 42% in females and 43% in males, cholesterol by 47% and 53%, cerebroside by 46% and 58%, sulfatide by 46% and 49% and gangliosides by 28% and 30%, respectively. There is, thus, a significantly larger loss of myelin lipids than of gangliosides-the biochemical marker for neuronal membranes. The loss of myelin lipids was particularly large in female brain after 70 years of age, while the loss in male brain was linear as early as from 20 years of age.

Contractile responses to phenylephrine and high-K+ were investigated in vitro in microvascular preparations from the rat medial plantar artery, a branch from the saphenous artery, obtained after short-term denervation in vivo. Two groups of animals were studied: (1) animals undergoing surgical resection of the saphenous nerve, and (2) animals undergoing surgical resection of both the sciatic and saphenous nerves. The animals were operated on one side only. Microvascular preparations (diameter about 325 microns) were obtained 10 days after surgery. Vessels from the non-operated side served as controls. Immunocytochemistry showed a decreased number of both neuropeptide Y (NPY) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) immunoreactive nerve fibres in vessels after resection of the saphenous nerve only. Resection of both the saphenous and the sciatic nerve caused a complete loss of immunoreactive nerve fibres. Mechanical measurements were performed using a wire myograph. In vessels subjected to resection of the saphenous nerve the sensitivity to phenylephrine was similar to controls. Vessels denervated by resection of both the saphenous and sciatic nerves showed significant increases in phenylephrine and potassium sensitivity. When depolarized in high-K+ solution the denervated vessels showed an increased sensitivity to extracellular Ca2+. The results show that complete short-term denervation of the rat medial plantar artery in vivo causes a pronounced supersensitivity in the vascular smooth muscle. The supersensitivity appears not to be restricted to the sympathetic alpha-receptors but also associated with changes in the cellular excitation-contraction coupling. Such altered reactivity of the vascular smooth muscle may contribute to vascular disturbances observed in vivo after nerve damage or surgical denervation.

Two regions of the human prodynorphin gene, the exon 4-region coding for the opioid peptides and the putative promotor/exon 1-region were analyzed for possible presence of polymorphisms. No polymorphism was detected in the exon 4-region, whereas a GC/AT base-pair exchange was observed 301 base pairs upstream of the exon 1/intron A boundary. This polymorphic marker was examined in Scandinavian chronic alcoholics (n = 70) and control subjects (n = 55). Prodynorphin allelic distributions were not significantly different in alcoholic patients and control subjects. The results suggest that no major influence on alcoholism is exerted through genes associated with this prodynorphin allelic marker.
In utero ethanol exposure results in a decreased concentration of serotonin (5-HT) in brain regions containing the cell bodies of 5-HT neurons and their cortical projections. The concentration of 5-HT reuptake sites is also reduced in several brain areas. The present study extended prior work by evaluating the effects of chronic maternal ethanol consumption and maternal buspirone treatment on 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptors in multiple brain areas of offspring. Receptors were quantitated early in postnatal development and at an age when the 5-HT networks are normally well-established. Because fetal 5-HT functions as an essential neurotrophic factor, these studies also determined whether treatment of pregnant rats with buspirone, a 5-HT1A agonist, could overcome the effects of the fetal 5-HT deficit and prevent ethanol-associated receptor abnormalities. The results demonstrated that in utero ethanol exposure significantly alters the binding of 0.1 nM [3H]-8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin to 5-HT1A receptors in developing animals. Ethanol impaired the development of 5-HT1A receptors in the frontal cortex, parietal cortex, and lateral septum; these receptors did not undergo the normal developmental increase between postnatal days 19 and 35. The dentate gyrus was also sensitive to the effects of in utero ethanol exposure. 5-HT1A receptors were increased in this region at 19 days. Maternal buspirone treatment prevented the ethanol-associated abnormalities in 5-HT1A receptors in the dentate gyrus, frontal cortex, and lateral septum. Neither maternal ethanol consumption nor buspirone treatment altered the binding of 2 nM [3H]ketanserin to 5-HT2A receptors in the ventral dentate gyrus, dorsal raphe, parietal and frontal cortexes, striatum, substantia nigra, or nucleus accumbens.
Hemorrhage and nonhypotensive hypovolemia are known to increase plasma levels of oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (VP) in rats. The present experiments demonstrated that secretion of OT and VP also are stimulated by acute drug-induced hypotension. Injection of hydralazine abruptly decreased arterial blood pressure in conscious rats and induced Fos expression, a marker of neuronal activation, within OT and VP neurons in the hypothalamus. Hydralazine also elicited substantial increases in plasma levels of both OT and VP. Injection of chlorisondamine similarly elicited acute hypotension and increased plasma levels of OT and VP. Furthermore, when the hypotensive effect of chlorisondamine was blunted by coinfusion of phenylephrine, the induced increases in OT and VP were markedly attenuated. Across all treatments, arterial blood pressure was inversely related to plasma levels of OT and VP. Plasma osmolality was not increased by hydralazine, nor was there evidence of gastric malaise, two known stimuli for OT secretion in rats. These results suggest that arterial hypotension increases neurohypophysial release of OT and VP in conscious rats.
Psychological stressors of different natures can induce different shifts of autonomic control on cardiac electrical activity, with either a sympathetic or a parasympathetic prevalence. Arrhythmia occurrence, R-R interval variability, and plasma catecholamine elevations were measured in male wild-type rats exposed to either a social stressor (defeat) or a nonsocial challenge (restraint). Electrocardiograms were telemetrically recorded, and blood samples were withdrawn through jugular vein catheters from normal, freely moving animals. Defeat produced a much higher incidence of arrhythmias (mostly ventricular premature beats), which were mainly observed in the 60-s time periods after attacks. The social challenge also induced a much stronger reduction of average R-R interval, a lower R-R interval variability (as estimated by the time-domain parameters standard deviation of mean R-R interval duration, coefficient of variance, and root mean square of successive differences in R-R interval duration), and higher elevations of venous plasma catecholamines compared with restraint. These autonomic and/or neuroendocrine data indicate that a social stressor such as defeat is characterized by both a higher sympathetic activation and a lower parasympathetic antagonism compared with a nonsocial restraint challenge, which results in a higher risk for ventricular arrhythmias.

Nutrient intakes and meal patterns of 8.6 to 15.6 month old infants were investigated by analysing data collected by the caregivers of 29 infants. The caregivers maintained a 7-day diary which included everything the infant ate and other factors including people present during meal time and time of meals. Daily intake and meal size increased as age increased for the infants. A high level of variability in meal size was found, however, the variability in daily intake was much lower indicating an ability to adjust intake at meals to maintain a relatively stable daily intake. Infants were found to be responsive to their stomach contents, however, the circadian rhythm of intake was absent and social facilitation of intake was blunted. It is suggested that these differences are due to the fact the infants have not yet learned to respond to the social and environmental factors which markedly influence the intake of adults.
Neuroscience techniques have made major contributions to the understanding of appetitive behavior. Highlights in six areas are summarized to illustrate progress during the 25 years of the Columbia Appetitive Behavior Seminar: (1) discovery of angiotensin and aldosterone in the control of thirst and salt appetite; (2) electrophysiological decoding of chemoreceptive information in the brain; (3) a new foundation in the hypothalamus built on peptides, such as neuropeptide Y and galanin, interacting with monoamines and steroids in the control of appetite for macronutrients; (4) discovery of numerous peptides that mediate and integrate satiety, such as cholecystokinin, insulin, leptin and enterostatin, and other systems that suppress eating during illness; (5) better understanding of appetite suppressant drugs, and (6) exploration of a circuit that translates hypothalamic signals into behavioral action through connections to brainstem reflex arcs and forebrain instrumental response systems.




Rabbits received lesions of the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus (MD) or sham lesions and were subjected to classical eyeblink (EB) and heart rate (HR) conditioning. Separate groups of sham and lesioned animals received either 50% or 25% reinforcement with a periorbital shock unconditioned stimulus. Other groups received an interstimulus interval of either 1.0 or 1.5 s. Animals with MD lesions acquired the EB conditioned response (CR) more slowly than sham-lesioned animals with either the 1.5-s ISI or with the 25% reinforcement schedule. The lesions had no significant effect on the HR CR, however. Results suggest that information processed by MD is relayed to the prefrontal cortex and is required for somatomotor response selection under nonoptimal learning conditions.
Damage to the amygdala or medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) produces deficits in learned autonomic adjustments. Whether connections between these 2 structures are necessary for acquiring classically conditioned heart rate (HR) decelerations was studied. Connections between them were interrupted by unilateral lesions of the mPFC and amygdala, but on opposite sides of the brain. One experiment focused on the mPFC and amygdala central nucleus and a second on the mPFC and amygdala basolateral complex. Bilateral lesions of either structure disrupted the HR conditioned response. The response of the 2 crossed lesioned groups also was smaller than that of the sham-operated and unilateral lesioned groups, but significant conditioned stimulus-evoked bradycardia occurred in both, suggesting that although interactions between the amygdala and mPFC may normally occur during associative emotional responding, these connections are not necessary for the acquisition of conditioned bradycardia.
Nitrous oxide (N2O) effects were evaluated, as a behavioural model of inert gas narcosis, in rats performing a vigilance task in which they were required to respond to a slight luminous increment of the house-light. A dose-related decrease of correct responses was produced by the tested range of concentrations of N2O (from 30 to 70% N2O), with a parallel increase of anticipatory responses up to 60% N2O and a dramatic increase of omissions at 70% N2O. The influence of preparatory period duration on hits delays suggested a 'conditional probability effect' conserved under N2O. Pretreatment of animals with flumazenil (a central benzodiazepine receptor antagonist) did not improve performance under 40% N2O. Naltrexone, an opiate receptor antagonist, however, increased the N2O-induced deficits. These results suggest that benzodiazepine receptors are not involved in N2O-induced impairments in this attentional task, but opiate mechanisms may be implicated.
Granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) has hormone-like effects on female reproductive systems. Recent evidence has suggested that GM-CSF also might be important to male testicular function. It is possible, however, that most sources of GM-CSF might not be able to reach the testis, since testes are shielded from contact with the general circulation by vascular and Sertoli cell barriers, which together comprise the blood-testis barrier (BTB). We used a sensitive in vivo method to determine whether blood-borne GM-CSF crossed the BTB in mice. 125I-GM-CSF was found to cross the BTB, showing a unidirectional influx constant (Ki) of 1.45 x 10(-3) ml/g-min, nine times faster than the influx rate of the control substance, 99mTc-albumin. HPLC analysis confirmed the presence of intact 125I-GM-CSF in the testis after peripheral injection. More 125I-GMCSF than 99mTc-albumin crossed both the vascular barrier, to enter the testicular interstitial fluid, and the Sertoli cell barrier, to enter the seminiferous tubule fluid. Coinjection of unlabeled GM-CSF significantly reduced the passage rate of labeled cytokine across the BTB, demonstrating that passage was mediated by a saturable system and suggesting the presence of a transport or facilitated diffusion system for GM-CSF. In summary, GM-CSF passes intact from blood to testis by means of a saturable mechanism.
To elucidate the neural circuitry involved in the photoperiodic control of seasonal reproduction, adult male Syrian hamsters, previously housed under long photoperiods (LD; 14 h of light per day), received sham or bilateral radiofrequency-current lesions directed towards one of three anterior-to-posterior levels of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST; far anterior, anterior, posterior). They were then transferred to a short photoperiod (SD; 6 h of light per day) for 12 wk, and their testicular weights and plasma FSH, LH, and testosterone concentrations were determined. All of these parameters became markedly inhibited in the sham-lesioned SD controls and also in the far anterior and posterior BNST lesioned groups. In contrast, this inhibitory response to SD was completely abolished in 8 of 14 animals that had received anterior BNST lesions; only in these 8 animals did the lesion encompass the lateral aspect of the anterior BNST. In a second experiment, hamsters that had previously been exposed to SD for 12 wk in order to induce testicular regression were lesioned in the anterior BNST and for the next 4 weeks were either exposed to LD or further maintained in SD. However, in neither case did the anterior BNST lesions perturb the normal photoperiodic response. Paired testes weights and plasma FSH, LH, and testosterone concentrations at 4 wk did not differ significantly (p &gt; 0.05) between the lesioned animals and their respective sham-lesioned LD and SD controls, which, respectively, showed recrudescence of the reproductive axis or remained in a regressed condition. Taken together, the results suggest that lateral aspects of the anterior BNST contain a cell group that is critical for perception of the SD neuro-inhibitory signal; obliteration of this cell group interrupts the transmission of the inhibitory signal to the reproductive axis but does not directly stimulate it.
Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) in low and medium magnetic fields yields well-resolved natural abundance proton and decoupled phosphorus spectra from small (1-10 cc) volumes of brain in vivo in minutes. With this tool, neurochemical research has advanced through identification and non-invasive assay of specific neuronal--(N-acetylaspartate), glial (myo-inositol)--markers, energetics and osmolytes, and neurotransmitters (glutamate, GABA). From these simple measurements, several dozen disease states are recognized, including birth injury, and white matter and Alzheimer disease. Addition of stable isotopes of carbon (in man) or nitrogen (in experimental animals) has provided in vivo assays of enzyme flux through glucose transport, glycolysis, TCA-cycle, and the glutamine-glutamate-GABA system. Finally, a number of xenobiotics are recognized with heteronuclear NMR techniques. Together, these tools are having a major impact on neuroscience and clinical medicine. Through diagnosis and therapeutic monitoring, a new generation of in vivo metabolite imaging is expected with the advent of conforming RF coils and higher field NMR systems.
Leakage of CSF remains a frequent complication of acoustic neuroma surgery in contrast with the significant reductions achieved in mortality and morbidity. The rate of CSF leakage following acoustic neuroma excision is presented for 49 consecutive patients. The first 23 operations were performed before the introduction of a new technique for sealing off air cells in the internal auditory meatus and the following 26 with this new method. CSF leakage occurred in nine of the first 23 patients compared with one of 26 patients using this method (p &lt; 0.01). The two groups were similar for tumour size and facial nerve preservation rate. The technique, which avoids the need for a second donor site wound or continuous lumbar drainage, is described and factors leading to CSF leakage are discussed.
1. The effects of selective opioid receptor agonists and antagonists on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA, 10 microM)-induced release of [3H]-dopamine and [14C]-acetylcholine (ACh) from superfused neostriatal slices were studied to investigate the possible occurrence of functional kappa-opioid receptor subtypes in rat brain. 2. The kappa receptor agonists (-)-ethylketocyclazocine ((-)-EKC), U69593 and the endogenous opioid peptide dynorphin A1-13 caused a naloxone-reversible inhibition of NMDA-induced [3H]-dopamine release, with pD2 values of about 9, 8.5 and 8.2, respectively, whereas both the mu agonist Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-(NMe)Phe-Gly-ol (DAMGO) and the delta agonist D-Pen2-D-Pen5-enkephalin (DPDPE) were ineffective in this respect. The inhibitory effect of submaximally effective concentrations of dynorphin A1-13, U69593 and (-)-EKC on NMDA-induced [3H]-dopamine release were not changed by the delta1/delta2-opioid receptor antagonist naltrindole (up to a concentration of 1 microM, but reversed by the kappa receptor antagonist nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI), with an IC50) as low as 0.02 nM, indicating the involvement of U69593-sensitive kappa1-opioid receptors. 3. NMDA-induced [14C]-ACh release was reduced in a naloxone-reversible manner by DPDPE (pD2 about 7.2), dynorphin A1-13 (pD2 6.7) and EKC (pD2 6.2), but not by U69593 and DAMGO. The inhibitory effect of a submaximally effective concentration of DPDPE, unlike those of dynorphin A1-13 and (-)-EKC, on NMDA-induced [14C]-ACh release was antagonized by naltrindole with an IC50 of 1 nM, indicating the involvement of delta-opioid receptors in the inhibitory effect of DPDPE. On the other hand, the inhibitory effects of dynorphin A1-13 and (-)-EKC on [14C]-ACh release were readily antagonized by nor-BNI with an IC50 of about 3 nM. A 100 fold higher concentration of nor-BNI also antagonized the inhibitory effect of DPDPE, indicating the involvement of U69593-insensitive kappa2-opioid receptors in the inhibitory effects of dynorphin A1-13 and (-)-EKC. 4. Although naloxone benzoylhydrazone (NalBzoH), displaying high affinity towards the putative kappa3-opioid receptor, antagonized the inhibitory effects of dynorphin A1-13 and (-)-EKC on [3H]-dopamine and [14C]-ACh release as well as that of U69593 on [3H]-dopamine release, it displayed a low apparent affinity (IC50 about 100 nM) in each case. 5. In conclusion, whereas activation of kappa1-opioid receptors causes presynaptic inhibition of NMDA-induced dopamine release, kappa2 receptor activation results in inhibition of ACh release in rat neostriatum. As such, this study is the first to provide unequivocal in vitro evidence for the existence of functionally distinct kappa-opioid receptor subtypes in the brain.
1. Modulation of presynaptic voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs) by muscarinic receptors at the CA3-CA1 synapse of rat hippocampal slices was investigated by using the calcium indicator fura-2. Stimulation-evoked presynaptic calcium transients ([Ca(pre)]t) and field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fe.p.s.ps) were simultaneously recorded. The relationship between presynaptic calcium influx and synaptic transmission was studied. 2. Activation of muscarinic receptors inhibited [Ca(pre)]t, thereby reducing synaptic transmission. Carbachol (CCh, 10 microM) inhibited [Ca(pre)]t by 35% and reduced fe.p.s.p. by 85%. The inhibition was completely antagonized by 1 microM atropine. An approximate 4th power relationship was found between presynaptic calcium influx and postsynaptic responses. 3. Application of the N-type VDCC-blocking peptide toxin omega-conotoxin GVIA (omega-CTx GVIA, 1 microM) inhibited [Ca(pre)]t and fe.p.s.ps by 21% and 49%, respectively, while the P/Q-type VDCC blocker omega-agatoxin IVA (omega)-Aga IVA, 1 microM) reduced [Ca(pre)]t and fe.p.s.ps by 35% and 85%, respectively. 4. Muscarinic receptor activation differentially inhibited distinct presynaptic VDCCs. Omega-CTx GVIA-sensitive calcium channels were inhibited by muscarinic receptors, while omega-Aga IVA-sensitive channels were not. The percentage inhibition of omega-CTx GVIA-sensitive [Ca(pre)]t was about 63%. 5. Muscarinic receptors inhibited presynaptic VDCCs in a way similar to adenosine (Ad) receptors. The percentage inhibition of omega-CTx GVIA-sensitive [Ca(pre)]t by Ad (100 microM) was about 59%. There was no significant inhibition of omega-Aga IVA-sensitive channels by Ad. The inhibitions of [Ca(pre)]t by CCh and Ad were mutually occlusive. 6. These results indicate that inhibition of synaptic transmission by muscarinic receptors is mainly the consequence of a reduction of the [Ca(pre)]t due to inhibition of presynaptic VDCCs.
1. Inhibition of NK3 receptor agonist-induced contraction in the rabbit isolated iris sphincter muscle was used to assess the in vitro functional activity of three 2-phenyl-4-quinolinecarboxamides, members of a novel class of potent and selective non-peptide NK3 receptor antagonists. In addition, an in vivo correlate of this in vitro response, namely NK3 receptor agonist-induced miosis in conscious rabbits, was characterized with some of these antagonists. 2. In vitro senktide (succinyl-[Asp9,MePhe8]-substance P (6-11) and [MePhe7]-neurokinin B ([MePhe7]-NKB) were potent contractile agents in the rabbit iris sphincter muscle but exhibited quite different profiles. Senktide produced monophasic log concentration-effect curves with a mean pD2=9.03+/-0.06 and mean nH=1.2+/-0.02 (n=14). In contrast, [MePhe7]-NKB produced shallow log concentration-effect curves which often appeared biphasic (nH=0.54+/-0.04, n=8), preventing the accurate determination of pD2 values. 3. The contractile responses to the NK3 receptor agonist senktide were antagonized in a surmountable and concentration-dependent manner by SB 223412 ((-)-(S)-N-(alpha-ethylbenzyl)-3-hydroxy-2-phenylquinoline-4-ca rboxamide; 3-30 nM, pA2=8.4, slope=1.8+/-0.3, n=4). SB 222200 ((-)-(S)-N-(alpha-ethylbenzyl)-3-methyl-2-phenylquinoline-4-car box amide; 30-300 nM, pA2=7.9, slope=1.4+/-0.06, n=4) and SB 218795 ((-)-(R)-N-(alpha-methoxycarbonylbenzyl)-2-phenylquinoline-4-carboxamide; 0.3 and 3 microM apparent pKB=7.4+/-0.06, n=6). 4. Contractile responses to the NK3 receptor agonist [MePhe7]-NKB in the rabbit iris sphincter muscle were unaffected by SB 218795 (0.3 and 3 microM, n=8). In contrast, SB 223412 (30 and 300 microM n=4) and SB 222200 (0.3 and 3 microM, n=4) inhibited responses to low concentrations (&lt; or = 1 nM), to a greater extent than higher concentrations (&gt; 1 nM) of [MePhe7]-NKB. Furthermore, log concentration-effect curves to [MePhe7]-NKB became steeper and monophasic in the presence of each antagonist. 5. SB 218795 (3 microM, n=4) had no effect on contractions induced by transmural nerve stimulation (2 Hz) or substance P, exemplifying the selectivity of this class of antagonist for functional NK3 receptors over NK1 receptors in the rabbit. 6. In vivo, senktide (1, 10 and 25 microg i.v., i.e. 1.2, 11.9 and 29.7 nmol, respectively) induced concentration-dependent bilateral miosis in conscious rabbits (maximum pupillary constriction=4.25+/-0.25 mm; basal pupillary diameter 7.75+/-0.48 mm; n=4). The onset of miosis was within 2-5 min of application of senktide and responses lasted up to 30 min. Responses to two i.v. administrations of 25 microg senktide given 30 min apart revealed no evidence of tachyphylaxis. Topical administration of atropine (1%) to the eye enhanced pupillary responses to 25 microg senktide. This was probably due to the mydriatic effect of atropine since it significantly increased baseline pupillary diameter from 7.0+/-0.4 mm to 9.0+/-0.7 mm (n=4), thereby increasing the maximum capacity for miosis. Senktide-induced miosis was inhibited by SB 222200 (1 and 2 mg kg[-1], i.v., i.e. 2.63 and 5.26 micromol kg[-1]; maximum inhibition 100%; n=3-4), SB 223412 (0.5 and 1 mg kg[-1], i.v., i.e. 1.31 and 2.61 micromol kg[-1]; maximum inhibition 100%; n=3), SB 218795 (0.5 and 1 mg kg[-1] i.v., i.e. 1.26 and 2.52 micromol kg-1; maximum inhibition 78%; n=3), and the structurally distinct NK3 receptor antagonist SR 142801 ((S)-(N)-(1-(3-(1-benzoyl-3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)piperidin-3-yl)propyl)-4-phenylepipiperidin-4-yl)-N-methylacetamide; 1.5mg kg-1, i.v., i.e. 2.47micromol kg-1, maximum inhibition 92%; n=3). 7. Topical administration of senktide (25microg; 29.7nmol) to the eye induced unilateral miosis in the treated eye only. At this dose there was no significant difference (P&lt;0.05) between pupillary constriction obtained by topical or i.v. senktide, and topically administered atropine had no significant effect on responses to topical senktide (n=4). 8. [MePhe7]-NKB (125, 250 and 500microg, i.v., i.e. 98.31, 196.62 and 393.24nmol, respectively) also induced bilateral miosis in conscious rabbits (maximum pupillary constriction=4.13+/-0.30mm; n=4), but in contrast to in vitro studies this agonist was approximately 100 fold less potent than senktide. [MePhe7]-NKB-induced miosis was inhibited by SB 222200 (5mg kg-1, i.v., i.e. 13.14micromol kg-1; maximum inhibition 69%; n=3). 9. In summary, SB 223412, SB 222200 and SB 218795 are potent and selective antagonists of NK3 receptor-mediated contraction in the rabbit isolated iris sphincter muscle. In addition, NK3 receptor agonist-induced miosis in conscious rabbits is a good in vivo correlate of the in vitro rabbit iris sphincter muscle preparation and appears to be a useful model for characterizing the pharmacodynamic profile and efficacy of structurally distinct NK3 receptor antagonists, such as SB 222200, SB 223412, SB 218795 and SR 142801.
1. Clozapine has recently been claimed to behave as a selective and full agonist at the cloned m4 muscarinic receptor artificially expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. In the present study we have investigated whether clozapine could activate the rat striatal muscarinic receptors coupled to the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase activity, considered as pharmacologically equivalent to the m4 gene product. In addition, we have examined the effect of the drug on various functional responses following the activation of the cloned m4 receptor expressed in CHO cells. 2. In rat striatum, clozapine (1 nM-10 microM) caused a slight inhibition of forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity, which was not counteracted by 10 microM atropine. On the other hand, clozapine antagonized the inhibitory effect of acetylcholine with a pA2 value of 7.51. Moreover, clozapine (1 microM) failed to inhibit dopamine D1 receptor stimulation of adenylyl cyclase activity, but counteracted the inhibitory effect of carbachol (CCh). Clozapine displaced [3H]-N-methylscopolamine ([3H]-NMS) bound to striatal M4 receptors with a monophasic inhibitory curve and a pKi value of 7.69. The clozapine inhibition was not affected by the addition of guanosine-5'-O-(thio)triphosphate (GTPgammaS). 3. In intact CHO cells, clozapine inhibited forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation with an EC50 of 31 nM. This effect was antagonized by atropine. CCh produced a biphasic effect on cyclic AMP levels, inhibiting at concentrations up to 1 microM (EC50=50 nM) and stimulating at higher concentrations (EC50 = 7 microM). Clozapine (0.3-5 microM) antagonized the CCh stimulation of cyclic AMP with a pKi value of 7.47. Similar results were obtained when the adenylyl cyclase activity was assayed in CHO cell membranes. 4. In CHO cells pretreated with the receptor alkylating agent 1-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (10 microM), the maximal inhibitory effect of clozapine on cyclic AMP formation was markedly reduced, whereas the CCh inhibitory curve was shifted to the right with no change in the maximum. 5. As in rat striatum, in CHO cell membranes the displacement of [3H]-NMS binding by clozapine yielded a monophasic curve which was not affected by GTPgammaS. 6. Clozapine (10 nM-10 microM) had a small stimulant effect (approximately 20%) on the binding of [35S]-GTPgammaS to CHO cell membranes, whereas CCh caused a 250% increase of radioligand binding. Moreover, clozapine (50 nM-5 microM) antagonized the CCh-stimulated [35S]-GTPgammaS binding with a pA2 value of 7.48. 7. These results show that at the striatal M4 receptors clozapine is a potent and competitive antagonist, whereas at the cloned m4 receptor it elicits both agonist and antagonist effects. Thus, clozapine behaves as a partial agonist, rather than as a full agonist, at the m4 receptor subtype, with intrinsic activity changing as a function of the coupling efficiency of the receptor to effector molecules.
The mechanisms underlying the differentiation of neocortical areas are still largely unknown. The development of neural connectivity constitutes one important step in neocortical differentiation. One way to study the mechanisms guiding this developmental stage is to examine the connections established by transplants of neocortical tissue of varying embryonic age placed in varying areas of the neocortex of newborn hosts. Neurotracer injection into the transplant at different intervals following transplantation is then used to identify the development of host-transplant connectivity. In most cases, however, it is rather difficult to retrieve the transplant within the host cortex even shortly after grafting. Hence, it is very difficult to perform tracer injections limited to the transplant without any involvement of the host cortex. In some instances, the transplant position can be predicted by some weaker vascularization within or at the surface of the graft. This is not, however, a reliable criterion to establish the rostrocaudal and mediolateral coordinates of the tracer injection. In this report, we describe the use of activated charcoal to mark the transplant at the time of transplantation. The transplant containing black dots can subsequently be easily distinguished from the host pale pink cortex.

1. Aminoalkylindoles, typified by WIN 55212-2, bind to G protein-coupled cannabinoid receptors in brain. Although cannabinoids inhibit adenylyl cyclase in NG108-15 neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid cells, cannabinoid receptor binding in these cells has not been described previously. This study compares pharmacological characteristics of [3H]WIN 55212-2 binding sites in rat cerebellar membranes and in NG108-15 membranes. 2. Although the KD of specified [3H]WIN 55212-2 binding was similar in brain and NG108-15 membranes, the Bmax was 10 times lower in NG108-15 than in cerebellar membranes. In both brain and NG108-15 membranes, aminoalkylindole analogues were relatively potent in displacing [3H]WIN 55212-2 binding. However, IC50 values for more traditional cannabinoids were significantly higher in NG108-15 membranes than in brain, e.g., the Ki values for CP55,940 were 1.2 nM in brain and &gt; 5000nM in NG108-15 membranes. Moreover, sodium and GTP-gamma-S decreased [3H]WIN 55212-2 binding in brain but not in NG108-15 membranes. 3. These data suggest that WIN 55212-2 does not label traditional cannabinoid receptors in NG108-15 cells and that these novel aminoalkylindole binding sites are not coupled to G proteins.
The Fas ligand induces apoptosis in activated immunocytes that express the Fas receptor. Fas-ligand transcripts have been found previously in murine intestine but the intestinal tissues that express Fas ligand have not been identified. We used immunohistochemistry to examine the expression of the Fas ligand in the enteric nervous system of rats, mice, guinea-pigs, ferrets and humans. Fas-ligand immunoreactivity was detectable in enteric nerve fibres and neurons in all species tested, representing 25%-50% of the neurons in rats, mice and guinea-pigs. An antigen of approximately 48 kDa was detected by Western blot analysis with Fas-ligand antiserum in the dissected enteric plexuses of duodenum from a C3H/HeJ mouse. In gld mice that harbour a Fas-ligand mutation, Fas-ligand immunoreactivity was slightly more intense in neurons and fibres and was also apparent in submucosal lymphocytes. In the myenteric plexuses of guinea-pig ileum and human colon, Fas-ligand immunoreactivity was not contained in neurons exhibiting nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase activity. In the submucosal plexus of guinea-pig ileum, labelled neurons included some neuropeptide-Y-containing neurons but none with vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. We conclude that the Fas ligand is expressed by a large subset of enteric neurons and may provide the basis for cytotoxic neuroimmune interactions in the intestines.
Neuronogenesis in the neocortical pseudostratified ventricular epithelium (PVE) is initiated rostrolaterally and progresses caudo-medially as development progresses. Here we have measured the cytokinetic parameters and the fractional neuronal output parameter, Q, of laterally located early-maturing regions over the principal embryonic days (E12-E15) of neocortical neuronogenesis in the mouse. These measures are compared with ones previously made of a medial, late-maturing portion of the PVE. Laterally, as medially, the duration of the neuronogenetic interval is 6 days and comprises 11 integer cell cycles. Also, in both lateral and medial areas the length of G1 phase (TG1) increases nearly 4-fold and is the only cell cycle parameter to change. Q progresses essentially identically laterally and medially with respect to the succession of integer cell cycles. Most importantly, from E12 to E13 there is a steeply declining lateral to medial gradient in TG1. The gradient is due both to the lateral to medial graded stage of neuronogenesis and to the stepwise increase in TG1 with each integer cycle during the neuronogenetic interval. To our knowledge this gradient in TG1 of the cerebral PVE is the first cell biological gradient to be demonstrated experimentally in such an extensive proliferative epithelial sheet. We suggest that this gradient in TG1 is the cellular mechanism for positionally encoding a protomap of the neocortex within the PVE.
Perception of two- and three-dimensional optic flow critically depends upon extrastriate cortices that are part of the 'dorsal stream' for visual processing. Neurons in area 7a, a sub-region of the posterior parietal cortex, have a dual sensitivity to visual input and to eye position. The sensitivity and selectivity of area 7a neurons to three sensory cues - optic flow, retinotopic stimulus position and eye position - were studied. The visual response to optic flow was modulated by the retinotopic stimulus position and by the eye position in the orbit. The position dependence of the retinal and eye position modulation (i.e. gain field) were quantified by a quadratic regression model that allowed for linear or peaked receptive fields. A local maximum (or minimum) in both the retinotopic fields and the gain fields was observed, suggesting that these sensory qualities are not necessarily linearly represented in area 7a. Neurons were also found that simply encoded the eye position in the absence of optic flow. The spatial tuning for the eye position signals upon stationary stimuli and optic flow was not the same, suggesting multiple anatomical sources of the signals. These neurons can provide a substrate for spatial representation while primates move in the environment.
Over the past 28 years, 39 patients with Moyamoya disease or syndrome defined as spontaneous occlusion of the circle of Willis with extensive basal collateral vessels have been treated by the author in Canada and the USA. All patients presented with clinical or radiologic evidence of hemorrhage (23) or ischemia and infarction (16). A total of 12 patients had associated cerebral aneurysms and seven of these patients with aneurysms presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage. The patients ages ranged from 5 to 47 years. Of these 58% were female. The patients racial origin included North American Indian, Innuit, East Indian/Pakistani, Japanese, Chinese, Filipino, Korean, Malayasian, Hispanic, African American and Caucasian. Familial clustering was seen in North American Indian, Innuit and Caucasian patients. Associated disorders (tuberculosis, pharyngitis, thalassemia, fibromuscular hyperplasia, polycystic kidney, sickle cell trait and hypertension) were common in these patients, as was the use of tobacco, alcohol and in the adult females, oral contraceptives. It may be concluded from this series that the etiology of Moyamoya disease or syndrome is probably multifactorial, but that some racial and familial groups are more susceptible. Furthermore, in that the clinical and angiographic features are identical, the separation between Moyamoya disease and syndrome may not be helpful in understanding the etiology and pathophysiology of this disorder.
Previous investigations on the mutual pharmacokinetic influence of L-dopa and dopamine agonists in Parkinson's disease (PD) have shown controversial results. Two studies of the possible clinical and pharmacokinetic interaction between L-dopa and cabergoline were performed in 10 patients with de novo PD and 12 patients with fluctuating PD. In the first study (de novo patients), cabergoline was administered at increasing dosages until the maximum dosage of 2 mg/day once a day for 8 weeks; subsequently L-dopa (250 mg/day) was added. Blood levels of cabergoline were assayed in two different days, before starting L-dopa, and 1 week thereafter. In the second 8-week study (fluctuating patients), cabergoline was added to the current L-dopa therapy (maximum dosage 4 mg/day once a day). Blood levels of L-dopa were measured in two different days, before cabergoline was added, and at the end of the study. In both studies motor performance was evaluated by means of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (motor examination) and the Clinical Global Impression Scale; on-off diaries of daily motor condition also were filled by fluctuating patients. In patients with de novo PD, cabergoline pharmacokinetic parameters were unmodified by the adjunct of L-dopa, except that the time to reach the peak concentration (Tmax) significantly increased after L-dopa. In patients with fluctuating PD, no modification of L-dopa pharmacokinetics was observed before and after cabergoline coadministration. Clinical evaluations confirmed that cabergoline is effective in the treatment of advanced PD as well as in the management of de novo patients.

Recent studies suggest that endogenous neurotrophins play a central role in the patterning of cortical connections and in cortical synaptic physiology. Do these effects of neurotrophids reflect independent cellular events, or are they manifestations of a single cellular mechanism central to developmental plasticity?
The past year has seen a maturation of molecular modeling, with an increasing number of comparative studies between established methods becoming possible, together with an explosion of new work especially in the areas of combinatorial chemistry and molecular diversity. Traditionally 'difficult' areas such as modeling oligosaccharides look set to join the mainstream in the next few years.
Schizophrenia appears to be a neurodevelopmental disorder involving dysfunctional prefrontal and temporal cortical neural systems. Recent data implicate presynaptic changes in subcortical dopamine neurotransmission, as well as alterations in cortical glutamatergic and GABAergic systems. Functional neuroimaging studies, combined with tests of neuropsychological function, suggest that cortical abnormalities underlie the cognitive deficits associated with schizophrenia. These deficits appear to account for much of the psychosocial dysfunction of schizophrenia and are particularly treatment refractory. Genetic studies have implicated several minor susceptibility loci; however, the clinical impact of these loci on the neurobiology of schizophrenia is still unclear. The use of neurobiological traits as phenotypes, such as cognitive deficits and cortical abnormalities, in genetic linkage studies may facilitate the identification of loci that underlie the most debilitating features of schizophrenia.
During myelination, oligodendrocytes in the CNS and Schwann cells in the PNS synthesise myelin-specific proteins and lipids for the assembly of the axon myelin sheath. A dominant class of lipids in the myelin bilayer are the glycolipids, which include galactocerebroside (GalC), galactosulfatide (sGalC) and galactodiglyceride (GalDG). A promising approach for unravelling the roles played by various lipids in the myelin membrane involves knocking out the genes encoding important enzymes in lipid biosynthesis. The recent ablation of the ceramide galactosyltransferase ( cgt) gene in mice is the first example. The cgt gene encodes a key enzyme in glycolipid biosynthesis. Its absence causes glycolipid deficiency in the lipid bilayer, breakdown of axon insulation and loss of saltatory conduction. Additional knock-out studies should provide important insights into the various functions of glycolipids in myelinogenesis and myelin structure.
Emery-Dreifuss syndrome is a heterogeneous entity characterized by the following clinical triad: early contracture of the elbows. Achilles tendons and postcervical muscles; slowly progressive muscle wasting and weakness with a humeroperoneal distribution early in the course of disease; and a cardiomyopathy usually presenting as an atrioventricular block ranging from sinus bradycardia to complete heart block. As the heart block is the major problem, insertion of a cardiac pacemaker can be life saving. Recent advances through genetic and immunochemical studies have provided valuable clues to the understanding and the early diagnosis of this disease.
Congenital myasthenic syndromes are a rare group of heterogeneous disorders affecting neuromuscular transmission. Recent identification and in-vitro functional analysis of some of the genetic mutations that cause these disorders correlates with previous electrophysiological, biochemical, pathological and therapeutic studies, and has advanced our understanding of neuromuscular transmission.
reelin has recently been isolated as a candidate gene, the mutation of which gives rise to the reeler phenotype in mice. In this study, we analyzed the expression of reelin during embryonic development in the mouse and in adult mouse tissues, by in situ hybridization. reelin transcripts were present on embryonic day (E) 8.5 in the somite, foregut, yolk sac, and unclosed neural plate. reelin was expressed in the brain, spinal cord, liver, and kidney throughout embryonic development, and transiently in many developing organs such as the optic cup, blood vessels, precartilage, stomach, pituitary, vibrissae, tooth germ, and in cells along growing nerve fibers. These observations indicate a role for reelin in development of organs in addition to that in neuronal migration. Furthermore, we demonstrated the existence of reelin mRNA and its cellular distribution in the adult brain, spinal cord, liver, kidney, testis, and ovary, suggesting additional roles for reelin in stabilizing the cyto-architecture and in remolding in adult organs. However, we detected no obvious phenotype of the reelin-expressing organs except for the brain in the reeler mouse, indicating the functional redundancy of this gene during the development of these organs.


As a long-term complication of diabetes mellitus, autonomic neuropathy has received considerable attention in the last few years since a tripled 5-year-mortality of patients with diabetic neuropathy including autonomic disturbances has been observed. In a total of 100 diabetics with clinical manifest neuropathy of different stages (N0 = 8, N1 = 15, N2a = 24, N2b = 28, N3 = 25), 26 of whom were insulin-dependent and 74 non-insulin-dependent, the validity of different neurophysiologic and autonomic function test procedures proposed in literature was assessed. Apart from clinical examination, nerve conduction velocity measurement of five nerves as well as amplitude measurement of evoked sensory and motor actin potentials, electromyography of at least four muscles of the lower limbs, and measurement of sympathetic skin response on hands and feet were performed. Furthermore, heart rate variation at deep periodical breathing (E/I-ratio), during Valsalva's manoeuver and after standing up (30/15-ratio) was determined. In addition, the drop in systolic blood pressure to standing up was measured. The further developed the clinical picture of neuropathy, the more pathological were the results obtained in different tests. The results suggest that most changes leading to pathological values of nerve conduction velocity and heart rate variation measurement take place in a clinical stage, in which no or only very slight clinical signs give evidence of diabetic neuropathy (N0-N1). Therefore, especially these examinations should be performed on diabetics with no or only slight clinical signs of neuropathy in order to reveal those with beginning neuropathic disturbances. EMG examination is preferable in later stages of the disease.
Nicotine is known to have multiple effects on neuroendocrine, autonomic, and behavioral responses. Its neuroendocrine effect on the stress-responsive hormone, ACTH, depends on central pathways that act on corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). Other CRH neurons throughout the brain also are involved in coordinating aspects of the stress response, but very little is known about the effect of nicotine on CRH neurons in extrahypothalamic regions that are involved in the autonomic and behavioral responses to stress. The current study sought to determine the extent of nicotinic activation of extrahypothalamic CRH neurons, since these neurons may be involved in mediating the central effects of nicotine. Freely moving rats were pretreated with a low dose of colchicine, infused with nicotine (0.045 mg/kg/30 s or 0.135 mg/kg/90 s, i.v.), and cardiac perfused 1 h later. Double-label immunocytochemistry identified the activated (positive for cFos protein) CRH neurons in limbic structures (bed nucleus of the stria terminalis [BNST] and central nucleus of the amygdala [CNA]), the dorsal raphe (DR), and Barrington's nucleus (BN); comparisons were made to the PVN. In all of these areas, nicotine activated CRH neurons in a dose-dependent manner, showing differential sensitivity and efficacy with respect to region. CNA CRH neurons were most responsive and were maximally stimulated by the low dose of nicotine (62% of CRH neurons were cFos+, compared to 10-27% of the CRH population in other regions, including the PVN). Although the BNST also was activated by the low dose, only the non-CRH+ neurons were involved; in contrast, 41% of the BNST CRH neurons responded to the higher dose. Nicotinic activation of DR neurons was dose-dependent, with 22% of the CRH neurons activated by the high dose. Few BN neurons were activated by the low dose of nicotine, but 26% of the CRH population responded to the higher dose. These results indicate that the effect(s) of nicotine on the brain may be mediated, in part, by the selective activation of specific extrahypothalamic regions containing CRH neurons that also are involved in autonomic and behavioral responses to stress. The large fraction of CRH neurons responding to the low dose of nicotine in the CNA suggests that this limbic region may be particularly important in mediating these CNS effects of nicotine.

Serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT, EC 2.3.1.50) is the key enzyme in sphingolipid biosynthesis. It catalyzes the pyridoxal-5'-phosphate-dependent condensation of L-serine and palmitoyl-CoA to 3-oxosphinganine. Human expressed-sequence-tag (EST) clones are similar to the two yeast genes for synthesis of long-chain bases, LCB1 and LCB2, which are believed to encode two subunits of SPT [Buede, R., Pinto, W. J., Lester, R. L. &amp; Dickson, R. C. (1991) J. Bacteriol. 173, 4325-5332; Nagiec, M. M., Baltisberger, J. A., Wells, G. B., Lester, R. L. &amp; Dickson, R. C. (1994) Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 91, 7899-7902]. We have cloned and characterized two complete human and murine cDNA sequences named hLCB1 &amp; mLCB1 and hLCB2 &amp; mLCB2, respectively, similar to the yeast LCB1 and LCB2 genes. Human embryonic kidney cells (HEK 293) transfected with murine sequences of LCB1 (mLCB1) and LCB2 (mLCB2) independently and in coexpression showed an overexpression of the transcripts on the mRNA and protein level. The enzymatic activity of cells expressing mLCB2 alone or coexpressed with mLCB1 was three times higher than the activity of untransfected HEK cells. mLCB1 expression was not required for the synthesis of 3-oxo-sphinganine in mammalian cells. Transcription/translation in vitro yielded mLCB1 (53 kDa) and mLCB2 (63 kDa). The two proteins do not contain a signal peptide nor are they glycosylated. The endogenous and overexpressed SPT activity were both sensitive to common SPT inhibitors. Labeling studies with [1-(14)C]palmitic acid indicated that cell lines transfected with mLCB2 preferentially use the excess sphingoid bases for glucocerebroside and galactocerebroside synthesis. Our results provide conclusive genetic and biochemical evidence that the human and murine LCB2 genes described here encode serine palmitoyltransferase. Further studies will be required to unravel the function of the LCB1 gene in mammalian cells.
We have examined the effects of the tachykinin substance P on the action potential of lamprey mechanosensory dorsal cells. Substance P increased the spike duration and reduced the afterhyperpolarization. These effects were mimicked by stimulation of the dorsal root, which contains tachykinin-like immunoreactive fibres. The tachykinin antagonist spantide II blocked the effects of both substance P and dorsal root stimulation. The spike broadening was voltage-dependent, and was due to the reduction of a 4-aminopyridine-sensitive potassium conductance. The spike broadening was mimicked by G-protein activators and blocked by the G-protein inhibitor GDPbetaS. Pertussis toxin did not block the effects of substance P. The spike broadening was blocked by the protein kinase C and cAMP-dependent protein kinase inhibitor H7, and by the specific protein kinase C antagonist chelerythrine, but not by the cAMP and cGMP-dependent protein kinase inhibitor H8. The phorbol ester phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate mimicked and blocked the effects of substance P, supporting the role of protein kinase C in the spike modulation. The adenylate cyclase activator forskolin and the cAMP agonist SpcAMPs mimicked but did not block the effects of substance P on the spike duration, suggesting that protein kinase A also modulates the dorsal cell action potential, but that substance P acts independently of this pathway. Substance P also increased the excitability of the dorsal cells. This effect was blocked by 4-AP, PDBu and chelerythrine, but not by H8, suggesting that the increase in excitability shares the same intracellular and effector pathways as the spike broadening.
NNC 13-8241 has recently been labelled with iodine-123 and developed as a metabolically stable benzodiazepine receptor ligand for single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in monkeys and man. NNC 13-8199 is a bromo-analogue of NNC 13-8241. This partial agonist binds selectively and with subnanomolar affinity to the benzodiazepine receptors. We prepared 76Br labelled NNC 13-8199 from the trimethyltin precursor by the chloramine-T method. Carbon-11 labelled NNC 13-8199 was synthesised by N-alkylation of the nitrogen of the amide group with [11C]methyl iodide. Positron emission tomography (PET) examination with the two radioligands in monkeys demonstrated a high uptake of radioactivity in the occipital, temporal and frontal cortex. In the study with [76Br]NNC 13-8199, the monkey brain uptake continued to increase until the time of displacement with flumazenil at 215 min after injection. For both radioligands the radioactivity in the cortical brain regions was markedly reduced after displacement with flumazenil. More than 98% of the radioactivity in monkey plasma represented unchanged radioligand 40 min after injection. The low degree of metabolism indicates that NNC 13-8199 is metabolically much more stable than hitherto developed PET radioligands for imaging of benzodiazepine receptors in the primate brain. [76Br]NNC 13-8199 has potential as a radioligand in human PET studies using models where a slow metabolism is an advantage.
The period of ovulation in mature house musk shrews was examined in a natural mating group and a superovulation group treated with gonadotropin. In the natural mating group, ovulation started 14 hr after mating in 3 of the 7 house musk shrews (42.8%), and occurred in all 5 house musk shrews by 15 hr after mating. In the superovulation group, ovulation started 13 hr after the administration of hCG in 3 of the 5 house musk shrews, and was observed in all 5 shrews by 16 hr after the administration. In the natural mating group, ovulated ova were collected from the ovarian bursa of 14 house musk shrews 14-20 hr after mating (mean, 2.2 +/- 1.0 ova) and from the oviduct of 42 animals 14-24 hr after mating (mean, 3.6 +/- 1.8 ova). Among the ova ovulated 14-16 hr after mating, both mature ova with the first polar body and immature ova without the first polar body were observed. In the superovulation group, ovulated ova were collected from the ovarian bursa of 31 house musk shrews 13-22 hr after the administration of hCG (mean, 9.7 +/- 6.8 ova), and from the oviduct of 28 animals 13-24 hr after the administration of hCG (mean, 20.0 +/- 11.7 ova). There were also mature and immature ova in the ova ovulated 13-16 hr after the administration of hCG. The time when ova ceased to be recovered from the ovarian bursa roughly coincided with the time when new corpora lutea ceased to be found in the ovaries. These findings suggested that the period of ovulation of house musk shrews was 14-20 hr after mating in the natural mating group and 13-22 hr after the administration of hCG in the superovulation group. Both the natural mating group and superovulation group ovulated both mature ova with the first polar body and immature ova without the first polar body.
We have investigated the visual responses of 184 single units located in the superficial layers of the optic tectum (OT) of the decerebrate, paralysed pigeon. Visual responses were similar to those reported in non-decerebrate preparations; most units responded best to moving visual stimuli, 18% were directionally selective (they had a clear preference for a particular direction of visual stimulus movement), 76% were plane-selective (they responded to movement in either direction in a particular plane). However, we also found that a high proportion of units showed some sensitivity to the orientation of visual stimuli. We examined the effects of extraocular muscle (EOM) afferent signals, induced by passive eye movement (PEM), on the directional visual responses of units. Visual responses were most modified by particular directions of eye movement, although there was no unique relationship between the direction of visual stimulus movement to which an individual unit responded best and the direction of eye movement that caused the greatest modification of that visual response. The results show that EOM afferent signals, carrying information concerning the direction of eye movement, reach the superficial layers of the OT in the pigeon and there modify the visual responses of units in a manner that suggests some role for these signals in the processing of visual information.
The survival rate of embryonic dopamine (DA) neurons after transplantation to the striatum is only 5-20%. Therefore, mesencephalic tissue from several donors needs to be implanted in a parkinsonian patient to induce a therapeutic improvement. Lazaroids are a group of neuroprotective compounds which inhibit lipid peroxidation. Previously, two lazaroids (U-74389G and U-83836F) have been found to improve the survival of both cultured and grafted rat DA neurons. The only lazaroid approved for human use is tirilazad mesylate. The objective of the present study was to explore the effects of tirilazad mesylate on DA neuron survival in cultures of rat ventral mesencephalon and its capacity to promote the in vitro cell viability of embryonic rat and human mesencephalic tissue, treated and dissociated in the same way as in clinical trials. After 7 days in vitro, the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive, presumed DA neurons was 140% higher in rat cultures treated with 0.3 microM tirilazad mesylate than that in control cultures. Rat and human cell suspensions supplemented with tirilazad mesylate maintained a high degree of viability for several hours longer than control suspensions. These results indicate that tirilazad mesylate promotes the survival of both rat and human embryonic mesencephalic neurons in vitro. Tirilazad mesylate can be administered clinically and may become a useful tool for increasing survival of grafted DA neurons in patients, thereby reducing the needed quantity of human donor tissue.
Ischemic brain injury in neonates can result in the degeneration of cortical and subcortical areas of brain and is associated with neurologic deficits. One approach to restoring function in conditions of ischemic brain injury is the use of neural transplants to repair damaged connections. This approach has been shown to reestablish neural circuitry and to ameliorate associated motor deficits in models of neonatal sensorimotor cortex damage. In this study, we utilized the Rice et al. rodent model of neonatal ischemic-hypoxic (IH) brain injury to assess whether transplantation of fetal neocortical tissue can promote functional recovery in tests of sensorimotor and locomotor ability throughout development and as adults. We show that animals that received neocortical grafts 3 days following the IH injury performed significantly better as adults on two measures of motor ability, the Rota-Rod treadmill and apomorphine-induced rotations, than did control animals that received sham transplants after the IH injury. Transplants were identifiable in 72% of the animals 10-12 weeks after implantation. Histochemical studies revealed that while the transplanted tissue did not establish normal cortical cytoarchitecture, cells and fibers within the grafts stained for nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase (NADPH-d), choline acetyl transferase (ChAT), cholecystokinin (CCK), and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). These results suggest that transplantation of fetal neocortical tissue following IH injury in the neonatal period is associated with amelioration of motor deficits and that the grafted tissue demonstrated a neurochemical phenotype that resembled normal neocortex. This approach warrants continued investigation in light of potential therapeutic uses.
We have examined the degree of precision in the topographic arrangement of the tectal projection developed by homotopic transplants of embryonic occipital cortex and tried to determine whether the development of the corticotectal projection is exclusively dependent on environmental cues or is also controlled by intrinsic factors. Transplants of embryonic (E16) occipital cortex were grafted into various areas of the occipital cortex (Oc1 or Oc2) of newborn rats and the organization of the tectal projection arising from the transplants was subsequently examined by injecting different neurotracers into the transplants. Our results indicate that in most cases the laminar and tangential distributions of the tectal projections from the transplants were abnormal. Indeed, whatever the location of the transplant in the host occipital cortex and whatever the placement of the injection into the transplant, a hybrid distribution of the tectal labeling was found, reminiscent of the pattern observed following tracer deposits in both Oc1 and Oc2 in intact animals. Since the grafts were composed of cells of both Oc1 and Oc2 embryonic origin, it is likely that the hybrid pattern of efferents reflects the heterogeneity of the embryonic origin of the cells composing the graft. These findings provide evidence that the development of the topographic distribution of neocortical efferents is not only dependent on factors extrinsic to the cortex and further indicate that even within one single cortical region, the occipital cortex, different areas (Oc1 vs Oc2) are not totally interchangeable. These findings might have important implications in transplantation experiments aiming at the reconstruction of damaged neocortical circuitry where a precise &quot;point-to-point&quot; reconstruction of the circuitry is expected.
We have previously demonstrated that neurotrophin-3 antiserum administration to rats during the first 2 postnatal weeks results in a massive reduction of neurons in the superior cervical ganglion. In the present study, an ultrastructural analysis was undertaken to elucidate the mechanism by which neurotrophin-3 deprivation causes neuronal death. Newborn and 4-week-old rats were injected with either neurotrophin-3 antiserum or normal rabbit serum or used without injection. Superior cervical ganglia from each animal were examined by routine electron microscopy. Most neurons in the ganglia from untreated rats had a large and round nucleus with one or two nucleoli. Chromatin within the nucleus was evenly distributed. A double-layer nuclear membrane could be distinguished and the cytoplasm contained abundant organelles. Treatment with neurotrophin-3 antiserum for 24 h in neonates resulted in chromatin clumping in the nucleus of many neurons. The nuclear membrane became rough and occasionally folded. In the cytoplasm, the Golgi apparatus was disrupted. Three days after treatment, these changes became more obvious. The chromatin in the nucleus was often aggregated and marginalized. Vacuolation was present in many membranous organelles throughout the cytoplasm. Although neurotrophin-3 antiserum given to 4-week-old rats had little effect on overall neuronal numbers (Tafreshi, Zhou, and Rush, unpublished), a few neurons, undergoing either apoptotic or cytolytic cell death, were identified 7 days later. Most affected neurons were located near small blood vessels or capillaries and were associated with numerous nonneuronal cells. The debris of degenerating neurons were surrounded by the processes of glia cells. These findings support the view that loss of endogenous neurotrophin-3 following neutralization with specific antibody leads to activation of apoptotic pathways within the affected neurons. However, the presence of neurons dying as a result of cytolysis suggests that other mechanisms may also be involved.
Brain swelling is a serious complication associated with focal ischemia in stroke and severe head injury. Experimentally, reperfusion following focal cerebral ischemia exacerbates the level of brain swelling. In this study, the permeability of the blood-brain barrier has been investigated as a possible cause of reperfusion-related acute brain swelling. Blood-brain barrier disruption was investigated using Evans Blue dye and [14C]aminoisobutyric acid autoradiography in a rodent model of reversible middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. Acute brain swelling and cerebral blood flow (CBF) during ischemia and reperfusion were analyzed from double-label CBF autoradiograms after application of the potent vasoconstrictor peptide endothelin-1 to the MCA. Ischemia was apparent within ipsilateral MCA territory, 5 min after endothelin-1 application to the exposed artery. Reperfusion, examined at 30 min and 1, 2, and 4 h, was gradual but incomplete within this time frame in the core of middle cerebral artery territory and associated with significant brain swelling. Ipsilateral hemispheric swelling increased over time to a maximum (&gt;5%) at 1-2 h after endothelin-1 but was not associated with a significant increase in the ipsilateral transfer constant for [14C]aminoisobutyric acid over this time frame. These results indicate that endothelin-1 induced focal cerebral ischemia is associated with an acute but reversible hemispheric swelling during the early phase of reperfusion which is not associated with a disruption of the blood-brain barrier.
Agonists of the GABA-A receptor are neuroprotective after experimental stroke, but studies of GABA-B agonists have contradicted each other. To further investigate whether GABA-B agonists may be neuroprotective, we devised a quantal bioassay using the intraluminal occlusion method of inducing reversible cerebral ischemia. Subjects underwent middle cerebral artery occlusion for varying amounts of time, ranging from 5 to 90 min. Behavioral outcome was measured 48 h later with a quantal observational scale: score of abnormal given for any one of asymmetric forepaw flexion on tail lift, asymmetric grip, circling, reduced exploration, seizures, or death. To the grouped response data the logistic equation was used to find the ED50, the duration of occlusion that caused one-half of the subjects to be abnormal. To find the potency ratio for each drug, we divided the ED50 for treatment by that for vehicle. We administered baclofen, a GABA-B agonist, intraperitoneally 5 min after the onset ofischemia. Baclofen (20 mg/kg) was neuroprotective (potency ratio of 3.0, P &lt; 0.05), but a lower dose (10 mg/kg) was not. However, both doses of baclofen caused significantly more intracerebral hemorrhages than control. In awake animals, both baclofen doses caused significant increases in mean arterial pressure, but no changes in other cardiorespiratory variables. The glutamate antagonist MK-801, the GABA-A agonist muscimol, and hypothermia were all protective using the bioassay (potency ratios ranging from 1.5 to 3.0). We conclude that although baclofen (20 mg/kg) may be neuroprotective, its utility is complicated by postischemic hypertension and cerebral hemorrhages.
In AD, it is hypothesized that one factor contributing to the vulnerability of neurons is a delicate balance of excitatory and inhibitory inputs. To examine this hypothesis we have initiated a number of studies examining the role of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate and the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the neurodegeneration of AD. As an initial investigation into the GABAergic system in AD, we employed immunocytochemical techniques and examined the distribution and density of the GABAA receptor subunits beta2/3 within the hippocampus of 13 subjects with a clinical diagnosis of AD and 6 nondemented elderly subjects. Collectively, these 19 subjects presented with a broad range of pathologic severity (i.e., Braak stages I-VI). Density measurements of nine hippocampal regions demonstrated highest levels of beta2/3 immunolabeling in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus &gt; CA1 &gt; CA2, while the lowest levels were found in the granular layer of the dentate gyrus &lt; or = CA4 &lt; CA3 field. Despite these regional variations no significant difference in the mean density of beta2/3 immunolabeling was observed when comparing the pathologically mild (stages I and II), moderate (stages III and IV), and severe (stages V and VI) groups. These data suggest that in the hippocampus receptor subunits associated with GABAergic neurotransmission are relatively maintained even until the terminal stages of the disease.
The availability of an animal model for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is necessary for the development of novel pharmacological treatments. To be useful, the model must be predictive of clinical performance, possess characteristic criteria and distinguish anti-OCD from antidepressant compounds. Due to the lack of OCD models useful for drug discovery, all compounds currently used for OCD were developed first as antidepressants. In this article, we discuss the relative merits of: stereotypic behaviours (canine acral lick, feather picking, amphetamine- and 5-HT-induced stereotypy); adjunctive and displacement behaviours (schedule-induced polydipsia, wheel running, resident-intruder grooming); anxiolytic tests (separation and shock-induced ultrasonic vocalisation and marble burying); and depression tests (inescapable shock-induced escape and immobility in forced swim) as potential OCD models. We conclude that adjunctive and displacement behaviours, and in particular schedule-induced polydipsia, may prove to be the best models for compulsive behaviour in animals that can be used for the discovery of novel anti-OCD agents.
The use of neurophysiopathological techniques in the assessment of pain syndromes in occupational and rehabilitative medicine. Pain is one the major causes of disability. In occupational medicine this is translated into a loss of working days or the need to change jobs. In rehabilitation pain limits treatment and often lengthens recovery time. Neurophysiopathological techniques can be used to improve neuroalgological diagnosis and gain better understanding of pathogenic mechanisms thus allowing therapy to be targeted more precisely aiding the subject's social and occupational recovery.
Changes in the male chicken somatotroph during growth and maturation have been examined by morphometric and immunocytochemical (ICC) analysis of serial sections of the anterior pituitary gland and by flow cytometry of dispersed anterior pituitary cells. ICC showed that somatotrophs are confined to the middle and caudal thirds of the anterior pituitary gland at all ages from 5 to 26 weeks. At a given age somatotrophs are of equal size at all positions along the cephalocaudal axis of the anterior pituitary gland. However, there are age-related changes: from 5 to 11 weeks rises occur in both the mean total somatotroph volume per gland (64%) and the mean number of somatotrophs (78%), while the mean volume of the single somatotroph is unchanged. From 11 to 18 weeks the mean volume of the single somatotroph decreases 41%. From 18 to 26 weeks the mean volume of the somatotroph, the mean total somatotroph volume, and the mean number per gland do not change. Flow cytometry studies suggested that somatotrophs from adults have less growth hormone (GH) than somatotrophs from young birds. The increases in total somatotroph volume and number from 5 to 11 weeks are consistent with the rise in anterior pituitary GH reported previously. Basic quantitative morphological information about age-related changes in somatotrophs is reported here. When combined with additional facts from future work, they may explain the well-documented sharp decline in circulating GH from 5 to 11 weeks.
Several inherited diseases have been mapped to the distal tip of human chromosome 21. In our recent efforts to clone candidate genes for some of these disorders, we have assembled a cosmid and BAC contig spanning 770 kb. We have identified expressed sequences from this contig by means of a cDNA hybrid selection scheme. We present here the isolation, cDNA sequence, genomic organization, and polymorphisms analysis of one such expressed sequence, GT334, which had been identified independently and designated EHOC-1. GT334 is split into 23 exons, and spans an estimated 95 kb of genomic DNA. A pseudogene of the histone H2AZ gene has been identified, and maps within the third intron. We have identified an ORF potentially encoding a protein 1259 amino acids in length, longer than that described in the EHOC-1 gene. The GT334 gene was screened for single base pair changes using single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis and we have identified seven sequence variations within this gene. These polymorphisms can be used as markers in the genetic mapping of other diseases localized to this region.
Gaucher disease results from the deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme glucocerebrosidase (EC 3.2.1.45). Although the functional gene for glucocerebrosidase (GBA) and its pseudogene (psGBA), located in close proximity on chromosome 1q21, have been studied extensively, the flanking sequence has not been well characterized. The recent identification of human metaxin (MTX) immediately downstream of psGBA prompted a closer analysis of the sequence of the entire region surrounding the GBA gene. We now report the genomic DNA sequence and organization of a 75-kb region around GBA, including the duplicated region containing GBA and MTX. The origin and endpoints of the duplication leading to the pseudogenes for GBA and MTX are now clearly established. We also have identified three new genes within the 32 kb of sequence upstream to GBA, all of which are transcribed in the same direction as GBA. Of these three genes, the gene most distal to GBA is a protein kinase (clk2). The second gene, propin1, has a 1.5-kb cDNA and shares homology to a rat secretory carrier membrane protein 37 (SCAMP37). Finally, cote1, a gene of unknown function lies most proximal to GBA. The possible contributions of these closely arrayed genes to the more atypical presentations of Gaucher disease is now under investigation.

In Golgi-Cox-impregnated motor cortex (regio precentralis) of six children (36 weeks of gestation to 13 month after birth) four types of interneurons of laminae II-VI have been investigated qualitatively and quantitatively and finally, compared with interneurons of a child (3 month of age) with Down's Syndrome. All cell measurements have been made by using a computerized digital morphometric system. In order to study the developmental stage of interneurons in our cases we statistically compared analogue neuron types in the brains. As parameters for characterizing non-pyramidal neurons served the pattern of dendritic branching, dendritic length for all dendritic orders within single dendritic fields, and of the whole neuron. The quantitative morphological study of dendritic arborizations revealed that bitufted and large multipolar interneurons had significantly more branching material in the postnatal brains than their prenatal counterparts. These differences were due to the increase of both length and number of branches during perinatal period. Such constant increment in dendritic span and branching provides larger receptive areas and that should improve the development of connections in functional intracortical columns. The quantitative parameter area of dendritic fields and number of branching points of the brain with Down's syndrome revealed in comparison with normal brain of the same age differences such as lower dendritic areas and a higher amount of branching points.
Nitric oxide (NO) has been suggested to play a crucial role in the regulation of lordosis behavior via stimulation of guanylyl cyclase to synthesize cyclic GMP. Whalen and Lauber (1986, Neurosci. Biobehav. Rev. 10, 47-53) hypothesized that hormones and pharmacological agents known to facilitate lordosis in estrogen-primed rodents act through cyclic GMP. The compound 1H-[1,2, 4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ) has been shown to selectively inhibit NO-stimulated cyclic GMP production. In the present study, we investigated the effects of ODQ on lordosis behavior. Female rats were implanted with a guide cannula aimed at the lateral or third ventricles by stereotaxic surgery, and their ovaries were bilaterally removed. Five days later, animals were injected subcutaneously with 2 microg estradiol benzoate at 48 and 24 hr, and 200 microg progesterone 4 hr before behavioral testing. ODQ or vehicle (1 microl) was administered at the time of progesterone treatment or 20 min before lordosis testing. ODQ significantly decreased lordosis quotients and the quality of lordosis at both intervals of drug infusion. Locomotor activities, measured by line crossing and rearing, were not affected by ODQ. ODQ also inhibited cyclic GMP accumulation in response to NMDA stimulation in hypothalamic and cerebellar slices in vitro. We conclude that cyclic GMP produced by NO generation is an important modulator of female rat sexual behavior.
We measured luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) by immunofluorometric assays and alpha-inhibin by radioimmunoassay in serum sampled every 10 min throughout the night (2100-0500 h) from 44 normal girls. Mean overnight LH values rose log-linearly from a mean of 0.2 IU/l in prepubertal girls to 3.0 IU/l in late pubertal girls. Log2 mean overnight FSH rose rapidly through early puberty and then remained constant; mean FSH rose from 1.0 IU/l in prepubertal girls to approximately 2.8 IU/l in Tanner III-V girls. Mean overnight inhibin increased through puberty, rising from 151 ng/l in prepubertal girls to 432 ng/l in fully pubescent girls. Within each of the first three Tanner stages, LH differed approximately 100-fold between the smallest and largest mean concentrations but differed &lt;10-fold within stages IV or V. Such within-pubertal stage variability was less pronounced for FSH, which differed approximately 16-fold among Tanner I subjects and 4-10-fold at later stages, and for inhibin, which varied approximately 4-fold within each Tanner stage. The frequency of LH pulses during overnight sampling increased significantly during puberty, but the frequency of FSH and inhibin pulses remained constant. We compared the results from girls to those from 50 normal boys [Manasco et al. (1995) J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab., 80, 20462052]. At each pubertal stage, girls had approximately the same mean overnight LH values as boys; girls had higher mean overnight FSH, particularly during Tanner stages II-IV; and boys had mean overnight alpha-inhibin immunoreactivity approximately 1.5 times that of girls at each pubertal stage. Still, hormone concentrations for individuals of both sexes intergraded at each pubertal stage.
We describe a method for identification of brain structures from MRI data sets. The bulk of the paper concerns an automatic system for finding the anterior and posterior commissures [(AC) and (PC)] in the midsagittal plane. These landmarks are key for the definition of the Talairach space, commonly used in stereotactic neurosurgery, in the definition of common coordinate systems for the pooling of functional positron emission tomography (PET) images and for neuroanatomy studies. The process works according to a step-by-step procedure: it first analyzes the skull limits. A grey-level histogram is then calculated and allows an automated selection of thresholds. Then, the interhemispheric plane is detected. Following an advanced scene analysis in the midsagittal plane for anatomical structures, the AC and the PC are identified. Experimentally, with a set of 200 patients, the process never failed. Its performances and limits are comparable to that of neuroanatomy experts. Those results are due to a high degree of robustness at each step of the program.
Current demographic trends suggest that the Indian population will survive through the peak years of occurrence of stroke (age 55-65 yr) and stroke-survivors in the elderly with varying degree of residual disability, will be a major medical problem. The available data from community surveys from different regions of India for 'hemiplegia' presumed to be of vascular origin indicate a crude prevalence rate in the range of 200 per 100,000 persons. Thus, the anticipated costs of rehabilitation of stroke-victims will pose enormous socio-economic burden on our meagre health-care resources, similar to what is now faced by industrialised nations in the West. Therefore, prevention of strokes at any age should be our main strategy in national health planning. Among all risk factors for strokes, hypertension is one of the most important and treatable factor. Community screening surveys, by well defined WHO protocol, have shown that nearly 15 per cent of the urban population is 'hypertensive' (160/95 mm Hg or more). Though high blood pressure has the highest attributable risk for stroke, there are many reasons such as patient's compliance in taking medicines and poor follow up in clinical practice that may lead to failure in reducing stroke mortality. In subjects who have transient ischaemic attacks (TIAs), regular use of antiplatelet agents like aspirin in prevention of stroke is well established. It is also mandatory to prohibit tobacco use and adjust dietary habits to control body weight, and associated conditions like diabetes mellitus etc., should be treated. It is advisable to initiate community screening surveys on well defined populations for early detection of hypertension and TIAs. Primary health care centres should be the base-stations for these surveys because data gathered from urban hospitals will not truly reflect the crude prevalence rates for the community to design practical prevention programmes.
Hyperkinesis is associated with deficits of attention (poor allocation of attention resources, susceptibility to interference and perseveration); vigilance and perceptual sensitivity. Three boys aged 7-8 years with simple hyperkinesis were given cognitive tasks to improve the above functions in daily one hour sessions for a month. The children improved significantly in the above functions and behaviour. Three other children aged 5-8 years with simple hyperkinesis who were on medication improved only slightly in their behaviour during this period. Behavioural intervention and parental counselling were additional inputs to the children in both groups. Neuropsychological remediation combined with parental counselling and behavioural intervention shows promise in treating hyperactive children.
We have used a recently developed technique which combines fluorescent tract tracing and in situ hybridization to study co-localization of neurotrophin mRNA and neurotrophin receptor mRNA expression simultaneously with the pattern of innervation in the developing chick ear. Efferent and afferent fibersfrom the VII/VIIIth cranial nerves were retrogradely and anterogradely filled with Dextran amines conjugated to Texas red and the brain stem was incubated for 2 hours in tissue culture medium. The tissue was subsequently fixed, sectioned frozen, mounted and subjected to in situ hybridization analysis using probes for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its tyrosine kinase receptor, trkB. The results show that afferent and efferent fibers to the ear innervate areas of the developing otocyst which express BDNF mRNA. We also found that neurons in the stato-acoustic ganglion express high levels of trkB mRNA whereas the subset of facial motor neurons that is efferent to the ear only had no or very low levels of trkB mRNA. From our results we conclude that chicken otic efferent fibers preferentially project to areas with BDNF mRNA expression. The very low levels of trkB mRNA in these motor neurons compared to afferent neurons innervating the same region suggest that other factors, perhaps co-expressed with BDNF, may support efferents. A possible involvement of afferents in guiding efferents to specific areas of the ear is suggested.
Plasminogen activators are serine proteases which play a key role in morphogenesis and tissue remodelling. Two different molecular types, tissue-type and urokinase-type, were identified and they were postulated to play a role in neural development. The developing chick optic lobe plays a central role in processing visual information. In previous studies we demonstrated the occurrence of high levels of plasminogen activator activity in this model. The aim of the present paper is to study the temporal pattern of expression of this activity and characterize the type of plasminogen activator expressed in the developing optic lobe. Using soluble fractions derived by ultracentrifugation from Triton X-100-treated membrane fractions we measured the protease activity with a radial fibrinolytic assay. Employing different inhibitors of fibrinolytic activity and a zymographic assay, we showed that the developing optic lobe expresses only one type of plasminogen activator which corresponds to an urokinase-type of 70 kDa. Our results indicate that peaks of protease activity temporally correlate with massive neuronal migration, neurite outgrowth and synapse formation and maturation. This suggests that a plasminogen activator could play a role in these developmental events. This consistent pattern of variability strongly suggests that it is developmentally regulated and, if so, it could be a reliable parameter to study neural plastic changes induced by modifications in the environmental stimulation.
Functional cerebral guiding and integrating systems may be revealed by analyzing the covariation of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). Positron emission tomography (PET) was used to measure absolute rCBF in 14 volunteers with specific phobia and 6 nonphobic controls, when exposed to videos containing phobia-relevant and neutral scenes. A fear reaction and increased covariation between absolute rCBFs was observed during phobia-relevant as compared to neutral stimulation in phobics only. In controls fear was not elicited and rCBF covariation was not influenced by stimulus condition, being similar to the pattern observed in phobics during neutral stimulation. We suggest the rCBF correlative pattern during phobic fear to reflect fear-related activation of distinct neuronal pathways that involves the amygdala, the thalamus, and the striatum. We theorize that these pathways are activated also by uncontrolled emotions in diverse conditions, like posttraumatic stress disorder, panic disorder, and schizophrenia.
To evaluate the possible role of attentional centers as modulators of neural networks that mediate visual tasks involving reading and grammatical manipulations of verbs, we measured cerebral blood flow (CBF) using positron emission tomography (PET), and reaction times as subjects read verbs, &quot;nonce verbs&quot; such as jelt or brep, and formed past tenses of regular, irregular and nonce verbs after viewing their stems. Statistical parametric maps (SPMs) showed significant activation of the pulvinar in the read verb irregular, and generate nonce past tense tasks, compared to rest. This was confirmed by a post hoc ANOVA of CBF values from a discrete locus in the pulvinar (p = .0000417). Functional links between the pulvinar and other brain regions were shown by high correlations of CBF in the pulvinar with CBF in brain regions known to have anatomical connections to the pulvinar, particularly those mediating vision. There was also a significant relationship between task-specific reaction times and rest minus task CBF differences in a multiple regression analysis that included CBF values from the pulvinar, superior colliculus plus reticular formation, and the anterior cingulate, known attentional centers (p = .021, r2 = 0.99). Regression analyses relating reaction time to the amount of brain activated (pixels in the SPMs) and the degree of activation of the pixels (mean Z score) yielded p values of .078 and .074, respectively. Our data provide direct experimental evidence to support the hypothesis that attentional centers are activated in proportion to the complexity of visually mediated language tasks and that the centers that mediate attention modulate the activity of task-specific neural networks.
A 52 year old fully medicated Parkinsonian patient with severe disability (stage 4 on the Hoehn &amp; Yahr disability scale) became asymptomatic 10 weeks after he received twice weekly transcranial treatments with AC pulsed electromagnetic fields (EMFs) of picotesla flux density. Prior to treatment with EMFs, his medication (Sinemet CR) was about 50% effective and he experienced end-of-dose deterioration and diurnal-related decline in the drug's efficacy. For instance, while his morning medication was 90% effective, his afternoon medication was only 50% effective and his evening dose was only 30% effective. Ten weeks after introduction of treatment with EMFs, there was 40% improvement in his response to standard Sinemet medication with minimal change in its efficacy during the course of the day or evening. These findings demonstrate that intermittent, AC pulsed applications of picotesla flux density EMFs improve Parkinsonian symptoms in part by enhancing the patient's response to levodopa. This effect may be related to an increase in the capacity of striatal DA neurons to synthesize, store and release DA derived from exogenously supplied levodopa as well as to increased serotonin (5-HT) transmission which has been shown to enhance the response of PD patients to levodopa. Since decline in the response to levodopa is a phenomenon associated with progression of the disease, this case suggests that intermittent applications of AC pulsed EMFs of picotesla flux density reverse the course of chronic progressive PD.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a neuroactive peptide present in some spinal cord motoneurons and at their motor endplates in skeletal muscle. Although detectable levels of CGRP change after surgical and pharmacological interruptions of neuromuscular connectivity, a clear understanding of its physiological role in the motor system is lacking. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether downhill running exercise, which elicits muscle damage and repair, also elicits changes in CGRP levels in hindlimb motoneurons. Twenty female Wistar rats were divided into five groups: control (c), 48 hours post-exercise (48 hr), 72 hours (72 hr), two weeks (2 wks) and four weeks (4 wks). Exercise groups ran downhill for one 30 minute period. Histological examination of muscle from ankle extensors (triceps surae, TS) and flexors (anterior crural, AC) indicated the characteristic presence of histiocytes by 48 hr post-exercise in TS but not in AC. Paraformaldehyde-fixed, 30 microm sections of lumbar spinal cord (L2-L4) from the same animals were incubated with polyclonal antisera to CGRP. The number of CGRP-positive TS motor nuclei increased significantly by 48 hr after exercise (p = 0.001) vs control and returned to baseline values by 4 wks (p &gt; 0.05). In contrast, no significant changes were observed in the AC motoneuron pool at any post-exercise interval (p &gt; 0.05). The temporal changes in CGRP levels in TS motoneurons suggest that expression of this neuropeptide may be differentially regulated by exercise-induced changes in neuromuscular function, possibly as related to muscle tissue damage/repair mechanisms and thus to remodeling at the neuromuscular junction.
Despite intensive research over the past several decades, the etiology and pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS) remain elusive. The last 20 years have seen only meager advances in the treatment of the disease in part because too much attention has been devoted to the process of demyelination and its relationship to the neurologic symptoms and recovery of the disease. A host of biological phenomena associated with the disease involving interactions among genetic, environmental, immunologic, and hormonal factors, cannot be explained on the basis of demyelination and, therefore, require refocusing attention on alternative explanations, one of which implicates the pineal gland as the pivotal mover of the disease. This review summarizes the evidence linking dysfunction of the pineal gland with the epidemiology, pathogenesis, clinical manifestations, and course of the disease. The pineal hypothesis of MS also provided the impetus for the development of a novel and highly effective therapeutic modality, one that involves the transcranial application of AC pulsed electromagnetic fields in the picotesla flux density.

Peripheral sensory and autonomic neurons are known to possess insulin receptors. These have been considered to be of the peripheral type, i.e. similar to those of hepatic and fat cells rather than of the brain type which show dual specificity for both insulin and insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1). We have examined the localisation of insulin and IGF-1 receptors in cultured sensory and sympathetic ganglion cells using confocal microscopy and indirect labelling with FITC (fluorescein isothiocyanate) and TRITC (tetramethyl rhodamine isothiocyanate) respectively. We have shown that in cultured U266B1 multiple myeloma cells these receptors display separate localisation, whereas they are colocalised in IM-9 lymphocytes which are known to possess hybrid receptors. We have confirmed the sequestration of insulin and IGF-1 receptors in the cytoplasm of sensory and sympathetic neurons, consistent with a brain-type receptor. The colocalisation of insulin and IGF-1 receptors in sensory and sympathetic ganglion cells is consistent with the view that they are hybrid receptors, similar to those present in the CNS. The function of these receptors, as suggested for the CNS, may be related to trophic support for neurons.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) and certain peptides derived from it have been shown to exert neurotoxic effects in vitro, and apoE has been linked to the etiology of Alzheimer's disease. The mechanisms underlying these toxic and pathological effects are, however, not known. To approach this question, we have studied the effects of apoE peptides on the cytoplasmic calcium ([Ca2+]i) homeostasis of cultured cortical neurons. A tandem dimer repeat peptide (apoEdp) derived from the receptor binding domain of apoE was found to have a potent effect on elevation of [Ca2+]i calcium. The pathway by which apoEdp exerted this effect was shown to involve both the mobilization of intracellular calcium and the influx of extracellular calcium, although the effect on influx was more pronounced. Calcium mobilization occurs via a G-protein-linked phospholipase C (PLC) pathway, whereas calcium influx appears to involve a novel Co2+-sensitive channel. Both the mobilization and the influx of calcium require the binding of the apoE peptide to a membrane receptor because both pathways are blocked by antibody to low-density-lipoprotein receptor-related protein. The data suggest that the neurotoxic effects of apoE may be mediated by a persistent elevation of [Ca2+]i.
Cell membrane depolarization and tissue acidosis occur rapidly in severely ischemic brain. Preischemic hyperglycemia is recognized to increase ischemic tissue acidosis and the present studies were undertaken to correlate depolarization and tissue acidosis during acute focal cerebral ischemia and hyperglycemia. We used a dual-label autoradiography method to simultaneously measure the in vivo distribution of [3H]nimodipine and [14C]DMO (5,5-dimethyl-2,4-oxazolidinedione) in brain to identify regions of ischemic depolarization and measure regional net tissue pH. Regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) was measured in separate studies. Measurements were made 30 minutes after combined middle cerebral artery and ipsilateral common carotid artery occlusion in normoglycemic and hyperglycemic rats. Tissue pH in the ischemic cortex was depressed to 6.76 +/- 0.11 in normoglycemic rats (n = 12) and 6.57 +/- 0.13 in hyperglycemic rats (n = 12), with significantly greater acidosis in the hyperglycemic group (P &lt; 0.001). In contrast the ratio of [3H]nimodipine uptake in the ischemic cortex relative to the contralateral nonischemic cortex was significantly greater in normoglycemic (1.83 +/- 0.45) than hyperglycemic (1.40 +/- 0.50) rats (P &lt; 0.05). Within this region of ischemic cortex CBF was 31 +/- 22 mL/100 g in normoglycemic rats (n = 8) and 33 +/- 22 mL/100 g/min in hyperglycemic rats (n = 9). Cerebral blood flow did not differ between these two groups in any region. Thus hyperglycemia reduced the extent of ischemic depolarization within the cortex during the first 30 minutes of focal cerebral ischemia. This effect may be related to the increased tissue acidosis or to other factors that may lessen calcium influx and preserve cellular energy stores in the ischemic cortex of the hyperglycemic rats.
Male subjects with type 2A (n = 12) and 2B (n = 12) solvent-induced toxic encephalopathy and a reference group of healthy men (n = 12) without previous solvent exposure were studied using quantitative EEG and event-related potentials from an odd-ball and a dual-task paradigm. Subjects with toxic encephalopathy of types 2A and 2B showed markedly lower P300 amplitudes than did controls in both paradigms. In the relatively complex dual-task setting, subjects with 2A and 2B showed lower signal detection than did controls.

A survey was sent to the physiology course directors of the fifty-three dental schools in the continental United States. Information was collected regarding the type of instructional arrangements, course content and emphasis, and amount and type of nondidactic instruction. Responses were obtained for forty-eight courses, all of which covered the core topics of physiology, although twelve schools taught neurophysiology as part of a neuroscience course. Combined medical and dental student (MS+DS) courses used six to fourteen hours of nondidactic instruction per core topic, whereas the courses taught by dental school-(DS-B) or medical school-based instructors used 0.5 to 2.6 hours per topic. Courses combining dental students with other nonmedical professional students used mainly didactic instruction. While most dental school physiology courses continue to rely on traditional didactic instruction, a few schools integrate physiology with other basic science and clinical courses, include problem-solving exercises, and offer advanced physiological topics during the clinical years. Consequently, there is considerable potential for change in predoctoral physiology instruction.
Biochemical experiments by others have indicated that protein kinase C activity is present in the rod outer segment, with potential or demonstrated targets including rhodopsin, transducin, cGMP-phosphodiesterase (PDE), guanylate cyclase, and arrestin, all of which are components of the phototransduction cascade. In particular, PKC phosphorylations of rhodopsin and the inhibitory subunit of PDE (PDE ) have been studied in some detail, and suggested to have roles in downregulating the sensitivity of rod photoreceptors to light during illumination. We have examined this question under physiological conditions by recording from a single, dissociated salamander rod with a suction pipette while exposing its outer segment to the PKC activators phorbol-12-myristate,13-acetate (PMA) or phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu), or to the PKC-inhibitor GF109203X. No significant effect of any of these agents on rod sensitivity was detected, whether in the absence or presence of a background light, or after a low bleach. These results suggest that PKC probably does not produce any acute downregulation of rod sensitivity as a mechanism of light adaptation, at least for isolated amphibian rods.

It has been postulated that the bacteraemia rate following guillotine tonsillectomy is lower than that following dissection tonsillectomy due to intra-operative compression of tonsillar blood vessels by the guillotine. The aim of this study was to evaluate the incidence of bacteraemia following dissection and guillotine tonsillectomy. Sixty-four patients undergoing elective tonsillectomy for recurrent acute tonsillitis were randomly selected, 32 underwent dissection tonsillectomy and 32 guillotine tonsillectomy. Positive intra-operative blood cultures were obtained in 16 patients (25 per cent), nine (28.1 per cent) of the dissection group and seven (21.8 per cent) of the guillotine group. There was no significant difference between the two methods (Chi-squared test, p = 0.77).

Previous studies have established that most of the mRNAs that neurons express are localized in the cell body and very proximal dendrites, whereas a small subset of mRNAs is present at relatively high levels in dendrites. It is not clear, however, whether particular mRNAs have the same subcellular distribution in different types of neurons or whether different types of neurons sort mRNAs in different ways. The present study was undertaken to address these questions. Nonisotopic in situ hybridization techniques were used to define the subcellular localization of representative mRNAs including beta-tubulin, low-molecular-weight neurofilament protein (NF-68), high-molecular-weight microtubule-associated protein (MAP2), growth-associated protein 43 (F1/GAP43), the alpha subunit of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (alpha CaMII kinase), and poly (A+) mRNA. The mRNAs for beta-tubulin, neurofilament 68, and F1/GAP43 were restricted to the region of the cell body and very proximal dendrites in most neurons. In some neuron types, however, labeling for NF-68 extended for considerable distances into dendrites. In some neurons that express MAP2, the mRNA was present at the highest levels in the proximal third to half of the dendritic arbor, whereas in other neurons the highest levels of labeling were in the cell body. In most neurons that express alpha CaMII kinase, the highest levels of the mRNA were in the cell body, but labeling was also present throughout dendrites. However, in a few types of neurons, alpha CaMII kinase mRNA was largely restricted to the cell body. The fact that there are no general rules for mRNA localization that apply to all neuron types implies the existence of neuron type-specific mechanisms that regulate mRNA distribution.
Neural regeneration in the escape circuit of the first-instar cockroach is described using behavioral analysis, electrophysiology, intracellular staining, and electron microscopy. Each of the two filiform hairs on each of the animal's cerci is innervated by a single sensory neuron, which specifically synapses with a set of giant interneurons (GIs) in the terminal ganglion. These trigger a directed escape run. Severing the sensory axons causes them to degenerate and perturbs escape behavior, which is restored to near normal after 4-6 days. Within this time, afferents regenerate and reestablish arborizations in the terminal ganglion. In most cases, regenerating afferents enter the cercal glomerulus and re-form most of the specific monosynaptic connections they acquired during embryogenesis, although their morphology deviates markedly from normal; these animals reestablish near normal escape behavior. In a few cases, regenerating afferents remain within the cercus or bypass the cercal glomerulus, and thereby fail to re-form synapses with GIs; these animals continue to exhibit perturbed escape behavior. We conclude that in most cases, specific synapses are reestablished and appropriate escape behavior is restored. This regeneration system therefore provides a tractable model for the establishment of synaptic specificity in a simple neuronal circuit.
Unilateral naris closure in young rodents leads to striking alterations in the development of the ipsilateral olfactory system. One of the most pronounced effects is a 25% reduction in the size of the experimental olfactory bulb, a change that stems in part from decreased cell survival. Since naris occlusion in rodents alters the system more during development than in adulthood, we investigated the consequences of olfactory deprivation in a species that is born in a very immature state, Monodelphis domestica. In this pouchless marsupial, offspring are born after a short 14-day gestation. In the present study, the thymidine analogue bromodeoxyuridine was used to examine early postnatal neurogenesis in the olfactory bulb. Unlike rats and mice, neurogenesis of the main output neurons (the mitral cells) continues into postnatal life. Unilateral naris closure was begun on postnatal day 4 (P4) or P5 in Monodelphis and continued for 30 or 60 days. Laminar volume measurements revealed a significant reduction in the size of the experimental bulb following 60, but not 30, days of early olfactory deprivation. Mitral cell number estimates indicated a significant reduction after both 30 and 60 days of naris closure. The immaturity of Monodelphis offspring may render the population of mitral cells susceptible to the effects of olfactory deprivation. These findings suggest that afferent activity plays a role in the survival of all bulb neurons, irrespective of cell class.
The sulphonylureas tolbutamide and glibenclamide were shown to stimulate acetylcholine release from rat striatal slices. To determine the mechanism of this effect, whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made from large neurones within the striatum that displayed morphological, electrophysiological, and pharmacological characteristics typical of cholinergic interneurones. Dialysis of these neurones with a pipette solution containing low concentrations of ATP produced a gradual hyperpolarisation that could be reversed by bath application of the sulphonylureas. In voltage-clamp studies, these compounds were shown to act through the inhibition of a potassium conductance. It is concluded that cholinergic interneurones within the rat striatum express sulphonylurea-sensitive ATP-sensitive potassium channel activity. These channels are probably cytoprotective and may prove to be novel sites of therapeutic modulation.
The functional expression of the kainate subtype of glutamate receptor (GluR) has been investigated in cultured rat cerebellar granule cells using single cell intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) measurements. Both AMPA- and kainate-induced [Ca2+]i increases could be blocked completely by the AMPA receptor-selective antagonist LY300168 (50 microM). However, following treatment with concanavalin A, an inhibitor of kainate receptor desensitisation, 30% of cells showed a kainate-induced [Ca2+]i rise of &gt;100 nM in the presence of LY300168. Responses to 30 microM kainate in the presence of LY300168 were virtually abolished by the AMPA and GluR5 kainate receptor competitive antagonist LY293558 (100 microM). These results demonstrate the presence of functional kainate receptors on cultured cerebellar granule cells, and suggest that the GluR5 subtype of kainate receptor plays a significant role in kainate receptor-mediated [Ca2+]i increases.
In previous studies we have identified Ser502, Ser528, and Ser534 as target sites in chicken neurofilament middle molecular mass protein (NF-M) for casein kinase I (CKI) in vitro and have shown that these sites are also phosphorylated in vivo. We now make use of a combination of molecular biological and protein chemical techniques to show that two additional in vivo phosphorylation sites in chicken NF-M, Ser464 and Ser471, can also be phosphorylated by CKI in vitro. These two sites are conserved in higher vertebrate NF-M molecules, and recombinant protein constructs containing the homologous rat NF-M peptides can be phosphorylated by CKI in vitro, suggesting that phosphorylation of these sites is conserved at least in higher vertebrates. The two new sites are adjacent to a conserved peptide sequence (VEEIIEET-V) found once in higher vertebrate NF-M molecules and twice in lamprey NF-180. Variants of this sequence are also found in neurofilament low and high molecular mass proteins (NF-L and NF-H) and alpha-internexin, and in mammalian NF-L are known to be associated with in vivo phosphorylation sites. We speculate that CKI phosphorylation in general, and these sites in particular, may be important in neurofilament function.
The neurotoxic properties of the dietary excitotoxins beta-N-methylamino-L-alanine and beta-N-oxalylamino-L-alanine have been studied in rat cerebellar granule cells and compared with those of glutamate. Glutamate caused dose-dependent death of cerebellar granule cells after a 30-min exposure when viability was assessed 24 h later. Beta-N-methylamino-L-alanine and beta-N-oxalylamino-L-alanine, however, were toxic only after 24 or 48 h of exposure. The neurotoxic effects of beta-N-methylamino-L-alanine were blocked by D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, and those of beta-N-oxalylamino-L-alanine were blocked by kynurenic acid, which demonstrated that these excitotoxins caused cerebellar granule cell death through the activation of glutamate receptors. The features of this death were examined morphologically (fluorescent dyes, electron microscopy) and biochemically (conventional agarose gel electrophoresis, effect of aurintricarboxylic acid). Characteristics of apoptosis were identified by transferring cerebellar granule cells from a high K+ (30 mM)- to a low K+ (10 mM)-containing medium. In cerebellar granule cells exposed to beta-N-methylamino-L-alanine or beta-N-oxalylamino-L-alanine (3 mM), hallmarks of necrotic- and apoptotic-like death were observed at various time points over a 72-h period. Therefore, in cerebellar granule cells, beta-N-methylamino-L-alanine and beta-N-oxalylamino-L-alanine induce death over 12-72 h of exposure via a mechanism that involves both necrotic- and apoptotic-like cell death.
A successfully developed enzyme-based lactate microsensor with rapid response time allows the direct and continuous in vivo measurement of lactic acid concentration with high temporal resolution in brain extracellular fluid. The fluctuations coupled to neuronal activity in extracellular lactate concentration were explored in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus of the rat brain after electrical stimulation of the perforant pathway. Extracellular glucose and oxygen levels were also detected simultaneously by coimplantation of a fast-response glucose sensor and an oxygen electrode, to provide novel information of trafficking of energy substances in real time related to local neuronal activity. The results first give a comprehensive picture of complementary energy supply and use of lactate and glucose in the intact brain tissue. In response to acute neuronal activation, the brain tissue shifts immediately to significant energy supply by lactate. A local temporary fuel &quot;reservoir&quot; is established behind the blood-brain barrier, evidenced by increased extracellular lactate concentration. The pool can be depleted rapidly, up to 28% in 10-12 s, by massive, acute neuronal use after stimulation and can be replenished in approximately 20 s. Glutamate-stimulated astrocytic glycolysis and the increase of regional blood flow may regulate the lactate concentration of the pool in different time scales to maintain local energy homeostasis.
Exposure of various neuronal cells or cell lines to high concentrations of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+), the active metabolite of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), results in cell death. Recently, it has been reported that low concentrations of MPP+ induce apoptosis in susceptible neurons. We have further characterized MPP+-mediated toxicity of cultured cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs) and found that exposure of CGNs to relatively low concentrations of MPP+ results in apoptosis, whereas higher concentrations result in necrosis. Cotreatment of CGNs with MPP+ and the tetrapeptide inhibitor of caspase-3-like proteases, acetyl-DEVD-CHO, markedly attenuates apoptotic but not necrotic death of these neurons. The more specific inhibitor of caspase-1-like proteases, acetyl-YVAD-CHO, however, was ineffective against MPP+ neurotoxicity. Moreover, cytoplasmic extracts prepared from MPP+-treated CGNs contain markedly increased protease activity that cleaves the caspase-3 substrate acetyl-DEVD-p-nitroaniline. Finally, the cytoplasmic concentration of the apoptogenic protein cytochrome c was increased in a time-dependent fashion in MPP+-treated CGNs before the onset of apoptosis. Our data confirm that the neurotoxicity of MPP+ is due to both necrosis and apoptosis and suggest that the latter is mediated by activation of a caspase-3-like protease.
We examined the effect of line length and viewing distance on the line bisection performance in near space in five patients with left unilateral spatial neglect following right parietal lesions. A line bisection task by fixation was devised to avoid the influence of manual responses. The rightward deviation measured in visual angle increased linearly as a function of the visual angle of lines 150 mm or more long. This linearity, however, did not hold for lines of 100 mm or less. The deviation measured in length was nearly constant for each of these short lengths, even when the visual angle was varied at different viewing distances. The patients therefore discriminated the objective lengths of the short lines. For small objects, neglect patients may distribute attention mainly on the coordinates scaled for objective size.

A middle aged woman presented with delusions of infestation and multimodal hallucinations due to an underlying glioma of the corpus callosum. After surgery, the phenomena in question changed and finally disappeared. A recurrence of the tumour caused dementia.
To investigate the spinal cellular structures and molecular mechanisms involved in acetylcholinesterase (AChE) release evoked by both glycine (GLY) and glutamate (GLU)--responses that might play a role in chronic neurotoxicity--we analysed AChE histochemistry and histology upon systemic administration of aspartate (ASP), and conducted in vitro experiments in synaptosomes and slices prepared from mouse spinal ventral horns. Upon superfusion and incubation exposure of these preparations to GLY- and GLU-receptor agonists, we assayed both tissue content and release of AChE, butyrylcholinesterase and lactic dehydrogenase. Histochemical reduction of motor neurone (MN) AChE, calcium dependency, decreases in intracellular AChE and the ratio amongst molecular forms released, suggest that both synaptosomal GLY-evoked AChE release (GLY-EAR) and GLU-receptor-elicited AChE release (GEAR) have release sites located at MN presynaptic terminals. These responses exhibited remarkable postnatal regulation. GEAR seems to be mediated through alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid/kainate receptors after the fourth postnatal week and through both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors at earlier stages. Sustained rises of extracellular AChE might link acute excitotoxic injury with several long-lasting pathways leading to chronic neurotoxicity, since AChE molecular properties include: (1) the ability to block cholinergic mechanisms that protect MN against overactivity; (2) activation of ATP-dependent potassium channels; (3) promotion of neurite and axon outgrowth; and possibly (4) stimulation of brain macrophage migration and activation.

The kinematic constraints of three-dimensional eye positions were investigated in rhesus monkeys during passive head and body rotations relative to gravity. We studied fast and slow phase components of the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) elicited by constant-velocity yaw rotations and sinusoidal oscillations about an earth-horizontal axis. We found that the spatial orientation of both fast and slow phase eye positions could be described locally by a planar surface with torsional variation of &lt;2.0 +/- 0.4 degrees (displacement planes) that systematically rotated and/or shifted relative to Listing's plane. In supine/prone positions, displacement planes pitched forward/backward; in left/right ear-down positions, displacement planes were parallel shifted along the positive/negative torsional axis. Dynamically changing primary eye positions were computed from displacement planes. Torsional and vertical components of primary eye position modulated as a sinusoidal function of head orientation in space. The torsional component was maximal in ear-down positions and approximately zero in supine/prone orientations. The opposite was observed for the vertical component. Modulation of the horizontal component of primary eye position exhibited a more complex dependence. In contrast to the torsional component, which was relatively independent of rotational speed, modulation of the vertical and horizontal components of primary position depended strongly on the speed of head rotation (i.e., on the frequency of oscillation of the gravity vector component): the faster the head rotated relative to gravity, the larger was the modulation. Corresponding results were obtained when a model based on a sinusoidal dependence of instantaneous displacement planes (and primary eye position) on head orientation relative to gravity was fitted to VOR fast phase positions. When VOR fast phase positions were expressed relative to primary eye position estimated from the model fits, they were confined approximately to a single plane with a small torsional standard deviation ( approximately 1.4-2.6 degrees). This reduced torsional variation was in contrast to the large torsional spread (well &gt;10-15 degrees ) of fast phase positions when expressed relative to Listing's plane. We conclude that primary eye position depends dynamically on head orientation relative to space rather than being fixed to the head. It defines a gravity-dependent coordinate system relative to which the torsional variability of eye positions is minimized even when the head is moved passively and vestibulo-ocular reflexes are evoked. In this general sense, Listing's law is preserved with respect to an otolith-controlled reference system that is defined dynamically by gravity.
The spatial organization of fast phase velocity vectors of the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) was studied in rhesus monkeys during yaw rotations about an earth-horizontal axis that changed continuously the orientation of the head relative to gravity (&quot;barbecue spit&quot; rotation). In addition to a velocity component parallel to the rotation axis, fast phases also exhibited a velocity component that invariably was oriented along the momentary direction of gravity. As the head rotated through supine and prone positions, torsional components of fast phase velocity axes became prominent. Similarly, as the head rotated through left and right ear-down positions, fast phase velocity axes exhibited prominent vertical components. The larger the speed of head rotation the greater the magnitude of this fast phase component, which was collinear with gravity. The main sequence properties of VOR fast phases were independent of head position. However, peak amplitude as well as peak velocity of fast phases were both modulated as a function of head orientation, exhibiting a minimum in prone position. The results suggest that the fast phases of vestibulo-ocular reflexes not only redirect gaze and reposition the eye in the direction of head motion but also reorient the eye with respect to earth-vertical when the head moves relative to gravity. As further elaborated in the companion paper, the underlying mechanism could be described as a dynamic, gravity-dependent modulation of the coordinates of ocular rotations relative to the head.
The presence and distribution of intracellular Ca2+ release pathways in olfactory bulb neurons were studied in dissociated cell cultures. Histochemical techniques and imaging of Ca2+ fluxes were used to identify two major intracellular Ca2+ release mechanisms: inositol 1, 4,5-triphosphate receptor (IP3R)-mediated release, and ryanodine receptor-mediated release. Cultured neurons were identified by immunocytochemistry for the neuron-specificmarker beta-tubulin III. Morphometric analyses and immunocytochemistry for glutamic acid-decarboxylase revealed a heterogeneous population of cultured neurons with phenotypes corresponding to both projection (mitral/tufted) and intrinsic (periglomerular/granule) neurons of the in vivo olfactory bulb. Immunocytochemistry for the IP3R, and labeling with fluorescent-tagged ryanodine, revealed that, irrespective of cell type, almost all cultured neurons express IP3R and ryanodine binding sites in both somata and dendrites. Functional imaging revealed that intracellular Ca2+ fluxes can be generated in the absence of external Ca2+, using agonists specific to each of the intracellular release pathways. Local pressure application of glutamate or quisqualate evoked Ca2+ fluxes in both somata and dendrites in nominally Ca2+ free extracellular solutions, suggesting the presence of IP3-dependent Ca2+ release. These fluxes were blocked by preincubation with thapsigargin and persisted in the presence of the glutamate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. Local application of caffeine, a ryanodine receptor agonist, also evoked intracellular Ca2+ fluxes in the absence of extracellular Ca2+. These Ca2+ fluxes were suppressed by preincubation with ryanodine. In all neurons, both IP3- and ryanodine-dependent release pathways coexisted, suggesting that they interact to modulate intracellular Ca2+ concentrations.
We examined the hypothesis that dendritic voltage-gated channels can reduce the effect synaptic location has on somatic depolarization in response to patterns of short synaptic trains (referred to as location-dependent variability). Three computer models of a reconstructed hippocampal CA1 cell, each of increasing realism and complexity, were used. For each model, the goal was to identify the dendritic composition that best reduced the location-dependent variability. The first model was linear and a single parameter, dendritic membrane conductance (GDm, where Rm = 1/GDm), was varied. Surprisingly, a negative GDm minimized the location-dependent variability. Superposition of the synaptic inputs showed that, compared with passive dendrites, active dendrites increase the mean of the individual responses while decreasing the variance between synapses at different locations. Active dendrites compensate the three components of passive cable signal interference that increase with distance from the soma: the accumulation of charge on dendritic membrane capacitance, the escape of charge across synaptic and nonsynaptic dendritic membrane conductances, and the reduction in synaptic charge entry due to increased depolarization of dendrites located farther from the soma. We also found that the entire active dendritic tree contributes charge to any one active synapse. The second model contained an artificial voltage-dependent current (Iboost) added to passive apical dendrites. The optimal amount of Iboost that minimized location-dependent variability was found to be independent of the strength of individual synaptic inputs but inversely related to the synaptic duration. In the third model, realistic T-type Ca2+ and persistent Na+ channel models were added to passive dendrites and numerically fit to reproduce the effects of Iboost. Both realistic currents minimized synaptic variability. The densities for the realistic dendritic currents were not uniform but showed subtle variations and a slight reduction with distance from the soma. A heteroassociative memory network also was modeled to demonstrate the important relationship between location-dependent variability and memory recall performance. Compared with passive dendrites, active dendrites increased memory storage by reducing recall errors. These simulations demonstrate that active dendrites can minimize the cable properties of passive dendrites and enhance the soma's ability to determine the strength of the synaptic input. These models predict dendrites that minimize location-dependent variability will have an overall negative slope conductance I-V relationship that is tuned precisely.
Possible interactions between octopamine-immunoreactive (IR) and serotonergic neurons in the CNS of the medicinal leech were investigated. Simultaneous intracellular recordings of serotonin-containing neurons (either the Retzius neuron or cell 21) and the dorsolateral octopamine-IR (DLO) neuron demonstrated that both sets of neurons are coactive at times. Depolarization of either serotonergic cell 21 or the Retzius neuron did not alter the membrane potential of the DLO. Similarly, depolarization of the DLO did not affect the serotonergic neurons examined. Because it was found that the DLO and either the serotonergic cell 21 or Retzius neuron were at times coactive, we looked for possible sources of common excitatory inputs. The centrally located pressure (P)- and touch (T)-sensitive mechanosensory neurons excited the DLOs through a polysynaptic pathway. Stimulation of nociceptive (N) mechanosensory neurons did not cause a measurable depolarization in the membrane potential of the DLO. Through simultaneous recordings of the DLO, cell 21, and a particular identified mechanosensory neuron, it was demonstrated that activity in the T or P cells can excite both serotonergic cell 21 and the octopamine-IR DLO. These findings indicate that, in many instances, both serotonin and octopamine, biogenic amines with neuromodulatory actions in many different invertebrates, may be released simultaneously in the leech.
Pyramidal cells of layer V in rat prefrontal cortex display a prominent fast afterdepolarization (fADP) following an action potential. This ADP is blocked by replacing extracellular calcium with magnesium, by the application of the calcium-channel blocker cadmium, and by buffering intracellular calcium at near physiological levels. Thus this fast ADP appears mediated by a calcium-activated current. A prominent ADP is also observed following a calcium spike recorded in the presence of tetrodotoxin. The current underlying this ADP was recorded using a hybrid current-voltage protocol. A strong ADP could be observed in the presence of potassium channel blockers as well as at ECl. Furthermore, the current underlying the ADP increased with hyperpolarization in the subthreshold range and displayed an extrapolated reversal potential near +30 mV. Reducing the ratio of extracellular to intracellular sodium inhibited the current underlying the ADP and caused a hyperpolarizing shift in its reversal potential. We conclude that these cells express a calcium-activated cation nonselective current whose activation contributes to the generation of the fADP. This current could play an important role in determining the firing properties of pyramidal cells in cortex.
Neurons constituting the pacemaker of circadian rhythms, located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, generate spontaneous firing patterns that change across the day-night cycle. Their average spontaneous firing rate is considered an important functional marker of clock activity because it is highest during daytime and low at night. In this study we investigate the ionic mechanisms underlying spontaneous firing in acutely prepared slices and dissociated neurons of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. In current-clamp mode, spontaneous action potentials were consistently preceded by depolarizing ramps. These ramps were Na+ dependent, were sensitive to tetrodotoxin (TTX), and disappeared on hyperpolarization. Ramps and associated spikes were not abolished by blockers of the H current (1 mM cesium) or calcium currents (50 microM nickel or 200 microM cadmium). In voltage-clamped neurons in slices or dissociated neurons, TTX-sensitive and Na+-dependent inward current was observed to activate well below firing threshold (-60 to -50 mV). The low-threshold component of Na+ current inactivated slowly as compared with the fast component that mediates action potentials. However, its inactivation proceeded more rapidly than has been reported for the persistent Na+ current in cortical structures. Persistent Na+ current was generally absent or small in amplitude. The voltage dependence and kinetics of the slowly inactivating component of Na+ current are consistent with the hypothesis that it is partially deinactivated during spike afterhyperpolarizations and contributes significantly to subsequent depolarizing ramps. These observations implicate the slowly inactivating component of Na+ current in ionic mechanisms governing spontaneous firing in suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons.
The visual input for pursuit eye movements is represented in the cerebral cortex as the distributed activity of neurons that are tuned for both the direction and speed of target motion. To probe how the motor system uses this distributed code to compute a command for smooth eye movements, we have recorded the initiation of pursuit for 150 msec presentations of two spots moving at different speeds and/or in different directions. With equal probability, one of the two spots continued to move at the same speed and in the same direction and became the tracking target, whereas the other disappeared and served as a distractor. We measured eye acceleration in the interval from 110 to 206 msec after the onset of spot motion, within both the open-loop interval for pursuit and the interval during which eye motion was affected by the two spots. Our results demonstrate that weighted vector averaging is used to combine the responses to two moving spots. We found only a minute number of responses that were consistent with either vector summation or winner-take-all computations. In addition, our data show that it is difficult for the monkey to defeat vector averaging without extended training on the use of an explicit cue about which spot will become the target. We argue that our experiment reveals the computations done by the pursuit system in the absence of attentional bias and that vector averaging is normally used to read the distributed code of image motion when there is only one target.
Tactile pattern recognition depends on form and texture perception. A principal dimension of texture perception is roughness, the neural coding of which was the focus of this study. Previous studies have shown that perceived roughness is not based on neural activity in the Pacinian or cutaneous slowly adapting type II (SAII) neural responses or on mean impulse rate or temporal patterning in the cutaneous slowly adapting type I (SAI) or rapidly adapting (RA) discharge evoked by a textured surface. However, those studies found very high correlations between roughness scaling by humans and measures of spatial variation in SAI and RA firing rates. The present study used textured surfaces composed of dots of varying height (280-620 micron) and diameter (0.25-2.5 mm) in psychophysical and neurophysiological experiments. RA responses were affected least by the range of dot diameters and heights that produced the widest variation in perceived roughness, and these responses could not account for the psychophysical data. In contrast, spatial variation in SAI impulse rate was correlated closely with perceived roughness over the whole stimulus range, and a single measure of SAI spatial variation accounts for the psychophysical data in this (0.974 correlation) and two previous studies. Analyses based on the possibility that perceived roughness depends on both afferent types suggest that if the RA response plays a role in roughness perception, it is one of mild inhibition. These data reinforce the hypothesis that SAI afferents are mainly responsible for information about form and texture whereas RA afferents are mainly responsible for information about flutter, slip, and motion across the skin surface.
Parallel studies have demonstrated that enkephalin release from nerve terminals in the pallidum (globus pallidus and ventral pallidum) can be modulated by locally applied opioid drugs. To investigate further the mechanisms underlying these opioid effects, the present study examined the presynaptic and postsynaptic localization of delta (DOR1) and mu (MOR1) opioid receptors in the dorsal and ventral striatopallidal enkephalinergic system using fluorescence immunohistochemistry combined with anterograde and retrograde neuronal tracing techniques. DOR1 immunostaining patterns revealed primarily a postsynaptic localization of the receptor in pallidal cell bodies adjacent to enkephalin- or synaptophysin-positive fiber terminals. MOR1 immunostaining in the pallidum revealed both a presynaptic localization, as evidenced by punctate staining that co-localized with enkephalin and synaptophysin, and a postsynaptic localization, as evidenced by cytoplasmic staining of cells that were adjacent to enkephalin and synaptophysin immunoreactivities. Injections of the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) or the retrograde tracer Texas Red-conjugated dextran amine (TRD) into the dorsal and ventral striatum resulted in labeling of striatopallidal fibers and pallidostriatal cell bodies, respectively. DOR1 immunostaining in the pallidum co-localized only with TRD and not PHA-L, whereas pallidal MOR1 immunostaining co-localized with PHA-L and not TRD. These results suggest that pallidal enkephalin release may be modulated by mu opioid receptors located presynaptically on striatopallidal enkephalinergic neurons and by delta opioid receptors located postsynaptically on pallidostriatal feedback neurons.
Olfactory bulbs retain the ability to acquire new neurons throughout life. Unilateral olfactory deprivation during the first postnatal month in rats results in a dramatic reduction in the size of the experimental olfactory bulb. Part of this reduction is attributable to the death of neurons and glia. To examine the regenerative capacity of the juvenile olfactory bulb, we developed a technique for reversible olfactory deprivation. Reversible blockade from postnatal day 1 (P1) to P20 or P30 results in reduced bulb volume and tyrosine hydroxylase immunostaining, and decreased depth in the olfactory mucosa. In another experiment, normal stimulation was restored for varying periods of time, and experimental and control bulb volumes were measured. Recovery of bulb size occurs after 40 d of normal stimulation. Rats injected with a thymidine analog to label dividing cells during the recovery period revealed that rescue results at least in part from the addition of new neurons and glia. Thus, cells born after the return of normal levels of environmental stimulation can replace some of the neurons and glia that are lost during olfactory deprivation. This system can be used to study mechanisms that underlie neuronal regeneration in the maturing mammalian brain.
Administration of nerve growth factor (NGF) to aged or lesioned animals has been shown to reverse the atrophy of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and ameliorate behavioral deficits. To examine the importance of endogenous NGF in the survival of basal forebrain cholinergic cells and in spatial memory, mice bearing a disruption mutation in one allele of the NGF gene were studied. Heterozygous mutant mice (ngf+/-) have reduced levels of NGF mRNA and protein within the hippocampus and were found to display significant deficits in memory acquisition and retention in the Morris water maze. The behavioral deficits observed in NGF-deficient mice were accompanied by both shrinkage and loss of septal cells expressing cholinergic markers and by a decrease in cholinergic innervation of the hippocampus. Infusions of NGF into the lateral ventricle of adult ngf+/- mice abolished the deficits on the water maze task. Prolonged exposure to NGF may be required to induce cognitive effects, because reversal of the acquisition deficit was seen after long (5 weeks) but not short (3 d) infusion. Although NGF administration did not result in any improvement in the number of septal cells labeled for choline acetyltransferase, this treatment did effectively correct the deficits in both size of cholinergic neurons and density of cholinergic innervation of the hippocampus. These findings demonstrate the importance of endogenous NGF for survival and function of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and reveal that partial depletion of this trophic factor is associated with measurable deficits in learning and memory.
Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH), the initial and rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of the neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT), is irreversibly inactivated by nitric oxide (NO). We have expressed brain TPH as a recombinant glutathione-S-transferase fusion protein and delineated the catalytic domain of the enzyme as the region spanning amino acids 99-444. Highly purified TPH catalytic core, like the native enzyme from brain, is inactivated by NO in a concentration-dependent manner. Removal of iron from TPH produces an apoenzyme with low activity that can be reconverted to its highly active holo-form by the addition of ferrous iron. Apo-TPH exposed to NO cannot be reactivated by iron. Treatment of holo-TPH (iron-loaded) with the disulfide 5,5'-dithio-bis (2-nitrobenzoic acid) (DTNB) causes an inactivation of TPH that is readily reversed by dithiothreitol (DTT). DTNB-treated TPH [sulfhydryl (SH)-protected] exposed to NO is returned to full activity by thiol reduction with DTT. The inactivation of native TPH by NO cannot be reversed by either iron or DTT. These data indicate that NO inactivates TPH by selective action on critical SH groups (i.e., cysteine residues) while sparing catalytic iron sites within the enzyme. The results are interpreted with reference to the substituted amphetamines, which are neurotoxic to 5-HT neurons, that inactivate TPH in vivo and are now known to produce NO and other reactive oxygen species in vivo.
We analyzed the kinetics and pharmacology of EPSCs in two kinds of neurons in the embryonic avian ciliary ganglion. Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings revealed that the singly innervated ciliary neurons had large-amplitude (1.5-8.0 nA) EPSCs that could be classified according to the kinetics of their falling phases. Most of the neurons responded with an EPSC the falling phase of which followed a double exponential time course with time constants of approximately 1 and 10 msec. The EPSCs of the remaining ciliary neurons followed a single time constant ( approximately 8 msec). Multiple innervated choroid neurons had smaller-amplitude responses (0.2-1.5 nA when all inputs were activated) that appeared to contain only a slowly decaying component (tau = 12 msec). The fast and slow components of EPSC decay seen in most ciliary neurons could be pharmacologically isolated with two toxins against nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs). The fast component was blocked by 50 nM alpha-bungarotoxin (alpha-BuTx), which binds alpha7-subunit-containing AChRs. The slow component was selectively blocked by 50 nM alpha-conotoxin MII (alpha-CTx-MII), which blocks mammalian AChRs containing an alpha3/beta2 subunit interface. A combination of both alpha-BuTx and alpha-CTx-MII abolished nearly all evoked current. Similar pharmacological results were found for ciliary neurons with monoexponentially decaying EPSCs and for choroid neurons. These results suggest that nerve-evoked transmitter acts on at least two different populations of AChRs on autonomic motor neurons in the ciliary ganglion.
Nurses are making a significant difference in health care today and research is the key to making our practice the best that it can be. Our goal is to facilitate that research and to promote excellence in the knowledge underlying clinical practice. We should be proud of the accomplishments so far, but challenges and opportunities exist for the future. Neuroscience nurses are at the forefront of some of the most exciting avenues for scientific discovery. NINR research, past, present, and future will contribute to these efforts.
The onset of subtle diffuse ischemic neurological deficits often associated with cerebral vasospasm is a major cause of morbidity and mortality following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. The exact etiology of cerebral vasospasm is unclear. Increasing intravascular volume, decreasing blood viscosity and inducing hypertension may help prevent or diminish neurological deficits from cerebral vasospasm by improving cerebral blood flow. An intensive multidisciplinary approach is necessary with the role of the neuroscience nurse being pivotal. An understanding of the subtle neurological changes suggestive of cerebral vasospasm and its effects leads to early recognition, and allows for rapid institution of therapy.
Intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) is a common, serious problem among premature infants. With advances in neonatal care, improved survival rates of small premature infants and improved diagnostic capabilities, IVH is seen with increased frequency in the high-risk nursery. Studies indicate 15-20% of premature infants (birth weight less than 1,500 gms), have been noted to have IVH Many of these neonates survive beyond infancy and may subsequently be seen in pediatric neurosurgery and neurology clinics with long-term problems such as hydrocephalus, cerebral palsy, mental retardation and seizures. Although long-term sequelae are not always present, it is beneficial for the neuroscience nurse to be able to understand the mechanisms of brain injury with IVH in order to anticipate long-term problems and provide comprehensive follow-up care for infants and children with this diagnosis.
The effects of a mumps virus infection on functional properties of embryonic hippocampal neurons in culture were analysed with special emphasis on voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. Cultures with higher or lower density of glial cells (not treated or treated with mitotic inhibitor, respectively) were infected with the relatively non-cytolytic RW strain of mumps virus and currents were recorded from neurons using whole cell voltage clamp. More than 65% of neurons and glial cells contained viral antigens 1-2 days post infection (p.i.). Glial cells remained infected 6-7 days p.i., while the ratio of infected versus uninfected neurons, especially in cultures with higher glial cell density, was reduced. In both infected and uninfected cultures the somal voltage-dependent Ca2+ currents were stronger in cultures with a higher glial cell density, which indicates that these currents are influenced by glial cells. Introduction of the virus into cultures caused a selective decrease in inward Ca2+ currents, which was most marked at days 6-7 p.i., and which included both infected and unifected neurons. Spontaneous synaptic currents and other ion channel conductances appeared normal in the infected cultures. Dantrolene, which inhibits release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores, decreased the neurons that died during the infection. Taken together the results show that a mumps viral infection can selectively alter the number of function of somal voltage dependent Ca2+ channels in immature hippocampal neurons and that this may reflect a disturbed glia-nerve cell interaction.
Adeno associated virus (AAV) is a non-pathogenic dependent parvovirus with a broad host range, capable of high levels of transduction and stable integration into the host cell genome. We have investigated the potential for using AAV as a vector for gene transfer into glial cells of the human fetal nervous system. Recombinant AAV vectors expression either the reporter gene beta-galactosidase or a human CD4 receptor were able to transduce both primary glial cells of the human fetal nervous system and an SV40 immortalized human fetal glial cell line (SVG). No difference in transduction efficiency was observed between the primary cells and the cell line which in both cases was as high as 95%. Stable transfectants of the glial cell line expressing the CD4 receptor were selected. An SVG/CD4 expressing line was then established. The presence of the CD4 receptor was confirmed by immunohistochemistry, Westerm immuno-blotting and flow cytometric analysis. The CD4 receptor was shown to be functional by infection of the SVG/CD4 cell line with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Upon infection, the SVG/CD4 cells produced 20-fold higher levels of the HIV intracellular core antigen P24 than the CD4 negative parental cells and in addition formed syncytia. The use of AAV vectors should prove useful in biological investigations of human glial cells and offers promise as a means of ex vivo and in vivo gene delivery.
This study examines nitric oxide (NO) mediated effects on longitudinal muscle with adherent myenteric ganglia from rat ileum in vitro using NO donors and electrical field stimulation. Electrical field stimulation (20 Hz) caused a biphasic response-a relaxation followed by a contraction. NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester almost totally abolished the relaxation and L-arginine restored it. The contraction was unaffected. The NO donors sodium-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP) and sodium-nitroprusside also induced a biphasic response, a contraction followed by relaxation. Relaxations mediated by neuronally released NO were not blocked by methylene blue or 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]-quinoxalin-1-one suggesting that they are independent of a rise in intracellular cyclic guanylate cyclase. Their amplitude was unaffected by forskolin. The relaxations evoked by NO (or a NO-related substance) liberated from SNAP were blocked by methylene blue or 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]-quinoxalin-1-one indicating a cyclic guanylate cyclase-dependent mechanism of action. Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide and forskolin, but not vasoactive intestinal peptide or neuropeptide Y, caused a marked leftward shift of the concentration-response curve of the SNAP-induced relaxation. The contractions induced by SNAP were blocked by methylene blue and 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]-quinoxalin-1-one and thus, cyclic guanylate cyclase dependent. The SNAP-induced contractions were abolished by pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide and forskolin, but unaffected by vasoactive intestinal peptide or NPY. In conclusion, motor responses evoked by NO released from NO donors vs. neuronally released NO reveals different mechanisms of action.

Language impairments have been hypothesized to have a genetic component. Previous studies of the familial aggregation of language impairments have relied on a retrospective approach based on parental/self-reported history of language development. This study examined familial aggregation prospectively, by investigating language acquisition and cognitive development in the younger siblings and offspring of individuals with well-defined language impairments. It was predicted that children with a positive family history for language impairments would be more likely to show delays in language acquisition than would age- and gender-matched controls. Similar delays were not expected in nonlinguistic domains, such as conceptual, gestural, or general cognitive development. Ten children with a positive family history and 10 age- and gender-matched controls were tested. Analyses of linguistic and cognitive assessments at 16 to 26 months confirmed the predictions. Children with a family history of language impairments had lower receptive and expressive language scores than controls, with 50% of them scoring at least 1.5 SD below the mean for their age. At the same time, performance on a number of tasks that did not rely on language abilities did not differ as a function of family history. These results indicate that children with a positive family history for language impairments are at risk for language delay; the results also support a familial component to language impairments.


Optical recordings of membrane depolarization and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of membrane potentials and currents were obtained from chromaffin cells in slices of rat adrenal medulla. The stimulation of splanchnic nerve fibers caused a discontinuous spread of electrical activity across the slice. Cells in clusters with diameters of about 80 microns were excited simultaneously, suggesting that the adrenal medulla is organized into descrete cell complexes with common innervation. The electrical properties of chromaffin cells in situ were in agreement with previous reports on cultured cells. A fraction of the recorded cells displayed excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) of 0.2-1 nA upon the stimulation of presynaptic nerve fibers. The EPSC was blocked by hexamethonium, suggesting that nicotinic ACh receptors were involved. The decay phase of the EPSC was well fit by the sum of two exponentials with time constants of 6.3 and 57.3 ms. The relative amplitude of the fast component was 84.1%. These two exponentials may reflect activation of both fast and slow time-constant ACh receptor channels by presynaptic release of ACh. There were multiple peaks in the EPSC amplitude histograms in low-[Ca2+] saline, the first peak was at 37 pA. To resolve the quantal size, miniature EPSCs were recorded in a tetrodotoxin-containing high-[K+] solution. The miniature EPSC amplitude histograms were also multimodal with the first peak at 25 pA, which probably represents the quantal size of the synapse. The second and third peaks were at the integer multiples of the first one.

The reproducibility of ballistic actions performed on a custom-made apparatus was assessed in six untrained men who reported to the laboratory two times over a span of 10 d, on each occasion performing three isometric maximal voluntary contractions (MVC, elbow extension) and 10 ballistic elbow extension movements in each of two conditions: unloaded (L0) and with a load equal to 10% MVC (L10). For both the average of the trials and the best trial, method errors and Pearson correlation coefficients (r) were calculated for isometric peak torque and 10 (5 at each of L0 and L10) selected ballistic movement parameters (peak torque, peak rate of torque development, movement time, peak velocity, and peak acceleration). Based on method errors obtained and given an alpha level of 0.05 and power of 0.9, needed sample sizes were calculated for treatment effects ranging from 5 to 20%. Method errors for isometric peak torque were 5.1 and 3.1% for best and average of trials, respectively. For the 10 ballistic parameters, the corresponding method errors averaged 7.1 +/- 5.4% (SD) and 6.8 +/- 3.6%. The largest method errors were found in peak torque and peak rate of torque development with L0. The expected high negative correlation between method errors and r values was not found. For 5, 10, and 20% treatment effects, 4, 6, and 9 of 10 best trial measures met the sample size criterion of N &lt; or = 20. For the average of trials, 3, 8, and all 10 met the criterion. With the exception of rate of torque development, the reproducibility of the described ballistic measures is acceptable for longitudinal training studies and cross-sectional group comparisons.
Nine male karate athletes and 13 untrained men did maximal voluntary isometric (MVC) and ballistic elbow extension actions, the latter unloaded (L0) and against a load equal to 10% MVC (L10). The karate group achieved greater (P &lt; 0.05) isometric (32%) and ballistic action peak torque with L0 (30%) and L10 (40%). With L10 the ratio of ballistic action to isometric action, peak torque was 13% greater in the karate group, indicating a load specific training adaptation. With L0 the corresponding ratio did not differ significantly between groups. Ballistic action peak rate of torque development (51%, 51%) and peak acceleration (15%, 9%) with L0 and L10, respectively, were greater in the karate group. In contrast, peak velocity and movement time did not differ significantly between groups. Electromyographic recordings of agonist triceps and antagonist biceps were made during the isometric and ballistic actions. Since ballistic actions (L10) were initiated from a preloaded condition, the occurrence and duration of premovement agonist depression were monitored. In ballistic actions there were no group differences in agonist activation, the ratio of ballistic to isometric action agonist activation, or antagonist coactivation. Premovement agonist depression occurred infrequently in both groups, with no group differences. It is concluded that karate athletes have enhanced elbow extension ballistic performance, but it could not be related to amplified agonist activation, altered antagonist activation, or more frequent occurrence of agonist premovement depression.
The immunophilins are a family of proteins that are receptors for immunosuppressant drugs, such as cyclosporin A, FK506, and rapamycin. They occur in two classes, the FK506-binding proteins (FKBPs), which bind FK506 and rapamycin, and the cyclophilins, which bind cyclosporin A. Immunosuppressant actions of cyclosporin A and FK506 derive from the drug-immunophilin complex binding to and inhibiting the phosphatase calcineurin. Rapamycin binds to FKBP and the complex binds to Rapamycin And FKBP-12 Target (RAFT). RAFT affects protein translation by phosphorylating p70-S6 kinase, which phosphorylates the ribosomal S6 protein, and 4E-BP1, a repressor of protein translation initiation. Immunophilin levels are much higher in the brain than in immune tissues, and levels of FKBP12 increase in regenerating neurons in parallel with GAP-43. Immunophilin ligands, including nonimmunosuppressants that do not inhibit calcineurin, stimulate regrowth of damaged peripheral and central neurons, including dopamine, serotonin, and cholinergic neurons in intact animals. FKPB12 is physiologically associated with the ryanodine and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) receptors and regulates their calcium flux. By influencing phosphorylation of neuronal nitric oxide synthase, FKBP12 regulates nitric oxide formation, which is reduced by FK506.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) are a family of acetylcholine-gated cation channels that form the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter receptors on muscles and nerves in the peripheral nervous system. AChRs are also expressed on neurons in lower amounts throughout the central nervous system. AChRs are even being reported on unexpected cell types such as keratinocytes. Structures of these AChRs are being determined with increasing precision, but functions of some orphan subunits are just beginning to be established. Functional roles for postsynaptic AChRs in muscle are well known, but in neurons the post-, peri-, extra-, and presynaptic roles of AChRs are just being revealed. Pathogenic roles of AChRs are being discovered in many diseases involving mechanisms ranging from mutations, to autoimmune responses, to the unknown; involving cell types ranging from muscles, to neurons, to keratinocytes; and involving signs and symptoms ranging from muscle weakness to epilepsy, to neurodegenerative disease, to psychiatric disease, to nicotine addiction. Awareness of AChR involvement in some of these diseases has provoked new interests in development of therapeutic agonists for specific AChR subtypes and the use of expressed cloned AChR subunits as possible immunotherapeutic agents. Highlights of recent developments in these areas will be briefly reviewed.
Neurotransmission depends on the regulated release of chemical transmitter molecules. This requires the packaging of these substances into the specialized secretory vesicles of neurons and neuroendocrine cells, a process mediated by specific vesicular transporters. The family of genes encoding the vesicular transporters for biogenic amines and acetylcholine have recently been cloned. Direct comparison of their transport characteristics and pharmacology provides information about vesicular transport bioenergetics, substrate feature recognition by each transporter, and the role of vesicular amine storage in the mechanism of action of psychopharmacologic and neurotoxic agents. Regulation of vesicular transport activity may affect levels of neurotransmitter available for neurosecretion and be an important site for the regulation of synaptic function. Gene knockout studies have determined vesicular transport function is critical for survival and have enabled further evaluation of the role of vesicular neurotransmitter transporters in behavior and neurotoxicity. Molecular analysis is beginning to reveal the sites involved in vesicular transporter function and the sites that determine substrate specificity. In addition, the molecular basis for the selective targeting of these transporters to specific vesicle populations and the biogenesis of monoaminergic and cholinergic synaptic vesicles are areas of research that are currently being explored. This information provides new insights into the pharmacology and physiology of biogenic amine and acetylcholine vesicular storage in cardiovascular, endocrine, and central nervous system function and has important implications for neurodegenerative disease.
Experimental and clinical studies suggest an involvement of the opioid neuropeptide system in psychiatric disorders. Notably, opioid peptide immunoreactivity is altered in the cerebrospinal fluid of chronic schizophrenics and manic-depressive subjects. Despite these clinical findings, few postmortem investigations have examined the association of endogenous opioid neuropeptides with schizophrenia and suicide. Anatomically, a tight interaction exists within the neostriatum between the opioid peptide (dynorphin and enkephalin) system and classical neurotransmitters such as dopamine which has been implicated in both the psychotic symptoms and the cognitive deficits that characterize schizophrenia (see review). The neostriatum is differentially organized into patch and matrix neurochemical mosaic compartments anatomically connected to limbic- and sensorimotor-related brain regions, respectively. Moreover, the human neostriatum is characterized by a heterogenous expression of the prodynorphin opioid gene: high in the patch, but low in the matrix compartment. The present results show for the first time a differential alteration of prodynorphin within distinct striatal compartments in postmortem tissue from nonschizophrenic suicide subjects. The prodynorphin patch/matrix mRNA expression was elevated in the caudate nucleus of suicide subjects as compared to normal controls and schizophrenics in which no alterations in opioid peptides or D1 and D2 mRNA expression were apparent. Altogether the findings suggest that discrete dysfunction of the endogenous opioid dynorphin system might contribute to depression and the risk of suicide in nonschizophrenic subjects.

Considerable progress is being made in interdisciplinary efforts to develop a general theory of the neural correlates of consciousness. Developments of Baars' Global Workspace theory over the past decade are examples of this progress. Integrating experimental data and models from cognitive psychology, AI and neuroscience, we present a neurocognitive model in which consciousness is defined as a global integration and dissemination system - nested in a large-scale, distributed array of specialized bioprocessors - which controls the allocation of the processing resources of the central nervous system. It is posited that this global control is effected via cortical 'gating' of a strategic thalamic nucleus. The basic circuitry of this neural system is reasonably well understood, and can be modeled, to a first approximation, employing neural network principles.

GM1 ganglioside was previously shown to function as a specific regulator of excitatory opioid activity in dorsal root ganglion neurons and F11 hybrid cells, as seen in its facilitation of opioid-induced activation of adenylyl cyclase and its ability to dramatically reduce the threshold opioid concentration required to prolong the action potential duration. The elevated levels of GM1 resulting from chronic opioid exposure of F11 cells were postulated to cause the ensuing opioid excitatory supersensitivity. We now show that GM1 promotes opioid (DADLE)-induced activation of adenylyl cyclase in NG108-15 cells which possess the delta-type of receptor. In keeping with previous studies of other systems, this can be envisioned as conformational interaction of GM1 with the receptor that results in uncoupling of the receptor from Gi and facilitated coupling to Gs. This would also account for the observation that DADLE-induced attenuation of forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase was reversed by GM1, provided the cells were not pretreated with pertussis toxin. When the cells were so pretreated, GM1 evoked an unexpected attenuation of forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase attributed to GM1-promoted influx of calcium which was postulated to inhibit a calcium-sensitive form of adenylyl cyclase. This is concordant with several studies showing GM1 to be a potent modulator of calcium flux. Pertussis toxin in these experiments exerted dual effects, one being to promote interaction of the delta-opioid receptor with Gs through inactivation of Gi, and the other to enhance the GM1-promoted influx of calcium by inactivation of Go; the latter is postulated to function as constitutive inhibitor of the relevant calcium channel. NG108-15 cells thus provide an interesting example of competitive interaction between two GM1-regulated systems involving enhancement of both opioid receptor excitatory activity and calcium influx.
A role for protein phosphorylation in the process of neurite outgrowth has been inferred from many studies of the effects of protein kinase inhibitors and activators on cultured neurotumor cells and primary neuronal cells from developing brain or ganglia. Here we re-examine this issue, using a culture system derived from a fully differentiated neuronal system undergoing axonal regeneration--the explanted goldfish retina following optic nerve crush. Of the relatively non-selective protein kinase inhibitors employed, H7, staurosporine and K252a were found to block neurite outgrowth, whereas HA1004 had no effect, a result which appears to rule out a critical role for protein kinase A. The more selective protein kinase C inhibitors, sphingosine, calphostin C and Ro-31-8220 were all inhibitory, as was prolonged treatment with phorbol ester and the protein phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid. These results are in support of a role for protein kinase C in axonal regrowth.

Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is a late onset autosomal dominant muscular dystrophy with a high prevalence in the French Canadian population. We report linkage analysis with 7 chromosome 14q polymorphic markers in 11 large French Canadian families. An observed recombination in one family establishes D14S283 as the new centromeric flanking marker, therefore reducing the previously reported candidate interval from 5cM to 2cM. The highest two-point LOD score was 26.05 at theta = 0.01 for MYH7.1. Multipoint analysis suggested that the OPMD genes lies within a 1.5cM region around D14S990. This study of large French Canadian families underlines the great power of this population to fine map disease genes.
The relationship between the loss of connexin 32 function and clinical manifestations of X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMTX) disease is unknown. Here, we report that eight of nine CMTX mutations investigated form channels with measurable electrical conductance. Single-channel studies of two mutations demonstrate reduced junctional permeability caused by a decrease in either pore size (S26L) or open channel probability (M34T) that favors residency in a low-conductance substate. Permeation of second messengers such as cAMP through reflexive gap junctions between adjacent cytoplasmic loops of myelinating Schwann cells is likely to be reduced or absent in these channels. We propose that CMTX mutations impair the transduction of signals arising from normal glial-neuronal interactions and thereby cause demyelination and axonal degeneration.
Oxytocin (OXT) and vasopressin (VP) are known to be released from dendrites of magnocellular neurons. Here, we show that these peptides reduced evoked EPSCs by a presynaptic mechanism, an effect blocked by peptide antagonists and mimicked by inhibition of endogenous peptidases. Dendritic release of peptides, elicited with depolarization achieved by high frequency stimulation of afferents or with current injection into an individual neuron, induced short-term synaptic depression similar to that seen following exogenous peptide application and was prevented by peptide antagonists. Thus, dendritically released peptides depress evoked EPSCs in magnocellular neurons by activating presynaptic OXT and/or VP receptors. Such a retrograde modulatory action on afferent excitation may serve as a feedback mechanism to permit peptidergic neurosecretory neurons to autoregulate their own activity.

Neurofilament accumulations are characteristic of a number of neurological conditions including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, giant axonal neuropathies and several chemically-induced neuropathies. Although the mechanism(s) leading to neurofilament accumulation are unknown, it is possible that similar processes occur both in disease and in chemically-induced neuropathies. Understanding the mechanism(s) of chemically-induced neurofilament accumulation, which is more amenable to experimental manipulation, may give insight into the neurological diseases they mimic. We have compared the effects of two chemically-dissimilar neurotoxins, 2,5-hexanedione and acrylamide, on neurofilaments in the human neuroblastoma cell line, SH-SY5Y. Both undifferentiated and differentiated SH-SY5Y cells were exposed to 2,5-hexanedione or acrylamide and changes in cytoskeletal organization examined by immunofluorescence and electron microscopy. Although distinct morphological differences have previously been characterized in the neuropathies induced by 2,5-hexanedione and acrylamide in vivo, we have found that both compounds had similar direct effects on neurofilaments in SH-SY5Y cells, inducing formation of perikaryal inclusion bodies. In addition, differentiated SH-SY5Y cells were more sensitive to both 2,5-hexanedione and acrylamide compared with undifferentiated cells. These similar effects of 2,5-hexanedione and acrylamide lend further support that a common mechanism(s) may lead to neurofilament accumulation in these neuropathies. SH-SY5Y cells provide a useful model to investigate further the biochemical basis of neurofilament accumulation.
The curiously consistent localization of cerebellar cortical damage in chronic alcoholism is re-evaluated in the light of selective damage, with a similar topography in the cerebellar vermal region, in superficial siderosis in man and in experimental animals exposed to certain toxic substances. Attention is drawn to the capacity for Purkinje cell dendrites and Bergmann glia to extract materials from the CSF, and to the close anatomical relationships of the susceptible lobules I-II, IX and X to the roof of the IVth ventricle and to the cistern of the great cerebral veins. This restriction of damage to vermis and paravermis may reflect some compartmentalization of CSF flow within leptomeninges, consistently increasing exposure of these cerebellar surfaces to materials circulating in the CSF. In other circumstances when this pattern of damage is encountered it raises the question as to whether other environmental agents, gaining access to the CSF, may be similarly distributed.
The hole board search task (HBST) measures long-term and short-term memory, operationally defined as reference memory and working memory. The HBST is an open-field spatial learning test. Previously, we have shown that desglycinamide(Arg8) vasopressin (DGAVP) modulated reference memory, working memory, spatial sequence memory, and learning in the HBST in a dose-dependent manner (Vawter MP, Van Ree JM. Effects of des-glycinamide-sup-9-(arginine-sup-8) vasopressin upon spatial memory in the hole-board search task. Psychobiology 1995; 23: 45-51). To examine the potential active site of the DGAVP molecule, the fragment of the vasopressin amino acid sequence, [pGlu4,Cyt6]AVP-(4-8) (AVP-(4-8)), was administered 1 h prior to training in the HBST. Three groups received either 0, 0.3 microgram, or 1 microgram AVP-(4-8). A repeated measures MANOVA showed the AVP-(4-8) pretreatment factor to be significant (P = 0.048) on the reference memory measure, but not the working memory or learning measures. Interactions between peptide x sessions for reference memory (P = 0.015), working memory (P = 0.003) and learning (P = 0.010) indicated differences in improvement over sessions between placebo- and peptide-treated groups. Post hoc comparisons revealed that the AVP-(4-8) fragment in a dose of 0.3 microgram increased reference memory on the fourth, fifth and sixth acquisition sessions compared with placebo or 1 microgram AVP-(4-8) pretreated groups. Working memory and errors were significantly lowered by 0.3 microgram AVP-(4-8) on the first acquisition session when compared with placebo pretreatment. Thus, AVP-(4-8) improves long-term and short-term memory scores in the HBST, similar to previous results with DGAVP. However, AVP-(4-8) appears twice as potent than DGAVP in improving long-term memory scores in the HBST. The data suggest that the memory modulating property of DGAVP is contained within the amino acid sequence of the AVP-(4-8) peptide.
The relationship between binding affinity and functional activity of nociceptin/orphanin FQ binding was studied in brain membranes, membranes of Chinese hamster ovary cells transfected with ORL1, and intact CHO-ORL1 cells. Binding affinities were compared with potency for the stimulation of [35S]GTP gamma S binding in cell membranes, and inhibition of forskolin-stimulated cAMP accumulation in intact cells. Binding was conducted with [3H]14-Tyr-nociceptin, and in brain or cell membranes the affinity was found to be 50-100 pM. The binding of [3H]14-Tyr-nociceptin was found to be regulated by Na+ and GTP, as expected for an opioid-like receptor. In intact cells, saturation produced a curvilinear Scatchard Plot. Non-linear analysis indicated two states of the receptor, with the vast majority of binding being to a low affinity state of approximately 8 nM. This low affinity component is consistent with the lower potency derived from the inhibition of cAMP accumulation, stimulation of [35S]GTP gamma S binding, and other functional assays.
The effects of the metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist (R,S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (MCPG) on the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the dentate gyrus were examined under urethane anaesthesia in vivo. In experiment 1, bilateral intraventricular infusion of either 20 mM or 200 mM (R,S)-MCPG (5 microl each side) failed to block LTP in the perforant path-granule cell projection, relative to vehicle-infused controls; 30 mM D-AP5 (5 microl each side) infused in the same way as MCPG completely blocked LTP. Experiment 2, in which the contralateral perforant path-dentate gyrus pathway was used as a non-tetanized control, revealed that slight baseline changes induced by MCPG infusion were transient; again no block of LTP was obtained. The efficacy of mGluR blockade was confirmed in experiment 3, in which MCPG antagonized an increase in spontaneous activity induced by (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (ACPD). In experiment 4, significant depotentiation was induced by low frequency stimulation (5 Hz for 1 min) given 2 min after high frequency tetanization, but MCPG remained ineffective in blocking LTP after a second tetanus. In experiment 5, increasing the period of low frequency stimulation from 1 to 10 min produced greater depotentiation, but still did not unmask an MCPG-sensitive component of LTP. These experiments fail to support a role for mGluRs in the induction of LTP in the dentate gyrus under urethane anaesthesia in vivo, nor do they support the idea that a metabotropic switch controlling sensitivity to MCPG is reset by depotentiation.
Previous studies have indicated that isosmolar, but not hyperosmolar, ethanol induces in vitro gonadotropin-releasing hormone secretion from the basal hypothalamus, presumably by causing cell swelling. Moreover, ethanol reduces secretion of another hypothalamic neuropeptide vasopressin. We have studied the acute effect of ethanol on specific hypophysiotropic basal and K+-stimulated thyrotropin-releasing hormone secretion in vitro especially in relation to cell swelling. Isosmotic 40-160 mM ethanol increased thyrotropin-releasing hormone release from the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus and median eminence in a dose-dependent manner. Both a 30% decrease of osmolarity and isosmotic 80 mM ethanol induced 12% swelling of hypothalamic neurons. Hyperosmotic 80 mM or 160 mM ethanol induced release of thyrotropin-releasing hormone from both hypothalamic structures but did not cause cell swelling (80 mM) or even induced cell shrinkage (160 mM). Depletion of medium Ca2+ did not affect thyrotropin-releasing hormone secretion caused by either isosmotic or hyperosmotic ethanol. Our data indicate that both iso- and hyperosmotic ethanol stimulated release of hypophysiotropic thyrotropin-releasing hormone despite opposite effects on neuron volume. The mechanism of ethanol action appears complex and variable depending on the type of cell and neuropeptide affected.
Previous studies suggest that traumatic brain injury is associated with increased risk factor for developing Alzheimer's disease. Furthermore, the extent of the risk seems to be most pronounced in Alzheimer's disease patients who carry the epsilon4 allele of apolipoprotein E, suggesting a connection between susceptibility to head trauma and the apolipoprotein E genotype. Apolipoprotein E-deficient mice provide a useful model for investigating the role of this lipoprotein in neuronal maintenance and repair. In the present study apolipoprotein E-deficient mice and a closed head injury experimental paradigm were used to examine the role of apolipoprotein E in brain susceptibility to head trauma and in neuronal repair. Apolipoprotein E-deficient mice were assessed up to 40 days after closed head injury for neurological and cognitive functions, as well as for histopathological changes in the hippocampus. A neurological severity score used for clinical assessment revealed more severe motor and behavioural deficits in the apolipoprotein E-deficient mice than in the controls, the impairment persisting for at least 40 days after injury. Performance in the Morris water maze, which tests spatial memory, showed a marked learning deficit of the apolipoprotein E-deficient mice when compared with injured controls, which was apparent for at least 40 days. At this time, histopathological examination revealed overt neuronal cell death bilaterally in the hippocampus of the injured apolipoprotein E-deficient mice. The finding that apolipoprotein E-deficient mice exhibit an impaired ability to recover from closed head injury suggests that apolipoprotein E plays an important role in neuronal repair following injury and highlights the applicability of this mouse model to the study of the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved.
There is substantial evidence that the motility of mammalian outer hair cells is generated close to or within the plasma membrane. Several analogies between the outer hair cell cortical lattice and the membrane-related cytoskeleton of erythrocytes have been noted. In erythrocytes a member of the anion exchanger protein family, AE1, also known as Band 3, is involved in membrane-cytoskeleton linkage via Protein 4.1. In the following paper, the presence of these two proteins in gerbilline outer hair cells is confirmed by western blot. Furthermore, co-localization of these two proteins was detected in the lateral wall of outer hair cells by immunofluorescence and postembedding electron immunohistochemistry. Band 3 is restricted to this region, whereas Protein 4.1 has a somewhat more dispersed distribution. Thus, the structure of these sensory receptor cells may result from an adaptation of a strategy used by other motile cells. The proteins investigated likely have a support function and may comprise &quot;pillars&quot; seen between the lateral plasma membrane and the cytoskeleton in micrographs of outer hair cells. The possibility that Band 3 comprises &quot;protein particles&quot; seen in the lateral plasma membrane, or maybe directly involved in the voltage-dependent force generation in outer hair cells, is also discussed.
While it is well established that brain mast cells are usually associated with the cerebral vasculature, in ring doves mast cells lie directly in the neuropil of the medial habenula. During normal development mast cells enter the habenula and complete their differentiation in situ. In the present study, we asked what characteristics of the medial habenula contribute to mast cell entry and differentiation. Grafts of embryonic habenula or control optic tectal grafts were placed in the lateral ventricle or anterior chamber of the eye. Transplantation alters the location of the habenula as well as its neural and vascular connections. Three groups of hosts were used for the ventricular grafts: four-month-old and killed three months after transplantation; four-month-old and killed seven months later, and two- to three-year-old gonadectomized males killed three months later. Hosts for the intraocular grafts were four months of age and killed three months later. Mast cells were present in the habenular grafts but not in the control tissue. Mast cells in three- and seven-month-old grafts were phenotypically immature when compared to those of hosts. They contained fewer metachromatic granules, fewer granules immunoreactive to an antiserum against gonadotropin-releasing hormone, and no highly-sulphated proteoglycans. As previously described, gonadectomized adults had fewer mast cells in their medial habenula than did intact animals, but there was no change in mast cell number in habenular grafts. The current experiments indicate that the occurrence and survival of mast cells can occur within the microenvironment of the medial habenula, but that maturation of these cells requires the normal connections of this nucleus. Furthermore, gonadectomy appears to alter mast cell number in the medial habenula by generating a secondary signal which the transplanted tissue is incapable of receiving or processing.
Spinal cord injury destroys bulbospinal amino acid-containing pathways to sympathetic preganglionic neurons and severely disrupts blood pressure control, resulting in resting or postural hypotension and episodic hypertension. Almost all immunoreactivity for the excitatory amino acid L-glutamate has been reported to disappear from autonomic areas of the cord caudal to a transection, apparently depriving autonomic neurons of their major excitatory input. However, the magnitude of the neurogenic episodic hypertension after cord injury suggests that excitatory inputs to sympathetic preganglionic neurons must still be present. Moreover, the hypotension associated with high spinal injuries may reflect a enhanced role for inhibitory transmitters, such as GABA. This apparent contradiction regarding the presence of glutamate and lack of information about GABA prompted the present investigation. In rats seven days after spinal cord transection, we examined identified sympathetic preganglionic neurons caudal to the injury for the presence of synapses or direct contacts from varicosities that were immunoreactive for the amino acids, L-glutamate and GABA. Adrenal sympathetic preganglionic neurons were retrogradely labelled with cholera toxin B subunit and amino acid immunoreactivity was revealed with post-embedding immunogold labelling. In single ultrathin sections, 46% (98/212) of the synapses or direct contacts on adrenal sympathetic preganglionic neurons were immunoreactive for glutamate and 39% (83/214) were immunoreactive for GABA. Analysis of inputs with the physical disector yielded similar results for the two amino acids. The proportions of glutamatergic or GABAergic synapses on cell bodies and dendrites were similar. When alternate ultrathin sections were stained to reveal glutamate or GABA immunoreactivity, either one or the other amino acid occurred in 78.4% (116/148) of inputs; 4.1% (6/148) of inputs contained both amino acids and 17.5% (26/148) of inputs contained neither. These results demonstrate that nerve fibres immunoreactive for the neurotransmitter amino acids, glutamate and GABA, provide most of the input to sympathetic preganglionic neurons caudal to a spinal cord transection. Synapses containing glutamate and GABA could provide the anatomical substrate for the exaggerated sympathetic reflexes and the low sympathetic tone that result from spinal cord injury.
Previous studies in anaesthetized animals have shown that the hypoxia-induced increase in sympathetic vasomotor activity is largely dependent on synaptic excitation of sympathoexcitatory pressor neurons in the rostral part of the ventrolateral medulla. The primary aim of this study was to determine, in conscious rabbits, the distribution of neurons within the brain that have properties characteristic of interneurons conveying excitatory inputs to the rostral ventrolateral medullary pressor region in response to systemic hypoxia. In a preliminary operation, a retrogradely-transported tracer, fluorescent-labelled microspheres, was injected into the physiologically-identified pressor region in the rostral ventrolateral medulla. After a waiting period of one to two weeks, the conscious rabbits were subjected to moderate hypoxia (induced by breathing 10% O2 in N2) for a period of 60 min. Control groups of animals were exposed to room air or to mild hypoxia (12% O2 in N2). Moderate hypoxia resulted in a modest hypertension of approximately 15 mmHg, and in the expression of Fos (a marker of neuronal activation) in many neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius, the rostral, intermediate and caudal parts of the ventrolateral medulla, the Klliker-Fuse nucleus, locus coeruleus, subcoeruleus and A5 area in the pons as well as in several midbrain and forebrain regions, including the periaqueductal grey in the midbrain and the paraventricular, supraoptic and arcuate nuclei in the hypothalamus. Fos expression was also observed in these regions in rabbits subjected to mild hypoxia or normoxia, but it was much reduced compared to rabbits subjected to moderate hypoxia. Approximately half of the neurons in the ventrolateral medulla, 27% of neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius, and 49-81% of neurons in the locus coeruleus, sub-coeruleus and A5 area that expressed Fos following moderate hypoxia were also immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase, and were therefore catecholamine cells. Approximately half of the neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius and two-thirds of neurons in the Klliker-Fuse nucleus that expressed Fos following moderate hypoxia were retrogradely labelled from the rostral ventrolateral medullary pressor region. Similarly, approximately one quarter of Fos-positive cells in the caudal and intermediate ventrolateral medulla were retrogradely labelled, but very few Fos-positive/retrogradely-labelled cells were found in other pontomedullary or suprapontine brain regions. The results indicate that systemic hypoxia results in activation of neurons in several discrete nuclei in the brainstem and forebrain, including neurons in all the major pontomedullary catecholamine cell groups. However, neurons that are activated by systemic hypoxia and that also project to the rostral ventrolateral medullary pressor region are virtually confined to the lower brainstem, primarily in the nucleus tractus solitarius and Klliker-Fuse nucleus and to a lesser extent the caudal/intermediate ventrolateral medulla. In a previous study from our laboratory, we determined the distribution of neurons in the brainstem that are activated by hypertension and that also project to the rostral ventrolateral medullary pressor region. [Polson et al. (1995) Neuroscience 67, 107-123]. Comparison of the present results with those from this previous study indicates that the hypoxia-activated neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius and Klliker-Fuse nucleus that project to the rostral ventrolateral medulla are likely to be interneurons conveying excitatory chemoreceptor signals, while those in the caudal/intermediate ventrolateral medulla are likely to be mainly interneurons conveying inhibitory baroreceptor signals, activated by the rise in arterial blood pressure associated with the hypoxia-induced hypertension.
In adult rat brain, adenosine A2A receptors and dopamine D2 receptors are known to be located on the same cells where they interact in an antagonistic manner. In the present study we wanted to examine when this situation develops and compared the postnatal ontogeny of the binding of the adenosine A2A receptor agonist [3H]CGS 21680, the binding of the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist [3H]SCH 23390 and the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist [3H]raclopride. All three radioligands bound to the striatum at birth and this binding increased several-fold during the postnatal period. [3H]SCH 23390 binding developed first (mostly during the first week), followed by [3H]raclopride binding (first to third week) and [3H]CGS 21680 binding (only during second and third week). For all three radioligands the binding tended to decrease between 21 days and adulthood. This occurred earlier and was more pronounced in the globus pallidus than in the other examined structures. The increase in [3H]CGS 21680 binding from newborn to adult was mainly due to four-fold increase in the number of binding sites. The pharmacology of [3H]CGS 21680 binding to caudate-putamen was similar in newborn, one-week-old and adult animals, and was indicative of A2A receptors. The binding was inhibited by guanylyl imidodiphosphate at all ages, indicating that A2A receptors are G-protein-coupled already at birth. In contrast to the large increase in [3H]CGS 21680 binding, there was a decrease in the levels of A2A messenger RNA during the postnatal period in the caudate-putamen. In cerebral cortex [3H]CGS 21680 bound to a different site than the A2A receptor. From birth to adulthood cortical binding of [3H]CGS 21680 increased four-fold and that of the adenosine A1 agonist [3H]cyclohexyladenosine 19-fold. During early postnatal development [3H]SCH 23390 binding was higher in deep than in superficial cortical layers, but this difference disappeared in adult animals. There was binding of both [3H]CGS 21680 and [3H]cyclohexyladenosine to the olfactory bulb, suggesting a role of the two adenosine receptors in processing of olfactory information. [3H]CGS 21680 binding was present in the external plexiform layer and glomerular layer, and increased during development, but the density of binding sites was about one tenth of that seen in caudate putamen. [3H]cyclohexyladenosine showed a very different labelling pattern, resembling that observed with [3H]SCH 23390. Postnatal changes in adenosine receptors may explain age-dependent differences in stimulatory caffeine effects and endogenous protection against seizures. Since A2A receptors show a co-distribution with D2 receptors throughout development, caffeine may partly exert such actions by regulating the activity of D2 receptor-containing striatopallidal neurons.
The cellular distribution of adenosine A2A receptor messenger RNA in the central nervous system was investigated using in situ hybridization with ribonucleotide probes. A specific expression was found in the dorsal (i.e. caudate putamen) and ventral (i.e. nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle) striatum, the lateral septum and in some cerebellar Purkinje cells. Simultaneous detection of radioactive and non-radioactive probes showed that the majority of adenosine A2A receptor messenger RNA-containing neurons in the dorsal and ventral striatum co-expressed dopamine D2 receptor messenger RNA and preproenkephalin A messenger RNA. However, a minor sub-population of neurons expressing adenosine A2A receptor messenger RNA, but not preproenkephalin A messenger RNA, was found in clusters along the ventral border of the nucleus accumbens. Only a small number of striatal neurons expressing dopamine D1 receptor or substance P messenger RNAs also expressed adenosine A2A receptor messenger RNA. Finally, in the ventral part of nucleus accumbens and in the olfactory tubercle a major sub-population of neurons expressed preproenkephalin A messenger RNA, but not adenosine A2A receptor messenger RNA. Cholinergic interneurons did not express adenosine A2A receptor messenger RNA. Thus, the extensive co-localization of adenosine A2A and dopamine D2 receptors previously described in the dorsal striatum extends into its ventral part. There is also a high degree of co-expression of adenosine A2A receptor messenger RNA and preproenkephalin A messenger RNA in the ventral striatum, but within this region several topologically defined sub-populations of neurons express only one of these transcripts. A majority of the adenosine A2A receptor messenger RNA-containing neurons in the lateral septum did contain preproenkephalin A messenger RNA, whereas only a few co-expressed dopamine D2 receptor messenger RNA. This detailed investigation demonstrates that most of the subcortical areas innervated by dopamine have an abundant, although restricted expression of the adenosine A2A receptor gene and that this receptor is expressed in very few cells outside these areas. These results predict that adenosine A2A receptors are involved not only in motor behaviour, but also in goal-oriented behaviours.
Clinical and functional studies have strongly suggested that acetylcholine input from the nucleus basalis of Meynert is important for the cortex's adaptive response to experience. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of depletion of acetylcholine inputs from nucleus basalis of Meynert on experience-dependent plasticity in the cortex of young adult male rats. The posteromedial barrel subfield in the primary somatosensory cortex was studied. Experience-dependent plasticity was elicited using a whisker-pairing paradigm in which all whiskers except D2 and D3 were trimmed daily. Plasticity within barrel D2 of the posteromedial barrel subfield was measured using the electrophysiological extracellular recording technique. An index of plasticity was determined in two ways: as an increase in the magnitude of evoked activity to stimulation of whisker D2 and as a bias in the ratio of evoked activity for stimulation of paired whisker D3 and cut whisker D1 (D3/D1). Whiskers D2, D3 and D1 were stimulated (deflected) by a Chubbuck electromechanical stimulator. Cholinergic neurons in the nucleus basalis of Meynert were selectively lesioned with an immunotoxin, 192 IgG-saporin, injected into the left lateral ventricle. Lesions of cholinergic neurons in the nucleus basalis of Meynert were verified using choline acetyltransferase immunocytochemistry and radioenzymatic assay. Experience-dependent plasticity was significantly reduced in cholinergic-depleted animals. The magnitude of evoked activity to stimulation of whisker D2 increased by 16-100% in control animals compared with 0-20% in cholinergic-depleted animals. Similarly, compared to a 60-100% increase in the D3/D1 ratio of evoked activity for phosphate-buffered saline-injected control animals, cholinergic-depleted rats showed no significant increase in the D3/D1 ratio (0-15%) after undergoing the whisker-pairing paradigm. After whisker trimming, the D3/D1 response ratio in immunotoxin-treated animals was essentially the same as in control animals that had not been subjected to the whisker-pairing paradigm. This study showed that no significant plasticity response was observed in the absence of cholinergic input from the nucleus basalis of Meynert. The mechanisms of the action of acetylcholine in cortical plasticity are still not known, but we hypothesize that this type of plasticity is activity dependent and is significantly enhanced in the presence of acetylcholine.
The peripubertal elimination of axospinous synapses and dendritic spines in monkey prefrontal cortex suggests that this region undergoes substantial reorganization during late postnatal development. Understanding the functional impact of these maturational refinements requires knowledge of the specific presynaptic elements involved in these changes. Two potential sources of these presynaptic terminals are the intrinsic axon collaterals furnished by pyramidal cells within a region and the associational axons that arise from pyramidal neurons in other cortical regions in the same hemisphere. In the adult, both of these types of axon terminals form synapses predominantly with dendritic spines on other pyramidal neurons, and thus they may be preferentially involved in the peripubertal pruning of axospinous synapses and dendritic spines. In order to test this hypothesis, iontophoretic injections of the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine were made into the superficial layers of areas 9 or 46 of the prefrontal cortex of four prepubertal juvenile (14.9-21.5 months old) and three young adult macaque monkeys. Tangential reconstructions revealed a stripe-like pattern of labeled terminals for intrinsic and associational projections in both juvenile and adult animals. During puberty, the intrinsic circuitry underwent extensive topographic refinement, as demonstrated by a 42.7% decrease in stripe area and a 28.0% increase in gap distance between stripes. Furthermore, the mediolateral tangential spread of labeled stripes around the injection site decreased by 27.0%. In contrast, topographic refinement was not evident in the associational circuitry. In both layers 1 and 3, the densities of varicosities and branch points on labeled axons decreased by about 50% in intrinsic stripes during puberty, but only by approximately 30% in associational stripes. These findings suggest that the spatial form and magnitude of peripubertal refinements in prefrontal cortical connectivity may be specific for certain neural elements.
The disector, an unbiased stereological method for evaluation of synaptic densities, was used to analyse putative GABA and glutamate innervations of the supraoptic nucleus of virgin and lactating rats. The analysis was performed on ultrathin sections labelled for either of the amino acids with a postembedding immunogold technique. Our observations showed that the volume of the nucleus increased by 40% in lactating animals, an increase due to a significant enlargement of dendritic and somatic, but not vascular, volumes. Nevertheless, values of overall synaptic densities in the whole nucleus remained as high as those in virgin rats (37-40 x l0(6) synapses/mm3). About 45% of all synapses were immunoreactive for GABA and 25% for glutamate; there were twice as many GABA- and glutamate-positive synapses on dendrites as on somata. When we estimated synaptic densities in relation to the neuropil (by subtracting the proportion of sampled areas occupied by somatic profiles), we found a significant increase in synaptic density in lactating animals. This affected axodendritic as well as axosomatic synapses, immunopositive and immunonegative for GABA or glutamate. The disector also allowed us to determine that the number of synapses from terminals making contacts on several somata and/or dendrites simultaneously constituted about 9% of all synapses in virgin rats, a proportion which more than doubled in lactating rats. About 50% were immunopositive for GABA and 30% for glutamate. Our data offer further evidence of physiologically-linked structural synaptic plasticity in the supraoptic nucleus and clearly demonstrate that it affects both inhibitory and excitatory inputs on dendrites, as well as on somata, throughout the nucleus.
We developed a model of lesion of Schaffer collaterals in hippocampal organotypic slice cultures to analyse the capacity for sprouting and functional recovery expressed in young (one week old) and old (four week old) slice cultures. Slice cultures were sectioned at different ages of maturation in two separate half-slices and maintained in co-culture. Functional recovery was assessed by measuring synaptic responses elicited across the lesion seven days after the lesion and sprouting was evaluated by biocytin labeling of the regenerating fibers seen under the same conditions. Sprouting and functional recovery were found to be markedly reduced and delayed in old vs young cultures. Preparation of co-cultures between young CA3 and old CA1 half-slices resulted in a significant reduction in the capacity for sprouting and regeneration of the young CA3 neurons. Conversely, co-cultures prepared between old CA3 and young CA1 half-slices showed a markedly enhanced capacity for sprouting and functional recovery of old CA3 neurons. These results indicate that the age-dependent impairment in sprouting and regeneration expressed in cortical regions can be improved by and depends upon the presence of a favourable environment.
The number and topographic distribution of immunocytochemically stained parvalbumin interneurons was determined in the hippocampal formation of control and Alzheimer's diseased brain. In control hippocampus, parvalbumin interneurons were aspiny and pleomorphic, with extensive dendritic arbors. In dentate gyrus, parvalbumin cells, as well as a dense plexus of fibers and puncta, were associated with the granule cell layer. A few cells also occupied the molecular layer. In strata oriens and pyramidale of CA1-CA3 subfields, parvalbumin neurons gave rise to dendrites that extended into adjacent strata. Densely stained puncta and beaded fibers occupied stratum pyramidale, with less dense staining in adjacent strata oriens and radiatum. Virtually no parvalbumin profiles were observed in stratum lacunosum-moleculare or the alveus. Numerous polymorphic parvalbumin neurons and a dense plexus of fibers and puncta characterized the deep layer of the subiculum and the lamina principalis externa of the presubiculum. In Alzheimer's diseased hippocampus, there was an approximate 60% decrease in the number of parvalbumin interneurons in the dentate gyrus/CA4 subfield (P&lt;0.01) and subfields CA1-CA2 (P&lt;0.01). In contrast, parvalbumin neurons did not statistically decline in subfields CA3, subiculum or presubiculum in Alzheimer's diseased brains relative to controls. Concurrent staining with Thioflavin-S histochemistry did not reveal degenerative changes within parvalbumin-stained profiles. These findings reveal that parvalbumin interneurons within specific hippocampal subfields are selectively vulnerable in Alzheimer's disease. This vulnerability may be related to their differential connectivity, e.g., those regions connectionally related to the cerebral cortex (dentate gyrus and CA1) are more vulnerable than those regions connectionally related to subcortical loci (subiculum and presubiculum).
Intracellular recording techniques were used to examine GABA(A) receptor-mediated synaptic inhibition in pyramidal cells of the CA1 region of the rat hippocampus in the post-self sustaining limbic status epilepticus model of temporal lobe epilepsy. Orthodromically evoked, monosynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were recorded in vitro following pharmacological blockade of ionotropic glutamate and GABA(B) receptors. Inhibitory postsynaptic potentials from epileptic tissue were kinetically altered relative to controls; both the 10-90% rise-time and width (measured at half-maximum amplitude) were reduced by approximately 50% resulting in significant shortening of duration. The degree of pyramidal cell hyperexcitability, assessed before pharmacological treatment as the number of action potentials evoked by maximum intensity afferent stimulation, correlated significantly with the magnitude of synaptic potential duration reduction determined following blockade of glutamatergic neurotransmission. Bath application of the benzodiazepine type 1 receptor agonist zolpidem reduced post-self sustaining limbic status epilepticus CA1 pyramidal cell hyperexcitability substantially (but not completely) via a marked increase in inhibitory postsynaptic potential area. Post-self-sustaining limbic status epilepticus inhibitory postsynaptic potentials which exhibited the most pronounced shortening were augmented by zolpidem to a greater degree than longer duration synaptic potentials. In contrast, zolpidem-induced augmentation of control inhibitor, postsynaptic potential area was much less robust. It is suggested that a deficiency in post-self-sustaining limbic status epilepticus GABA(A) receptor-mediated synaptic inhibition contributes to a state of partial disinhibition which is a major factor in enhanced CA1 excitability in chronic limbic epilepsy. Possible mechanisms underlying post-self-sustaining limbic status epilepticus kinetic abnormalities are discussed.
Genetic methods including the creation of transgenic or null mutant models and mapping studies using quantitative trait loci strategies can be used to identify candidate genes in mice that regulate learning processes. Interpretations as to the impact of single gene mutations for polygenic behaviours like learning will depend in part on the genetic background of the animals used for these manipulations. To address the issue of genetic variability, 12 inbred strains and seven different F1 hybrids were tested on multiple behavioural tasks, including two complex learning paradigms: the Morris water task and fear conditioning. Strain differences were found for all variables measured. In the hidden platform version of the Morris task, the albino animals performed poorly while overall the F1 hybrids showed the best selectivity for the trained quadrant as measured in a probe trial. In contrast, almost all genotypes performed well on the contextual fear conditioning task and learned to associate the test context with the pairing of a foot shock and auditory stimulus as demonstrated 24 h after training by increased freezing in the test environment compared to an altered context. Significant genetic correlations were obtained for behavioural measures suggesting that the same genes regulate various aspects of performance on behavioural tasks. Scores from these multiple inbred strains and F1 hybrids provide a baseline level of learning ability for fear conditioning and the Morris water task. The results of the present study confirm the importance of genetic background in the performance of various learning tasks. This variability should be considered when developing new transgenic or null mutant animal models.
As the use of transgenic and null mutation techniques in the development of animal models of disorders increases, the importance of selecting the appropriate genetic background also increases. The genetic background of the mouse strains used as models for various disorders is critical because of the potential for epistatic effects on the expression of transgenes and null mutations. Twelve strains of inbred mice and seven F1 hybrids were tested in multiple behavioural tasks including open-field locomotor activity, Y-maze activity, auditory and tactile startle and prepulse inhibition of startle response. Differences across genotypes were found for all variables measured. The range of variability among genotypes was dependent on the specific measure so careful consideration must be made in selecting a strain for testing a particular behaviour. Because of the polygenic nature of each of the behavioural phenotypes, the impact of a single gene manipulation may vary depending on the genetic background on which it is expressed. Moreover, quantitative trait loci methods could be applied to these behaviours.
The development of mechanisms of neurotransmitter release is an important component in the formation of functional synaptic connections. Synaptic neurotransmitter release can be modulated by nitric oxide, a compound shown to have a variety of physiologic functions in the nervous system. The goal of this study was to determine whether, during synaptic maturation, nitric oxide is capable of affecting exocytosis of synaptic vesicles, and to compare its effects with those elicited by strongly depolarizing stimuli. To address these questions we examined vesicle release from large numbers of individual synapses of hippocampal neurons between five and 13 days in culture. Synaptic vesicles were labelled by uptake of the styrylpyridinium dye N-(3-triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-(4-(dibutylamino)styryl)pyridinium dibromide (FM1-43) and their release was monitored by fluorescence imaging. Across populations of developing synapses, there was a good correspondence between FM1-43 staining and synapsin immunocytochemistry. A marked heterogeneity was observed in the ability to release vesicles both after potassium and nitric oxide stimulation. In less mature populations of synapses, the rate of potassium- and nitric oxide-induced exocytosis gradually increased, while at later stages nitric oxide-induced responses levelled off and potassium-induced responses continued to rise. Application of nitric oxide donors did not trigger any detectable changes in intracellular calcium. Combined immunocytochemical analysis of cultured hippocampal neurons for neuronal nitric oxide synthase and synapsin revealed that nitric oxide synthase was present within neurites of cultured hippocampal neurons, largely distributed in a bead-like pattern which partially overlapped presynaptic sites. Stimulation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor while blocking propagation of action potentials with tetrodotoxin resulted in exocytosis from numerous individually resolved sites. Preincubation of neurons with an nitric oxide synthase inhibitor or addition of an nitric oxide scavenger eliminated these responses indicating a role for nitric oxide in N-methyl-D-aspartate-stimulated exocytosis. Using fluorescence imaging of individually resolved synaptic sites, we provide direct evidence for an effect of nitric oxide on vesicular neurotransmitter release in intact neurons. Nitric oxide is capable to produce this effect at all stages of synaptic development and acts independently of calcium influx. We show that nitric oxide synthase is present at synaptic sites and endogenously produced nitric oxide is sufficient to cause exocytosis. Taken together, these experiments suggest a possible role for nitric oxide in calcium-independent transmitter release in populations of synapses at all stages of maturation.
Administration of kainic acid evokes acute seizure in hippocampal pathways that results in a complex sequence of functional and structural alterations resembling human temporal lobe epilepsy. The structural alterations induced by kainic acid include selective loss of neurones in CA1-CA3 subfields and the hilar region of the dentate gyrus followed by sprouting and permanent reorganization of the synaptic connections of the mossy fibre pathways. Although the neuronal degeneration and process of reactive synaptogenesis have been extensively studied, at present little is known about means to prevent pathological conditions leading to kainate-induced cell death. In the present study, to address the role of insulin-like growth factors I and II, and insulin in neuronal survival as well as synaptic reorganization following kainate-induced seizure, the time course alterations of the corresponding receptors were evaluated. Additionally, using histological preparations, the temporal profile of neuronal degeneration and hypertrophy of resident astroglial cells were also studied. [125I]Insulin-like growth factor I binding was found to be decreased transiently in almost all regions of the hippocampal formation at 12 h following treatment with kainic acid. The dentate hilar region however, exhibited protracted decreases in [125I]insulin-like growth factor I receptor sites throughout (i.e. 30 days) the study. [125I]Insulin-like growth factor II receptor binding sites in the hippocampal formation were found to be differentially altered following systemic administration of kainic acid. A significant decrease in [125I]insulin-like growth factor II receptor sites was observed in CA1 subfield and the pyramidal cell layer of the Ammon's horn at all time points studied whereas the hilar region and the stratum radiatum did not exhibit alteration at any time. A kainate-induced decrease in [125I]insulin receptor binding was noted at all time points in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus whereas binding in CA1-CA3 subfields and discrete layers of the Ammon's horn was found to be affected only after 12 h of treatment. These results, when analysed with reference to the observed histological changes and established neurotrophic/protective roles of insulin-like growth factors and insulin, suggest possible involvement of these growth factors in the cascade of neurotrophic events that is associated with the reorganization of the hippocampal formation observed following kainate-induced seizures.
The insulin-like growth factors (IGF-I and IGF-II) and insulin are localized within distinct brain regions and their respective functions are mediated by specific membrane receptors. High densities of binding sites for these growth factors are discretely and differentially distributed throughout the brain, with prominent levels localized to the hippocampal formation. IGFs and insulin, in addition to their growth promoting actions, are considered to play important roles in the development and maintenance of normal cell functions throughout life. We compared the anatomical distribution and levels of IGF and insulin receptors in young (five month) and aged (25 month) memory-impaired and memory-unimpaired male Long Evans rats as determined in the Morris water maze task in order to determine if alterations in IGF and insulin activity may be related to the emergence of cognitive deficits in the aged memory-impaired rat. In the hippocampus, [125I]IGF-I receptors are concentrated primarily in the dentate gyrus (DG) and the CA3 sub-field while high amounts of [125I]IGF-II binding sites are localized to the pyramidal cell layer, and the granular cell layer of the DG. [125I]insulin binding sites are mostly found in the molecular layer of the DG and the CA1 sub-field. No significant differences were found in [125I]IGF-I. [125I]IGF-II or [125I]insulin binding levels in any regions or laminae of the hippocampus of young vs aged rats. and deficits in cognitive performance did not relate to altered levels of these receptors in aged memory-impaired vs aged memory-unimpaired rats. Other regions. including various cortical areas, were also examined and failed to reveal any significant differences between the three groups studied. It thus appears that IGF-I, IGF-II and insulin receptor sites are not markedly altered during the normal ageing process in the Long Evans rat, in spite of significant learning deficits in a sub-group (memory-impaired) of aged animals. Hence. recently reported changes in IGF-I receptor messenger RNA levels in aged memory-impaired rats are apparently not reflected at the level of the translated protein.
Kainic acid-induced seizures in rats represent an established animal model for human temporal lobe epilepsy. The neuropathological sequelae include acute status epilepticus followed by neurodegeneration in the CA1 and CA3 sector of the Ammon's horn and of interneurons in the hilus of the dentate gyrus. After about three weeks spontaneous recurrent seizures become manifest. We investigated changes in messenger RNA expression of 13 GABA(A) receptor subunits in the hippocampus of rats in the initial phase (6 h, 12 h and 24 h) after acute kainic acid-induced status epilepticus and seizure-related neuronal cell damage during and after acquisition of spontaneous recurrent seizures (seven and 30 days after kainic acid injection). In the granule cell layer, initial (after 6 to 12 h) decreases in (alpha2, alpha3, alpha5, beta1, beta3, gamma2 and delta messenger RNAs (by about 25 to 50%) were accompanied by increases (by about 50%) in alpha1, alpha4, and beta2 messages. At later intervals (after seven to 30 days), expression of alpha2, alpha4, beta3 and gamma2 messenger RNAs recovered to control values, with alpha5 and delta messenger RNA still being reduced (by 15 and 40% below control levels, respectively). Concentrations of the transcripts encoding for alpha1, alpha3, beta1, beta2, became markedly enhanced (between 20 and 50% of controls). Within the pyramidal cell layers CA1 and CA3, decreases in alpha2, alpha4, alpha5, beta(1-3) and gamma2 messenger RNAs were detected after seven to 30 days, reflecting pronounced neurodegeneration in these areas. The alpha1 transcript was decreased in CA3 after 24 h and increased to control levels indicating compensatory up-regulation of this message after seven days. Messenger RNAs encoding for alpha3-, gamma1-, and gamma3-subunits were detected at rather low levels, alpha6 was not present in the hippocampus. Our data suggest a fast but transient change in the expression of messenger RNAs encoding for different subunits of the GABA(A) receptor in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus. This is followed by a lasting augmentation of messenger RNAs encoding different GABA(A) receptor subunits in the same cell layer indicating long-lasting GABAergic inhibition. Changes within the pyramidal cell layer are mostly determined by concomitant neurodegenerative processes.
Intraperitoneal injection of kainic acid in the rat represents a widely used animal model of human temporal lobe epilepsy. Injection of kainic acid induces acute limbic seizures which are accompanied by seizure-induced brain damage and late spontaneous recurrent seizures. There is considerable evidence for an altered transmission of GABA in human temporal lobe epilepsy and in the kainic acid model. We therefore investigated by immunocytochemistry the distribution of 13 GABA receptor subunits in the hippocampus of rats 12 h, 24 h, and two, seven and 30 days after injection of kainic acid. Within the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, decreases in alpha2- and delta- and slight increases in alpha1, beta2- and beta3-immunoreactivities were observed at early intervals (12 to 24 h) after kainic acid injection. These changes were succeeded by marked increases in alpha1-, alpha2-, alpha4-, alpha5-, beta1-, beta3-, gamma2- and delta-immunoreactivities in the same area after seven to 30 days. Within the hippocampus proper, changes in expression of GABA(A) receptor subunits were demarcated by considerable neurodegeneration of CA1 and CA3 pyramidal neurons. All subunits present within dendritic areas of CA1 and CA3 were affected. These were alpha1, alpha2, alpha5, beta1-beta3, gamma2 and alpha4 (present only in CA1). Decreases in these subunits were followed by increased expression of alpha2-, alpha5-, beta3-, gamma2- and delta-subunits in the hippocampus proper notably in CA3 at later intervals (up to 30 days). Alpha1-, beta2-, gamma2- and delta-subunits were found in presumed GABA containing interneurons throughout the hippocampus. Their immunoreactivity was augmented after two to seven days. Some alpha4-, gamma3- and delta-immunoreactivity was also found in astrocytes 48 h after kainic acid injection. Our data indicate an impairment of GABA-mediated neurotransmission due to a lasting loss of GABA(A) receptor containing cells after kainic acid-induced seizures. The seizure-induced loss in GABA(A) receptors within the hippocampus may in part be compensated by increased expression of GABA(A) receptor subunits within the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus and in pyramidal cells.
The GABA(A) receptor is a ligand-operated chloride channel. It has a pentameric structure. In mammalian brain different subunits are recruited from four gene subfamilies. Using immunocytochemistry, we investigated the distribution of the 13 GABA(A) receptor subunits in the hippocampus of the rat. GABA(A) receptor subunits were heterogeneously distributed within different hippocampal subfields. High concentrations of alpha1-, alpha2-, alpha4-, beta3-, gamma2- and delta-immunoreactivities were observed within the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, representing the dendritic area of the granule cells. In the hippocampus proper, the predominant GABA(A) receptor subunits were alpha1, alpha2, alpha5, beta3 and gamma2 that were located throughout the strata radiatum and oriens of CA1 to CA3. Immunocytochemical staining was there less prominent for alpha4-, beta1-, beta2- gamma3- and delta- subunits. In the hippocampus proper, the beta1 subunit was preferentially located in CA2. The alpha4- and delta-subunits were somewhat more abundant in CA1 than in CA3. Numerous local circuit neurons in the hippocampus proper and the hilus of the dentate gyrus contained alpha1-, beta2-, gamma2- and/or delta-subunits. Alpha3 and gamma1 were present only in minute amounts and no alpha6-IR was detected in the hippocampal formation. The distribution of the GABA(A) receptor subunits indicates the existence of heterogenously constituted GABA(A) receptor complexes within various hippocampal subfields, which may exert different physiological or pharmacological properties upon stimulation by GABA or its agonists.
The inferior olive provides climbing fibres to Purkinje cells in the cerebellar cortex and gives off axon collaterals to the cerebellar nuclei. The cerebellar nuclei contain GABAergic neurons that provide an inhibitory projection to the inferior olive and excitatory neurons that influence behaviour through various other premotor nuclei in the brainstem and diencephalon. Whether the olivary axon collaterals innervate the GABAergic neurons in the cerebellar nuclei is unknown. In the present study we investigated this projection in mice at the ultrastructural level using post-embedding GABA immunocytochemistry and anterograde and retrograde tracing of biotinylated dextrane amine and gold-lectin. It is demonstrated that the olivary axon collaterals do not only innervate non-GABAergic neurons in the cerebellar nuclei, but also GABAergic nucleo-olivary cells, thus establishing a direct feedback loop to the inferior olive.
The vertebrate olfactory system has long been an attractive model for studying neuronal regeneration and adaptive plasticity due to the continuous neurogenesis and synaptic remodelling throughout adult life in primary and secondary olfactory centres, its precisely ordered synaptic network and accessibility for manipulation. After homotopic transplantation of fetal olfactory bulbs in bulbectomized neonatal rodents, newly regenerated olfactory neurons form glomeruli within the graft, and the efferent mitral/tufted cells of the transplant innervate the host brain, terminating in higher olfactory centres. However, the synaptic connections of the transplanted relay neurons within the graft and/or host's olfactory centres could not be characterized mainly because of lack of suitable cell-specific markers for these neurons. In this study, we have used olfactory bulbs from transgenic fetuses, in which the majority of the mitral/tufted cells express the bacterial enzyme beta-galactosidase, for homotopic olfactory bulb transplantation following complete unilateral bulbectomy. In the transplants, the cell bodies and terminals of the donor mitral/tufted cells were identified by beta-galactosidase histochemistry and immunocytochemistry at both light and electron microscope levels. We demonstrate that transplanted relay neurons re-establish specific synaptic connections with host neurons of the periphery, source of the primary signal and central nervous system, thereby providing the basis for a functional recovery in the lesioned olfactory system.
In this study we have analysed the expression of the genes for both alpha-type and beta-type calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) during postnatal development of the rat brain and compared it with the expression of CGRP-like immunoreactivity. At birth both alpha-type and beta-type CGRP messenger RNA were present in the parabrachial nucleus, inferior olive and motor nuclei (except for abducens nucleus), and only alpha-type CGRP messenger RNA in some posterior thalamic nuclei. As development advanced, new nuclei started to express either only alpha-CGRP gene (superior olive, parabigeminal, sagulum, and some hypothalamic and cranial thalamic nuclei) or both genes (abducens nucleus). In the inferior olive both genes were transiently expressed. Beta-CGRP messenger RNA disappeared by postnatal day 10 and alpha-CGRP messenger RNA by postnatal day 20. During the whole postnatal development beta-CGRP gene expression predominated over that of alpha-CGRP in the trigeminal and eye motor nuclei, while in the remainder nuclei alpha-CGRP messenger RNA was either the predominant isoform or the sole one. CGRP-like immunoreactivity, which does not distinguish between alpha-type and beta-type CGRP, was detected in those nuclei containing either alpha-CGRP messenger RNA or beta-CGRP messenger RNA. However, no CGRP messenger RNA was detected in areas such as superior colliculus, lateral pontine nucleus, pars reticulata of the substantia nigra, perifornical area, or zona incerta in which CGRP-like immunoreactivity was prominent. CGRP-like immunoreactivity, but not CGRP messenger RNA, was also transiently detected by postnatal day 5 in some cells of the globus pallidus. In the adult brain, the levels of alpha- and beta-CGRP messenger RNA as well as those of CGRP-like immunoreactivity were considerably reduced. This fact, similar to that of other growth- and development-associated factors, suggests a role for CGRP as a neuron-derived neurotrophic factor. The transient expression in neurons of the inferior olive, matching the period when climbing fibres and cerebellar cortex are developing, seems to support such an idea. The results of this study show that those nuclei expressing beta-CGRP gene also express alpha-CGRP gene. However, there are a number of nuclei that only express alpha-CGRP gene. On the other hand, CGRP-like immunoreactivity is detected in some nuclei which express no CGRP messenger RNA. It suggests that such nuclei express any CGRP-related protein (identified by the antibodies against CGRP) or, if they really contain CGRP protein, this is produced from undetectable amounts (using our in situ hybridization histochemistry procedure) of CGRP messenger RNA or it comes from other nuclei that connect with them in which CGRP protein is synthesized and then transferred.
The role of 5-hydroxytryptamine and its receptor subtypes in the development of acute inflammation was investigated using the rat paw formalin test as a model for pain (measured by flinching behavior) and edema formation (measured by plethysmometry). The role of endogenously released 5-hydroxytryptamine was assessed using 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor subtype-selective antagonists co-injected with 2.5% formalin, while the receptor subtypes involved in the inflammatory process were further defined by co-injection of 5-hydroxytryptamine or 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor subtype-selective agonists with 0.5% formalin in anticipation of an augmented response. When co-administered with 2.5% formalin, propranolol, tropisetron or GR113808A, but not ketanserin, effectively blocked nociceptive behavior. In the presence of 0.5% formalin, 5-carboxamidotryptamine, 1-(m-chlorophenyl) biguanide or 5-methoxytryptamine, but not (+/-)-1-4-(4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-aminopropane, augmented the flinching response. These data suggest involvement of 5-hydroxytryptamine1, 5-hydroxytryptamine3 and 5-hydroxytryptamine4 receptors in peripheral nociception. There may be some dissociation of nociception and edema formation, since no single 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor antagonist inhibited edema formation with 2.5% formalin; however, with 0.5% formalin, edema formation was enhanced by co-administration of 5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-carboxamidotryptamine, (+/-)-1-4-(4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-aminopropane or 5-methoxytryptamine, but not 1-(m-chlorophenyl) biguanide. These data suggest involvement of 5-hydroxytryptamine1, 5-hydroxytryptamine2 and possibly 5-hydroxytryptamine4 receptors in edema formation. These results confirm the involvement of 5-hydroxytryptamine1 and 5-hydroxytryptamine3 receptor subtypes in peripheral nociception associated with acute inflammation and further suggest an involvement of the more recently characterized 5-hydroxytryptamine4 receptor in this process. There appears to be a dissociation in 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors involved in peripheral nociception and edema formation.
Spinal primary afferent fibres innervating the myenteric area in the oesophago-gastric junction of the cat were selectively labelled by anterogradely transported cholera toxin B subunit-horseradish peroxidase conjugate injected into thoracic dorsal root ganglia. The ultrastructure of these labelled primary afferent fibres was studied in order to determine whether they display close relationships with specific cell types in the myenteric plexus. Horseradish peroxidase was revealed with tetramethylbenzidine stabilized with ammonium heptamolybdate or with the tetramethylbenzidine/tungstate reaction in order to visualize the cytoplasmic organelles and the axolemma, respectively. The labelled primary afferent fibres were unmyelinated. Two kinds of profiles of labelled fibres containing vesicles and mitochondrial accumulations were found: (i) fibres running in myenteric connectives in isolated nerve bundles, and (ii) fibres within the myenteric ganglia. The first kind had small areas of axolemma with no glial cell covering, whereas the second kind had little or no glial cell covering (termed naked primary afferent fibres). In addition, labelled fibres containing few vesicles and mitochondria and running in nerve bundles surrounded by perineurium were numerous. Within the myenteric ganglia, naked primary afferent fibres contacted myenteric neurons. The contacts were mainly axosomatic. No synaptic specializations were distinguished. In the interganglionic area, some labelled fibres terminated close to blood vessels. The intraganglionic naked primary afferent fibres are suggested to be mechanoreceptors. Their exposed axolemma might allow both mechanotransduction and release of neurotransmitters which could act on myenteric neurons. Because they are protected by their glial cell sheath and by bundles of collagen fibrils, interganglionic primary afferent fibres are likely to be less exposed to deformation.
The projections, connections, morphology and electrophysiological features of the myenteric interneurons with somatostatin immunoreactivity in the guinea-pig small intestine have been established using retrograde tracing, immunohistochemistry, confocal microscopy and intracellular recording. After application of the fluorescent dye, 1,1'-didodecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethyl indocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI), to the myenteric plexus, up to 900 nerve cell bodies were labelled in each preparation. Somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons accounted for 13% of all retrogradely labelled cells and were located up to 70 mm orally. When DiI was applied to the submucous ganglia, many myenteric neurons were labelled and 8% of all retrogradely labelled cells were somatostatin immunoreactive and were located up to 60 mm oral to the DiI application sites. These neurons had ovoid cell bodies, a single axon, several long filamentous dendrites and received close contacts from 40-200 somatostatin-immunoreactive varicosities. Intracellular recordings revealed that these cells had features of both S (i.e. with Synaptic inputs) and AH (i.e. neurons with After Hyperpolarization) cells, receiving fast excitatory synaptic inputs, having characteristic &quot;sag&quot; in their response to hyperpolarizing current pulses and sometimes a long afterhyperpolarization following soma action potentials. It is concluded that somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons have distinct electrophysiological features and form very long anally directed interneuronal chains that connect with both myenteric and submucous neurons.
The suitability of non-replicating thymidine kinase deficient herpes simplex virus type 1 expressing bacterial beta-galactosidase (tk-lacZ HSV-1) as a transfer vehicle into sympathetic preganglionic neurons in vivo was assessed. Many sympathoadrenal preganglionic neurons (451 +/- 105) with normal morphology were identified using beta-galactosidase histochemistry two days after inoculation of tk-lacZ HSV-1 into the adrenal gland of hamsters. Beta-galactosidase activity co-localized with nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase-positive sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the nucleus intermediolateralus, pars principalis. The maximal number of beta-galactosidase expressing neurons was found two days post-inoculation but this number dropped dramatically after this time. An inflammatory infiltrate was abundant around infected neurons and in the white matter at five days and infected neurons appeared morphologically abnormal. At 26 days, the infiltrate was still present but no infected sympathoadrenal preganglionic neurons were detected. Approximately 25% fewer nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase-positive neurons in the nucleus intermediolateralis, pars principalis were counted ipsilaterally than contralaterally in animals infected for 14, 21 or 26 days with tk-lacZ HSV-1, compared to the 3% difference in animals mock-infected for 26 days. Approximately 33% of the estimated number of sympathoadrenal preganglionic neurons infected with tk-lacZ HSV-1 at five days were apoptotic or necrotic. About 60% of neurons infected with tk-lacZ HSV-1 at two days no longer expressed nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase at 14-26 days. In conclusion, the non-replicating thymidine kinase deficient HSV-1 was efficiently retrogradely transported from the adrenal gland to infect sympathoadrenal preganglionic neurons. These gene transfer experiments using tk-lacZ HSV-1 suggest that foreign gene expression in sympathetic preganglionic neurons in vivo may be maximal two days after inoculation when beta-galactosidase was expressed in the greatest number of sympathetic preganglionic neurons. After two days, fewer neurons expressed beta-galactosidase and the presence of tk-lacZ HSV-1 appeared to be altering protein expression in sympathetic preganglionic neurons and/or leading to the demise of the infected neuron.
Stimulant-induced exocytosis has been demonstrated in sympathetic ganglia of the rat by in vitro incubation of excised ganglia in the presence of tannic acid, which stabilizes vesicle cores after their exocytotic release. Sites of exocytosis were observed along non-synaptic regions of the surfaces of neuron somata and dendrites, including regions of dendrosomatic and dendrodendritic apposition, as well as along the surfaces of nerve terminals About half the exocytoses associated with nerve terminals were parasynaptic or synaptic, and these appeared mostly to arise from the presynaptic terminal, but occasionally from the postsynaptic element. The results demonstrated that the neurons of sympathetic ganglia release materials intraganglionically in response to stimulation, that release from different parts of the neuron is subject to independent regulation, at least via cholinergic receptors, and that release is partly diffuse, potentially mediating autocrine or paracrine effects, and partly targeted toward other neurons, but that the latter mode is not necessarily, and not evidently, synaptic. Specifically, exocytosis from all locations increased significantly during incubation in modified Krebs' solution containing 56 nm potassium. Observation of the effects of cholinergic agonists (nicotine, carbachol, oxotremorine) and antagonists (atropine, AF-DX 116) showed that nicotinic and muscarinic excitation each, independently, increased the incidence of exocytosis from somata and dendrites. Exocytosis from nerve endings was not altered by nicotine, but was enhanced or, at high initial rates of exocytosis, decreased, by muscarinic stimulation. Evidence was obtained for muscarinic auto-inhibition of exocytosis from nerve terminals, occurring under basal incubation conditions, and for a muscarinic excitatory component of somatic exocytosis, elicitable by endogenous acetylcholine. The M2-selective muscarinic antagonist AF-DX 116 was found to modify the exocytotic response of the dendrites to oxotremorine, widening the range of its variation; this effect is consistent with recent evidence for the presence of M2-like muscarinic binding sites, in addition to M1-like binding, upon these dendrites [Ramcharan E. J. and Matthews M. R. (1996) Neuroscience 71, 797-832]. Over all conditions, disproportionately more sites of somatic and dendritic exocytosis were found to be located in regions of dendrosomatic and dendrodendritic apposition than would be expected from the relative extent of the neuronal surface occupied by these relationships. Such mechanisms of intraganglionic release may be expected to contribute to the regulation and integration of the behaviour of the various functionally distinctive populations of neurons in these ganglia, by autocrine, paracrine, and focal, neuroneuronal, routes of action. Similar phenomena of exocytotic soma-dendritic release might prove to subserve integrative neuroneuronal interactions more widely throughout the nervous system.
A secretion from cultured bovine chromaffin cells was stimulated to examine the pattern of exocytotic fusion on the plasma membrane. Confocal microscopy revealed that dopamine-beta-hydroxylase immunofluorescence in intact cells stimulated for 20s with the nicotinic agonist 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium was almost entirely punctate and evenly distributed on the cell surface. The basis for the fine, punctate appearance of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase was investigated. Dopamine-beta-hydroxylase presentation on the surface of permeabilized cells stimulated with 1-30 microM Ca2+ was punctate and similar to that on the plasma membrane of intact cells. The fluorescence intensities of both surface dopamine-beta-hydroxylase sites and internal chromaffin granules were estimated by computerized digital image analysis. The surface area of punctate surface dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (0.218 +/- 0.013 microm2, mean +/- S.E.M.) is similar to the surface area of a 0.28 microm diameter chromaffin granule (0.25 microm2). The average fluorescence intensity integrated over the area of the surface spots was 25-30% of the average chromaffin granule intensity, a fraction that is similar to the published values of 40-50% of the dopamine-beta-hydroxylase in the chromaffin granule being membrane bound. The surface density of the spots is consistent with the number of granules undergoing exocytosis. The spots do not tend to be clumped. The key conclusions from this work are that each individual punctate site of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase represents the fusion of a single chromaffin granule and that the distribution of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase spots over the cell surface is extensive and random, suggesting that each individual granule associates with its own release site.
We investigated the organization of projections from the rat midbrain periaqueductal gray to nucleus ambiguus and the periambigual region using retrograde and anterograde tract tracing techniques. Retrograde tracing results revealed that neurons that project to nucleus ambiguus arise from three discrete, longitudinally organized columns of neurons located in the supraoculomotor central gray, lateral and ventrolateral periaqueductal gray. Anterograde tracing studies demonstrated that projections from these three columns of periaqueductal gray neurons terminate with topographic specificity in nucleus ambiguus and the periambigual region. Double-labelling studies demonstrated that periaqueductal gray neurons terminate in close contiguity to cholinergic neurons in the compact, semicompact, loose and external formations of nucleus ambiguus. The present results suggest that projections from periaqueductal gray to nucleus ambiguus may mediate, in part, certain cardiovascular adjustments and vocalizations produced by stimulation of periaqueductal gray.
In rats anaesthetized with alphaxalone/alphadolone, electrical stimulation in the periaqueductal gray matter in the region lying lateral and dorsolateral to the aqueduct produced a pressor response and an increase in the latency of the tail flick response to noxious heat applied to the tail. The antinociception and the pressor response were significantly attenuated following microinjection of 15 nmol 5-hydroxytryptamine at the site of stimulation in the periaqueductal gray matter. Microinjection of an equal volume of 165 mM saline had no effect. The inhibitory effects of 5-hydroxytryptamine were blocked by prior intracerebroventricular administration of 100 microg of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L-nitroarginine methyl ester. Neither 5-hydroxytryptamine or L-nitroarginine methyl ester had any effect on resting arterial pressure or on the baseline latency of the tail flick reflex. It is suggested that the inhibitory effects of 5-hydroxytryptamine in the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray matter are normally dependent on the functional integrity of local nitric oxide synthase-containing interneurons. Nitric oxide may act in association with 5-hydroxytryptamine to control the excitability of the aversive system in the midbrain.
We monitored the spatiotemporal organization of cellular activity in the medial paraventricular hypothalamus during spontaneously-occurring periods of increased inspiratory effort followed by prolonged respiratory pauses (sigh/apnea) in the freely-behaving cat. Paraventricular hypothalamic activity was assayed by video images of light captured with a stereotaxically-placed fibre optic probe. Respiratory activity was measured through electromyographic wire electrodes placed in the diaphragm. Sigh/apnea events appeared in all behavioural states, and especially during quiet sleep. Overall paraventricular hypothalamic activity declined transiently, with the onset of decline coinciding with the beginning of the sigh inspiratory effort, reached a nadir at apnea onset 4.4+0.5 s from the beginning of the sigh, increased during the course of the apnea, and subsequently rebounded above baseline to peak at 10.9+2.5 s after sigh onset. Scattered, small areas of the imaged region were activated or depressed independently of the overall image values. The data suggest that paraventricular hypothalamic activity changes dynamically during phasic respiratory events, and may contribute to the progression of the sigh/apnea. We speculate that the medial paraventricular hypothalamus influences breathing patterns through projections to parabrachial respiratory phase-shift regions, and that longer-latency influences may also be exerted indirectly through blood pressure effects from paraventricular hypothalamic projections to medullary cardiovascular nuclei. Additionally, the paraventricular hypothalamus may convey respiratory influences from other rostral structures, such as the hippocampus.
We studied the interactions between glutamate and dopamine in the pars reticulata of the substantia nigra by using microdialysis in unanaesthetized rats. Increased extracellular levels of glutamate in the pars reticulata were obtained by microinjecting the muscarinic agonist carbachol into the ipsilateral subthalamic nucleus. The increase of glutamate levels was followed by increments in extracellular levels of dopamine and GABA. Increased levels of the three neurotransmitters were also observed during the administration of N-methyl-D-aspartate through the microdialysis probe. The increase in glutamate and GABA caused by N-methyl-D-aspartate was blocked by SCH 23390, a selective D1 antagonist. However, the D1 antagonist did not prevent the increase in dopamine levels. The selective D1 agonist SKF 38393, added to the microdialysis probe, increased the levels of the three neurotransmitters. However, after the lesion of the subthalamic nucleus with kainic acid, SKF 38393 increased only the level of GABA but not those of glutamate and dopamine. In addition, the lesion of the subthalamic nucleus produced a drastic (80%) fall in the extracellular levels of glutamate. These data suggest that glutamate, through N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors, stimulates the release of dopamine from dopaminergic dendrites present in the substantia nigra pars reticulata, and that dopamine in turn stimulates the release of glutamate and GABA. Both effects are mediated by D1 dopamine receptors present on subthalamonigral and striatonigral axon terminals, respectively.
We investigated whether the parafascicular thalamostriatal pathway, one of the major excitatory inputs to the striatum, regulates the expression in rat striatum of messenger RNA encoding two isoforms of glutamate decarboxylase (mol. wt 67,000: glutamate decarboxylase 67 and mol. wt 65,000: glutamate decarboxylase 65). Acute (one day) and chronic (14 days) electrolytic lesions of the parafascicular nucleus resulted in 58% and 23% decreases in glutamate decarboxylase 67 messenger RNA expression, respectively, as determined by northern blot analysis. Glutamate decarboxylase 65 messenger RNA was not modified by either lesion. Sections of sham- and acute-lesioned striata were processed for in situ hybridization histochemistry at the single cell level with an RNA probe for glutamate decarboxylase 67. Labelling of glutamate decarboxylase 67 messenger RNA was decreased in both types of cells known to be present in the striatum, i.e. the lightly and the very densely-labelled neurons. The frequency distribution of glutamate decarboxylase 67 labelling per neuron in the lesioned striata, in fact, was shifted to the left and its median was lower than in the sham-lesioned striata. In view of the excitatory nature of the thalamostriatal pathway, we examined the subtype of glutamate receptors modulating the glutamate decarboxylase 67 gene expression. The N-methyl-D-aspartate-type receptor antagonist, dizocilpine, at 0.1-0.5 mg/kg i.p., produced a marked and persistent reduction in striatal glutamate decarboxylase 67 messenger RNA. The non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (12 nmol/side, i.c.v.) had no such effect. The results provide evidence that excitatory thalamostriatal afferents selectively modulate the gene expression of glutamate decarboxylase 67, probably through the N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptors.
The distribution, morphology and chemical characteristics of neurons immunoreactive for the alpha1-subunit of the GABA(A) receptor in the striatum of the basal ganglia in the rat brain were investigated at the light, confocal and electron microscope levels using single, double and triple immunohistochemical labelling techniques. The results showed that alpha1-subunit immunoreactive neurons were sparsely distributed throughout the rat striatum. Double and triple labelling results showed that all the alpha1-subunit-immunoreactive neurons were positive for glutamate decarboxylase and immunoreactive for the beta2,3 and gamma2 subunits of the GABA(A) receptor. Three types of alpha1-subunit-immunoreactive neurons were identified in the striatum on the basis of cellular morphology and chemical characteristics. The most numerous alpha1-subunit-immunoreactive neurons were medium-sized, aspiny neurons with a widely branching dendritic tree. They were parvalbumin-negative and were located mainly in the dorsolateral regions of the striatum. Electron microscopy showed that these neurons had an indented nuclear membrane, typical of striatal interneurons, and were surrounded by small numbers of axon terminals which established alpha1-subunit-immunoreactive synaptic contacts with the soma and dendrites. These cells were classified as type 1 alpha1-subunit-immunoreactive neurons and comprised 75% of the total population of alpha1-subunit-immunoreactive neurons in the striatum. The remaining alpha1-subunit-immunoreactive neurons comprised of a heterogeneous population of large-sized neurons localized in the ventral and medial regions of the striatum. The most numerous large-sized cells were parvalbumin-negative, had two to three relatively short branching dendrites and were designated type 2 alpha1-subunit-immunoreactive neurons. Electron microscopy showed that the type 2 neurons were characterized by a highly convoluted nuclear membrane and were sparsely covered with small axon terminals. The type 2 neurons comprised 20% of the total population of alpha1-subunit-immunoreactive neurons. The remaining large-sized alpha1-immunoreactive cells were designated type 3 cells; they were positive for parvalbumin and were distinguished by long branching dendrites extending dorsally for 600-800 microm into the striatum. These neurons comprised 5% of the total population of alpha1-subunit-immunoreactive neurons and were surrounded by enkephalin-immunoreactive terminals. Electron microscopy showed that the alpha1-subunit type 3 neurons had an indented nuclear membrane and were densely covered with small axon terminals which established alpha1-subunit-immunoreactive symmetrical synaptic contacts with the soma and dendrites. These results provide a detailed characterization of the distribution, morphology and chemical characteristics of the alpha1-subunit-immunoreactive neurons in the rat striatum and suggest that the type 1 and type 2 neurons comprise of separate populations of striatal interneurons while the type 3 neurons may represent the large striatonigral projection neurons described by Bolam et al. [Bolam J. P., Somogyi P., Totterdell S. and Smith A. D. (1981) Neuroscience 6, 2141-2157.].
We reported that repeated immobilization for six days attenuates the subsequent acute immobilization stress-induced expression of the immediate early genes c-fos, fos B, jun B and nerve growth factor-induced gene-B (NGFI-B), but not of NGFI-A, in the rat paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus. In this study, we confirmed these findings by means of a time-course study, and further investigated whether the elevated plasma basal glucocorticoid level induced by repeated stress underlies the attenuated response of immediate early genes and the preserved reactivity of NGFI-A. Rats implanted with 100, 200 or 400 mg corticosterone or placebo pellets (control), were immobilized for 1 h and decapitated seven days later. In control rats acute immobilization induced c-fos, fos B, jun B, NGFI-A and NGFI-B messenger RNA in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, whereas all of them except NGFI-A, were significantly reduced in rats given 200 and 400 mg corticosterone implants. The similarity of the results from the two procedures suggests that glucocorticoid is involved in regulating immediate early genes in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus under repeated stress and that the NGFI-A gene is not regulated by this mechanism. However, the plasma basal corticosterone level in repeatedly stressed rats was lower than that of rats implanted with 100 mg corticosterone, suggesting that a repetitive stress-induced corticosterone surge also contributes to this mechanism.
DNA binding by transcripton factor AP-1 was enhanced remarkably following kindling stimulation in rat amygdala. Maximum increase occurred 2 h after stimulation with return to baseline within 24 h. Supershift and western analyses revealed that 38,000 mol. wt Fos-related antigen and JunD were the main components of the evoked AP-1 complexes at the time their induction reached maximum. AP-1 induction 2 h after the last kindling stimulation was more prominent in samples from previously kindled rats than in those from non-kindled rats. This study sought to establish the role of AP-1 in plastic changes of the hippocampus associated with kindling. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were kindled from the left amygdala until they exhibited Racine15 class 5 generalized seizures. Nuclear proteins were extracted from dorsal hippocampi obtained from 0 to 24 h after final stimulations. From these, we evaluated the temporal pattern of DNA binding by AP-1 using a gel mobility-shift assay with a 32P-labelled AP-1 probe. Supershift and western analyses were added to investigate components of the seizure-evoked AP-1 complexes. Our results suggest that the basal level of AP-1 complexes is not associated with the seizure susceptibility in kindling. However, development of kindling appears to facilitate stimulus-evoked AP-1 induction, probably via plastic changes in the central nervous system. AP-1 may mediate such changes by regulating expression of certain genes.
Development and differentiation of basal forebrain-derived cholinergic neurons were studied using a new technique that combines dissociated cell cultures with organotypic slice cultures. Slices of cerebral cortex or entire forebrain hemispheres were taken from early postnatal rat pups and maintained as organotypic cultures on membranes. Dissociated cell suspensions of basal forebrain tissue, taken from rat or mouse fetuses at gestational day 15-17, were seeded on to the slice cultures. Combined cultures were maintained for two to 14 days in vitro. Cultures processed for acetylcholinesterase histochemical staining demonstrated that stained neurons display regional variation in attachment to the slice, with most attachment occurring on cortex and with no detectable attachment on the caudate-putamen. Regional differences in attachment occur between cortical areas, with medial (cingulate) cortex showing much denser cell attachment than lateral (parietal) cortex, and across cortical layers, with layer I and deep layers showing more attachment than middle cortical layers. Similar patterns were observed on slices from rat brain irrespective of whether rat or mouse dissociated cells were used. Tyrosine hydroxylase-stained dissociated cells from ventral midbrain displayed a different pattern of attachment, with prominent attachment to the caudate putamen and less apparent specificity of regional and cortical laminar attachment. Little evidence of neurite outgrowth occurred during the first two days in vitro, but by four days, acetylcholinesterase-positive basal forebrain cells displayed several short and thick neurites that appeared to be dendrites, and one long process that appeared to be an axon. By seven days in vitro, dendrites are well developed and the presumed axon has extended branches over wide areas of cortex. These studies revealed several different types of cell-tissue interaction. The degree of cell growth and differentiation ranged from robust growth when dissociated cells were seeded on to slice cultures of normal target tissue, to apparently no attachment or growth when cells were seeded on to non-target tissue. This combined technique appears to be a useful method for studies of specificity of cell attachment and patterns of neurite outgrowth.
After unilateral entorhinal cortex lesion cholinergic septohippocampal fibres sprout in the denervated fascia dentata. This process is dependent on neurotrophin changes following the lesion. Thus, there is an up-regulation of nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA expression in the denervated granule cells which is detectable 4 h postlesion and returns to control levels by 24 h. Here, using a competitive polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridization, a transient neurotropin messenger RNA increase could be demonstrated bilaterally following unilateral electrolytic entorhinal cortex lesion. Treatment of the animals with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate blocked this messenger RNA increase, suggesting an involvement of this receptor type in the neurotrophin changes. However, in spite of this blockade, the typical cholinergic sprouting response as visualized with acetylcholinesterase histochemistry was present in animals four weeks after entorhinal cortex lesion. These data suggest that brief initial changes in neurotrophin messenger RNA expression in dentate granule cells are not responsible for the induction of the cholinergic sprouting. Changes in neurotrophin messenger RNA expression occurring immediately postlesion may be linked to glutamate release from entorhinal terminals resulting from the electrolytic lesion of the projection cells in the entorhinal cortex. We hypothesize that later changes in neurotrophin expression, for example in glial cells, are more likely to be related to the cholinergic sprouting process.
The effects of excitotoxic lesions of the prefrontal cortex on behavioural, neurochemical and molecular indices of dopamine function in the caudate nucleus were studied in the marmoset. The lesion, which encompassed both the lateral and orbital regions of prefrontal cortex, made the animals more sensitive to the performance disrupting effects of the dopamine releasing drug, D-amphetamine, in a variation of the object retrieval task. Specifically, following drug administration, the lesioned marmosets were less able to gain access to food reward in the minimum number of responses. Analysis of the nature of the errors suggested that the deficit was not due to inhibition of a prepotent response as the lesioned monkeys were just as likely to make a detour reach to the unopened side of the box as a direct &quot;line-of-sight&quot; reach into the unopened front of the box. Rather, the data indicated a general disorganization of behaviour. The enhanced behavioural responsiveness to manipulations increasing presynaptic dopamine function was accompanied by neurochemical changes indicating a reduced responsiveness, as revealed by in vivo microdialysis. Thus, in lesioned animals, whilst there were no effects on baseline levels of extracellular dopamine in dorsolateral caudate, evoked release, both to systemic D-amphetamine and to a local depolarizing pulse of potassium ions, was attenuated. These opposite effects of the prefrontal cortex lesion on behavioural and neurochemical indices of striatal dopamine function occurred in the absence of any changes in striatal dopamine receptors of the D1 and D2 subtype, as determined both by radioligand binding assays and measurements of messenger RNA using in situ hydridization techniques. These data provide further insight into the interactions between prefrontal cortex and striatal dopamine function in the non-human primate. In particular, when taken in the light of our previous studies they indicate that following prefrontal manipulations, concurrence between behavioural and neurochemical indices of striatal dopamine function depends, critically, on the behavioural task. These findings are discussed with respect to the growing body of evidence implicating abnormalities in frontostriatal neurotransmission in complex disorders such as schizophrenia.
Impulse activity was recorded extracellularly from noradrenergic neurons in the nucleus locus coeruleus of three cynomolgus monkeys performing a visual discrimination (vigilance) task. For juice reward, the subjects were required to release a lever rapidly in response to an improbable target stimulus (20% of trials) that was randomly intermixed with non-target stimuli presented on a video display. All locus coeruleus neurons examined were phasically and selectively activated by target stimuli in this task. Other task events elicited no consistent response from these neurons (juice reward, lever release, fix spot stimuli, non-target stimuli). With reversal of the task contingency, locus coeruleus neurons ceased responding to the former target stimuli, and began responding instead to the new target (old non-target) stimuli. In addition, the latency of locus coeruleus response to target stimuli increased after reversal (by about 140 ms) in parallel with a similar increase in the latency of the behavioral response. These results indicate that the conditioned locus coeruleus responses reflect stimulus meaning and cognitive processing, and are not driven by physical sensors attributes. Notably, the reversal in locus coeruleus response to stimuli after task reversal occurred rapidly, hundreds of trials before reversal was expressed in behavioral responses. These findings indicate that conditioned responses of locus coeruleus neurons are plastic and easily altered by changes in stimulus meaning, and that the locus coeruleus may play an active role in learning the significance of behaviorally important stimuli.
Removal of extracellular glutamate at synapses, by specific high-affinity glutamate transporters, is critical to prevent excitotoxic injury to neurons. Oxidative stress has been implicated in the pathogenesis of an array of prominent neurodegenerative conditions that involve degeneration of synapses and neurons in glutamatergic pathways including stroke, and Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases. Although cell culture data indicate that oxidative insults can impair key membrane regulatory systems including ion-motive ATPases and amino acid transport systems, the effects of oxidative stress on synapses, and the mechanisms that mediate such effects, are largely unknown. This study provides evidence that 4-hydroxynonenal, an aldehydic product of lipid peroxidation, mediates oxidation-induced impairment of glutamate transport and mitochondrial function in synapses. Exposure of rat cortical synaptosomes to 4-hydroxynonenal resulted in concentration- and time-dependent decreases in [3H]glutamate uptake, and mitochondrial function [assessed with the dye 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT)]. Other related aldehydes including malondialdehyde and hexanal had little or no effect on glutamate uptake or mitochondrial function. Exposure of synaptosomes to insults known to induce lipid peroxidation (FeSO4 and amyloid beta-peptide) also impaired glutamate uptake and mitochondrial function. The antioxidants propyl gallate and glutathione prevented impairment of glutamate uptake and MTT reduction induced by FeSO4 and amyloid beta-peptide, but not that induced by 4-hydroxynonenal. Western blot analyses using an antibody to 4-hydroxynonenal-conjugated proteins showed that 4-hydroxynonenal bound to multiple cell proteins including GLT-1, a glial glutamate transporter present at high levels in synaptosomes. 4-Hydroxynonenal itself induced lipid peroxidation suggesting that, in addition to binding directly to membrane regulatory proteins, 4-hydroxynonenal potentiates oxidative cascades. Collectively, these findings suggest that 4-hydroxynonenal plays important roles in oxidative impairment of synaptic functions that would be expected to promote excitotoxic cascades.
Na+/Ca2+ exchange activity was measured by monitoring vesicular Ca2+ content after incubation in buffers containing 45Ca2+. When Na+-loaded vesicles were placed into Na+-free buffer, vesicular Ca2+ content increased rapidly and reached a plateau after two to three minutes. Only preaggregated amyloid-beta1-40 (Abeta1-40) and Abeta25-35 reduced vesicular Ca2+ content. Both peptides produced a maximal reduction in Ca2+ content of approximately 50%. The peptides reduced Ca2+ content with similar potency and half maximal effects were seen at less than 10 microM for Abeta25-35. Calcium-loaded vesicles mediate a rapid Ca2+/Ca2+ exchange, which also was inhibited by aggregated Abeta25-35. Aggregated Abeta25-35 did not affect the passive Ca2+ permeability of the vesicles. Aggregated Abeta25-35 reduced Ca2+ content in plasma membrane vesicles isolated from normal and Alzheimer's disease frontal cortex with less potency but the same efficacy as seen in rat brain. Aggregated Abeta25-35 did not produce nonspecific effects on vesicle morphology such as clumping or loss of intact vesicles. When placed in the buffer used to measure Ca2+ content, Congo Red at molar ratios of less than one blocked the inhibitory effect of preaggregated Abeta25-35. When added in equimolar concentrations to freshly dissolved and unaggregated Abeta25-35, Congo Red also was effective at blocking the inhibitory effect on Ca2+ content. In contrast, vitamin E (antioxidant) and N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone (spin trapping agent) failed to block the inhibitory action of aggregated Abeta25-35. The exact mechanisms of Abeta-induced neurotoxicity in cell culture has yet to be solved. Accumulation of free radicals play a necessary role, but disruptions of Ca2+ homeostasis are also important. The data presented here are consistent with a proposed mechanism where aggregated Abeta peptides directly interact with hydrophobic surfaces of the exchanger protein and/or lipid bilayer and interfere with plasma membrane Ca2+ transport.
Melatonin binding in the brain of hydrocephalic H-Tx rats was examined by autoradiography. At the time of birth, hydrocephalic animals showed an abnormality in the distribution of high-affinity melatonin receptors dorsal to the cerebral aqueduct when compared to controls. Whereas newborn rats of the H-Tx strain that were unaffected by hydrocephalus had melatonin receptors in a tectal midsagittal strip overlying the aqueduct and spanning the anterior half of the tectum, hydrocephalic rats lacked melatonin receptors in the most anterior part of this region. In these animals, the length of the aqueduct over which receptors were missing was compressed and was additionally occluded by dystrophic ependyma. The first signs of ventricular expansion characteristic of hydrocephalus were evident.

Neurosurgery at the Barrow Neurological Institute exists within the unique context of this nonuniversity-based center. The institute, a relative newcomer to academic medicine, opened in Phoenix in 1961 under the leadership of John Raymond Green, M.D., who remained its medical director until his retirement at the end of 1985. Since then, the institute has experienced a dynamic growth phase in its clinical and academic arenas. This article describes how the development of the institute has shaped the program in neurosurgery and vice versa.


A 43-year-old woman was admitted into our hospital because of aphasia and right hemiparesis. Computed tomographic scan demonstrated border zone infarction in the anterior and middle cerebral artery. Magnetic resonance imaging scans showed the borderline area between the terminal branches of the lenticulostriate arteries and the perforating branches of the middle cerebral artery. Digital subtraction ICA angiogram showed severe narrowing of the distal portion of the right and left ICA. A pattern analysis of ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) was carried out in this patient, and it was showed &quot;dipper type&quot;. Laboratory data was elevated excretion of pituitary gonadotropines and low estrogen excretion. Chromosome analysis revealed the 45, X/46, XX. She was diagnosed with mosaic type of Turner's syndrome. The cerebrovascular abnormality might be due to congenital hypoplasia of arteries, and declining of blood pressure during sleep was possible significant factors in the pathogenesis of cerebral infarction in this patient.
The binding of the three dopamine transporter radioligands ([125I] beta-CIT, [125I] beta-CIT-FE, and [125I] beta-CIT-FP) was studied using whole-hemisphere autoradiography on postmortem human brains. The autoradiograms revealed an intense and homogeneous labeling of the nucleus caudatus and putamen but also to varying extent to serotonergic and noradrenergic transporters of neocortex and thalamus. The order of specificity estimated (striatum over neocortex ratios) was beta-CIT-FP &gt; beta-CIT-FE &gt; &gt; beta-CIT, suggesting that beta-CIT-FE and beta-CIT-FP should be preferred for in vivo studies of the dopamine transporter in the human brain.
beta-CIT-FP [N-(3-fluoropropyl)-2 beta-carbomethoxy-3 beta-(4-iodophenyl)nortropane] is a cocaine analogue with high affinity for the dopamine transporter. Positron emission tomography (PET) studies with [O-methyl-11C] beta-CIT-FP ([11C] beta-CIT-FP) has shown that equilibrium conditions were approached but, however, not reached at the end of measurement. Moreover, metabolite studies of [11C] beta-CIT-FP in monkey plasma demonstrated a lipophilic-labelled metabolite that may enter the brain. We therefore labelled beta-CIT-FP with fluorine-18 in a position that may avoid the formation of labelled lipophilic metabolites. The more long-lived radionuclide (18F) was used to allow for measurements over longer time. [N-fluoropropyl- 18F] beta-CIT-FP ([18F] beta-CIT-FP) was prepared by N-alkylation of nor-beta-CIT with [18F]fluoropropyl bromide. PET studies were performed in cynomolgus monkeys. [18F] beta-CIT-FP entered the brain rapidly. There was a high concentration of radioactivity in the striatum and much lower in the thalamus, neocortex, and cerebellum. The striatum-to-cerebellum ratio was about 5 at time of transient equilibrium, which occurred after 60 to 100 min. After pretreatment with GBR 12909, radioactivity in the striatum was markedly reduced, thus indicating specific [18F] beta-CIT-FP binding to the dopamine transporter. The fraction of unchanged [18F] beta-CIT-FP determined by HPLC was 10-15% after 140 min. No lipophilic labelled metabolites were detected. The absence of measurable lipophilic labelled metabolites and the occurrence of transient equilibrium within the time of the PET measurement indicate that [18F] beta-CIT-FP is superior to [11C] beta-CIT-FP as a PET radioligand for quantification of the dopamine transporter in the human brain.
Proteolipid protein (PLP) is the major myelin protein of the central nervous system and is widely believed to play an important structural role in maintaining the myelin compaction. We have studied the early developmental changes of PLP with immunohistochemical methods. Our data demonstrate for the first time a comparable scheme for the development of PLP during myelination in human fetal and infant cerebrum. Expression of PLP was first detected in the pallidothalamic fibers and globus pallidus at 20 weeks; it then extended to the striatum at 28 weeks, pericentral gyri and optic radiation at 35 weeks, and acoustic radiation at 40 weeks. Compared to the expression of myelin basic protein (MBP), another major myelin protein in the central nervous system, the developmental changes of PLP is in the same order as MBP, but the PLP immunoreactivity revealed greater and earlier appearance in the cerebrum than that of MBP in the fetal period. These results imply that PLP is a sensitive and useful marker for early myelination and its disorders.
Chronic oral VP-16 (Etoposide) is a chemotherapy regimen with wide application in oncology and documented efficacy against germ cell tumors, lymphomas, Kaposi sarcoma, and glial brain tumors. Eight patients ranging in age from 4 to 36 years (median 7.5 years) with locally recurrent medulloblastoma were treated with VP-16. No patient displayed evidence of cerebrospinal fluid dissemination, distant brain or spine parenchymal metastases, or extraneural metastatic disease. All patients had previously been treated with surgery (gross total resection, 5; subtotal resection, 3), craniospinal radiotherapy, and platinum-based chemotherapy (adjuvant, 3; salvage, 8). Each cycle of therapy consisted of 21 days of VP-16 (50 mg/m2/day) followed by a 7 to 14 day rest followed by an additional 21 days of VP-16 (50 mg/m2/day). Complete blood counts were obtained weekly. Neurologic examination and brain magnetic resonance imaging scan with contrast were performed prior to each cycle of therapy. Treatment-related complications included: partial alopecia (5 patients); diarrhea (4); weight loss (3); anemia (2); neutropenia (4); and thrombocytopenia (4). Two patients required transfusion and 1 patient received antibiotics for neutropenic fever. All patients were evaluable for response: 3 demonstrated progressive disease after the first cycle of VP-16, 3 had stable disease (range 4 to 6 months) and 2 had partial neuroradiographic responses (8 and 10 months). Median duration of response and stable disease was 6 months (range: 4 to 10 months) in 5 of 8 (62.5%) patients. Chronic oral VP-16 is a well-tolerated and relatively non-toxic chemotherapeutic agent with demonstrated activity in locally recurrent medulloblastoma.
9 of the 15 volunteers who were exposed to successive 3-min. durations of bursts of different types of weak (1 microT) complex magnetic fields or sham-fields reported the sense of a presence as indicated by a button press at the time of the experience. Reports of subjective experiences indicated that attempts to &quot;focus&quot; cognitively upon the location of the presence altered its location or induced its &quot;movement.&quot; An exceptional subject who had a history of experiencing within his upper left peripheral visual field &quot;flashing images&quot; concerning the health and history of people [when handling their photographs] was also exposed to the burst sequences. Numbers of button presses associated with the experiences of a mystical presence, to whom the subject attributed his capacity, increased when the complex magnetic fields were applied without the subject's knowledge. The results support the hypothesis that the sense of a presence, which may be the common phenomenological base from which experiences of gods, spirits, angels, and other entities are derived, is a right hemispheric homologue of the left hemispheric sense of self.
Flinch (pain) thresholds for electric current delivered to the feet were correlated with the amount of necrosis within the diencephalon and telencephalon for rats in which seizures had been induced by lithium and pilocarpine about two months before the testing. The shared variance of the quantitative damage within the claustrum, the anterior part of the paraventricular nucleus of thalamus, (central) mediodorsal thalamus, and lateral amygdala (ventromedial part) explained 81% of the variance in the nociceptive (flinch) thresholds. A primary role of the claustrum within the neuropathways that mediate the response to the interoceptive and &quot;painful&quot; characteristics of stimuli is indicated. The concept of primary pathways versus &quot;emergent&quot; pathways subsequent to excitotoxic damage within the neuromatrix is discussed.
The effects of scopolamine hydrobromide on performance in uninterrupted and delayed radial maze trials were studied in the rat. In addition to defining errors as incorrect arm entries, errors were defined by incorrect nose pokes in a food trough and were summed across the number of correct choices remaining. The average time elapsed from arm entry to nose poke was also calculated as a new measure of motivation and mobility. Working memory errors increased significantly following scopolamine injection in the uninterrupted trials and occurred significantly more often before the last correct choice. Errors in nonbaited arms during the last portion of a 3-h delay task increased significantly following scopolamine injection both before and after the first portion of the task and occurred more often before the last correct choice. However, nonbaited errors occurred more readily and at lower doses when scopolamine was injected 20 min before the onset of the task than when scopolamine was injected immediately after the completion of the first portion of the task. These data indicate that scopolamine affects current working memory and specifically affects acquisition more than consolidation of working memory.
The effects of pharmacological manipulations of dopaminergic transmission on appetitive and consummatory aspects of male sexual behavior were investigated in castrated male Japanese quail treated with exogenous testosterone. Appetitive male sexual behavior was assessed by measuring a learned social proximity response and consummatory behavior was assessed by measuring copulatory behavior per se. The nonselective dopamine receptor agonist, apomorphine, inhibited in a dose-dependent manner both components of male sexual behavior. Two indirect dopamine agonists were also tested. Nomifensine, a dopamine re-uptake inhibitor, decreased appetitive sexual behavior but increased the frequency of mount attempts, a measure of consummatory sexual behavior. Amfonelic acid, a compound that enhances dopaminergic tone by a complex mechanism, increased aspects of both appetitive and consummatory behaviors. These data suggest that, in quail, as in rodents, increases in dopaminergic tone facilitate both appetitive and consummatory aspects of male sexual behavior. Apomorphine may be inhibitory in quail because it acts primarily on D2-like receptors, unlike in rats, where it stimulates sexual behavior and acts primarily on D1-like receptors at low doses but interacts with D2-like receptors at higher doses. This is supported by the observation that stereotyped pecking, a behavior stimulated selectively in quail by D2 agonists, was increased by apomorphine but not by the two indirect agonists. The observed partial dissociation between the effects of these dopaminergic agonists on appetitive and consummatory sexual behaviors suggests that these two components of male sexual behavior may be controlled by the action of dopamine through different neuronal systems.
This study investigated whether appetitive operant food reinforcement or free-feeding behavior in rats, food-restricted to 85% of body weight, was disrupted by exposures to 3 h of restraint stress or by 3 h of restraint plus water immersion stress (RWI). Rats were trained under a 3-cycle 10-min time-out-10-min time-in fixed-ratio 15 (FR15) schedule of food reinforcement. Free-feeding was measured in a 3-cycle 10-min food jar-out-10-min food jar-in test conducted in the operant chambers. Three hours of restraint stress did not significantly affect response rate or food reinforcement in the operant FR15 task or in the free-feeding condition. In contrast, 3 h of RWI completely abolished operant food reinforcement and suppressed response rate, whereas free-feeding was significantly reduced but not abolished in food-restricted, hungry rats. We conclude that acute restraint stress in food-restricted, hungry rats does not affect their appetite or motor ability to lever-press for food nor did it affect their ability to feed in a free-feeding situation. In contrast, RWI stress may have induced a motor impairment, or some other aspect of motivation independent of hunger, that disrupted their performance in the operant FR15 task.
The purpose of the present study was to test specific hypotheses regarding volumetric changes of the neocortex between 10 female trichotillomania (TTM) subjects and 10 female normal controls. A standard three-dimensional (3-D) brain coordinate system was imposed over each newly acquired native magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan for positional normalization and 3-D shape/geometric localization analyses were based on the midpoints of anterior and posterior commissures, and the longitudinal fissure. The brain segmentation method, using well-characterized semiautomated intensity and differential contour algorithms by signal intensity-frequency histograms, was used blind to segment the principal gray and white matter structures. The segmented neocortical ribbon was subdivided into 48 regions (i.e. parcellation units) per hemisphere via a new method of morphometric topographic parcellation. There were no significant volumetric changes of the precentral gyrus, postcentral gyrus, supplementary motor cortex or opercular cortex in TTM patients compared with control subjects. A broader analysis as a hypothesis-generating post-hoc effort showed that TTM subjects exhibited significantly reduced left inferior frontal gyrus volume of 27% (t = 2.21, d.f. = 18, P = 0.04) and enlarged right cuneal cortex volume of 40% (t = -2.30, d.f. = 18, P = 0.03) compared to normal controls. This is the first report of a structural neocortex abnormality in TTM. Results are discussed in terms of the behavioral specialization of these two brain neocortical regions and the complex interractions between visual and sensorimotor cortices. The results also showed the feasibility of the MRI-based morphometric topographic parcellation for investigation of the human neocortex in neuroscience research.
We recently developed [11C]FLB 457 a substituted benzamide with the very high affinity of 20 pM for D2-dopamine receptors in vitro. The aim of the present exploratory study was to examine the anatomical distribution of [11C]FLB 457 binding in the human brain and to determine extrastriatal D2-receptor occupancy in antipsychotic drug-treated patients. [11C]raclopride was used to obtain reference values for D2-dopamine receptor occupancy in the putamen. After IV injection of [11C]FLB 457 there was a high concentration of radioactivity, not only in the caudate putamen but also in the thalamus and the temporal cortex. The concentration of radioactivity in the frontal cortex, the substantia nigra and the colliculi was slightly higher than in the cerebellum. Pretreatment with haloperidol and fluphenazine indicated that [11C]FLB 457 binding in extrastriatal regions to a high degree represent specific binding to D2-dopamine receptors. The D2-occupancy in antipsychotic drug-treated patients was on the same level in the thalamus and the temporal cortex as that determined with [11C]raclopride in the putamen. The study shows that [11C]FLB 457 has potential for quantitative PET-examination of D2-dopamine receptors in man.
The purpose of the present study was to develop an animal model of nicotine self-administration that more closely approximates the conditions of human nicotine use than do existing models. In most nicotine self-administration models, rats acquire self-administration during brief daily sessions in which rapid injections of a relatively high dose of the drug, 0.03 mg/kg, serve as the reinforcer. The present study examined nicotine self-administration in rats that acquired the behavior while having virtually unlimited access to injections of a relatively low dose of the drug; the rats did not have any prior operant training or shaping. Under these conditions, rats readily acquire nicotine self-administration at doses at least as low as 0.00375 mg/kg per injection, and they self-administer throughout the active portion of their light cycle. The daily nicotine intake of rats, which ranged from 0.18 to 1.38 mg/kg per day, appears to be comparable to that of human smokers.
It is the elderly who carry the burden of stroke. Whilst 130,000 people suffer a stroke in the UK every year, nearly three quarters of these cases occur over the age of 65 and nearly half occur over the age of 75. As the proportion of elderly in the population continues to grow, inevitably this burden will increase. With Scotland probably experiencing the highest stroke incidence in the UK and stroke already accounting for 5.5% of total hospital costs, challenges clearly lie ahead for the health service and Scottish society as a whole. The extent to which we are able to meet this challenge is becoming clearer. Thus far, therapeutic advance has been rather &quot;low-tech&quot;, with organisation of services and the appropriate use of existing interventions showing modest and, just occasionally, dramatic benefits. In contrast, the high hopes raised by many &quot;high-tech&quot; solutions have largely been dashed or remain promising but unproven.
We have built a relational database of zebrafish developmental and genetic research information accessible via the World Wide Web. Our team of biologists and computer scientists employed a user-centered design process, using input from the research community to tailor the contents and usability of the database. The database supports the broad range of data types generated by zebrafish research including text, images and graphical information about mutations, gene expression patterns and the genetic map. Data are entered both by the database staff and directly by authorized users. The database also maintains links among data, scientists and laboratories, thus facilitating information exchange within the research community.Copyright 1997 Academic Press Limited Copyright 1997Academic Press Limited



Withdrawal from the chronic administration of nicotine has previously been shown to lead to an enhanced auditory startle response in rats. In order to explore the neuropharmacology and neurophysiology underlying this phenomenon, we examined the effects of various 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)-1A antagonists and agonists on the nicotine-withdrawal-enhanced auditory startle response in male rats. Animals were treated with nicotine (6 mg/kg/day nicotine base, via subcutaneously implanted osmotic minipumps) for 12 days. After 12 days the pumps were removed and the animals allowed to undergo spontaneous withdrawal for several days. In agreement with previous results, nicotine withdrawal led to a significant elevation of the auditory startle response. Pretreatment with the 5-HT-1A agonists (+)8-OH-DPAT (0.001-0.1 mg/kg) and LY274600 (0.3-3.0 mg/kg) either had no affect or exacerbated the nicotine-withdrawal-enhanced startle response. Pretreatment with the 5-HT-1A antagonists NAN-190 (1-3 mg/kg), LY206130 (1-10 mg/kg), or WAY-100635 (0.1-1.0 mg/kg) blocked the increase in the startle response caused by nicotine withdrawal at doses that had no effect on baseline startle responses. These data indicate that 5-HT-1A receptors play a role in the neurophysiology of nicotine withdrawal. In addition, 5-HT-1A antagonists may be able to relieve some nicotine withdrawal symptoms in man and may represent a novel pharmacotherapy for smoking cessation.
It has been suggested that methamphetamine (METH)-induced neurotoxicity requires the activation of both dopamine (DA) and glutamate (GLU) systems. To investigate the possibility that METH-induced increases in extracellular GLU, as measured by in vivo microdialysis [Nash and Yamamoto (1992) Brain Res., 581:237-243], arise from neuronal stores, postembedding immunogold electron microscopy was used to measure the density of presynaptic GLU immunoreactivity within the striatum, the shell of the nucleus accumbens, and the motor cortex. Rats were treated with METH (5 mg/kg), or an equivalent volume of saline (SAL), every 2 h for a total of four injections. No ultrastructural evidence of terminal degeneration was observed. Significant decreases in the density of nerve terminal GLU immunolabeling occurred 12 h following METH administration within the primary motor cortex and the ventrolateral caudate/putamen, and a trend towards depletion was seen within the dorsolateral caudate/putamen. Although GLU immunolabeling within the shell of the nucleus accumbens was unaffected, DA content was decreased in all regions examined 1 week following METH treatment. The lack of degeneration, coupled with a partial recovery of DA levels, suggests that moderate doses of METH may inhibit DA biosynthesis without widespread terminal loss. Furthermore, METH administration results in a decrease in presynaptic GLU that correlates both temporally and anatomically with delayed GLU overflow, suggesting that neuronally derived GLU may play a role in METH-induced neurotoxicity. However, there does appear to be a dissociation between DA loss and altered GLU immunocytochemistry within the nucleus accumbens.
Increasing evidence suggests that antagonistic interactions between specific subtypes of adenosine and dopamine receptors in the basal ganglia are involved in the motor depressant effects of adenosine receptor agonists and the motor stimulant effects of adenosine receptor antagonists, such as caffeine. The GABAergic striatopallidal neurons are regulated by interacting adenosine A2A and dopamine D2 receptors. On the other hand, the GABAergic striatonigral and striatoentopeduncular neurons seem to be regulated by interacting adenosine A1 and dopamine D1 receptors. Furthermore, behavioural studies have revealed interactions between adenosine A2A and dopamine D1 receptors that occur at the network level. These adenosine-dopamine receptor-receptor interactions might offer new therapeutic leads for basal ganglia disorders.
Basic research using cell transplantation indicates that structural developmental mechanisms seen in immature brains can also function in the adult brain. As the brain matures, cellular migration and axonal growth is impeded. However, fetal neural transplantation studies have shown that directional cues are available for fetal axons to find specific host neurons in the adult brain. By reaching specific and distant CNS target zones, donor tissue with extended axonal growth periods demonstrate both an abundance and specificity of CNS neurotropic signals. The presence of specific guidance cues, despite strong inhibition of regenerative long-distance axonal growth, suggests that these cues play other physiological roles in the adult CNS, and could be utilized therapeutically for reconnection of neuronal pathways.
The gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABAA) receptor is a transmitter-gated ion channel mediating the majority of fast inhibitory synaptic transmission within the brain. The receptor is a pentameric assembly of subunits drawn from multiple classes (alpha1-6, beta1-3, gamma1-3, delta1, and epsilon1). Positive allosteric modulation of GABAA receptor activity by general anesthetics represents one logical mechanism for central nervous system depression. The ability of the intravenous general anesthetic etomidate to modulate and activate GABAA receptors is uniquely dependent upon the beta subunit subtype present within the receptor. Receptors containing beta2- or beta3-, but not beta1 subunits, are highly sensitive to the agent. Here, chimeric beta1/beta2 subunits coexpressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes with human alpha6 and gamma2 subunits identified a region distal to the extracellular N-terminal domain as a determinant of the selectivity of etomidate. The mutation of an amino acid (Asn-289) present within the channel domain of the beta3 subunit to Ser (the homologous residue in beta1), strongly suppressed the GABA-modulatory and GABA-mimetic effects of etomidate. The replacement of the beta1 subunit Ser-290 by Asn produced the converse effect. When applied intracellularly to mouse L(tk-) cells stably expressing the alpha6beta3gamma2 subunit combination, etomidate was inert. Hence, the effects of a clinically utilized general anesthetic upon a physiologically relevant target protein are dramatically influenced by a single amino acid. Together with the lack of effect of intracellular etomidate, the data argue against a unitary, lipid-based theory of anesthesia.
The mechanoelectrical-transduction channel of the hair cell is permeable to both monovalent and divalent cations. Because Ca2+ entering through the transduction channel serves as a feedback signal in the adaptation process that sets the channel's open probability, an understanding of adaptation requires estimation of the magnitude of Ca2+ influx. To determine the Ca2+ current through the transduction channel, we measured extracellular receptor currents with transepithelial voltage-clamp recordings while the apical surface of a saccular macula was bathed with solutions containing various concentrations of K+, Na+, or Ca2+. For modest concentrations of a single permeant cation, Ca2+ carried much more receptor current than did either K+ or Na+. For higher cation concentrations, however, the flux of Na+ or K+ through the transduction channel exceeded that of Ca2+. For mixtures of Ca2+ and monovalent cations, the receptor current displayed an anomalous mole-fraction effect, which indicates that ions interact while traversing the channel's pore. These results demonstrate not only that the hair cell's transduction channel is selective for Ca2+ over monovalent cations but also that Ca2+ carries substantial current even at low Ca2+ concentrations. At physiological cation concentrations, Ca2+ flux through transduction channels can change the local Ca2+ concentration in stereocilia in a range relevant for the control of adaptation.
Conflicting reports have appeared concerning the cell cycle regulation of telomerase activity and its possible repression during quiescence and cell differentiation. We have reexamined these issues in an attempt to uncover the basis for the discrepancies. Variations in extracted telomerase activity during the cell cycle are not observed in cells sorted on the basis of DNA content. Variations are observed in cells synchronized using some biochemical cell cycle inhibitors, but only with those agents where cellular toxicity is evident. A progressive decline in telomerase activity is observed in cells whose growth rate is reduced from seven to eight population doublings per week to one to two doublings per week. Telomerase is largely absent in cells that truly exit the cell cycle and do not divide over the 7-day period. Although it is not necessary for all cell types to regulate telomerase in the same way, we conclude that in the immortal cultured cell lines examined, extracted telomerase activity does not change significantly during progression through the stages of the cell cycle. Telomerase activity generally correlates with growth rate and is repressed in cells that exit the cell cycle and become quiescent.
During aging and cellular senescence mutations accumulate in genomic and mitochondrial DNA. Ku autoantigens, DNA-dependent protein kinase, and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase have an essential role in DNA damage recognition. Our purpose was to find out whether cellular senescence of fibroblasts affects the protein components that recognize DNA damage and induce the repair process. We compared presenescent and replicatively senescent human WI-38 fibroblasts with each other and with SV-40 immortalized and serum-deficient quiescent WI-38 cells. Our results showed that replicative senescence significantly decreased the nuclear level of both p70 and p86 components of Ku autoantigen. SV-40 immortalization and cellular quiescence did not affect the level of the p86 component but slightly increased that of p70. Both replicative senescence and cellular quiescence decreased the activity of DNA-dependent protein kinase in WI-38 fibroblasts. On the other hand, SV-40 immortalization increased the activity of DNA-dependent protein kinase. The protein level of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) was strongly decreased in replicatively senescent fibroblasts. Quiescence of early-passage fibroblasts also slightly reduced the protein level of PARP. Apoptosis was not observed in replicatively senescent fibroblasts. Our results show that replicative senescence and to some extent cellular quiescence down-regulate the recognition system of DNA damage involving Ku autoantigens, DNA-dependent protein kinase, and PARP and hence could enhance the accumulation of DNA damage during aging.
Although the functions of serotonin in adult Aplysia have been the focus of numerous investigations, our understanding of the roles played by this neurotransmitter during development is very incomplete. In the previous study (Marois and Carew [1997a] J. Comp. Neurol. 386:477-490), we showed that identified serotonergic cells are present very early during the ontogeny of Aplysia. In order to gain insight into the possible functions that these serotonergic cells may exert, we have used immuno-electron microscopy in this study to examine the projection patterns and target tissues of the serotonergic cells during the larval development of Aplysia. The results indicate that the larval serotonergic cells have numerous and precise connections to non-neuronal and neuronal target tissues: Serotonergic cells innervate the ciliated cells of the velum, numerous muscle systems, possibly visceral organs, and several cells in the central nervous system. Repeated observations of one serotonergic contact onto an undifferentiated neuron in the abdominal ganglion over a short developmental time span suggest that the serotonergic input may trigger axonogenesis in the postsynaptic cell. Apart from this possibility, we suggest that the innervation patterns of the larval serotonergic cells essentially fulfill the same primary function attributed to the adult serotonergic cells, that of modulating ongoing physiological and behavioral activity.
Although the identity, projection patterns, and functions of serotonergic neurons in juvenile and adult Aplysia are relatively well understood, little is known about the development of these cells. We have used light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry to investigate the genesis, differentiation, identity, and fate of the serotonergic cells in the embryonic, larval, and metamorphic stages of the life cycle of Aplysia. The results indicate that the first serotonergic cells emerge at midembryogenesis and that a total of five cells makes up the entire serotonergic system by hatching. These cells are part of a newly discovered ganglion in Aplysia, called the apical ganglion. This serotonergic system of five cells remains essentially intact throughout larval development. The apical ganglion, together with its serotonergic cells, is resorbed at metamorphosis. A distinct set of serotonergic cells, which begins to emerge by the end of the larval period, is rapidly elaborated during the metamorphic and early juvenile periods to form the adult serotonergic system. These results support the view that the larval and adult forms of the Aplysia nervous system consist of entirely distinct sets of serotonergic cells, each adapted to the stage-specific morphological and behavioral characteristics of the animal.
Two highly-selective mu-opioid receptor agonists, endomorphin-1 and -2, were recently purified from bovine brain and are postulated to be endogenous mu-opioid receptor ligands. We sought to determine the effects of these ligands at the spinal level in mice. Endomorphin-1 and -2 produced short acting, naloxone-sensitive antinociception in the tail flick test and inhibited the behavior elicited by intrathecally injected substance P. Both endomorphin-1 and -2 were anti-allodynic in the dynorphin-induced allodynia model. Although acute tolerance against both endomorphins developed rapidly, endomorphin-1 required a longer pretreatment time before tolerance was observed. We conclude that the endomorphins are potent spinal antinociceptive and anti-allodynic agents and that they or related compounds may prove therapeutically useful as spinal analgesics.
Neurons in rostral ventromedial medulla and the periaqueductal gray modulate dorsal horn nociceptive transmission. Endogenous peptides implicated in this modulation include enkephalin (ENK), which is antinociceptive, and cholecystokinin (CCK), which has anti-opioid effects. In this study double-label fluorescence immunocytochemistry demonstrated somata and terminals with ENK- or CCK-like immunoreactivity in these regions. Although the distribution of CCK- and ENK-immunoreactive terminal fields overlapped significantly, co-localization was rare. Furthermore, CCK- and ENK-immunoreactive somata had different morphologies and distinct distributions. The overlap of CCK- and ENK- immunoreactive terminals arbors provides a morphological substrate for an antagonistic interaction of CCK and ENK within brainstem pain modulating circuits, as has been demonstrated in the spinal cord.
More than 200 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) have received intrastriatal grafts of human embryonic mesencephalic tissue. The clinical trials demonstrate that grafted dopamine (DA) neurons can survive in the human parkinsonian brain and reinnervate part of the host striatum. Long-term graft survival and function, at least up to 6 years after transplantation, is possible in PD despite a progressive degeneration of the patient's own DA neurons. A majority of patients with surviving grafts show long-term improvement of therapeutic value, but symptomatic relief is incomplete. Current research strategies to develop neural transplantation as a treatment for PD include (i) to increase DA neuron survival and density and extent of the dopaminergic reinnervation in the striatum; (ii) to implant DA neurons in denervated regions outside the caudate-putamen and to reconstruct the nigrostriatal pathway; and (iii) to find other sources of cells suitable for grafting.




Although cognitive impairment during aging is usually associated with neuronal alterations, the cerebrovascular system undergoes prominent alterations in aging as well. Using electron microscopy we previously showed a progressive deterioration of the capillary wall in the cerebral cortex of aged rats. In aged rats the capillary basement membrane (BM) is thickened, massive bundles of collagen fibrils are deposited within the BM, and pericytes are degenerating. A compromized cerebral circulation (e.g., in rats with chronic hypertension) is characterized by an increased number of capillary alterations. In autopsy material (gray matter, gyrus cinguli) of carefully diagnosed patient groups (controls, AD, Lewy body disease, MID and demented Lewy body disease patients) we observed significantly more morphological changes in the capillary bed of demented versus non-demented patients. In both animal and human material morphological evidence points to a relation between energy-dependent nutrient transport across the blood-brain barrier and the ultrastructural deviations. In the AD cases we did not find a correlation between the stage of the disease (Braak I-VI) and the incidence of capillary aberrations, which indicates that the capillary alterations are not a consequence of AD pathology. Simultaneously, we are conducting animal model studies to determine the effects of cerebral hypoperfusion in the rat. Permanent bilateral occlusion of the carotid arteries shifts the behavioral profile of the rats (Morris maze, open field) towards that of aged rats, while the sensitivity for muscarinic ligand agents is altered.
Nociception has been reported to be influenced by exposure to magnetic fields (MFs). The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of 2 h exposure to weak, oscillating MFs on pain perception thresholds and on pain-related somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs). In 11 healthy volunteers, pain perception thresholds and pain-related SEPs were assessed by intracutaneous electrical stimulation. After sham treatment, pain thresholds significantly increased, whereas after MFs a slight non-significant decrease in thresholds was found. After both treatments pain-related SEP amplitude was reduced, but this decrease was more evident and statistically significant only after MF exposure. The increase found in thresholds after sham exposure may be due to stress-induced analgesia (SIA) and the contrasting behaviour recorded after MF exposure might indicate a suppression of SIA. The significant reduction in pain-related SEP amplitude observed after MF exposure provides the first evidence that human SEPs are influenced by MFs.
Beta-amyloid peptide is the main constituent of senile plaques and is implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. It has been shown to be both neurotoxic and neurotrophic in vivo, and its effects have been suggested to be mediated in part by alterations in membrane transport. In the present study, we investigated the effect of beta-amyloid (1-40) on choline transport in cultured PC12 cells. We found that exposure to 46 or 92 microM beta-amyloid (1-40) increased [14C]choline flux in PC12 cells in a concentration-dependent manner, whereas exposure to reverse sequence beta-amyloid (40-1) had no effect. If there is a similar effect in vivo, the increased beta-amyloid dependent permeability to choline could lead to depletion of cellular choline stores and could contribute to the selective vulnerability of cholinergic neurons in Alzheimer's disease.
The modulation of endogenous amino acid transmitter release by the sulphated octapeptide cholecystokinin (CCK-8S) was investigated in purified rat hippocampal synaptosomes. In the presence of extracellular Ca2+, CCK-8S increased the basal release of glutamate, but not of aspartate and GABA. In addition, CCK-8S dose-dependently increased the KCl-evoked Ca2+-dependent release of both glutamate and aspartate to about 1.4-fold at concentrations &gt; or = 0.5 microM. CCK-8S did not change the KCl-evoked Ca2+-dependent GABA release, not even in the presence of the GABA uptake carrier blocker N-(4,4-diphenyl-3-butenyl)-3-piperidine carboxylic acid 89976-A (SK&amp;F89976-A; 10 microM). The CCKB receptor antagonist L365,260 (1 microM) blocked the CCK-8S-induced release of glutamate by 70%, and of aspartate by 100%. In conclusion, CCK stimulates exocytosis of excitatory amino acids in rat hippocampus by activating a low-affinity presynaptic CCK receptor, presumably of the B-subtype. However, CCK does not modulate the release of GABA, which has been reported to be colocalized with this peptide.
In order to clarify the manner and significance of tau expression in glial cytoplasmic inclusions (GCIs), ubiquitinated oligodendroglial abnormal structures in multiple system atrophy (MSA), an immunohistochemical study was carried out in the lesions of the pontine nuclei of 10 cases of MSA using antibodies against various epitope locations of tau protein. As a result, tau-2 was constantly but weakly positive in ubiquitinated GCIs in each case (from 28.6 to 66.7%). However, tau-2-immunoreactivity in GCIs was not correlated to the density of ubiquitin-positive GCIs or preserved pontine neurons. Antibodies against tau proteins of N-terminal or C-terminal failed to label GCIs, although a few number of GCIs were occasionally positive for tau-1 after dephosphorylation. In comparison with the knowledge on tau-immunoreactivity of coiled bodies (CBs) in oligodendroglia in progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) or corticobasal degeneration, GCIs are quite different from CBs which have a wide range of epitope location of tau proteins, including N-terminal and C-terminal. This study suggests that expression of tau proteins in GCIs is not related to the essential neurodegenerative process in MSA but induced by non-specific stress in oligodendroglia, unlike CB in various 'tau diseases' such as PSP.
The purpose of the present study was to examine the test-retest reliability of the alcohol and drug modules of the AUDADIS-ADR in three sites: Bangalore, India, Jebel, Romania and Sydney, Australia. The overall reliability of ICD-10, DSM-IV and DSM-III-R dependence diagnoses was found to be good to excellent for each substance, including alcohol, for each time frame, regardless of whether the total sample or user subsample figured into the calculations. Reliability associated with corresponding harmful use and abuse diagnoses were mixed, but generally lower. Reliability statistics for Bangalore were generally lower than those of the Jebel and Sydney sites, particularly for alcohol diagnostic criteria. Implications of these results are discussed, in conjunction with results from the discrepancy interview protocol analyses within sites, in terms of future revisions to the AUDADIS-ADR and its training procedures tailored to developing countries.
The aim of the study was to measure the changes in cerebral energy metabolism and c-fos mRNA expression following challenge with heroin in drug-naive rats and in animals previously sensitized to the drug. Acute heroin administration to drug naive-rats produced a generalized metabolic depression. In contrast, challenge with heroin in drug-sensitized rats produced selective metabolic increases in structures belonging to the basal ganglia. These changes were accompanied by increased c-fos mRNA expression in the caudate-putamen nucleus. These results demonstrate that the process of sensitization to heroin is coupled to functional changes that are confined to the subcortical motor circuits of the basal ganglia.
Using the gene targeting technique, we have generated a new mouse model of congenital muscular dystrophy (CMD), a null mutant for the laminin alpha2 chain. These homozygous mice, designated dy3Kldy3K, are characterized by growth retardation and severe muscular dystrophic symptoms and die by 5 weeks of age. Light microscopy revealed that muscle fiber degeneration in these mice begins no later than postnatal day 9. In degenerating muscles, considerable amounts of TUNEL positive nuclei were detected as well as DNA laddering, suggesting increased apoptotic cell death was involved in the process of muscle fiber degeneration.
Mitochondrial depolarisation has been reported to enhance the generation of superoxide anion (O2.-) in a number of cell preparations while an inhibition has been observed with isolated mitochondria. Cerebellar granule cells equilibrated with &gt; 1 microM hydroethidine (dihydroethidium) which is oxidised to the fluorescent ethidium cation by O2.- showed a large increase in fluorescence on protonophore addition. However, controls showed the fluorescent enhancement to be a consequence of release of unbound preformed ethidium from the mitochondrial matrix within the cell with resultant fluorescent enhancement. This ambiguity was removed by the use of low (1 microM) concentrations of dye in which case generated ethidium remained bound within the mitochondria. Under these conditions antimycin A, but not protonophore addition, produced an increase in fluorescence. It is concluded that excess ethidium acts as an indicator of mitochondrial membrane potential obscuring the monitoring of O2.- and that certain experiments employing this indicator in cells may require re-evaluation.
A modification of the tissue printing technique was used to acutely isolate and culture cells from the electrosensory lateral line lobe (ELL), corpus cerebelli (CCb), and eminentia granularis pars posterior (EGp) of the adult weakly electric fish, Apteronotus leptorhynchus. Cells were isolated without the use of proteolytic enzymes and tissue printed as a monolayer onto glass coverslips through centrifugation in the presence of a medium designed to preserve cell structure. Tissue printed cells were reliably distributed in an organotypic fashion that allowed for the identification of anatomical boundaries between the ELL and cerebellar regions, distinct sensory maps in the ELL, and specific cell laminae. Many cells were isolated with an excellent preservation of soma-dendritic structure, permitting direct identification of all electrosensory cell classes according to morphological or immunocytochemical criteria. Several classes of glial cells were isolated, including small diameter microglia and the complex arborizations of oligodendrocytes. A plexus of fine processes were often isolated in conjunction with cell somata and dendrites, potentially preserving synaptic contacts in vitro. In particular, immunolabel for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) revealed a previously unrecognized network of GABAergic axonal processes in the CCb and EGp granule cell body and molecular layers. Tissue printed cells were readily maintained with an organotypic distribution of glial and neuronal elements for up to 27 days in culture. This procedure will allow for the isolation of electrosensory cells from adult central nervous system for electrophysiological analyses of membrane properties or synaptic interactions between identified cells.
Potassium channels play a major role in determining the pattern and frequency of neuronal firing. In the cochlear nucleus (CN), various morphologically defined types of neurons have different responses to a sound. We have previously identified one type of cloned K+ channel, termed Kv3.1, which is highly expressed in many auditory neurons. Expression studies indicate that Kv3.1 channels have an unusually high threshold for activation. In this study, we used both in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry to examine the expression patterns of the Kv3.1 channel in the CN. In the ventral CN, bushy cells hybridized strongly with Kv3.1 specific probes and a subpopulation of stellate/multipolar cells hybridized with Kv3.1 probes. In the dorsal CN, pyramidal and large multipolar/giant cells expressed Kv3.1 mRNA. Abundant Kv3.1 immunolabeling was also observed in the CN. The pattern of immunolabeling revealed that the Kv3.1 protein is distributed along the soma, proximal dendrites, unmyelinated axons, and axon terminals of stained neurons. In the case of pyramidal and octopus cells, no immunolabeling was detected at the somata, even though these cells expressed Kv3.1 mRNA. Computer simulations were used to explore the functional role of the Kv3.1 channel. The simulations indicate that Kv3.1 conductances may contribute to repolarization of large synaptic potentials. When stimulated at high frequencies, the presence of Kv3.1 enhances the ability of a model cell with some of the features of bushy cells to follow high frequency input with temporal precision.
Neuronal birth and neurite outgrowth have been regarded as discrete, sequential stages of development. However, we recently found that sympathetic neuroblasts often elaborate axons before mitosis, in culture [E. Wolf, I.B. Black, E. DiCicco-Bloom, Mitotic neuroblasts determine neuritic patterning of progeny, J. Comp. Neurol. 367 (1996) 623-635] and in vivo [E. Wolf, I.B. Black, E. DiCicco-Bloom, Central and peripheral neuroblasts elaborate neurites prior to division in vivo and in vitro, Soc. Neurosci. Abstr. 21 (1995) 785; E. Wolf, I.B. Black, E. DiCicco-Bloom, Mitotic neuroblasts engage in axonal outgrowth and pathfinding in vivo, Soc. Neurosci. Abstr. 22 (1996) 525]. Here, we report that cerebellar granule cells often divide with heritable neurites in vitro. Therefore, mitotic CNS precursors, in addition to peripheral neuroblasts, simultaneously undergo proliferation and process formation. Potentially, neurites on dividing precursors may allow target fields to influence directly the course of neurogenesis.
We have investigated the possible presence of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) in brainstem preganglionic parasympathetic neurons projecting to the sphenopalatine ganglion in rabbits, using combined retrograde axonal tracing and immunohistochemistry. Retrogradely labeled neurons were observed in the ipsilateral rostral medulla and caudal pons, in a region laterodorsal to the facial motor nucleus. Double-labeling experiments demonstrated that 75 +/- 5% of retrogradely labeled neurons contained NOS immunoreactivity, while all of retrogradely labeled neurons contained ChAT immunoreactivity. These observations suggest that nitric oxide could influence cholinergic transmission from preganglionic endings in the sphenopalatine ganglion.
The distribution of subunits for the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NR1, NR2A/B), alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (GluR1, GluR2/3, GluR4) and low affinity kainate (GluR5/6/7) ionotropic glutamate receptors was examined by immunocytochemistry in the temporal cortex and hippocampus of the rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta). Neurons expressing NR1, NR2A/B, GluR2/3, and GluR4 subunits were widely distributed in all of the cortical layers but the overall density of the GluR4-immunopositive neurons was very low. Neurons expressing the GluR1 subunit were found predominantly in cortical layers V and VI while those expressing the GluR5/6/7 subunits were concentrated in layer V and were readily distinguishable by the thick elongate shape of their primary apical dendrites. Subcellular differences in the immunostaining pattern were also noted between the different glutamate receptor subunits. NR1 and NR2A/B immunoreactivity was most pronounced in somatic and primary dendritic compartments and to a lesser extent in cortical and hippocampal molecular layers. GluR1 immunoreactivity was more intense than GluR2/3 in the hippocampal molecular layers whereas GluR4 was undetectable. GluR5/6/7 immunoreactivity was very intense in the dentate molecular layer, and the CA1 pyramidal cells had a subcellular distribution of GluR5/6/7 that was similar to the cortical neurons. Overall, the distribution patterns of the different glutamate receptor subunits was identical in animals that had been ovariectomized and in ovariectomized animals that had subsequently undergone estradiol or estradiol/progesterone hormone replacement. Taken together, these findings demonstrate a differential spatial arrangement of glutamate receptor subunits in the primate temporal cortex and hippocampus, which may have functional significance for the integration of excitatory inputs to these areas. Furthermore, they show that in adult macaques, sex steroids do not play a major role in determining the distribution patterns of these receptor subunits.
When expressed in Xenopus oocytes, the rat alpha7 subunit forms homo-oligomeric nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, which are blocked by alpha-bungarotoxin. Since the pharmacological and physiological properties of the alpha7 receptor expressed in oocytes are similar to those of the alpha-bungarotoxin-sensitive nicotinic currents recorded from neuronal preparations and the distribution patterns of alpha7 mRNA and alpha-bungarotoxin-binding sites in the rat brain are very similar, alpha7 is thought to be the main component of the alpha-bungarotoxin-binding nicotinic receptor in the mammalian brain. However, while alpha7 is found in purified alpha-bungarotoxin-binding complexes from rat brain or PC12 cells, other proteins copurify with it. Therefore, the question whether alpha7 forms a homo-oligomeric alpha-bungarotoxin-binding nicotinic receptor in the mammalian brain remains. We have developed and characterized affinity-purified polyclonal antibodies and used these antibodies in Western blot analyses of alpha-bungarotoxin-binding proteins purified from rat brains. We report here that our experimental data support the current working hypothesis that the alpha-bungarotoxin-binding nicotinic receptor is a homo-oligomer of alpha7 subunits in the rat brain.
We studied effects of various sigma ligands on GTPase activity in mouse prefrontal membranes. Some representative sigma agonists, such as (+)-pentazocine, SA4503 and (+)-3-PPP, stimulated the GTPase activity in a concentration-dependent manner in ranges of 10 nM to 10 microM. Maximal effect was almost 10% increase to the control without treatment of drugs. However, another representative agonist, (+)-SKF10,047 showed only a partial activity with maximal effect 5% at 1 microM. NE-100, a representative antagonist, showed no effect at concentrations not more than 100 nM, while it did stimulate GTPase activity at 1 and 10 microM. Furthermore, these stimulative effects of both (+)-pentazocine and SA4503 on GTPase activity were significantly antagonized by NE-100 at 100 nM, suggesting that NE-100 possesses agonist-antagonist property. These findings suggest the possibility that there exist metabotropic sigma receptors.
The mu opioid receptor is concentrated in laminae I and II (LI and LII, respectively) of the normal rat dorsal horn. Fourteen days after transection of the L4-L6 segmental peripheral nerves, image analysis demonstrates a 49, 34 and 17% decrease in mu opioid staining density in the medial, middle and lateral thirds of the superficial dorsal horn, respectively, when comparing the operated to the unoperated side. Intralaminar analysis demonstrates that the greatest change in density occurs in LI and LII outer, compared to LII inner. By 31 days post-surgery, staining has returned to normal with side to side differences no longer present. These results imply that mu opioid ligands such as morphine might be less effective in ameliorating pain 2 weeks after a peripheral nerve lesion than they are in the normal condition, but that this effectiveness should return as the receptors are restored to their normal levels. Thus, the time following a lesion may be an important variable in assessing the effectiveness of mu opioid ligands in alleviating neuropathic pain. Furthermore, this study shows that the organization of opioid receptors in the superficial dorsal horn is malleable and could lead to changes in drug efficacy.
Using Gallyas-Braak's silver stain, neuropil threads (NTs) in Alzheimer's disease (AD), corticobasal degeneration (CBD) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) were analyzed morphologically and morphometrically. The NT density was highest in the cerebral cortical layer V in AD and CBD, and in the subcortical white matter in PSP. An overlaid, two-dimensional, camera lucida drawing revealed differences in the fine profile of NTs among these three disease groups. The differences were confirmed by computerized feature analysis which revealed differences in maximum length, breadth, Feret's angle and orientation of the NTs. Unlike a previous assumption that all NTs have a similar appearance, our study revealed that NTs in AD, CBD and PSP were distinctively different with respect to their morphology.
Mutation of the Patched gene has been detected in human inherited basal cell nevus syndrome (BCNS) and sporadic basal cell carcinomas (BCC), suggesting a strong relation between a Sonic hedgehog-Patched signal and cell proliferation. In the present study, we demonstrate that Sonic hedgehog is expressed in human lung squamous carcinoma (LK-2 and EBC-1) and some adenocarcinoma cell lines. The expression of Sonic hedgehog is also detected in the human lung squamous carcinoma tissues, but not in the normal lung tissue of the same patient. The N-terminal region of Sonic hedgehog stimulates the incorporation of BrdU into LK-2 cells and stimulates their cell growth, while anti-Shh-N inhibits their cell growth. These results suggest that a Sonic hedgehog signal is involved in the cell growth of LK-2 cells.
Primates use vergence eye movements to align their two eyes on the same object and can correct misalignments by sensing the difference in the positions of the two retinal images of the object (binocular disparity). When large random-dot patterns are viewed dichoptically and small binocular misalignments are suddenly imposed (disparity steps), corrective vergence eye movements are elicited at ultrashort latencies. Here we show that the same steps applied to dense anticorrelated patterns, in which each black dot in one eye is matched to a white dot in the other eye, initiate vergence responses that are very similar, except that they are in the opposite direction. This sensitivity to the disparity of anticorrelated patterns is shared by many disparity-selective neurons in cortical area V1, despite the fact that human subjects fail to perceive depth in such stimuli. These data indicate that the vergence eye movements initiated at ultrashort latencies result solely from locally matched binocular features, and derive their visual input from an early stage of cortical processing before the level at which depth percepts are elaborated.
The identification of brain regions that are associated with the conscious perception of visual stimuli is a major goal in neuroscience. Here we present a test of whether the signals on neurons in cortical area V1 correspond directly to our conscious perception of binocular stereoscopic depth. Depth perception requires that image features on one retina are first matched with appropriate features on the other retina. The mechanisms that perform this matching can be examined by using random-dot stereograms, in which the left and right eyes view randomly positioned but binocularly correlated dots. We exploit the fact that anticorrelated random-dot stereograms (in which dots in one eye are matched geometrically to dots of the opposite contrast in the other eye) do not give rise to the perception of depth because the matching process does not find a consistent solution. Anti-correlated random-dot stereograms contain binocular features that could excite neurons that have not solved the correspondence problem. We demonstrate that disparity-selective neurons in V1 signal the disparity of anticorrelated random-dot stereograms, indicating that they do not unambiguously signal stereoscopic depth. Hence single V1 neurons cannot account for the conscious perception of stereopsis, although combining the outputs of many V1 neurons could solve the matching problem. The accompanying paper suggests an additional function for disparity signals from V1: they may be important for the rapid involuntary control of vergence eye movements (eye movements that bring the images on the two foveae into register).
Transient global amnesia is an alarming but benign disorder of middle age, which prevents both the formation of new memories, and the retrieval of recently formed ones, for some hours. Research over the last 10 years has shed light on the epidemiology, neuropsychology, functional anatomy and differential diagnosis of this distinctive condition, and clarified its management.
Drosophila shibire and its mammalian homologue dynamin regulate an early step in endocytosis. We identified a Caenorhabditis elegans dynamin gene, dyn-1, based upon hybridization to the Drosophila gene. The dyn-1 RNA transcripts are trans-spliced to the spliced leader 1 and undergo alternative splicing to code for either an 830- or 838-amino acid protein. These dyn-1 proteins are highly similar in amino acid sequence, structure, and size to the Drosophila and mammalian dynamins: they contain an N-terminal GTPase, a pleckstrin homology domain, and a C-terminal proline-rich domain. We isolated a recessive temperature-sensitive dyn-1 mutant containing an alteration within the GTPase domain that becomes uncoordinated when shifted to high temperature and that recovers when returned to lower temperatures, similar to D. shibire mutants. When maintained at higher temperatures, dyn-1 mutants become constipated, egg-laying defective, and produce progeny that die during embryogenesis. Using a dyn-1::lacZ gene fusion, a high level of dynamin expression was observed in motor neurons, intestine, and pharyngeal muscle. Our results suggest that dyn-1 function is required during development and for normal locomotion.
Neuronal apoptosis was observed in the rat dentate gyrus in two experimental models of human limbic epilepsy. Five hours after one hippocampal kindling stimulation, a marked increase of in situ terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) of fragmented DNA was observed in nuclei located within and on the hilar border of the granule cell layer and in the polymorphic region. Forty kindling stimulations with 5-min interval produced higher numbers of labeled nuclei compared with one stimulation. The increase of TUNEL-positive nuclei was prevented by the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide but not affected by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801. Kainic acid-induced seizures lead to a pattern of labeling in the hippocampal formation identical to that evoked by kindling. A large proportion of cells displaying TUNEL-positive nuclei was double-labeled by the neuron-specific antigen NeuN, demonstrating the neuronal identity of apoptotic cells. Either 1 or 40 kindling stimulations also gave rise to a marked increase of the number of cells double-labeled with the mitotic marker bromodeoxyuridine and NeuN in the subgranular zone and on the hilar border of the dentate granule cell layer. The present data show that single and intermittent, brief seizures induce both apoptotic death and proliferation of dentate gyrus neurons. We hypothesize that these processes, occurring early during epileptogenesis, are primary events in the development of hippocampal pathology in animals and possibly also in patients suffering from temporal lobe epilepsy.
Hippocampal slices are used to show that, as a temporal input pattern of activity flows through a neuronal layer, a temporal-to-spatial transformation takes place. That is, neurons can respond selectively to the first or second of a pair of input pulses, thus transforming different temporal patterns of activity into the activity of different neurons. This is demonstrated using associative long-term potentiation of polysynaptic CA1 responses as an activity-dependent marker: by depolarizing a postsynaptic CA1 neuron exclusively with the first or second of a pair of pulses from the dentate gyrus, it is possible to &quot;tag&quot; different subpopulations of CA3 neurons. This technique allows sampling of a population of neurons without recording simultaneously from multiple neurons. Furthermore, it reflects a biologically plausible mechanism by which single neurons may develop selective responses to time-varying stimuli and permits the induction of context-sensitive synaptic plasticity. These experimental results support the view that networks of neurons are intrinsically able to process temporal information and that it is not necessary to invoke the existence of internal clocks or delay lines for temporal processing on the time scale of tens to hundreds of milliseconds.
The identification of cDNA clones from genomic regions known to contain human genes is usually the rate-limiting factor in positional cloning strategies. We demonstrate here that human genes present on yeast artificial chromosomes (YACs) are transcribed in yeast host cells. We have used the arbitrarily primed RNA (RAP) fingerprinting method to identify human-specific, transcribed sequences from YACs located in the 13q12 chromosome region. By comparing the RAP fingerprints generated using defined, arbitrary primers from various fragmented YACs, megaYACs, and host yeast, we were able to identify and map 20 products transcribed from the human YAC inserts. This method, therefore, permits the simultaneous isolation and mapping of novel expressed sequences directly from whole YACs.
The origin of afferents to the striatum in lamprey (Lampetra fluviatilis) was studied by using fluorescein-coupled dextran-amines (FDA). Injection of FDA into the striatum retrogradely labeled several cell populations in the forebrain and the rostral rhombencephalon. No retrograde labeled cells were seen in the mesencephalon. A dopamine-specific antiserum was used to determined the distribution of dopaminergic perikarya and fibers. Many dopamine-immunoreactive (DA-ir) fibers were present throughout the brain, but the highest density of labeled fibers was in the mediobasal prosencephalon, especially in the striatum, the lateral hypothalamic area, and the neurohypophysis. Most DA-ir cells were located in the mediobasal diencephalon (preoptic region, nucleus commissurae postopticae, hypothalamus, and nucleus tuberculi posterioris). In the mesencephalon, only a few immunopositive cells were observed in the tectum opticum. In the rhombencephalon, DA-ir cells were observed in the isthmic region, dorsally to the descending trigeminal tract, and caudally to the posterior rhombencephalic reticular nucleus. The rostralmost spinal cord received many descending DA-ir fibers from the brainstem. Along the spinal cord, DA-ir neurons were also found, some of which projected to the medioventral surface, forming a prominent plexus. On the basis of double-labeling experiments, it is shown that the dopaminergic input to the striatum originates from the nucleus tuberculi posterioris. Thus, the striatum receives inputs from different structures, including a strong dopaminergic innervation from the diencephalon. Much of the dopaminergic system in Lampetra fluviatilis is basically similar to that seen in some teleosts, but it presents differences with other anamniote (elasmobranch) as well as amniote groups.
The number and distribution of subpopulations of hilar interneurons containing neuropeptide Y (NPY), somatostatin (SOM), or gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) immunoreactivities were examined in the hilus of the dentate gyrus following removal of the cholinergic septal inputs. One, 2, 4, 8, 12, and 24 weeks after intracerebroventricular injections of immunotoxin, consisting of antibody to the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor conjugated to saporin (192 IgG-saporin), lesioned rats were processed simultaneously with controls for NPY, SOM, or GABA immunolabeling. Across all time points, the number of NPY-labeled neurons was reduced to a statistically significant level (paired t-test, P = 0.001) in the injected rats (73% of control values, on average). The decrease in the number of NPY-labeled neurons was not limited to any particular subregion rostrally but appeared greater in the central region caudally. The size of NPY-labeled neurons did not differ statistically between control and immunolesioned rats examined at 1, 2, and 24 week time points. In contrast, the number of both SOM- and GABA-immunoreactive neurons in injected rats did not appear to be affected in any consistent manner. Examination of the hilus in adjacent Nissl-stained sections with the optical dissector revealed that although the total number of small nonprincipal cells (5-15 microm in diameter) did not appear affected at the 4-week time point, there was a statistically significant (P = 0.03) reduction across the 8-24-week time points (to 80% of control values, on average). Dual-labeling studies on separate rats showed that a small subpopulation of the NPY- and SOM-labeled neurons, primarily in the infragranular hilus, were colocalized with neurons containing GABA immunoreactivity (18% and 5%, respectively). These studies demonstrate that removal of the cholinergic septal inputs (1) can cause relatively rapid, selective decreases in the number of NPY-immunoreactive hippocampal interneurons and (2) appears to lead to the death of hippocampal interneurons over a longer time course. The changes in NPY immunoreactivity seem to occur in the portion of interneurons that probably does not contain either SOM or GABA immunoreactivity.
Kv3 K+ channel genes encode multiple products by alternative splicing of 3' ends resulting in the expression of K+ channel proteins that differ only in their C-termini. This divergence does not affect the electrophysiological properties of the channels expressed by these proteins. A similar alternative splicing with unknown function is seen in K+ channel genes of other families. We have investigated the possibility that the alternative splicing serves to generate channel subunits with different membrane targeting signals by examining the sorting behavior of three alternatively-spliced Kv3.2 isoforms when expressed in polarized MDCK cells. Two Kv3.2 proteins, Kv3.2b and Kv3.2c were expressed predominantly in the apical membrane, while Kv3.2a was localized mainly to the basolateral side (thought to be equivalent to the axonal and somatodendritic compartments in neurons, respectively). The Kv3.2 mRNA transcripts used in these studies are identical except for their 3' sequence, encoding the extreme C-terminal domain of the protein and the 3'UTR of the mRNA. However, the proteins achieve the same localizations in MDCK cells when expressed from constructs containing or lacking the 3'UTR, indicating that the differential localization is due to targeting signals present in the C' terminal domain of the protein. These results suggest that the alternative splicing of Kv3 genes is involved in channel localization. Since the precise localization of any given ion channel on the neuronal surface has significant functional implications, the results shown here suggest an important function for the alternative splicing of 3' ends seen in many K+ channel genes.
Agonists acting at alpha2 adrenergic and opioid receptors have analgesic properties and act synergistically when co-administered in the spinal cord; this synergy may also contribute to the potency and efficacy of spinally administered morphine. The lack of subtype-selective pharmacological agents has previously impeded the definition of the adrenergic receptor subtype(s) mediating these effects. We therefore exploited a genetically modified mouse line expressing a point mutation (D79N) in the alpha2a adrenergic receptor (alpha2aAR) to investigate the role of the alpha2aAR in alpha2 agonist-evoked analgesia and adrenergic-opioid synergy. In the tail-flick test, intrathecal administration of UK 14,304, a nonsubtype-selective alpha2AR agonist, had no analgesic effect in D79N mice, whereas the analgesic potency of morphine (intrathecal) in this assay was not affected by the mutation. The mutation also decreased alpha2-agonist-mediated spinal analgesia and blocked the synergy seen in wild-type mice with both the delta-opioid agonist deltorphin II and the micro-opioid agonist [D-ALA2,N-Me-Phe4, Gly-ol5]-Enkephalin (DAMGO) in the substance P behavioral test. In addition, the potency of spinally administered morphine was decreased in this test, suggesting that activation of descending noradrenergic systems impinging on the alpha2aAR contributes to morphine-induced spinal inhibition in this model. These results demonstrate that the alpha2aAR subtype is the primary mediator of alpha2 adrenergic spinal analgesia and is necessary for analgesic synergy with opioids. Thus, combination therapies targeting the alpha2aAR and opioid receptors may prove useful in maximizing the analgesic efficacy of opioids while decreasing total dose requirements.
We have analyzed the geometry, geography, and functional organization of human cerebral cortex using surface reconstructions and cortical flat maps of the left and right hemispheres generated from a digital atlas (the Visible Man). The total surface area of the reconstructed Visible Man neocortex is 1570 cm2 (both hemispheres), approximately 70% of which is buried in sulci. By linking the Visible Man cerebrum to the Talairach stereotaxic coordinate space, the locations of activation foci reported in neuroimaging studies can be readily visualized in relation to the cortical surface. The associated spatial uncertainty was empirically shown to have a radius in three dimensions of approximately 10 mm. Application of this approach to studies of visual cortex reveals the overall patterns of activation associated with different aspects of visual function and the relationship of these patterns to topographically organized visual areas. Our analysis supports a distinction between an anterior region in ventral occipito-temporal cortex that is selectively involved in form processing and a more posterior region (in or near areas VP and V4v) involved in both form and color processing. Foci associated with motion processing are mainly concentrated in a region along the occipito-temporal junction, the ventral portion of which overlaps with foci also implicated in form processing. Comparisons between flat maps of human and macaque monkey cerebral cortex indicate significant differences as well as many similarities in the relative sizes and positions of cortical regions known or suspected to be homologous in the two species.
Excitatory amino acid (EAA) neurotransmitters induce postsynaptic depolarization by activating receptor-mediated cation conductances, a process known to underlie changes in synaptic efficacy. Using a patch-clamp method, we demonstrate here an EAA-dependent postsynaptic anion conductance mediated by EAA transporters present on cerebellar Purkinje cell bodies and dendrites in culture. This transporter-mediated current was modulated by neuronal activity: it exhibited facilitation for &gt;20 min after transient depolarization accompanied by Ca2+ influx. Evidence is presented suggesting that the transporter facilitation is mediated by arachidonate release after Ca2+-dependent activation of phospholipase A2, which exists in Purkinje cells. This postsynaptic reuptake system may represent a novel modulatory mechanism of synaptic transmission as well as prevent neuronal excitotoxicity.
The cellular mechanisms underlying the neuroprotective action of the immunosuppressant FK506 in experimental stroke remain uncertain, although in vitro studies have implicated an antiexcitotoxic action involving nitric oxide and calcineurin. The present in vivo study demonstrates that intraperitoneal pretreatment with 1 and 10 mg/kg FK506, doses that reduced the volume of ischemic cortical damage by 56-58%, did not decrease excitotoxic damage induced by quinolinate, NMDA, and AMPA. Similarly, intravenous FK506 did not reduce the volume of striatal quinolinate lesions at a dose (1 mg/kg) that decreased ischemic cortical damage by 63%. The temporal window for FK506 neuroprotection was defined in studies demonstrating efficacy using intravenous administration at 120 min, but not 180 min, after middle cerebral artery occlusion. The noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK801 reduced both ischemic and excitotoxic damage. Histopathological data concerning striatal quinolinate lesions were replicated in neurochemical experiments. MK801, but not FK506, attenuated the loss of glutamate decarboxylase and choline acetyltransferase activity induced by intrastriatal injection of quinolinate. The contrasting efficacy of FK506 in ischemic and excitotoxic lesion models cannot be explained by drug pharmacokinetics, because brain FK506 content rose rapidly using both treatment protocols and was sustained at a neuroprotective level for 3 d. Although these data indicate that an antiexcitotoxic mechanism is unlikely to mediate the neuroprotective action of FK506 in focal cerebral ischemia, the finding that intravenous cyclosporin A (20 mg/kg) reduced ischemic cortical damage is consistent with the proposed role of calcineurin.
The dopamine transporter (DAT) regulates extracellular dopamine concentrations, transports neurotoxins, and acts as a substrate for cocaine reinforcement. These functions are known to differ in the limbic-associated shell and motor-associated core compartments of the nucleus accumbens (NAc). Previous studies have shown differential expression of DAT in the NAc shell and core but were limited in resolution to the regional level. Thus, it is not known whether there are differences in the amount, subcellular localization, or plasmalemmal targeting of DAT within individual dopaminergic axons in the two regions. We used high-resolution electron microscopic immunocytochemistry to investigate these possibilities. We show that in both the shell and core, DAT immunogold labeling is present in tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive varicose axons that form symmetric synapses. Within these labeled axons, most DAT gold particles are located on extrasynaptic plasma membranes, but some are associated with intracellular membranes. Dopaminergic axons in the shell contain lower mean densities of both total DAT gold particles (per square micron) and plasmalemmal DAT gold particles (per micron) than those in the core. Within labeled axons in the NAc shell and core, however, there are no detectable differences in the subcellullar distribution of DAT or the percentage of total DAT gold particles that are located on plasma membranes. These studies are the first to examine and compare the subcellular localization of DAT in the NAc shell and core. As a result, they identify intrinsic, cell-specific differences in the expression of DAT within dopaminergic axons in these functionally distinct striatal compartments.
Pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF), a neurotrophic agent first identified in conditioned medium from cultured human retinal pigment epithelial cells, induces neuronal differentiation with neurite outgrowth in Y-79 retinoblastoma cells and has a neurotrophic survival effect on cerebellar granule cells in culture. In the present study, we investigated the effects of human recombinant PEDF (rPEDF) on proliferation and activation of microglia and astrocytes isolated from newborn rat brain. rPEDF treatment caused microglia to round up morphologically, increased their metabolic activity (measured by both MTS conversion and acid phosphatase activity), but blocked proliferation (mitosis). This blocking effect could be demonstrated in cultures stimulated to proliferate by addition of granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor. The effect of rPEDF on microglial metabolic activity showed a dose-response relationship both in serum-containing medium and in chemically defined medium and was blocked with anti-PEDF antibody. rPEDF had no direct effect on the metabolic activity or proliferation of cultured astrocytes but blocked their proliferation in astrocyte-microglia co-cultures. Proliferation of isolated astrocytes was also blocked by conditioned medium from microglia treated with PEDF (PMCM). The effect of PMCM on astrocytes was not blocked by an antibody to transforming growth factor-beta. These results demonstrate that PEDF activates microglial metabolism while blocking proliferation and suggest that a soluble factor(s) released by rPEDF-stimulated microglia blocks the proliferation of astrocytes. Thus, PEDF could play an important role in regulation of glial function and proliferation in the central nervous system.


Immunocytochemical techniques were employed to examine the changes in immunolabeling of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoaxolepropionate (AMPA) receptor subunits GluR1 and GluR2/3 within the dentate gyrus 1, 3, 7, 14, 30, and 90 days after a unilateral perforant pathway lesion in the rat brain. Completeness of the lesion was confirmed following examination of Nissl-stained tissue sections at all times post-lesion and acetylcholinesterase (AChE)-stained sections 14, 30 and 90 days post-lesion, the latter providing evidence of compensatory sprouting of cholinergic fibers in the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Compared to the non-lesioned hippocampus there was no difference in the staining pattern of AMPA receptor subunits in the dentate gyrus of the deafferented hippocampus 1, 3, 7 and 14 days following lesioning of the perforant pathway. In contrast, 30 and 90 days post-lesion, GluR1 immunolabeling was increased in the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus (i.e., deafferented zone) ipsilateral to lesion. Likewise, GluR2/3 immunolabeling was increased within the same region although the intensity of the response was less than that which was observed for GluR1. These data suggest that the loss of the perforant pathway fibers results in a compensatory increase in GluR1 and to a lesser extent GluR2/3 immunolabeling of the outer molecular layer at 30 and 90 days post-lesion and further suggest that AMPA receptor subunits play a role in perforant pathway signal transduction.
Subcortical damage often has more severe consequences in neonates than in adults. For example, unilateral hippocampal lesions in adult rats typically lead to transient memory deficits, whereas neonatal lesions cause lasting learning impairment. We hypothesized that the defects triggered by unilateral damage may include synaptic dysfunction in the contralateral hippocampus. Consequently, we examined the hippocampal theta rhythm, an EEG pattern thought to be associated with learning. Initial comparisons between intact and lesioned rats revealed no obvious differences in basal theta rhythm properties. However, manipulations of ascending brainstem projections to hippocampus with drugs specific for serotonergic, noradrenergic and cholinergic receptors uncovered differences. Antagonism of 5-HT3 receptors known to promote learning significantly increased theta frequency in controls and adult lesioned rats, but not after neonatal damage. In contrast, blockade of noradrenergic-alpha2 receptors had no effect. Antagonism of cholinergic receptors which typically impairs learning disrupted theta and caused irregular, high-amplitude activity that was significantly more pronounced in the lesioned groups. A final approach involved pharmacological facilitation of AMPA receptor-mediated currents, using a drug which enhances memory. This treatment significantly enhanced theta frequency in controls and animals lesioned as adults. In contrast, it failed to do so in rats lesioned at birth. These observations suggest that latent dysfunction in contralateral hippocampal physiology may contribute to the lasting memory deficits seen after unilateral hippocampal lesion in neonates.
In this study, we determined whether the retina cell death observed in response to an ischemic-like insult is related to an overactivation of the ionotropic glutamate receptors and/or to a collapse of the energy levels. Cultured chick retina cells were submitted to 'chemical ischemia' by metabolic inhibition with sodium cyanide and iodoacetic acid, which block oxidative phosphorylation and glycolysis, respectively. The assessment of neuronal injury was made spectrophotometrically by quantification of cellularly reduced MTT, which gives information about mitochondrial function, or by staining with fluorescein diacetate (FDA), which correlates with changes in the plasma membrane permeability. 'Chemical ischemia' induced both an acute and a delayed time-dependent degeneration of chick retina cells. We observed that 2 min after the ischemic insult, the levels of ATP were reduced to a minimum. On the other hand, the metabolic inhibition induced the release of aspartate, glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid, and the activation of AMPA/kainate receptors during the period of metabolic arrest was partially responsible for the loss of mitochondrial function. However, the NMDA and non-NMDA receptor antagonists (MK-801 and CNQX) did not prevent the plasma membrane damage caused by sodium cyanide and iodoacetic acid. The results show that the collapse of the energy levels, rather than the increase in excitatory amino acids, appears to underlie the observed cell injury, suggesting an important relationship between ischemia-induced depletion of high-energy metabolites and retina cell degeneration.
During central nervous system (CNS) development, intermediate filaments are subjected to a sequential remodelling process. Nestin is a distinct intermediate filament which is transiently expressed in proliferating neuroepithelial stem cells during the neurulation stage of development. Nestin re-expression in the adult rat was studied following transient (2 h) middle cerebral artery occlusion. Seven days after the ischemic insult, nestin reactive astrocytes were found in the border zone surrounding cerebral infarction. Nestin immunoreactivity delineated a zone between infarction and the surrounding intact cerebral parenchyma. In situ hybridization for nestin mRNA showed early changes in small cells in the surround of the ischemic lesion. These results with nestin, along with other stem cell markers expressed by reactive astrocytes, suggest an embryonic reversion of the mature cytoskeleton as a response of astrocytes to cerebral injury.

The characteristics of short-term potentiation (STP) and long-term potentiation (LTP) in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices were determined at various times following exposure to acute stress produced by restraint and tail-shock in mice. In slices prepared from control animals, theta-burst stimulation resulted in a large increase in evoked field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) amplitude and slope that remained stable at least up to 30 min after stimulation. Slices prepared 1 h after stress exhibited a marked decrease in the extent of both STP and LTP. STP and LTP magnitude were still significantly decreased 24 h after stress exposure and were completely restored to control levels by 48 h. These results provide evidence for a reversible impairment of STP and LTP in CA1 following an acute episode of stress, and suggest that stress activates processes different from those activated by LTP-inducing stimuli.
This study has used multiple-labelling immunohistochemistry and quantitative analysis to examine the projections of subpopulations of parasympathetic and sympathetic neurons to different vascular and secretory structures in five cranial exocrine glands of guinea-pigs. Multiple subpopulations of parasympathetic axons, identified by immunoreactivity (IR) for various combinations of peptides, innervated arteries, arterioles, ducts and acini in sublingual, submandibular, parotid, lacrimal and zygomatic glands, although axons were absent from ducts in the parotid gland. Most parasympathetic axons contained IR for vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and neuropeptide Y (NPY), with or without enkephalin (Enk). The proportion of parasympathetic axons that contained Enk-IR varied greatly between target tissues and glands: Enk-IR was more common in axons supplying secretory ducts, acini and arterioles than in axons innervating more proximal arteries; Enk-IR was less common in axons supplying the lacrimal gland than axons supplying the submandibular, lacrimal and zygomatic glands. Sympathetic axons with IR for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) innervated arterial vessels in all glands, but innervated secretory structures only in the salivary glands. Sympathetic axons supplying proximal arterial segments often contained NPY-IR and sometimes also contained IR for dynorphin. Dynorphin-IR was more common in axons in the parotid, lacrimal and zygomatic glands than in the sublingual and submandibular glands. In contrast, axons supplying arterioles, ducts and acini lacked peptide IR. These results indicate that neuronal pathways regulating proximal arteries in cranial exocrine glands are different from the neuronal pathways regulating arterioles and acini, and may be different from neurons projecting to proximal secretory ducts. Furthermore, the peptides enkephalin, NPY and dynorphin are likely to make variable contributions to autonomic neurotransmission in different arterial segments and in different cranial exocrine glands.
Exploration of deep-sea hydrothermal vents over the past quarter century has revealed that they support unique and diverse biota. Despite the harsh nature of the environment, vents along the Mid-Atlantic Ridge are dominated by large masses of highly motile Bresiliid shrimp. Until 1989, when it was discovered that the vent shrimp Rimicaris exoculata possesses a hypertrophied dorsal eye, many believed that animals populating hydrothermal vents were blind. Chorocaris chacei (originally designated Rimicaris chacei) is a Bresiliid shrimp found at hydrothermal vent fields along the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. Like R. exoculata, C. chacei has a hypertrophied retina that appears to be specialized to detect the very small amount of light emitted from the orifices of black smoker hydrothermal vent chimneys. C. chacei lacks the sophisticated compound eyes common to other decapod crustaceans. Instead, it has a smooth cornea, with no dioptric apparatus, apposed by a tightly packed, massive array of photosensitive membrane. Photoreceptors in the C. chacei retina are segmented into a hypertrophied region that contains the photosensitive membrane and an atrophied cell body that is roughly ten times smaller in volume than the photosensitive segment. The microvillar photosensitive membrane is consistent in structure and ultrastructure with the rhabdoms of decapod and other invertebrate retinas. However, the volume density of photosensitive membrane (&gt; or =60%) exceeds that typically observed in invertebrate retinas. The reflecting pigment cells commonly found in decapod retinas are represented in the form of a matrix of white diffusing cells that exhibit Tyndall scattering and form an axial sheath around the photoreceptors. All photoreceptor screening pigment granules and screening pigment cells are restricted to the region below the photoreceptor nuclei and are thereby removed from the path of incident light. No ultrastructural evidence of rhythmic cycling of photosensitive membrane was observed. The morphological adaptations observed in the C. chacei retina suggest that it is a high-sensitivity photodetector that is of functional significance to the animal.
Previous neuroimaging studies have suggested that patients with schizophrenia fail to recruit appropriate focal patterns of cortical responses to cognitive tasks. We investigated whether patients with schizophrenia show a normal focal response to a simple motor task. Seven strongly right-handed patients with schizophrenia and seven strongly right-handed normal subjects performed motor tasks of increasing complexity. Patients were unable to recruit as focal a response even to a simple, automatic sequential finger movement task. They showed greater ipsilateral activation in the primary sensorimotor and lateral premotor regions and had a significantly lower laterality quotient than normal subjects. These phenomena increased with the complexity of the task. These results demonstrate a functional disturbance in the cortical motor circuitry of patients with schizophrenia.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is considered to play a major role in inflammation processes by catalyzing the production of prostaglandins (PGs). Using in situ hybridization histochemistry we studied the localization of COS-1 and COX-2 mRNA in the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) after peripheral inflammation or after axotomy in the rat. No COX-2 mRNA signals were detected in the spinal cord under normal conditions, but strong expression was seen bilaterally in non-neuronal cells within the grey and white matter and along the leptomeninges and blood vessels 6 h after unilateral carrageenan injection into the hind paw, but not after peripheral nerve injury. The results suggest that COX-2 expressed in non-neuronal cells contributes to PG production in and around the spinal cord under peripheral inflammatory processes.
Transection of a peripheral nerve in neonatal rats induces an extensive death of axotomized neurons. We demonstrate here that spinal motoneurons and sensory dorsal root ganglia neurons become TUNEL-labeled after sciatic nerve transection in neonatal rats, thus indicating that apoptotic mechanisms are involved in the death process. Interestingly, there is also a profound increase of TUNEL-labeled interneurons in the deep dorsal horn. This location suggests that an intact afferent input and/or contact with target cells is essential for interneuronal survival. Death of motoneurons and sensory neurons could be a result of the injury per se and/or the deprivation of neurotrophic substances, secondary to the loss of contact with target cells.
Cathepsin A [EC 3.4.16.1], so called protective protein, occurs as an enzyme complex with lysosomal beta-galactosidase [3.2.1.23] and is involved in the stable enzymic expression of lysosomal sialidase [3.2.1.18]. In this study we investigated the enzymatic properties of cathepsin A in the bovine beta-galactosidase complex and how it is involved in the molecular multiplicities of the beta-galactosidase and sialidase complexes. Bovine protective protein homologous to the human protein had a molecular weight of 48 kDa on SDS-PAGE and cathepsin A activity optimum around pH 6.0. It hydrolyzed dipeptide substrates composed of hydrophobic amino acids much faster than any other type of substrate tested. This specificity was found to be conserved from human to a non-mammal, chicken. Immunoprecipitation using an anti beta-galactosidase antibody demonstrated that cathepsin A is a component of both the sialidase and beta-galactosidase complexes. The over 700 kDa sialidase complex depolymerized by a brief incubation at pH 7.5 and the sialidase was inactivated irreversibly via formation of an enzyme active smaller species of sialidase. The 669 kDa beta-galactosidase complex dissociated reversibly into a 120 kDa beta-galactosidase and a 170 kDa cathepsin A, but the 120 kDa beta-galactosidase, free from the cathepsin A, formed a 260 kDa aggregate under the same conditions. Inactivation of cathepsin A by heat treatment did not affect its complex forming activity. The 170 kDa protective protein dissociated into a 50 kDa one at pH 7.5, which no longer formed the complex. These findings indicate that the 170 kDa protective protein could be the minimum unit required for in vitro reconstitution of the complex, and that its complex forming activity is carried in a heat-stable domain. Both beta-galactosidase and cathepsin A activities were labile under the dissociated condition, indicating that it physiologically stabilizes not only beta-galactosidase but also itself by forming the complex.
A glutamate transporter subtype, EAAT4, is closely related to removal of glutamate from the synaptic cleft. Immunohistochemistry for EAAT4 demonstrated the specific distribution and localization of its expression in the developing human cerebellum. Purkinje cells showed faint EAAT4 immunostaining at 17 gestational weeks (GW), which became increasingly intense from 23 GW to the infantile period. In the late fetal to early infantile periods, Purkinje cells showed marked immunoreactivity. After the late infantile period, EAAT4 immunoreactivity was the same in extent as in the adult pattern. Its intracellular localization also changed with development. EAAT4 immunoreactivity was demonstrated in the short processes of Purkinje cells in the early embryonic period, in the cell bodies and dendrites in the late fetal to early infantile periods, and then in the spines after the late infantile period. In the adult cerebellum, immunoreactivity was detected strongly in the spines of Purkinje cells and weakly in the cell bodies. No immunoreactivity was found in the axons or axon terminals of the cells. Thus, the glutamate transporter exhibits developmental changes in its distribution in the cerebellum and its localization in Purkinje cells. EAAT4 immunoreactivity may be related to the dendritic arborization of cells in the molecular layer.
The mRNA levels for alpha- and beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in rat rubrospinal neurons were studied by in situ hybridization 3, 7, 14, 28 and 56 days following cervical spinal hemisection. CGRP-like immunoreactivity (LI) in the rubrospinal neurons and the rubrospinal tract in cervical spinal cords were examined using immunohistochemistry. There was almost no signal for alpha- and beta-CGRP mRNAs and undetectable level of CGRP-LI in the rubrospinal neurons ipsilateral to cervical spinal hemisection (control side). Fourteen days after spinal hemisection, the rubrospinal neurons contralateral to cervical hemisection (axotomized side) showed CGRP-LI in their cell bodies, and CGRP containing fibers were observed in the lateral funiculi just proximal, but not distal, to the injury sites. In situ hybridization showed upregulation of beta-CGRP mRNA in a subpopulation of the rubrospinal neurons on the axotomized side. The proportion of beta-CGRP mRNA-expressing neurons reached its maximum (approximately 19%) 4 days following axotomy and slowly decreased to about 5% 56 days after axotomy. The percentage of alpha-CGRP mRNA-expressing neurons was much lower than that of beta-CGRP mRNA (maximum about 2.6% 4 days after axotomy) and not significantly different from the control side throughout the time period studied. These data indicate that axotomy induces de novo synthesis of the CGRP beta-subtype in rubrospinal neurons and that the beta-CGRP is transported to the injury site through the rubrospinal tract. In addition, we studied the effect of the intracerebral injections of brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). BDNF treatment fully reversed the severe cell atrophy that followed axotomy and increased the number of neurons labeled for beta-CGRP mRNA, but did not increase the percentage of rubrospinal neurons expressing beta-CGRP mRNA. Thus, topical application of BDNF does not have direct modulatory effect on CGRP induction in axotomized neurons in the red nucleus.
Dissociated rat cortical neurons reassociate in vitro to form synaptically connected networks. Removal of Mg2+ from the extracellular medium then induces neurons in the network to undergo synchronized oscillations of cytoplasmic calcium. Previous studies have shown that these calcium oscillations involve the activation of NMDA receptors and that the rising phase of each calcium spike is coincident with a brief burst of action potentials (Robinson et al., Jpn. J. Physiol. 43 (Suppl. 1) (1993) S125-130; Robinson et al., J. Neurophysiol. 70 (1993) 1606-1616; Murphy et al., J. Neurosci. 12 (1992) 4834-4845). We have found that these calcium oscillations are dependent on an influx of extracellular calcium but are independent of mobilization of calcium from intracellular stores. The influx of extracellular Ca2+ occurs primarily through L-type voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs), since diltiazem inhibits calcium oscillations under all conditions. On the other hand, N-, P/Q-, and T-type VGCCs are not required for calcium oscillations, although inhibitors of these channels may act as partial antagonists. In addition to removal of Mg2+, oscillations can also be induced by the inhibition of voltage-gated K+ channels with 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), a treatment known to increase neurotransmitter release. In the presence of 4-AP, synchronized calcium oscillations become independent of NMDA receptor activation, although they continue to require activation of AMPA/KA receptors. A model for the mechanism of neuronal calcium oscillations and the reason for their synchrony is presented.
We examined whether dopamine depletion in the medial prefrontal cortex of the rat differentially affects basal and evoked dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) content in the subareas of the neostriatum and nucleus accumbens. Loss of approximately 80% of tissue dopamine content in the medial prefrontal cortex did not significantly alter basal tissue concentrations of dopamine or DOPAC or the DOPAC:dopamine ratio in either the nucleus accumbens core or shell or the medial or lateral neostriatum. However, tail pressure stress significantly increased the DOPAC:dopamine ratio in the nucleus accumbens shell of lesioned rats. Because dorsal and ventral areas of the medial prefrontal cortex preferentially innervate the core and shell, respectively, we sought to determine whether the selective effect of lesions on dopamine terminals in the shell of the nucleus accumbens are paralleled by greater dopamine loss in the ventral medial prefrontal cortex. 6-Hydroxydopamine decreased tissue concentrations of dopamine in both the dorsal (-74%) and ventral medial prefrontal cortex (-68%). In lesioned rats, few tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers remained in the dorsal medial prefrontal cortex whereas a dense innervation remained in the ventralmost area. The present data suggest that the influence of mesocortical dopamine neurons on the dopamine projection to the nucleus accumbens shell is expressed only under conditions of stress. Furthermore, lesion-induced alterations in dopamine neurons projecting to the nucleus accumbens shell are not due to a more extensive loss of dopamine terminals in the ventral than in the dorsal medial prefrontal cortex.
Tropomyosins, a family of highly conserved coiled-coil actin binding proteins, can differ as a consequence of alternative expression of several exons (Lees-Miller, J., and Helfman, D. (1991) BioEssays 13, 429-437). Exon 6, which encodes residues 189-213 in long, 284-residue tropomyosins, has two alternative forms, exon 6a or 6b, both highly conserved throughout evolution. In alpha-tropomyosin, exon 6a or 6b is not specific to any one of the nine isoforms. Exon 6b encodes part of a putative Ca2+-sensitive troponin binding site in striated muscle tropomyosins, suggesting that the exon 6-encoded region may be specialized for certain tropomyosin functions. A series of recombinant, unacetylated tropomyosin exon 6 deletion and substitution mutants and chimeras was expressed in Escherichia coli to determine the requirements of exon 6 for tropomyosin function. Functional properties of the tropomyosins were defined by actin affinity measured by cosedimentation, troponin T affinity using a newly developed biosensor assay, and regulation of the actomyosin MgATPase. The region of tropomyosin encoded by exon 6 affects actin affinity but not thin filament assembly, troponin T binding, or regulation with troponin. The tropomyosins with exon 6a or 6b function normally whether a striated muscle exon 9a or smooth/non-muscle exon 9d is present. However, the effect of deleting 21 amino acids encoded by exon 6 or replacing it with a GCN4 leucine zipper sequence depends on the COOH-terminal sequence.
The Na,K-ATPase belongs to a family of P-type ion-translocating ATPases sharing homologous catalytic subunits (alpha) that traverse the membrane several times and contain the binding sites for ATP and cations. In this family, only Na,K- and H,K-ATPases have been shown to have a second subunit, a single-span glycoprotein called beta. Recently a new isoform (beta3) has been identified in mammals. Here we describe structural features and tissue distribution of the beta3 protein, utilizing an antiserum specific for its N terminus. beta3 was the only beta detected in Na,K-ATPase purified from C6 glioma. Treatment with N-glycosidase F confirmed that beta3 is a glycoprotein containing N-linked carbohydrate chains. Molecular masses of the glycosylated protein and core protein were estimated to be 42 and 35 kDa, respectively, which are different from those of the beta1 and beta2 subunits. Detection of beta subunits has historically been difficult in certain tissues. Sensitivity was improved by deglycosylating, and expression was evaluated by obtaining estimates of beta3/alpha ratio. The proportion of beta3 protein in the rat was highest in lung and testis. It was also present in liver and skeletal muscle, whereas kidney, heart, and brain contained it only as a minor component of the Na,K-ATPase. In P7 rat, we found skeletal muscle and lung Na,K-ATPase to be the most enriched in beta3 subunit, whereas expression in liver was very low, illustrating developmentally regulated changes in expression. The substantial expression in lung and adult liver very likely explains long-standing puzzles about an apparent paucity of beta subunit in membranes or in discrete cellular or subcellular structures.
Due to some physical limitations of conventional condensers, inverted compound microscopes are not optimally suited for imaging living brain slices with transmitted light. Herein is described a simple device that converts an inverted microscope into an effective tool for this application by utilizing an objective as a condenser. The device is mounted on a microscope in place of the condenser, is threaded to accept a water immersion objective, and has a slot for a differential interference contrast (DIC) slider. When combined with infrared video techniques, this device allows an inverted microscope to effectively image living cells within thick brain slices in an open perfusion chamber.
Despite the preeminence of light as the synchronizer of the circadian timing system, the phototransductive machinery in mammals which transmits photic information from the retina to the hypothalamic circadian pacemaker remains largely undefined. To determine the class of photopigments which this phototransductive system uses, we exposed a group (n = 7) of human subjects to red light below the sensitivity threshold of a scotopic (i.e. rhodopsin/rod-based) system, yet of sufficient strength to activate a photopic (i.e. cone-based) system. Exposure to this light stimulus was sufficient to reset significantly the human circadian pacemaker, indicating that the cone pigments which mediate color vision can also mediate circadian vision.
The trisomy 16 (Ts16) mouse is regarded as a model of human trisomy 21 (Ts21), or Down syndrome. The ionic current evoked by the glutamate receptor agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) was investigated in cultured hippocampal neurons from embryonic Ts16 and control diploid mice. In both Ts16 and control neurons, NMDA- (6-150 microM) evoked a similar inward current. The reversal potential, the minimum current, the dose response plot of the conductance, the effect of Mg2+ on the current-voltage plot and the inhibition by D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (AP5; 50 microM) showed no significant difference between Ts16 and control neurons. These data suggest that, although voltage-dependent ion channels are reported to have altered active properties in Ts16 neurons, NMDA-evoked currents are not altered.
Cortical application of crystalline KCl in male cats anaesthetised with alpha-chloralose induced four transient negative deflections in cortical direct current (d.c.) potential. In vehicle treated animals d.c. shifts were associated with a hyperaemia and a multiphasic nitric oxide (NO) release. In these animals, the first negative shift in d.c. potential produced a significantly larger NO electrode current, when compared to subsequent cortical depolarisations. However, regional cerebrovascular laser Doppler flux (rCBF[LDF]) increases were similar for each event. In L-N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NAME; 10 mg/kg i.v. infused over 30 min) treated animals, d.c. shifts were also associated with NO release following a multiphasic waveform and increase in rCBF(LDF), but were significantly attenuated when compared to controls.
CDP-diacylglycerol resides at the branch point of glycerolipid biosynthesis as precursor of both the phosphoinositides and phosphatidylglycerol. The discovery of the phosphoinositide signal transduction pathway and the recognition of its prominent role in intracellular communication has focused new attention on CDP-diacylglycerol synthase. As a rate-limiting step in this pathway, it is a likely target for regulation. Exploration of this possibility will be facilitated by the recent cloning of mammalian CDP-DAG synthase.
The muscarinic agonists, xanomeline and carbachol, displayed similar intrinsic activities in stimulating neuronal nitric oxide synthase at muscarinic M1 receptors in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, with xanomeline being more potent. Pre-incubation (1 h) with 1 microM xanomeline, followed by extensive washing, resulted in a significantly elevated basal response, which was absent on co-incubation with atropine. This phenomenon was not observed with carbachol. This is the first report of a persistent, receptor-activating effect of a muscarinic agonist.
Relaxant responses to pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP)-27, PACAP-38 and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) were examined in rat ileal longitudinal muscle. PACAP-27 was much more potent than PACAP-38 and VIP, with PACAP-38 and VIP being equipotent. The relaxation induced by each of the peptides was unaffected by pretreatment with NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) (10[-4] M), tetrodotoxin (10[-6] M) or atropine (10[-6] M). Pretreatment with apamin (10[-6] M) abolished the relaxations induced by PACAP-27, but not those induced by PACAP-38 or VIP. Pretreatment with neuropeptide Y (NPY) (10[-7] M) inhibited relaxations induced by VIP, but not those induced by PACAP-27 or PACAP-38. No cross-desensitization between PACAP-27 and VIP could be revealed. In conclusion, distinct receptors mediate PACAP- and VIP-induced relaxations of rat ileal longitudinal muscle. At least three different types of receptors may exist: (1) a PACAP-27 preferring receptor coupled to apamin sensitive Ca2+-dependent K+ channels, (2) a PACAP specific receptor activated by both PACAP-27 and PACAP-38 but not by VIP and (3) a VIP specific receptor regulated by NPY by yet unknown mechanisms.
Over the past 10 years, molecular cloning has revealed the presence of 15 serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) receptor subtypes, which can be subdivided in seven subfamilies. Except for the 5-HT3 receptors, which are ligand-gated ion channels, all 5-HT receptors belong to the superfamily of G-protein-coupled receptors. The large multiplicity of 5-HT receptor subtypes has been suggested to be a direct result of the evolutionary age of the 5-HT system. Molecular information on G-protein-coupled 5-HT receptors is currently available for several mammalian species as well as for a limited number of invertebrate species (insects, molluscs). The aim of this review is to give an overview of all cloned 5-HT receptor subtypes belonging to the superfamily of G-protein-coupled receptors with specific emphasis on the pharmacological and signaling properties of the receptors upon expression in several heterologous expression systems.
Dendritic spines receive the vast majority of excitatory synaptic contacts in the mammalian brain and are presumed to contain machinery for the integration of various signal transduction pathways. Protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) is greatly enriched in dendritic spines and has been implicated in both the regulation of ionic conductances and long-term synaptic plasticity. The molecular mechanism whereby PP1 is localized to spines is unknown. We have now characterized a novel protein that forms a complex with the catalytic subunit of PP1 and is a potent modulator of PP1 enzymatic activity in vitro. Within the brain this protein displays a remarkably distinct localization to the heads of dendritic spines and has therefore been named spinophilin. Spinophilin has the properties expected of a scaffolding protein localized to the cell membrane and contains a single consensus sequence in PSD95/DLG/zo-1, which implies cross-linking of PP1 to transmembrane protein complexes. We propose that spinophilin represents a novel targeting subunit for PP1, which directs the enzyme to those substrates in the dendritic spine compartment, e.g., neurotransmitter receptors, which mediate the regulation of synaptic function by PP1.
This article deals with the question why should one determine receptors in the brain with positron and single photon emission tomography (PET and SPECT, respectively). Radiopharmaceuticals for a wide variety of receptors are available now. Receptors studies with PET and SPECT have thus far focused on the following issues: occupancy during drug treatment, quantification in neuropsychiatric diseases and visualizing specific pathology. Far most studies on receptor occupancy are concerned with antipsychotic treatment in schizophrenic patients. During treatment with classical antipsychotic drugs more than 65% of the receptors are occupied in both responding and drug therapy resistant patients. High occupancy appeared to be linked to frequent occurrence of extrapyramidal symptoms (parkinsonism). Atypical antipsychotic drugs, producing no parkinsonism, are effective even when less than 50% dopamine D2 receptors are blocked. Quantification of receptor density in vivo depends very much on the mathematical models used, and is often very difficult and thus far of little clinical use. Finally, receptors can be used as markers for specific neurons or other cells. In the caudate nucleus dopamine receptors are localized in neurons that degenerate in Huntington's disease, so early in the disease decreases in receptor binding can be shown. In Alzheimer disease decreases in neural receptor and increases in omega-3 receptors are observed indicating degeneration and inflammation, respectively.
Positron Emission Tomography (PET) is a method for determining biochemical and physiological processes in vivo in a quantitative way. This includes the measurement of the pharmacokinetics of labeled drugs and the measurement of the effects of drugs and/or therapy on metabolism. Also deviations of normal metabolism can be measured and insight in biological processes responsible for diseases can be obtained. To accomplish these measurements a multi-disciplinary team is necessary for the expertise in the fields of radionuclide production, radiochemistry, pharmacy, medicine, nuclear imaging and data analysis.

We studied 110 carotid arteries of 55 patients with unilateral or bilateral carotid stenosis diagnosed with selective angiography, by using Transcranial Doppler to detect high intensity transient signals (HITS) in the middle cerebral arteries (MCAs). HITS identified as embolic signals were prevalent (P &lt; 0.05) in the MCAs on the same side as severe (70-99%) stenosis (22 of 51 = 43.1%) compared to moderate (30-69%) stenosis (5 of 37 = 13.5%). No HITS were observed in the MCA on the same side as normal control carotid arteries (n = 17) [occluded arteries (n = 5) were not considered]. HITS were more prevalent (P &lt; 0.05) in the MCAs on the same side as ulcerated plaques (14 of 23 = 60.9%) compared to non-ulcerated plaques (13 of 65 = 20%), and all moderate stenoses producing HITS presented ulceration of the plaque. Ulcerated plaque groups showed a higher mean number of HITS than non-ulcerated plaque groups and no significant difference was noted between moderate and severe stenosis, between superficial or deep ulcerations and between ulcerations with flap or without flap. Therefore, severe carotid stenosis and moderate stenosis with plaque ulceration result in angiographic findings most frequently associated with HITS. Further studies are necessary to evaluate the clinical significance of this finding.
We have characterized the evolving morphological changes in the adult rat spinal cord following photochemically induced spinal cord ischemia. In cresyl violet-stained sections, disintegration of the tissue at the epicenter was evident at 6 h. This was preceded at 1 h post ischemia by an albumin immunoreactivity. The albumin immunoreactivity was increased at 6 and even more so at 24 h post ischemia. At 72 h post ischemia the albumin immunoreactivity was decreased. The size of the lesion was established by 3 days after the onset of ischemia. During the 1st week post ischemia, neurofilament (NF) immunohistochemistry showed swollen axons adjacent to the injured tissue. From 2 weeks post ischemia an increasing number of regrowing NF-immunoreactive axons could be seen in the center of the necrotic cavity. At 3 weeks after ischemia, a developing gliosis was observed around and rostral to the lesion cavity, as evidenced by increased glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity. The gliosis became more pronounced until 6 weeks post ischemia, at which time enlarged GFAP-immunoreactive cells could be seen in the remaining viable tissue bordering the necrotic areas. In this study we show that several traits in the development of a spinal cord lesion after photochemically induced ischemia are similar to those described previously after traumatic spinal cord lesions.
Ten male subjects underwent two types of adaptation paradigm designed either to enhance or to attenuate the gain of the canal-ocular reflex (COR), before undergoing otolith-ocular reflex (OOR) testing with constant velocity, earth horizontal axis and pitch rotation. The adaptation paradigm paired a 0.2 Hz sinusoidal rotation about an earth vertical axis with a 0.2 Hz optokinetic stimulus that was deliberately mismatched in peak velocity or phase and was designed to produce short-term changes in the COR. Preadaptation and postadaptation OOR tests occurred at a constant velocity of 60 degrees/sec in the dark and produced a modulation component of the slow phase velocity with a frequency of 0.16 Hz due to otolithic stimulation by the sinusoidally changing gravity vector. Of the seven subjects who showed enhancement of the COR gain, six also showed enhancement of the OOR modulation component. Of the seven subjects who showed attenuation of the COR gain, five also showed attenuation of the OOR modulation component. The probability that these two cross-axis adaptation effects would occur by chance is less than 0.02. This suggests that visual-vestibular conditioning of the yaw axis COR also induced changes in the pitch axis OOR. We thus postulate that the central nervous system pathways that process horizontal canal yaw stimuli have elements in common with those processing otolithic stimuli about the pitch axis.
Tardive dyskinesia (TD) has been associated with female gender, affective symptoms and good outcome, but also with negative symptoms, cognitive deterioration and deteriorating illness course. Furthermore, antipsychotic medication is thought to be an important risk factor, yet abnormal movements also occur in patients who have never received such medication. We followed 166 subjects with recent onset of psychotic illness and brief previous exposure to antipsychotic medication. Information on 17 previously reported risk factors was available for 125 patients at baseline and, for factors that vary over time, again at follow-up 4 years later (median, 50 months; interquartile range, 29-70). Movement disorder was assessed at follow-up using the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS). Six noninteracting variables were independently associated with the 4-year risk of TD: male sex (OR, 2.5; 95% CI, 1.1-5.0), age (OR over quartiles at baseline, 1.6; 95% CI, 1.1-2.2), lack of insight at baseline (OR over four categories, 2.0; 95% CI, 1.2-3.2), time on antipsychotics during the follow-up period (OR over quartiles, 2.3; 95% CI, 1.5-3.4), an increase in negative symptoms during the follow-up period (OR over quartiles, 1.7; 95% CI, 1.2-2.5), and alcohol/drug misuse at follow-up (OR, 3.0; 95% CI, 1.3-7.4). The presence of individual risk factors was found to be of little use as a screening test for subsequent clinically relevant TD. Given the absence of a risk factor, however, the probability that an individual would not develop TD was high. These results suggest that two discrete effects may operate to increase the risk of TD, namely an exogenous factor (medication, drugs), and an illness-related factor, the highest risk being conferred by deteriorating illness course in male patients.
The aim of this paper is to highlight the complexity in the connection between alcohol intoxication and responsibility for crime from a multidisciplinary approach comprising medical, legal and criminological perspectives. There is no doubt that there is a connection between violent behaviour and alcohol intoxication. However, several investigations show that alcohol heightens aggressiveness only when the drunken person is provoked. A case which may serve as a model when discussing legal responsibility for acts carried out when drunk is outlined. Ethical considerations are discussed and exemplified concerning the motive, as well as the principles, of punishing an intoxicated perpetrator. However, there are no definite solutions concerning what is right or wrong, and each reader will have his own opinion, which may well differ from that of the author.
It is a well-known fact that alcohol affects sex hormone levels in males. Even in the absence of liver dysfunction, there is still a direct toxic effect of ethanol on testosterone synthesis resulting in acutely decreased values. This study is based on 29 male alcoholics without severe signs of liver disease treated on the alcohol detoxification ward at Huddinge hospital in Stockholm, Sweden during 1995. The aim was to study levels of sex hormones in male alcoholics during detoxification with benzodiazepines and after 3 weeks of sobriety. Blood samples were taken three times: one day after admission (day 2) when the patient was sober, at discharge (day 5) and after 3 weeks of sobriety (day 21). Levels of testosterone and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) showed the same pattern during detoxification and follow-up. They were both low, but generally within normal limits, on days 2 and 5, but raised after 3 weeks of sobriety. Follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) were initially high, but were substantially depressed during detoxification. Levels of FSH recovered after 3 weeks, whereas LH remained at the same level. Most patients exhibited generally low levels of both FSH and LH, however. Levels of oestrone decreased steadily. There were no correlations between levels of sex hormones and the number of milligrams of oxazepam administered to the patients during detoxification either at admission, at discharge or at follow-up. In summary, the endocrinological response to alcohol intake is complex. This study suggests that the duration of endocrinological recovery after drinking is a quite long-lasting process, that different hormones need different times to recover and that the normal glandular-pituitary feed-back processes may be partly put out of order.
Nitric oxide (NO) metabolites nitrite and nitrate were measured in the cerebrospinal fluid in 12 alcohol-dependent subjects and in 16 healthy controls. The amounts of NO metabolites in alcoholics were not different from those in the controls. The results suggest that NO is not a major factor responsible for brain damage in these patients.

We compared the cardiovascular autonomic regulatory mechanisms between patients with brain death or under a persistent vegetative state and healthy volunteers, based on auto- and cross-spectral analysis of systolic blood pressure (SBP) and interpulse interval (PPI) signals. Brain-dead patients exhibited a significant reduction in the absolute and relative power of the low-frequency (LF; 0.04-0.15 Hz) component in both SBP and PPI spectra, along with appreciable decrease in the very low frequency (VLF; 0.004-0.04 Hz), LF, and high-frequency (HF; 0.15-0.4 Hz) power of the PPI signals. Patients in a persistent vegetative state exhibited a power of the VLF and LF component in the SBP spectrum that was comparable to that in healthy subjects, although a discernible reduction in the VLF, LF, and HF power of the PPI spectrum was manifested by the former group. Assessments with the magnitude of SBP-PPI transfer function and linear regression analysis of beat-to-beat fluctuations in SBP and PPI revealed a progressive decline in spontaneous baroreflex sensitivity from healthy subjects to patients in a persistent vegetative state or with brain death. We conclude that the vasomotor component of systemic arterial pressure signals and spontaneous baroreflex are highly correlated with the functional integrity of the brain stem.


The effect of amphetamine sulfate (AMPH) on beta-phenylethylamine (PEA) and 3-methoxytyramine (3MT) levels in the rat frontal and cingulate cortices, the nucleus accumbens, and the striatum were evaluated after the administration of either cocaine or reserpine alone and in combination with AMPH. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the neuromodulator properties of PEA on dopamine (DA) release as reflected by 3MT steady-state concentrations. The highest concentration of PEA was found in the nucleus accumbens, followed by the cingulate and frontal cortices, and then the striatum. Time-course effects of the intraperitoneal administration of 5 mg/kg AMPH on PEA and 3MT concentrations were similar but not identical. AMPH at a dosage of 1 mg/kg significantly increased PEA concentration only in the striatum. A dosage of 2.5 mg/kg reserpine, which markedly depressed 3MT levels in all brain regions studied except the striatum, significantly reduced PEA concentrations only in the nucleus accumbens. This dosage of reserpine reduced DA concentrations by more than 80% in all regions examined, but its effects on norepinephrine were less marked. Pretreatment with cocaine (10 mg/kg) or reserpine (2.5 mg/kg) potentiated the effects of 1 mg/kg AMPH on PEA and 3MT levels in the frontal cortex and of 3MT in the striatum. Pretreatment with either 1 mg/kg reserpine (specifically used to partially mobilize DA storage) or cocaine (10 mg/kg) produced quantitative changes in the effects of 5 mg/kg AMPH on PEA and 3MT levels that were region-specific. For example, in contrast to the cortical regions and the nucleus accumbens, the AMPH-induced increase in 3MT was potentiated in the striatum. On the other hand, the increase in brain PEA produced by AMPH (5 mg/kg) was not influenced by either increased cytoplasmic DA (as deduced from the effects of 1 mg/kg reserpine pretreatment) or DA uptake inhibition (as deduced from the effect of cocaine pretreatment) in the frontal cortex or the nucleus accumbens. Furthermore, the increase in PEA produced by AMPH (5 mg/kg) in the cingulate cortex and the striatum were abolished and potentiated, respectively, by these drug pretreatments. Our results suggest that although DA release and PEA formation are stimulated by AMPH, these effects appear to involve mechanisms that are not directly related and hence suggest a dissociation between 3MT and PEA formation in the brain. Our work also suggests that PEA is most likely not to be co-released with DA following the administration of AMPH. Therefore, it is concluded that whatever physiological role PEA may play in central synaptic transmission, its effects do not appear to be dependent on DA release.
Immunohistochemical techniques were used to determine the distribution of cholecystokinin-8 (CCK8) immunoreactivity in the brain of the chameleon. In the telencephalon, CCK8-immunopositive somata were sparse and observed principally in the olfactory tubercle at the ventromedial edge of the rostral telencephalon and in the medial septum. Immunopositive fibers were observed mainly in the medial septal region and the ventral telencephalon. In the diencephalon, numerous CCK8-reactive fibers were densely concentrated in the periventricular region, the dorsolateral hypothalamus and the external zone of the median eminence. In the thalamus, labelled fibers were restricted to the peri-rotundal nuclei and the lateral part of the habenula. Immunoreactive cell bodies were observed in the medial part of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, in the periventricular, ventral and lateral regions of the hypothalamus. In the mesencephalon, the densest accumulations of immunopositive fibers were observed in the area pretectalis, the periventricular gray matter, the medial tegmentum and the isthmus. Labelled neurons were observed in the deep, and occasionally intermediate, tectal layers and in the laminar nucleus of the torus semicircularis. In the rhombencephalon, labelled fibers were observed at the highest density in the central gray matter and the locus coeruleus; labelled somata were observed only in the nucleus of the tractus solitarius.
The fragile X syndrome is believed to be caused by an expansion of a CGG trinucleotide repeat segment in the FMR-1 gene on the fragile X site of the long arm of the X-chromosome. To understand the variation of the CGG repeat in the FMR-1 gene in southern Chinese from the Hong Kong and Guangzhou area, we undertook the present study. A total of 83 normal and three fragile X subjects were examined. In the normal group, 16 distinct alleles, ranging in size from 272 bp to 332 bp with 17 to 37 CGG repeats were detected. A repeat size of 29 was the most frequent. Compared with data collected in the USA, the repeat size observed in this population was somewhat smaller. Whether this discrepancy is due to ethnic difference remains to be determined. The three fragile X patients examined in this study did not have a greatly expanded CGG segment. One of them may be a mosaic with one full and one premutation allele. The other two patients, although having clinical and cytological features of fragile X syndrome, had a CGG repeat size within normal range. To explain this, we infer that the mutation in these patients may be caused by other mechanisms, such as other types of FMR-1 mutation or mutation in another site. It is possible that the expansion of the CGG repeats may not be as frequent a cause of fragile X syndrome in southern Chinese as in other ethnic groups.
Much time and effort are spent on designing primary research studies. Similar care must be given to planning systematic reviews. The review should be based on an important, well-focused question that is relevant to patient care. By formulating the question properly, the criteria that primary studies must meet to be included in the review become clear. These criteria, which comprise the types of persons involved, exposure, control group, outcomes, and study designs of interest, can then be refined so that they are clinically relevant, sensible, and workable. Inclusion criteria that are too narrow will limit the amount of data in the review, thereby increasing the risk for chance results and making the review less useful for the reader. Reviews should include studies whose designs offer the least biased answer to the question being asked. To maximize available data and reduce the risk for bias, as many relevant studies as possible need to be identified, regardless of publication status or language. Multiple overlapping search strategies should therefore be used and must be carefully planned. Strategies include searching the many electronic databases available (after careful consideration of which terms to enter), manually searching journals and conference proceedings, searching bibliographies of articles, searching existing registers of studies, and contacting companies or researchers. The time taken to formulate the question adequately and develop appropriate searches will increase the chance of producing a high-quality, meaningful review.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1), spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2) and Machado-Joseph disease or spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (MJD/SCA3) are three distinctive forms of autosomal dominant spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA) caused by expansions of an unstable CAG repeat localized in the coding region of the causative genes. Another related disease, dentatorubropallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA) is also caused by an unstable triplet repeat and can present as SCA in late onset patients. We investigated the frequency of the SCA1, SCA2, MJD/SCA3 and DRPLA mutations in 328 Brazilian patients with SCA, belonging to 90 unrelated families with various patterns of inheritance and originating in different geographic regions of Brazil. We found mutations in 35 families (39%), 32 of them with a clear autosomal dominant inheritance. The frequency of the SCA1 mutation was 3% of all patients; and 6% in the dominantly inherited SCAs. We identified the SCA2 mutation in 6% of all families and in 9% of the families with autosomal dominant inheritance. The MJD/SCA3 mutation was detected in 30% of all patients; and in the 44% of the dominantly inherited cases. We found no DRPLA mutation. In addition, we observed variability in the frequency of the different mutations according to geographic origin of the patients, which is probably related to the distinct colonization of different parts of Brazil. These results suggest that SCA may be occasionally caused by the SCA1 and SCA2 mutations in the Brazilian population, and that the MJD/SCA3 mutation is the most common cause of dominantly inherited SCA in Brazil.

Thapsigargin, a specific inhibitor of the endoplasmic reticular Ca(2+)-ATPase, has been used previously to mobilize calcium release from intracellular calcium stores. We now show that thapsigargin (1-10 microM) induces apoptosis in a neuroblastoma cell line (SH-SY5Y) and in fetal rat cerebrocortical cultures. Cell death measured by lactate dehydrogenase release was observed 24-48 hours after treatment with thapsigargin. In both cases, DNA extracts from thapsigargin treated cells showed laddering, typical of endonuclease-mediated internucleosomal cleavages. The presence of DNA fragments was also confirmed by an ELISA designed for detecting nucleosomes in apoptotic cells. Cycloheximide reduced the extent of DNA fragmentation and injury in thapsigargin-treated cells. Dantrolene, an inhibitor of calcium release from intracellular stores partially abolished the effect of thapsigargin, suggesting that the initial Ca2+ rise may be the signalling event in this apoptotic cell death pathway. We propose that thapsigargin-induced cell death in cultured neuronal cells may be a useful system to study the molecular and genetic events involved in apoptosis.
We present a new method that stains differently two subpopulations of Purkinje cells in the adult rat. Deparaffinized sections of cerebella, fixed by perfusion with buffered glutaraldehyde or Bouin's fluid were stained with 0.5% light green in 50% ethanol (10-30 min). The excess dye was removed with saturated aqueous picric acid (10-30 min). At this point some Purkinje cells appeared as lightly stained neurons, while others were strongly stained. Slides were immersed in 0.5% aqueous acid fuchsin for approximately 1 min until the lightly stained neurons acquired a red color. Following immersion in 1% phosphotungstic acid, slides were rapidly dehydrated in ethanol, passed to xylene and mounted in Canada balsam. Two subpopulations of Purkinje cells differing in their protein content in somata and proximal dendrites stained differentially by this method. They occurred in all coronal and sagittal sections and in patches or stripes. Their relative proportion varied from lobule to lobule. A second staining method used potassium permanganate as the sole staining reagent. The staining reagent can be used on sections previously stained with the acid dyes. Purkinje cells appeared as subsets of brownish to deep brown stained neurons, the latter ones corresponding to green stained cells in the dichromic method. The results obtained indicated that the subpopulations reflect real differences among individual neurons and are not artifacts. The technique holds promise for identifying and localizing sub-sets of Purkinje cells differing in their protein content under normal and experimental conditions and for their further characterization by combined staining and histochemical procedures.
An anatomical analysis of the innervation of murine femora revealed intimate association of haemopoietic and stromal cells with nerve fibres. The mechanical denervation of these femora resulted in significant mobilization of cells into the peripheral blood within 24h. There was a decrease in femoral cellularity and analysis of the type of cells mobilized also revealed that there was an increase in progenitor cells in the peripheral blood. In non-splenectomized mice these progenitor cells were quickly cleared from the circulation. Chemical sympathectomy of mice with 6-hydroxydopamine resulted in decreased bone marrow cellularity without a change in bone marrow or peripheral blood progenitor cell numbers, nor the sustained rise in peripheral leucocytes observed with whole nerve denervation. These observations argue for selective control of mobilization by the nervous system and also indicate possible control of proliferation within the bone marrow. We conclude that the innervation has an important role in the maintenance of the blood-marrow interface, control of peripheral blood cell numbers, and mobilization of colony forming cells into the periphery.
1. The functional consequences of P2X receptor activation on peripheral sensory neurones have been investigated in vivo. Behavioural indices of acute nociception were monitored in the conscious rat following subplantar injection of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP), alpha,beta-methylene ATP, adenosine 5'-diphosphate (ADP) and adenosine. 2. Signs of overt nociception, i.e. hindpaw lifting and licking, were apparent in animals injected subplantar with the P2X receptor agonist, alpha,beta-methylene ATP. Nociceptive behaviours continued for 15 min following administration of alpha,beta-methylene ATP (200 nmol) and were dose-related (0-5 min hindpaw lifting times after injection of alpha,beta-methylene ATP 100 nmol and 1000 nmol were 89 +/- 26 s and 232 +/- 11 s, respectively). Subplantar ATP evoked a modest response only at the highest dose tested (1000 nmol; 0-5 min hindpaw lifting time 66 +/- 19 s) whilst ADP or adenosine (both 600 nmol) elicited negligible spontaneous nociceptive activity. 3. Morphine (3 mg kg-1, i.v.) abolished hindpaw licking behaviour induced by subplantar injection of either alpha,beta-methylene ATP (600 nmol) or bradykinin (1 nmol) and substantially reduced (88 +/- 5%) paw licking in formalin (0.5%, 0.1 ml) injected animals. In contrast, hindpaw lifting was only modestly inhibited (34 +/- 11%) in morphine-pretreated animals that had received subplantar bradykinin and was unaffected in rats in which the noxious stimulus was either subplantar alpha,beta-methylene ATP or formalin. Pretreatment of hindpaws with subplantar bupivacaine (1% w/v, 0.1 ml) abolished alpha,beta-methylene ATP-evoked nociceptive behaviours. 4. Hindpaw lifting and licking mediated by alpha,beta-methylene ATP (600 nmol, subplantar) were inhibited (72 +/- 15% and 95 +/- 5%, respectively) by 30 min local pretreatment with 600 nmol alpha,beta-methylene ATP. Subplantar alpha,beta-methylene ATP pretreatment did not inhibit behaviour stimulated by subsequent bradykinin (1 nmol) or formalin (0.5%, 0.1 ml) injection into the hindpaw. 5. Desensitization of small diameter sensory neurones with a single subplantar injection of capsaicin (100 micrograms) abolished all behaviours indicative of spontaneous nociceptive sensation in animals subsequently injected with alpha,beta-methylene ATP (600 nmol), bradykinin (1 nmol) or formalin (0.5%, 0.1 ml). 6. We conclude that activation of P2X receptors present on small diameter (capsaicin-sensitive) primary afferent neurones in the rat hindpaw mediates behaviour indicative of acute nociception.
The development of AMPA-selective glutamate receptors (GluR1 and GluR2-3) in human basal ganglia (BG) was investigated in 23 normal brains by means of an immunohistochemical method. Immunoreactivity to GluR1 and 2-3 was detected in the cytoplasm and dendrites of small and large neurons in the BG. GluR2-3 immunoreactivity-positive neurons were clearly observed at 23-24 gestational weeks (GW) in the globus pallidus and at 32 GW in the neostriatum, and reached a peak at 32 GW and 39 GW, respectively. GluR2-3 positive neurons in the BG began to decrease at 1-4 months of age, reaching the low level of adults by 7 months of age. The developmental pattern of GluR1 was similar to that of GluR2-3 in the BG, but the immunoreactivity to GluR1 was a little weaker than that of GluR2-3 in the neostriatum. Furthermore, GluR1 and 2-3 subunit Western blotting confirmed the specificity of the immunohistochemistry. Our results suggest that the development of GluR1 and 2-3 in the BG is consistent with neuronal development in the BG, which supports further that GluR1 and 2-3 play an important role in neuronal differentiation and maturation of the BG.

To better understand the mechanisms that could modulate the formation of otoconia, calcium carbonate granules in the inner ear of vertebrate species, we examined statoconia formation in the gravity-sensing organ, the statocyst, of the gastropod mollusk Aplysia californica using an in vitro organ culture model. We determined the type of calcium carbonate present in the statoconia and investigated the role of carbonic anhydrase (CA) and urease in regulating statocyst pH as well as the role of protein synthesis and urease in statoconia production and homeostasis in vitro. The type of mineral present in statoconia was found to be aragonitic calcium carbonate. When the CA inhibitor, acetazolamide (AZ), was added to cultures of statocysts, the pH initially (30 min) increased and then decreased. The urease inhibitor, acetohydroxamic acid (AHA), decreased statocyst pH. Simultaneous addition of AZ and AHA caused a decrease in pH. Inhibition of urease activity also reduced total statoconia number, but had no effect on statoconia volume. Inhibition of protein synthesis reduced statoconia production and increased statoconia volume. In a previous study, inhibition of CA was shown to decrease statoconia production. Taken together, these data show that urease and CA play a role in regulating statocyst pH and the formation and maintenance of statoconia. CA produces carbonate ion for calcium carbonate formation and urease neutralizes the acid formed due to CA action, by production of ammonia.


This study was undertaken to investigate the occurrence and identity of dividing cells within the myenteric plexus of the guinea-pig ileum and to analyze the effects of inflammation induced by trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid. The incorporation of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine, or BrdU, into replicating DNA was used to label proliferative cells, and immunohistochemistry was used to assess the occurrence of BrdU in specific cells of the myenteric plexus. Compared to normal tissue, inflammation is associated with increased BrdU labelling in the crypts and in the substantially thickened muscle layers. In longitudinal muscle/myenteric plexus whole-mounts, there was a significant increase in BrdU labelling of the myenteric plexus after induced inflammation. No BrdU-labelled neurons were detected in tissue double labelled with neuron-specific antibodies. Fluorescein isothiocyanate/dextran-labelled macrophages were rare or absent from the ganglia, and none were double labelled with BrdU in the muscle layers. CD3-immunoreactive T cells were substantially increased in the inflamed longitudinal muscle, but still rare or absent within the enteric ganglia. Some BrdU-labelled T cells were observed in the longitudinal muscle but not in the myenteric ganglia. Lastly, in tissues double labelled with anti-BrdU and anti-S-100, many BrdU-containing cells within the myenteric ganglia were found to be S-100-immunoreactive glial cells. We conclude that inflammation does not stimulate the appearance of new myenteric neurons but does stimulate mitosis in myenteric glia.
Intrinsic neuropeptide Y-containing neurones in rat and guinea-pig hearts were studied at the ultrastructural level by the pre-embedding peroxidase-antiperoxidase immunocytochemical technique. Intracardiac neuronal cell bodies were often weakly or moderately immunostained, and the labelling was usually pronounced in the Golgi complex, multivesicular bodies, some cisterns of granular endoplasmic reticulum and large granular vesicles. Neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive nerve fibres were also observed in association with intracardiac neurones. A subpopulation of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive granule-containing cells in the rat heart are described for the first time and were very heavily labelled; other granule-containing cells were non-immunoreactive, but were contacted by neuropeptide Y-containing nerves. Preterminal regions of nerve fibres that were located in nerve bundles were only weakly neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive, in contrast to the heavy labelling observed in varicosities that contained many synaptic vesicles. Many neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive nerve fibres were associated with the coronary vasculature and were particularly prominent in the walls of small arteries and arterioles where labelled nerve varicosities were present close to the smooth muscle cells. Immunoreactive nerves were also seen in the myocardium, usually near to capillaries. In axonal varicosities, the central core of large granular vesicles was immunolabelled, and electron-dense immunoreactive material outlined the membranes of small and large clear vesicles. The significance of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive intracardiac neurones and granule-containing cells and the origin of associated labelled nerve fibres in the heart are discussed.
Afferents of chick embryos (Gallus domesticus) VIIIth nerve were examined at E3, E6, E9, E13, El7, and hatching (NH) for anti-S100 beta, anti-MAP5, anti-GABA, anti-GAD and anti-NF68/200 stain. Different ages were processed together to determine if the distribution of these antibodies changed during synaptogenesis and myelination. Color thresholding showed that saturation of pixels changed for S100 beta only 5%, for NF68/200 10%, and for MAP5, 10%, between E9-NH. Color ratio of NF68/200 over MAP5 was 1.00 at E13 and 0.25 at E16 and NH. S100 beta, GABA and GAD were co-expressed on nerve endings at the edge of the maculae and center of the cristae, whereas hair cells in the center of the maculae expressed either S100 beta or GABA, but not both. S100 beta/NF68/200 shared antigenic sites on the chalices, but NF68/200 expression was higher than S100 beta in the chalices at hatching. MAP5 was expressed in more neurons than NF68/200 at E11, whereas NF68/200 was more abundant than MAP5 at hatching. The results suggest that: 1) the immunoexpression of these neuronal proteins is modulated concomitantly with the establishment of afferent synapses and myelination; 2) S100 beta may serve a neurotrophic function in the chalices where it is co-expressed with the neurotransmitter GABA and its synthesizing enzyme GAD.
Physiological and morphological properties of identified interneurons in the striate cortex of the cat were studied in vivo by intracellular recording and staining with biocytin. In conformity with in vitro studies, these non-pyramidal fast spiking cells have very brief action potentials associated with a high rate of fall, and a large hyperpolarizing afterpotential. These cells show high discharge rates, little or no spike frequency adaptation in response to depolarizing current injection, as well as a diverse range of firing patterns. Three of the cells were labeled and were found to be aspiny or sparsely spiny basket cells, with bitufted or radial dendritic arrangements, in layers II-IV. Their axonal arborizations were more dense near their somata and extended horizontally or vertically. Of 13 visually responsive cells tested, the receptive field properties of six cells and the orientation and direction preferences of eight cells were determined. Five of the successfully mapped cells had simple receptive fields while one had a complex receptive field type. The orientation and direction tuning properties of the overlapping set of eight cells showed a broad spectrum ranging from unselective to tightly tuned. The majority exhibited a clear preference for orientation and none of the cells were clearly direction selective. Quantitative analysis of the temporal properties of the spike trains during visual stimulation and spontaneous activity revealed that these cells do not exhibit any significant periodic activity, and fired at rates that were well below their maximum in response to depolarizing current pulses.
It is well attested that we perceive speech through the filter of our native language: a classic example is that of Japanese listeners who cannot discriminate between the American /l/ and /r/ and identify both as their own /r/ phoneme (Goto. H., 1971. Neuropsychologia 9, 317-323.). Studies in the laboratory have shown, however, that perception of non-native speech sounds can be learned through training (Lively, S.E., Pisoni, D.B., Yamada, R.A., Tohkura, Y.I., Yamada, T., 1994. Journal of the Acoustical Society of America 96 (4), 2076-2087). This is consistent with neurophysiological evidence showing considerable experience-dependent plasticity in the brain at the first levels of sensory processing (Edeline, J.-M., Weinberger, N.M., 1993. Behavioral Neuroscience 107, 82-103; Merzenich, M.M., Sameshima, K., 1993. Current Opinion in Neurobiology 3, 187-196; Weinberger, N.M., 1993. Current Opinion in Neurobiology 3, 577-579; Kraus, N., McGee, T., Carrel, T.D., King, C., Tremblay, K., Nicol, T., 1995. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 7 (1), 25-32). Outside of the laboratory, however, the situation seems to differ: we here report is study involving Spanish-Catalan bilingual subjects who have had the best opportunities to learn a new contrast but did not do it. Our study demonstrates a striking lack of behavioral plasticity: early and extensive exposure to a second language is not sufficient to attain the ultimate phonological competence of native speakers.
Directional bias on cancellation has thus far not been standardized. While cancellation tasks are primarily used to assess lateral performance asymmetries, they may also reveal two-dimensional (i.e., combined lateral and radial) neglect patterns. We propose a method to evaluate and report cancellation neglect regardless of whether the neglect pattern is strictly unilateral or two-dimensional. Our method establishes the location of the geographic center of all neglected stimuli relative to the page center by averaging their Cartesian coordinates. This &quot;neglect center&quot; is reported in polar coordinates to indicate its distance and direction from the page center. We apply our method to published examples of two-dimensional neglect. We find that neglect centers from different cancellation performances may not be statistically distinct even though they may occupy different quadrants. In addition, the net direction of neglect found by the coordinate method may differ from that inferred from measuring differences in quadrant omission totals. The suitability of the coordinate vs. the quadrant method will depend on the mechanism hypothesized for visuospatial exploration under particular test conditions. Using both approaches may detect different attentional biases operating during the same task. The coordinate method is appropriate for conventional cancellation testing. By incorporating the precise locations of all neglected stimuli and determining the net neglect direction in two dimensions, the technique may stimulate more comprehensive explanations for directional bias.
The use of standard genetic techniques, such as gene targeting and transgenesis, to study cognitive function in adult animals suffers from the limitations that the gene under study is often altered in many brain regions, and that this alteration is present during the entire developmental history of the animal. Furthermore, to relate cognitive defects to neuronal mechanisms of memory, studies have relied on examining long-term potentiation - an artificially induced form of synaptic plasticity. Recent technical advances allow the expression of a genetic alteration in mice to be restricted both anatomically and temporally, making possible a more precise examination of the role of various forms of synaptic plasticity, such as long-term potentiation and long-term depression, in memory formation. Recordings from so-called 'place cells' -hippocampal cells that encode spatial location -in freely moving, genetically modified mice have further advanced our understanding of how the actual cellular representation of space is influenced by genetic alterations that affect long-term potentiation.
We describe twin girls with bilateral cerebrovascular disease. In one child, a diagnosis of moyamoya disease was made after presentation in infancy with an acute hemiparesis; her asymptomatic sibling was found to have significant bilateral cerebrovascular disease after neuropsychological evaluation and assessment with transcranial Doppler ultrasound. Both subjects showed a discrepancy between verbal and performance IQ and deficits on a test of frontal-lobe function suggesting that these domains should be targeted in cognitive assessment. Family members of subjects with moyamoya are at risk of cerebrovascular disease. Clinical symptoms do not reliably predict disease and those at risk should be offered screening with non-invasive vascular imaging.
We have identified three avian (chicken) Hu/elav family RNA-binding protein genes. cHuD and cHuC are expressed specifically in neurons of both the central and peripheral nervous systems. Although cHuA is expressed in a wide variety of tissues, including neurogenic precursor cells, it is transiently down-regulated, and is then re-expressed in maturing neurons. Misexpression of cHuD in cultured neural crest cells results in a dramatic increase in the proportion of cells exhibiting neuronal morphology, molecular markers for neurons, and neurotrophin dependence. These data confirm that cHuD protein is involved in regulating neuronal differentiation.
The peripheral nerve disorders associated with diabetes are complex and probably involve a variety of causative mechanisms. This may give rise to difficulty in the classification of individual cases. A broad separation into rapidly reversible or more persistent phenomena is helpful. The former, which can be categorized as &quot;hyperglycemic neuropathy,&quot; include minor sensory symptoms, reduced nerve conduction velocity, and resistance to ischemic conduction failure. From analogy with experimental studies in animals, nerve hypoxia is likely to play a significant role in their origin. Of the more persistent phenomena, a distal symmetric polyneuropathy that predominantly affects sensory and autonomic function is the most common manifestation. A distal axonopathy of dying-back type may represent the underlying pathogenetic basis. Other more persistent phenomena consist of focal and multifocal lesions giving rise to cranial, thoraco-abdominal, and limb neuropathies, including proximal lower limb motor neuropathy (diabetic amyotrophy). Some of these may have an ischemic basis. Multifocal proximal lesions can summate to produce an approximately symmetric diffuse distal neuropathy. Focal lesions at sites of entrapment or external compression may reflect an abnormal susceptibility of diabetic nerve to compressive damage. There is also evidence that focal inflammatory, including vasculitic, lesions may be involved in proximal lower limb neuropathies. Finally, superimposed chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy may occur. For the evaluation of possible treatment regimens, it is essential that cases should be correctly classified as to type. Thus, the features falling into the category of hyperglycemic neuropathy should not contaminate the assessment of distal symmetric polyneuropathy. For this type, a widely accepted scheme for staging devised by P. J. Dyck is available. Other schemes are also available for the assessment of such cases, with differing degrees of complexity. Evaluation by serial nerve biopsies has also been proposed.
Mcks' topographic component model (TCM) (Mcks, J. Topographic components model for event-related potentials and some biophysical considerations. IEEE Trans. Biomed. Eng., 1988a, 35: 482-484; Mcks, J. Decomposing event-related potentials: a new topographic components model. Biol. Psychol., 1988b, 26: 199-215) decomposes event-related potentials into components uniquely determined by their respective amplitude profiles across replicates, assuming a constant topography and wave shape for each component. To accommodate possible changes in the component expression across conditions, a dynamic version of TCM is investigated which further admits component modulation in time scale. Twenty test problems were synthesized, incorporating two arbitrary topographies each activated with its own arbitrary wave shape modified, across two conditions, in amplitude, onset and duration. Seventeen problems were perfectly solved, with substantial success on the remaining three, confirming that component jitter or stretching can even help component identification.
A 3.5-year-old girl had epilepsia partialis continua of the right side. Clinical and laboratory findings were consistent with Rasmussen's encephalitis. Treatment with high-dose methylprednisolone led to temporary control of seizures, but for 2 years, the seizures remained refractory to phenobarbital, phenytoin, lorazepam, carbamazepine, valproic acid, vigabatrin, gabapentin, and lamotrigine. A 6-week course, and later a 6-month course, of intraventricular interferon-alpha almost totally suppressed the seizures. Although moderately hemiparetic, the child has reasonable neurologic function with mild speech delay. She is receiving her third course of treatment, and seizures remain completely controlled.

Glutamate transporters play an important role in the reuptake of glutamate after its release from glutamatergic synapses. Four such transporters have so far been cloned from the rat brain. One, the glutamate-aspartate transporter GLAST, has been detected in the mammalian cochlea, in which the principal afferent synapse of the auditory nerve, between the inner hair cells and neurites of type I spiral ganglion neurons, has been suggested to be glutamatergic. The distribution of GLAST was therefore investigated to provide clues to the handling of glutamate in the cochlea. This was studied using light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry in rats and guinea pigs with antibodies raised against synthetic peptides based on the sequence for GLAST. Significant immunoreactivity was found in the myelin sheath formed by satellite cells surrounding the type I spiral ganglion neurons, and along the plasma membranes of supporting cells around the inner hair cells; other cells in both locations were only weakly labelled, if at all. The absence of substantial numbers of synapses in the spiral ganglion suggests that GLAST is unlikely to be associated with the uptake of synaptic glutamate after release in this region. Immunoreactivity associated with the inner hair cells is consistent with the utilization of glutamate at the afferent synapse.
The non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonists, such as (+)-MK-801 (dizocilpine), cause the expression of heat shock protein HSP-70 and pathomorphological damage in the retrosplenial cortex of the rat brain. However, the precise mechanism(s) underlying the neurotoxicity of NMDA receptor antagonists is unknown. The present study was undertaken to examine the role of phosphodiesterase type IV in the expression of heat shock genes induced by dizocilpine. Heat shock protein HSP-70, which is known as a sensitive marker of neuron injury, was induced in the retrosplenial cortex of the rat brain 24 h after a single administration of dizocilpine (1 mg/kg). Pretreatment with the specific phosphodiesterase type IV inhibitor rolipram (2.5, 5 or 10 mg/kg, 15 min before dizocilpine) attenuated the expression of HSP-70 and hsp-70 mRNA induced by dizocilpine (1 mg/kg) in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, another phosphodiesterase type IV inhibitor, Ro 20-1724 (5 or 10 mg/kg, 15 min before dizocilpine), and a non-selective phosphodiesterase inhibitor, 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX) (5 or 10 mg/kg, 15 min before dizocilpine), significantly attenuated the expression of HSP-70 protein and hsp-70 mRNA induced in the retrosplenial cortex by dizocilpine. However, the induction of the immediate early gene c-fos and microglial activation in the retrosplenial cortex after administration of dizocilpine was not attenuated by pretreatment with rolipram (5 or 10 mg/kg, 15 min before dizocilpine). Moreover, histopathological study indicated that pretreatment with rolipram (5 or 10 mg/kg, 15 min before dizocilpine) did not prevent the formation of vacuoles caused by treatment with dizocilpine. The present findings suggest that phosphodiesterase type IV may play a significant role in the expression of HSP-70 protein and hsp-70 mRNA in the rat retrosplenial cortex after administration of dizocilpine, and that phosphodiesterase type IV may not play a role in the neurotoxicity of NMDA receptor antagonists such as dizocilpine.
Amphiphysin and synaptojanin are two nerve terminal proteins with a putative role in synaptic vesicle endocytosis and recycling. We have investigated the intraneuronal dynamics and distribution of these two proteins, using nerve crush techniques in combination with immunofluorescence, cytofluorimetric scanning (CFS), confocal laser scanning microscopy and immuno-electron microscopy (EM). Accumulations of amphiphysin and synaptojanin immunoreactivities at the crush site were detected as short as 1 h after the lesion, indicating that a pool of these two partially cytosolic proteins moves along the axon by fast axoplasmic transport. The amount of proximal accumulation increased linearly between 1 and 8 h. CFS analysis demonstrated that only 30% of fast anterogradely transported amphiphysin and synaptojanin was returned by fast retrograde transport, in contrast to the 70% value observed for synaptophysin, a transmembrane protein. This indicates that the majority of amphiphysin and synaptojanin is degraded/metabolized in the nerve terminals. Immuno-EM showed that both amphiphysin and synaptojanin are primarily associated with heterogeneous membrane profiles in the crushed sciatic nerve and the immunoperoxidase reaction product is concentrated in the nerve terminal cytomatrix of the spinal cord. Both proteins were differentially distributed in subsets of nerve terminals, indicating heterogeneous expression in neurons.

The acute and subacute effects of intracerebroventricularly (ICV) administered nerve growth factor (NGF) or brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on locomotor activity were evaluated in awake adult rats. Immediately after ICV injection through an implanted cannula, locomotor activity was measured by a computerized system using infrared photocells, which allowed us to record locomotion, motility, and rearing simultaneously. A single dose of 5 microg mouse beta-NGF produced significant increases in horizontal ambulatory components of locomotor activity (locomotion and motility), but not vertical movement (rearing) 30-45 min after ICV administration. These increases lasted for at least 3-4 h. Systemic injection of 2.0 mg/kg mecamylamine, a central nicotinic receptor antagonist, inhibited the hyperactivity induced by NGF. Systemic injection of 0.5 mg/kg scopolamine, a muscarinic receptor antagonist, did not interfere with the NGF effects. Thus, while scopolamine induced marked increases in all three measures of behavior in both NGF and cytochrome-c-treated animals, locomotion and motility remained significantly higher in the NGF group. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated that NGF diffused readily from the ventricular space into brain parenchyma on the injected side and could be visualized 1 h after ICV injection. These results suggest that ICV administration of NGF increases locomotor activity by inducing acetylcholine release, and that nicotinic receptors are involved in the hyperactivity induced by NGF. ICV administration of 5 microg recombinant human BDNF had no significant effect on locomotor activity during the 0- to 4-h period after ICV injection. However, it produced significant decreases in locomotion, motility, and rearing 24-26 h later. Hence ICV administration of BDNF has entirely different effects on animal behavior from those evoked by NGF. While NGF elicits increases in ambulatory behavior within hours, BDNF causes delayed decreases in ambulatory behavior.
Spinal cord trauma is associated not only with loss of nerve cells and fibers but also with damage to oligodendrocytes and demyelination. In order to assess the potential of transplanted oligodendrocyte-lineage cells to repair the demyelination that follows spinal cord injury, we have used donor glia derived from a transgenic mouse line containing the LacZ transgene under control of the myelin basic protein promoter. Glia derived from fetal or neonatal transgenic mice were injected into the spinal cords of immunosuppressed adult rats at the site of an experimental traumatic lesion 1-16 days after injury. Cells expressing LacZ were identified 15-18 days later in cryosections rostral and caudal to the transplant site, most conspicuously within white matter defects. Some of these cells within the dorsal columns gave rise to approximately 30- to 60-microns processes, consistent with myelin segments, which are oriented parallel to the fiber tract. Glial transplantation may thus be a feasible means of replacing damaged host oligodendrocytes with donor oligodendrocyte-lineage cells capable of reforming myelin and potentially restoring functional lost as a result of demyelination associated with spinal cord injury.
The presence of adequate blood supply is a critical factor in recovery from traumatic injuries. We have examined whether the revascularization of the injured tissues is as crucial a precondition for wound healing in the spinal cord as in other organs. The development of the initial primary lesion (PL) after spinal crush injury in rats is followed by the formation of a unique tunnel-like dorsal column lesion (DCL) that extends rostrocaudally for many millimeters from the primary injury site. The DCL has been shown to result from Wallerian degeneration of the long spinal tracts in the dorsal column. In this study, we compared the processes of revascularization, wound healing, and nerve regeneration in the PL and the DCL by light microscopy after a crush injury of the cord. The spinal cord of 54 adults rats was crushed at T8 with jewelers forceps. The rats were allowed to survive from 3 h up to 8 weeks after spinal cord injury. The PL appeared immediately after injury and the DCL began to develop 6 h later. Infiltration of neutrophils, which is the first sign of the inflammatory responses to injury, began several hours later in the DCL than in the PL. Secondary vascular injury then occurred which resulted in hemorrhage around the DCL and rapid enlargement of the lesion during the remainder of the first week. Subsequent changes in the PL and DCL were entirely different. The PL underwent progressive enlargement and cavitation such that by 8 weeks, the lesion contained only very few cells, vessels, and axons scattered between huge fluid-filled cavities. The DCL, on the other hand, was maximal in size at 1 week and declined significantly in size and cavitation thereafter. By 8 weeks it was highly vascularized, contained abundant nerve fibers, and lacked any trace of cavitation. These findings amplify the current view that ischemia plays a critical role in spinal cord trauma by showing that revascularization precedes tissue repair and nerve regeneration in the dorsal columns. We conclude (a) that a well-vascularized lesion permits the ingrowth of glial and other cells which give rise to a supportive matrix for the nerve regeneration and (b) that procedures which induce revascularization or angiogenesis will ameliorate the cascade of progressive tissue necrosis.
Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common primary dementing disorder, results in devastating clinical and socio-economic consequences, and is a leading cause of death among the elderly. Despite recent advances in the neurobiology of AD, identification of effective treatment strategies has remained frustratingly elusive. Administration of currently available cholinergic drugs improves symptoms in some patients with AD, but may be associated with efficacy-limiting adverse effects. Moreover, it is not yet known whether cholinergic drugs have the potential to alter the progression of AD pathology. In contrast, cumulative evidence from basic neuroscience and clinical research demonstrates that oestrogen has significant neuromodulatory and neuroprotective properties. Furthermore, preliminary evidence from clinical studies indicates that oestrogen replacement therapy can significantly enhance cognitive function in postmenopausal women with AD, and reduce the risk for developing the disease. However, long-term administration of oestrogen is associated with potentially serious adverse effects, including increased risk for developing malignancies of the uterus and the breast. Fortunately, tissue-specific analogues of oestrogen are in development that could specifically target the functions of the brain, and may be devoid of the cancer-inducing and feminising properties of the hormone. Availability of these analogues will make it feasible to treat AD with oestrogen in both women and men. However, findings of preliminary studies, although promising, need to be confirmed in larger, controlled clinical trials before the role of oestrogen in the treatment and prevention of AD can be firmly established.
Rap1 was identified as gene whose overexpression suppressed transformation by ras. Rap1 belongs to the Ras family. The amino acid sequences of Rap1 and Ras show 55% identity to each other. Due to this high sequence similarity, Rap1 binds to effector molecules of Ras, however, Rap1 does not activate them. Thus, Rap1 functions are antagonistic to Ras in the cells. C3G was identified as a Crk SH3-binding guanine nucleotide exchange factor. Biochemical and cell biological analyses revealed that C3G is a Rap1 activator. Since it has been considered that Crk transduces signals from tyrosine kinases, this finding suggests that the activity of Rap1 is also under the control of tyrosine kinases. Overexpression of C3G in ras-transformed cells caused the morphology of the cells to revert to that of normal cells. Moreover, a mutant cell line that was resistant to EGF-dependent transformation was isolated. In the cell line a mutation was found in crk gene that was the cause of the resistance. These findings suggest that Crk-C3G-Rap1 pathway may function as an anti-transformation machinery.
We have introduced sequences encoding the lac repressor of Escherichia coli into the genome of the mouse. One sequence was derived from the bacterial lac operon and the other was created by re-encoding the amino acid sequence of lacI with mammalian codons. Both versions are driven by an identical promoter fragment derived from the human beta-actin locus and were microinjected into genetically identical pronuclear stage embryos. All transgenes utilizing the bacterial coding sequence were transcriptionally silent in all somatic tissues tested. The sequence re-encoded with mammalian codons was transcriptionally active at all transgene loci and expressed ubiquitously. Using methylation-sensitive enzymes, we have determined the methylation status of lac repressor transgenes encoded by either the bacterial or mammalian sequence. The highly divergent bacterial sequence was hypermethylated at all transgene loci, while the mammalian sequence was only hypermethylated at a high copy number locus. This may reflect a normal process that protects the genome from acquiring new material that has an abnormally divergent sequence or structure.
The apices of the majority of cells of the organ of Corti are connected together by junctional complexes to form the reticular lamina, a barrier that prevents the mixing of endolymph and perilymph. These complexes include tight junctions, adherens junctions and desmosomes. Further information is required about the identity and distribution of the molecules involved in these connections if the function and organization of the reticular lamina are to be well understood. One major category of molecules occurring in adherens junctions and desmosomes, and involved in the maintenance of tissue integrity, is the cadherins. However, although cadherin has been identified in junctions between supporting cells in the adult mammalian organ of Corti at the light microscopic level, its ultrastructural distribution has not so far been described. A post-embedding immunogold labelling technique has therefore been used in conjunction with a monoclonal antibody to cadherin to investigate its ultrastructural distribution in the adult guinea-pig reticular lamina. Immunolabelling is observed in hair cell-supporting cell junctions and in supporting cell-supporting cell junctions. In addition, there is more labelling associated with inner hair cell-supporting cell junctions than with outer hair cell-supporting cell junctions. This may indicate that the junctions associated with the two types of hair cell have different functional properties.
Adaptation in the temporal environment is key to survival. This is achieved by the manifestation of periodicity in occurrence of vital behavioural and physiological processes at regular intervals--the biological rhythms. Biological rhythms (= biological clocks) are ubiquitous, can be demonstrated persisting at any level of organization in the living world, and are generated and controlled by some central pacemaker(s), mostly located in the brain. In mammals, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the anterior hypothalamus is the principal site of the endogenous circadian pacemaker, regulating many daily physiological and behavioural functions, although other neural structures could also be contributing to the circadian timekeeping system. In other vertebrates, the neural site(s) of the circadian pacemaker is(are) still unclear. An organism without brain can have the biological clock, as well, for fully functional 24-hour temporal organization has been identified in several invertebrates, including unicellular Paramecium and Gonyaulax as well as filamentous fungus, Neurospora. This article attempts to provide an update of the informations which have accumulated over the past decade about understanding of the neurophysiological and molecular bases of circadian rhythms in animals.
In order to observe the pattern of behaviour, the underlying stressors and possible association with psychosocial factors in Pediatric Non-Epileptic Seizure (NES); 22 children with unusual feature of poor control of their symptoms were studied. Detailed historical account, examination including psychiatric evaluation, EEG and CT Scan in all and video recording with provocative procedures were done wherever feasible. Ten males (45.5%) and 12 females (55.5%) were in the age range from 5 through 18 years. Ten children (45.5%) had uncontrolled symptoms while 12 (55.5%) had unusual symptoms. History and eye witness account was accurate in 15 (68.1%). Separate video recording could be done in 6 (27.3%) while induction with provocative procedures was possible in 7 (31.8%) older children. Pointers to NES were: stress induced events 13 (59.4%), persistence of symptom despite adequate treatment 10 (45%), lack of physical injury 20 (90.0%), symptoms when some one was around 12 (54.5%), lack of postictal phenomenon 12 (54.5%), lack of incontinence 22 (100%), positive gains 6 (27.0%) and gradual onset and offset 12 (54.5%). Nine children (40.0%) had coexisting epilepsy and NES. The present study addresses the need of awareness, provocative procedure, video recording of the event and individualised management of NES in our circumstances where video EEG facility is not available.
Impaired cognitive function in schizophrenia, once thought to be a secondary effect of the psychosis, is now seen as an enduring and core feature. It has many manifestations, but the most disruptive element is arguably a fundamental defect in the patient's ability to manipulate available information. The magnitude of the cognitive deficit in schizophrenia is considerable and remains relatively stable despite fluctuations in other symptoms. The degree of dysfunction also has a high predictive value for long-term disability. In recent years, more attention has been directed towards cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia as a result of which assessment scales and diagnostic systems increasingly incorporate cognitive dysfunction as an independent domain. Good cognitive function depends upon the brain's ability to prioritize tasks and to switch from parallel processing to sequential processing when the processing load is excessive. This requires working executive memory. Neuroimaging and functional analyses suggest that such cognitive function relies upon unimpaired prefrontal activity. In addition, there is increasing evidence that antipsychotic drugs with 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)2A-blocking activity produce better cognitive function in patients with schizophrenia than drugs with predominantly dopamine (D)2-blocking activity (conventional neuroleptics). The development of sophisticated, computer-delivered maze tasks has shown that newer antipsychotics, such as clozapine and risperidone, differ from conventional neuroleptics in their effects on cognitive function. The prospects, therefore, are that patients treated with drugs having 5-HT2A-blocking activity will have better cognitive function and will be better able to function in life's roles than will patients treated with conventional neuroleptics.
We examined the immunohistochemical expression of the neuronal proteins NGFr, PGP 9.5, and NSE in cutaneous lesions of patients with early leprosy and in the skin of normal individuals. PGP 9.5- and NSE-immunoreactive nerve fibers were decreased in the skin of leprosy patients. This reduction was topographically unrelated to the early leprosy infiltrate. However, no difference in the expression of NGFr was found between the leprosy patient and normal groups. It was shown that there is a selective alteration in the expression of neuronal proteins in early leprosy lesions which seems to be unrelated to the inflammatory infiltrate in the initial stages of leprosy. Pathogenic mechanisms other than inflammation, which are intrinsic to the Mycobacterium leprae-nerve relationship, may thus contribute to the nerve damage in leprosy neuropathy.
Activation of microglia is associated with neural damage and may aid repair of the CNS. To begin to investigate their role, microglia purified from mouse brain were grown in media conditioned (CM) by goldfish optic nerve (GFON), optic tectum (GFOT), vagal lobe, telencephalon and cerebellum, and medium conditioned by rat optic nerves (RON). Microglia maintained in GFON- or GFOT-CM assumed an ameboid morphology, whereas microglia grown in media conditioned by the other neural tissues produced long, crenellated processes that resembled the ramified microglial form. Microglia maintained in all types of CM functioned as antigen presenting cells in a MHC-restricted manner when tested on conalbumin-specific Thelper (Th) cells, except for microglia maintained in GFON- and GFOT-CM. These studies suggest that GFON, in contrast to RON, produces a substance(s) that affects microglial morphology and immune reactivity, and may promote the vigorous regeneration seen in GFON after damage.
A 74 year old retired building inspector with a 15 year history of Parkinson's disease (PD) presented with severe resting tremor in the right hand, generalized bradykinesia, difficulties with the initiation of gait with freezing, mental depression and generalized cognitive impairment despite being fully medicated. Testing of constructional abilities employing various drawing tasks demonstrated drawing impairment compatible with severe left hemispheric dysfunction. After receiving two successive transcranial applications, each of 20 minutes duration, with AC pulsed electromagnetic fields (EMFs) of 7.5 picotesla flux density and frequencies of 5Hz and 7Hz respectively, his tremor remitted and there was dramatic improvement in his drawing performance. Additional striking improvements in his drawing performance occurred over the following two days after he continued to receive daily treatments with EMFs. The patient's drawings were subjected to a Reliability Test in which 10 raters reported 100% correct assessment of pre- and post drawings with all possible comparisons (mean 2 = 5.0; p &lt; .05). This case demonstrates in PD rapid reversal of drawing impairment related to left hemispheric dysfunction by brief transcranial applications of AC pulsed picotesla flux density EMFs and suggests that cognitive deficits associated with Parkinsonism, which usually are progressive and unaffected by dopamine replacement therapy, may be partly reversed by administration of these EMFs. Treatment with picotesla EMFs reflects a &quot;cutting edge&quot; approach to the management of cognitive impairment in Parkinsonism.
We have constructed a subtractive cDNA library from regenerating Retzius cells of the leech, Hirudo medicinalis. It is highly enriched in sequences up-regulated during nerve regeneration. Sequence analysis of selected recombinants has identified both novel sequences and sequences homologous to molecules characterised in other species. Homologies include alpha-tubulin, a calmodulin-like protein, CAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP), protein 4.1 and synapsin. These types of proteins are exactly those predicted to be associated with axonal growth and their identification confirms the quality of the library. Most interesting, however, is the isolation of 5 previously uncharacterised cDNAs which appear to be up-regulated during regeneration. Their analysis is likely to provide new information on the molecular mechanisms of neuronal regeneration.

We examined the functionality of hippocampal CA1 neurons at early times after transient global ischemia, by electrophysiologic recordings in brain slices. Transient ischemia was conducted on rats using the method of 15-minute four-vessel occlusion, and brain slices were obtained from these animals at different times after ischemia. Within 24 hours after insult, CA1 neurons showed no substantial damage as identified by morphologic means, but exhibited dramatic decreases in synaptic activities by 12 hours after insult, which became further decreased at more extended times after recovery. Blocking gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABAA) receptors with bicuculline produced a reversible augmentation of the diminished synaptic responses in slices prepared from 12-hour postinsult animals, but failed to do so in slices obtained from rats 24 hours after insult. Recorded in whole-cell mode, the minimum depolarizing current required to elicit an action potential was about twofold larger in the ischemic CA1 neurons than in sham controls, suggesting that an elevated spiking threshold exists in these neurons. We suggest that decreases in electrophysiologic activities precede the morphologic deterioration in postischemic CA1 neurons. The early decrease in CA1 synaptic activities may be associated with an imbalance between glutamate-mediated synaptic excitation and GABAA-mediated synaptic inhibition, whereas substantial impairments in synaptic transmission likely take place after prolonged post-ischemic recovery.

Immunocytochemical and biochemical studies have indicated the presence of many neuroactive substances in the stomatogastric nervous system (STNS) of the crab Cancer borealis. In electrophysiological studies, many of these substances modulate the motor output of neural networks contained within this system. Previous work in the STNS suggested the presence of neuropeptides related to the invertebrate tachykinin-related peptide (TRP) family. Here we isolate and characterize two novel peptides from the C. borealis nervous system that show strong amino acid sequence identity to the invertebrate TRPs. The central nervous systems of 160 crabs were extracted in an acidified solvent, after which four reversed-phase HPLC column systems were used to obtain pure peptides. A cockroach hindgut muscle contraction bioassay and a radioimmunoassay (RIA) employing an antiserum to locustatachykinin I (Lom TK I) were used to monitor all collected fractions. The amino acid sequences of the isolated peptides were determined by Edman degradation. Mass spectrometry and chemical synthesis confirmed the sequences to be APSGFLGMR-NH2 and SGFLGMR-NH2. APSGFLGMR-NH2 is approximately 20-fold more abundant in the crab central nervous system than is SGFLGMR-NH2. We have named these peptides Cancer borealis tachykinin-related peptide Ia and Ib (CabTRP Ia and Ib), respectively. Both peptides are myoactive in the cockroach hindgut muscle contraction bioassay, with CabTRP Ia being approximately 500 times more potent than CabTRP Ib. RIA performed on HPLC-separated C. borealis stomatogastric ganglion (STG) extract revealed that CabTRP Ia is the only detectable TRP-like moiety in this ganglion. Incubation of synthetic CabTRP Ia with the isolated STG excited the pyloric motor pattern. These effects were suppressed by the broad-spectrum tachykinin receptor antagonist Spantide I. Spantide I had no effect on the actions of the unrelated endogenous peptide proctolin in the STG. There was no consistent influence of CabTRP Ib on the pyloric rhythm. Given its amino acid sequence and minimal biological activity in the crab, CabTRP Ib may be a breakdown product of CabTRP Ia.
In molluscan central neurons that express cAMP-gated Na+ current (INa,cAMP), estimates of the cAMP binding affinity of the channels have suggested that effective native intracellular cAMP concentrations should be much higher than characteristic of most cells. Using neurons of the marine opisthobranch snail Pleurobranchaea californica, we applied theory and conventional voltage clamp techniques to use INa,cAMP to report basal levels of endogenous cAMP and adenylyl cyclase, and their stimulation by serotonin. Measurements were calibrated to iontophoretic cAMP injection currents to enable expression of the data in molar terms. In 30 neurons, serotonin stimulated on average a 23-fold increase in submembrane [cAMP], effected largely by an 18-fold increase in adenylyl cyclase activity. Serotonin stimulation of adenylyl cyclase and [cAMP] was inversely proportional to cells' resting adenylyl cyclase activity. Average cAMP concentration at the membrane rose from 3.6 to 27.6 microM, levels consistent with the expected cAMP dissociation constants of the INa,cAMP channels. These measures confirm the functional character of INa,cAMP in the context of high levels of native cAMP. Methods similar to those employed here might be used to establish critical characters of cyclic nucleotide metabolism in the many cells of invertebrates and vertebrates that are being found to express ion currents gated by direct binding of cyclic nucleotides.
We have investigated the phylogenetic relationships of monotremes and marsupials using nucleotide sequence data from the neurotrophins; nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3). The study included species representing monotremes, Australasian marsupials and placentals, as well as species representing birds, reptiles, and fish. PCR was used to amplify fragments encoding parts of the neurotrophin genes from echidna, platypus, and eight marsupials from four different orders. Phylogenetic trees were generated using parsimony analysis, and support for the different tree structures was evaluated by bootstrapping. The analysis was performed with NGF, BDNF, or NT-3 sequence data used individually as well as with the three neurotrophins in a combined matrix, thereby simultaneously considering phylogenetic information from three separate genes. The results showed that the monotreme neurotrophin sequences associate to either therian or bird neurotrophin sequences and suggests that the monotremes are not necessarily related closer to therians than to birds. Furthermore, the results confirmed the present classification of four Australasian marsupial orders based on morphological characters, and suggested a phylogenetic relationship where Dasyuromorphia is related closest to Peramelemorphia followed by Notoryctemorphia and Diprotodontia. These studies show that sequence data from neurotrophins are well suited for phylogenetic analysis of mammals and that neurotrophins can resolve basal relationships in the evolutionary tree.
While extracellular growth factors govern neuronal precursor mitosis in culture, little is known about their roles in regulating neurogenesis in vivo. Previously, we reported that subcutaneously administered basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) promoted neuroblast proliferation in P1 rat brain, in regions in which bFGF and FGF receptors are expressed during development. To define the role of endogenous bFGF in neurogenesis, we employed a neutralizing monoclonal antibody to the factor. In culture, bFGF-induced granule precursor proliferation was progressively inhibited by increasing concentrations of antibody. In contrast, heat-inactivated or nonneutralizing anti-bFGF antibodies were ineffective. The inhibition was specific for bFGF, since EGF-induced [3H]dT incorporation was not altered. To study effects in vivo, neutralizing antibody was administered to newborn rats via the cisterna magnum. Four hours after injection, DNA synthesis in cerebellum and hippocampus was decreased by 53% and 63%, respectively, suggesting that endogenous bFGF was involved in brain development. To define effects on neurogenesis specifically, granule cell precursors were isolated after antibody treatment. [3H]dT incorporation in granule precursors was decreased by 50%, indicating that the neutralizing antibody inhibited neuroblast proliferation in vivo. In contrast, no reduction was observed using nonneutralizing or the heat-inactivated antibodies. The inhibition of precursor proliferation following immunoneutralization of bFGF in vivo suggests that the endogenous factor normally regulates brain neurogenesis.
Most general anesthetics produce two distinct actions at GABA(A) receptors. Thus, these drugs augment GABA-gated chloride currents (referred to as an indirect action) and, at higher concentrations, elicit chloride currents in the absence of GABA (referred to as a direct action). Because a beta subunit appears to be required for the direct action of intravenous anesthetics in recombinant GABA(A) receptors, site-directed mutagenesis of the beta3 subunit was performed to identify amino acid residues that are critical for this action. In HEK293 cells expressing a prototypical GABA(A) receptor composed of alpha1beta3gamma2 subunits, mutation of amino acid 290 from Asn to Ser dramatically reduced both etomidate-induced chloride currents and its ability to stimulate [3H]flunitrazepam binding. By contrast, the ability of etomidate to augment GABA-gated chloride currents and GABA-enhanced [3H]flunitrazepam binding was retained. The demonstration that the direct, but not the indirect, actions of etomidate are dependent on beta3(Asn290) indicates that the dual actions of this intravenous anesthetic at GABA(A) receptors are mediated via distinct loci.
Prolonged activation of an A2A adenosine receptor significantly inhibits the cellular response to subsequent stimulation (A2A desensitization). We have reported previously that activation of phosphodiesterase (PDE) contributes to A2A desensitization in PC12 cells. In the present study, we show that a type IV PDE (PDE4)-selective inhibitor (Ro 20-1724) effectively blocks the increase in PDE activity in desensitized cells. Thus, PDE4 appears to be the PDE specifically activated during A2A desensitization in PC12 cells. Prolonged treatment of PC12 cells with an A2A-selective agonist (CGS21680) leads to increased PDE4 activity in a dose-dependent manner, which can be blocked by an A2A-selective antagonist [8-(3-chlorostyryl)caffeine]. Using two PDE4 antibodies, we were able to demonstrate that the levels of two PDE4-immunoreactive bands (72 and 79 kDa) were increased significantly during A2A desensitization. Prolonged treatment with forskolin to elevate intracellular cyclic AMP contents also resulted in increased PDE4 activity. In addition, activation of PDE4 activity during A2A desensitization could be blocked by a protein kinase A (PKA)-selective inhibitor (H89) and was not observed in a PKA-deficient PC12 cell line (A123). Taken together, activation of PDE4 via a cyclic AMP/PKA-dependent pathway plays a critical role in dampening the signal of the A2A receptor.
To obtain an insight into the metabolic pathways of endogenous D-serine in mammalian brains, we have investigated in the infant rat the effects of systemic administration of L-serine, D-serine, and related amino acids, including glycine and threonine, on the amino acid contents in the cerebral cortex. Intraperitoneal injection of L-serine induced a rapid and transient elevation of the levels of L-serine itself in the neocortex, with its peak at 3 h post injection, and a delayed and prolonged increase in D-serine contents from 1.5 h to at least 24 h thereafter. Similarly, a significant augmentation in cerebral D-serine contents was observed 6 h after intraperitoneal administration of glycine, which also elevated the cortical L-serine levels. In contrast, L-threonine injection affected the concentrations of neither D- nor L-serine in the cortex of the pups. D-Serine given systemically, in turn, increased the neocortical contents of L-serine as well as D-serine itself, but failed to alter those of glycine and L-threonine. These in vivo data suggest the possible link between metabolic pathways of D- and L-serine in the cerebral cortex of the rat.
The alteration in energy metabolic products was analyzed in cultured retinal cells submitted to oxidative stress, hypoxia, glucopenia, or ischemia-like conditions. Ischemia highly reduced cellular ATP and increased AMP formation, without significant changes in ADP. Ischemia induced a significant increase in extracellular adenosine (ADO) and hypoxanthine (HYP), and to a lesser extent inosine (INO). Glucopenia reduced cellular ATP by about two- to threefold, which was not compensated for by AMP formation. Under glucopenia, extracellular ADO and HYP were significantly increased, although a major increase in extracellular INO was observed. 5-(4-Nitrobenzyl)-6-thioinosine (10 microM) reduced extracellular ADO during glucopenia or ischemia by approximately 80%, indicating that ADO accumulation occurs mainly via the transporter. Intracellular ATP, ADP, or AMP and extracellular ADO, INO, or HYP were not apparently changed after oxidative stress or hypoxia. Nevertheless, in the presence of 10 microM erythro-9-(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenosine, oxidative stress was shown to increase significantly the accumulation of ADO, which was reduced in the presence of 200 microM alpha,beta-methyleneadenosine 5'-diphosphate, suggesting that ADO accumulation after oxidative stress may result from extracellular degradation of adenine nucleotides. The increase in ADO accumulation resulting from the depletion of cellular ATP was directly related to the release of endogenous glutamate occurring through a Ca2+-independent pathway after ischemia. Increased metabolic products derived from ATP are suggested to exert a modulating effect against excitotoxic neuronal death.
Specific receptors for pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP), a novel peptide with neuroregulatory and neurotrophic functions, have recently been identified in the retinas of different mammalian species. In the present study, expression of PACAP receptors and PACAP was investigated in the retinas of 12-18-week human embryos. Radioligand binding studies showed that the two forms of PACAP with 38 and 27 amino acids (PACAP 38 and PACAP 27, respectively) displaced the binding of 125I-PACAP 27 with IC50 values in the picomolar range, whereas functional receptor assays demonstrated that the two peptides were potent and effective stimulators of adenylyl cyclase activity. In contrast, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and human peptide histidine-isoleucine, which are homologous to PACAP, displayed lower affinities for the 125I-PACAP 27 binding site and were much less potent stimulators of cyclic AMP formation. Glucagon and secretin were inactive in both receptor assays. The expression of specific PACAP receptors was further investigated by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction technique, which showed the presence of mRNAs coding for PACAP type I and for nonselective PACAP type II (both VIP1 and VIP2) receptors. By the same technique, expression of PACAP mRNA was also detected. These data indicate that the developing human retina synthesizes PACAP and that the peptide may act on retinal cells by predominantly stimulating PACAP type I receptors coupled to cyclic AMP formation.
Dopamine can form reactive oxygen species and other reactive metabolites that can modify proteins and other cellular constituents. In this study, we tested the effect of dopamine oxidation products, other generators of reactive oxygen species, and a sulfhydryl modifier on the function of glutamate transporter proteins. We also compared any effects with those on the dopamine transporter, a protein whose function we had previously shown to be inhibited by dopamine oxidation. Preincubation with the generators of reactive oxygen species, ascorbate (0.85 mM) or xanthine (500 microM) plus xanthine oxidase (25 mU/ml), inhibited the uptake of [3H]glutamate (10 microM) into rat striatal synaptosomes (-54 and -74%, respectively). The sulfhydryl-modifying agent N-ethylmaleimide (50-500 microM) also led to a dose-dependent inhibition of [3H]glutamate uptake. Preincubation with dopamine (100 microM) under oxidizing conditions inhibited [3H]glutamate uptake by 25%. Exposure of synaptosomes to increasing amounts of dopamine quinone by enzymatically oxidizing dopamine with tyrosinase (2-50 U/ml) further inhibited [3H]glutamate uptake, an effect prevented by the addition of glutathione. The effects of free radical generators and dopamine oxidation on [3H]glutamate uptake were similar to the effects on [3H]dopamine uptake (250 nM). Our findings suggest that reactive oxygen species and dopamine oxidation products can modify glutamate transport function, which may have implications for neurodegenerative processes such as ischemia, methamphetamine-induced toxicity, and Parkinson's disease.
Site-directed mutagenesis was performed to create a mutant serotonin 5-HT2C receptor that would mimic the active conformation of the native receptor. Structural alteration of receptor conformation was achieved by changing amino acid no. 312 from serine to phenylalanine (S312F) or lysine (S312K). After expression in COS-7 cells, the binding affinity of 5-HT for [3H]mesulergine-labeled 5-HT2C receptors increased from 203 nM (native) to 76 nM for S312F and 6.6 nM for S312K mutant receptors. 5-HT potency for stimulation of phosphatidylinositol (PI) hydrolysis increased from 70 nM (native) to 28 nM for S312F and 2.7 nM for S312K mutant receptors. The mutant receptors were constitutively active, stimulating PI hydrolysis in the absence of agonist. S312F and S312K mutations resulted in twofold and five-fold increases, respectively, in basal levels of PI hydrolysis. Mianserin and mesulergine displayed inverse agonist activity by decreasing basal levels of PI hydrolysis stimulated by S312K mutant receptors. [3H]5-HT and [3H]mesulergine labeled the same number of S312K mutant receptors and 5'-guanylylimidodiphosphate had no effect on [3H]5-HT binding. These results indicate that serine --&gt; lysine mutation at amino acid no. 312 produces an agonist high-affinity state of the 5-HT2C receptor that spontaneously couples to G proteins and stimulates PI hydrolysis in the absence of agonist.
Calpain (calcium-activated neutral protease) has been implicated as playing a role of neuronal injury in cerebral ischemia and excitotoxicity. Here we report that, in addition to extreme excitotoxic conditions [N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA), and kainate challenges], other neurotoxins such as maitotoxin, A23187, and okadaic acid also induce calpain activation, as detected by m-calpain autolytic fragmentation and nonerythroid alpha-spectrin breakdown. Under the same conditions, calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II-alpha (CaMPK-IIalpha) and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) are both proteolytically cleaved by calpain. Such fragmentation can be reduced by calpain inhibitors (acetyl-Leu-Leu-Nle-CHO and PD151746). In vitro digestion of protein extract from cortical cultures with purified mu- and m-calpain produced fragmentation patterns for CaMPK-IIalpha and nNOS similar to those produced in situ. Also, several other calpain-sensitive calmodulin-binding proteins (plasma membrane calcium pump, microtubule-associated protein 2, and calcineurin A) and protein kinase C-alpha are also degraded in neurotoxin-treated cultures. Lastly, in a rat pup model of acute excitotoxicity, intrastriatal injection of NMDA resulted in breakdown of CaMPK-IIalpha and nNOS. The degradation of CaMPK-IIalpha, nNOS, and other endogenous calpain substrates may contribute to the neuronal injury associated with various neurotoxins.
The c-ret protooncogene encodes Ret, the functional tyrosine kinase receptor for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). K-252b, a known protein tyrosine kinase inhibitor, has been shown earlier to inhibit the trophic activity of brain-derived neurotrophic factor on dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons and nerve growth factor on basal forebrain cholinergic neurons while potentiating neurotrophin-3 activity on central cholinergic and peripheral sensory neurons and PC12 cells. We tested whether K-252b would modulate GDNF-induced differentiation in DAergic neuron cultures. Exposure to 1 ng/ml GDNF increased dopamine (DA) uptake 80% above control, whereas treatment with 5 microM K-252b decreased the efficacy of GDNF by 60%. Concentrations of GDNF of &lt;100 pg/ml were completely inhibited, whereas concentrations of &gt;100 pg/ml were moderately active, between 10 and 20% above control. In addition, K-252b shifted the ED50 from 20 to 200 pg/ml. GDNF treatment increased soma size and neurite outgrowth in tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons. K-252b inhibited differentiation of these morphological parameters induced by GDNF. Furthermore, GDNF stimulated Ret autophosphorylation at maximal levels, whereas the inhibition of DA uptake and morphological differentiation by K-252b correlated with a significantly decreased level of Ret autophosphorylation. Therefore, K-252b is able to inhibit intracellular activities induced by GDNF on mesencephalic DAergic neurons.
The present study demonstrates the effects of adrenalectomy and subcutaneously administered corticosterone on N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced neurodegeneration in the cholinergic magnocellular basal nucleus of the rat. NMDA was unilaterally injected into the nucleus basalis at different plasma corticosterone concentrations in adrenalectomized rats, in adrenalectomized animals with subcutaneously implanted cholesterol-corticosterone pellets containing 25% or 100% corticosterone, and in sham-adrenalectomized controls. The neurotoxic impact of the NMDA injection in the various experimental groups was assessed by the loss of cholinergic fibers stained with acetylcholinesterase histochemistry in the parietal neocortex. Reactive cortical astrocytes as a result of the treatments were detected by glial fibrillary acidic protein immunohistochemistry. Measurements of the densities of astrocytes and cholinergic fibers at the injected side of the brain were carried out by image analysis. Adrenalectomy significantly potentiated the NMDA-induced neurodegeneration by 50%, while chronic administration of corticosterone significantly attenuated the NMDA-neurotoxicity in a dose-dependent manner. Compared to the ADX group, 25% corticosterone application reduced the NMDA damage by 37%, whereas the 100% corticosterone pellet diminished NMDA neurotoxicity by 75%. Both ADX and ADX + corticosterone implantation enhanced the NMDA-induced GFAP immunoreactivity. The increase of GFAP immunoreactivity was most pronounced in the adrenalectomized rats supplied with the 100% corticosterone pellets. The results demonstrate that corticosterone exerts a potent neuroprotective effect on NMDA-induced neurotoxicity in the magnocellular nucleus basalis. The activated astroglia suggest that astrocytes may contribute to the beneficial effect of corticosterone in the neuroprotective mechanisms against excitotoxic neuronal injury.
Activation of delta opioid receptors (DOR) modulates calcium mobilization, interleukin-2 production, chemotaxis and proliferation of T-lymphocytes. Recent reports indicate that lymphocytes and mononuclear cells may express mRNA transcripts for DOR. The investigations reported herein show that low levels of DOR were consistently detected by RT-PCR amplification of RNA from freshly obtained Balb/c murine splenocytes, both weanling and adult. Culturing cells without stimulation increased DOR levels and concanavalin A apparently reduced this; DOR was preferentially expressed in a T-cell-enriched fraction. Thus, the expression of DOR mRNA by unactivated splenocytes is modulated by culture and con A in the T-cell fraction.



Double-immunolabeling techniques were employed to examine the distribution of GluR2(3) subunits and markers of early cytoskeletal changes (mab MC1) within the entorhinal cortex (EC) and hippocampus of cases with varying degrees of Alzheimer disease (AD) pathology (stages I-VI by Braak and Braak). In addition near-adjacent tissue sections were double-immunolabeled using antibodies against GluR2(3) and a marker of normal neuronal cytoskeleton (MAP2). In those cases classified as stages I-II, most layer II neurons of the EC and pyramidal neurons in the CA1/subiculum were double-labeled with GluR2(3) and MAP2. An occasional MC1-labeled cell was observed, yet in no instance were these neurons double-labeled with GluR2(3). In cases with moderate AD pathology (stages III-IV), layer II of the EC and CA1/subiculum were characterized by a substantial loss of GluR2(3)-labeled neurons, while many were still immunoreactive to MAP2. Notably, the loss of GluR2(3) immunolabeling was accompanied by an increasing number of MC1-positive neurons. In no instance were GluR2(3) and MC1 co-localized within the same neuron. In cases with severe AD pathology (stages V-VI), the EC and CA1/subiculum were almost completely devoid of GluR2(3)-positive neurons. MAP2-labeled neurons also were reduced in number. In contrast, both regions contained an abundance of MC1-positive cells. That GluR2(3) and MC1 are not observed in the same neuron, together with the observation that the number of GluR2(3)-labeled neurons decreases as the number of MC1-positive cells increases, suggest that a loss of GluR2(3) immunolabeling precedes the appearance of MC1 immunolabeling.
Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) has been recognized as a neuromodulator in several CNS regions, including the thoracolumbar spinal cord where an influence on cardiovascular autonomic function has been proposed. To identify the cellular mechanisms involved in the latter, whole cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from 52 thoracolumbar lateral horn cells, including 17 sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPNs), in spinal cord slices from neonatal rat (11-21 days). Under current clamp, bath applications of TRH (1-20 microM) induced a slowly rising and prolonged membrane depolarization in eight of nine cells tested. Under voltage clamp (holding potential -65 mV), 33 of 37 tested cells displayed a TRH-induced, tetrodotoxin-resistant inward current that was associated with either a reduction or an increase in membrane ion conductances. Current-voltage (I-V) relationships in 28 cells suggested two conductances. In 9 cells the current reversed at about -107 mV; in 10 cells the I-V lines remained parallel, whereas in 9 cells the current reversed at around -40 mV. In three of three cells, addition of 2 mM barium was associated with an inward current, and the TRH-induced inward current was also suppressed, suggesting the presence of a resting barium- and TRH-sensitive potassium conductance. A residual barium-insensitive conductance was seen to reverse near -40 mV. Intracellular dialysis with guanosine 5'-o-(3-thiotriphosphate) significantly enhanced the duration of the TRH effect, indicating that G protein activation participates in the TRH response. These observations not only reveal a direct, G-protein-mediated depolarizing action of TRH on neonatal rat SPNs and lateral horn cells but also imply that two separate conductances may be involved in the TRH responses in some neurons.
Models of brain function predict that the recurrence of a process or state will be reflected in repeated patterns of correlated activity. Previous work on medullary raphe assembly dynamics revealed transient changes in impulse synchrony. This study tested the hypothesis that these variations in synchrony include distributed nonrandom patterns of association. Spike trains were recorded simultaneously in the ventrolateral medulla, n. raphe obscurus, and n. raphe magnus of four anesthetized (Dial), vagotomized, paralyzed, and artificially ventilated adult cats. The &quot;gravitational&quot; representation of spike trains was used to detect moments of impulse synchrony in neuronal assemblies visualized as variations in the aggregation velocities of particles corresponding to each neuron. Template matching algorithms were developed to identify excessively repeating patterns of particle condensation rates. Repeating patterns were detected in each animal. The reiterated patterns represented an emergent property not apparent in either corresponding firing rate histograms or conventional gravity representations. Overlapping subsets of neurons represented in different patterns were unmasked when the template resolution was changed. The results demonstrate repeated transient network configurations defined by the tightness and duration of synchrony in different combinations of neurons and suggest that multiple information streams are conveyed concurrently by fluctuations in the synchrony of on-going activity.
Past work has demonstrated a reduction of stimulus-evoked inhibitory input to hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells in chronic models of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). It has been postulated that this reduction in inhibition results from impaired excitation of inhibitory interneurons. In this report, we evaluate the connectivity of area CA1 interneurons to their excitatory afferents in hippocampal-parahippocampal slices obtained from a rat model of chronic TLE. Rats were made chronically epileptic by a period of continuous electrical stimulation of the hippocampus, which establishes an acute condition of self-sustained limbic status epilepticus (SSLSE). This period of SSLSE is followed by a development of chronic recurrent spontaneous limbic seizures that are associated with chronic neuropathological changes reminiscent of those encountered in human TLE. Under visual control, whole cell patch-clamp recordings of interneurons and pyramidal cells were obtained in area CA1 of slices taken from adult, chronically epileptic post-SSLSE rats. Neurons were activated by means of electrodes positioned in stratum radiatum. Intrinsic membrane properties, including resting membrane potential, action potential (AP) threshold, AP half-height width, and membrane impedance, were unchanged in interneurons from chronically epileptic (post-SSLSE) tissue compared with control tissue. Single stimuli delivered to stratum radiatum evoked depolarizing excitatory postsynaptic potentials and APs in interneurons, whereas paired-pulse stimulation evoked facilitation of the postsynaptic current (PSC) in both control and post-SSLSE tissue. No differences between interneurons in control versus post-SSLSE tissue could be found with respect to the mean stimulus intensity or mean stimulus duration needed to evoke an AP. A multiple linear regression analysis over a range of stimulus intensities demonstrated that a greater number of APs could be evoked in interneurons in post-SSLSE tissue compared with control tissue. Spontaneous PSCs were observed in area CA1 interneurons in both control and post-SSLSE tissue and were markedly attenuated by glutamatergic antagonists. In conclusion, our data suggest that stimulus-evoked and spontaneous excitatory synaptic input to area CA1 interneurons remains functional in an animal model of chronic temporal lobe epilepsy. These findings suggest, therefore, that the apparent decrease of polysynaptic inhibitory PSPs in CA1 pyramidal cells in epileptic tissue is not due to a deficit in excitatory transmission from Schaffer collaterals to interneurons in stratum radiatum and straum oriens.
We recorded the activity of single neurons in the middle temporal (MT) and middle superior temporal (MST) visual areas in two macaque monkeys while the animals performed a smooth pursuit target selection task. The monkeys were presented with two moving stimuli of different colors and were trained to initiate smooth pursuit to the stimulus that matched the color of a previously given cue. We designed these experiments so that we could separate the component of the neuronal response that was driven by the visual stimulus from an extraretinal component that predicted the color or direction of the selected target. We found that for all cells in MT and MST the response was primarily determined by the visual stimulus. However, 14% (8 of 58) of MT neurons and 26% (22 of 84) of MST neurons had a small predictive component that was significant at the P &lt; or = 0.05 level. In some cells, the predictive component was clearly related to the color of the intended target, but more often it was correlated with the direction of the target. We have previously documented a systematic shift in the latency of smooth pursuit that depends on the relative direction of motion of the two stimuli. We found that neither the latency nor the amplitude of neuronal responses in MT or MST was correlated with behavioral latency. These results are consistent with a model for target selection in which a weak selection bias for the intended target is amplified by a competitive network that suppresses motion signals related to the nonintended stimulus. It is possible that the predictive component of neuronal responses in MT and MST contributes to the selection bias. However, the strength of the selection bias in MT and MST is not sufficient to account for the high degree of selectivity shown by pursuit behavior.
The molluscan vasopressin/oxytocin analogue Lys-conopressin excites neurons in the anterior lobe of the right cerebral ganglion of the snail Lymnaea stagnalis. Persistent inward currents that underlie the excitatory response were studied with the use of voltage-ramp protocols in the identified neuron RCB1 and other anterior lobe neurons. Under whole cell voltage-clamp conditions, two types of conopressin-activated current could be distinguished on the basis of their voltage dependence: 1) a pacemaker-like current that was activated at potentials above -40 mV (high-voltage-activated current, I(HVA)) and 2) an inward current that was activated at all potentials between -90 and +10 mV (low-voltage-activated current, I(LVA)). Ion substitution experiments indicate that sodium is the main charge carrier for I(HVA) and I(LVA). Both currents are differentially affected by cadmium. I(HVA) and I(LVA) differ in dose dependence, with median effective concentration values of 7.7 x 10(-8) M and 2.2 x 10(-7) M, respectively. Vasopressin and oxytocin act as weak agonists for the conopressin responses. The kinetics of desensitization and washout of I(HVA) and I(LVA) are different. The HVA response shows little desensitization, whereas the LVA response desensitizes within minutes (time constant 80 +/- 28 s, mean +/- SD). The time constant of washout on removal of conopressin is 159 +/- 63 s for I(HVA) and 36 +/- 13 s for I(LVA). These results suggest that two distinct conopressin receptors are involved in the activation of both currents. The conopressin-activated currents induce or enhance a region of negative slope resistance in the steady-state current-voltage relation. They differ from a third persistent inward current that is carried by calcium and completely blocked by cadmium. The presumed functional roles of these currents, possibly including autoregulation, are discussed.
Pharmacologically distinct calcium channels have been characterized in dissociated cutaneous sensory neurons and motoneurons of the larval lamprey spinal cord. To enable cell identification, sensory dorsal cells and motoneurons were selectively labeled with fluorescein-coupled dextran amine in the intact spinal cord in vitro before dissociation. Calcium channels present in sensory dorsal cells, motoneurons, and other spinal cord neurons were characterized with the use of whole cell voltage-clamp recordings and specific calcium channel agonist and antagonists. The results show that a transient low-voltage-activated (LVA) calcium current was present in a proportion of sensory dorsal cells but not in motoneurons, whereas high-voltage-activated (HVA) calcium currents were seen in all neurons recorded. The different components of HVA current were dissected pharmacologically and similar results were obtained for both dorsal cells and motoneurons. The N-type calcium channel antagonist omega-conotoxin-GVIA (omega-CgTx) blocked &gt;70% of the HVA current. A large part of the omega-CgTx block was reversed after washout of the toxin. The L-type calcium channel antagonist nimodipine blocked approximately 15% of the total HVA current. The dihydropyridine agonist (+/-)-BayK 8644 markedly increased the amplitude of the calcium channel current. The BayK-potentiated current was not affected by omega-CgTx, indicating that the reversibility of the omega-CgTx effect is not due to a blockade of L-type channels. Simultaneous application of omega-CgTx and nimodipine left approximately 15% of the HVA calcium channel current, a small part of which was blocked by the P/Q-type channel antagonist omega-agatoxin-IVA. In the presence of the three antagonists, the persistent residual current (approximately 10%) was completely blocked by cadmium. Our results provide evidence for the existence of HVA calcium channels of the N, L, and P/Q types and other HVA calcium channels in lamprey sensory neurons and motoneurons. In addition, certain types of neurons express LVA calcium channels.
Previous studies have shown that when monkeys perform a delayed match-to-sample (DMS) task, some neurons in inferotemporal visual cortex are activated selectively during the delay period when the animal must remember particular visual stimuli. This selective delay activity may be involved in short-term memory. It does not depend on visual stimulation: both auditory and tactile stimuli can trigger selective delay activity in inferotemporal cortex when animals expect to respond to visual stimuli in a DMS task. We have examined the overall modality specificity of delay period activity using a variety of auditory/visual cross-modal and unimodal DMS tasks. The cross-modal DMS tasks involved making specific long-term memory associations between visual and auditory stimuli, whereas the unimodal DMS tasks were standard identity matching tasks. Delay activity existed in auditory/visual cross-modal DMS tasks whether the animal anticipated responding to visual or auditory stimuli. No evidence of selective delay period activation was seen in a purely auditory DMS task. Delay-selective cells were relatively common in one animal where they constituted up to 53% neurons tested with a given task. This was only the case for up to 9% of cells in a second animal. In the first animal, a specific long-term memory representation for learned cross-modal associations was observed in delay activity, indicating that this type of representation need not be purely visual. Furthermore, in this same animal, delay activity in one cross-modal task, an auditory-to-visual task, predicted correct and incorrect responses. These results suggest that neurons in inferotemporal cortex contribute to abstract memory representations that can be activated by input from other sensory modalities, but these representations are specific to visual behaviors.
We studied the propagation of paroxysmal discharges in disinhibited neocortical slices by developing and analyzing a model of excitatory regular-spiking neocortical cells with spatially decaying synaptic efficacies and by field potential recording in rat slices. Evoked discharges may propagate both in the model and in the experiment. The model discharge propagates as a traveling pulse with constant velocity and shape. The discharge shape is determined by an interplay between the synaptic driving force and the neuron's intrinsic currents, in particular the slow potassium current. In the model, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) conductance contributes much less to the discharge velocity than amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) conductance. Blocking NMDA receptors experimentally with 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV) has no significant effect on the discharge velocity. In both model and experiments, propagation occurs for AMPA synaptic coupling gAMPA above a certain threshold, at which the velocity is finite (non-zero). The discharge velocity grows linearly with the gAMPA for gAMPA much above the threshold. In the experiments, blocking AMPA receptors gradually by increasing concentrations of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) in the perfusing solution results in a gradual reduction of the discharge velocity until propagation stops altogether, thus confirming the model prediction. When discharges are terminated in the model by the slow potassium current, a network with the same parameter set may display discharges with several forms, which have different velocities and numbers of spikes; initial conditions select the exhibited pattern. When the discharge is also terminated by strong synaptic depression, there is only one discharge form for a particular parameter set; the velocity grows continuously with increased synaptic conductances. No indication for more than one discharge velocity was observed experimentally. If the AMPA decay rate increases while the maximal excitatory postsynaptic conductance (EPSC) a cell receives is kept fixed, the velocity increases by approximately 20% until it reaches a saturated value. Therefore the discharge velocity is determined mainly by the cells' integration time of input EPSCs. We conclude, on the basis of both the experiments and the model, that the total amount of excitatory conductance a typical cell receives in a control slice exhibiting paroxysmal discharges is only approximately 5 times larger than the excitatory conductance needed for raising the potential of a resting cell above its action potential threshold.
Thalamocortical neuronal oscillations underlie various field potentials that are expressed in the neocortex, including sleep spindles and high voltage spike-and-wave patterns (HVSs). The mechanism of extracellular current generation in the neocortex was studied in the anesthetized and awake rat. Field potentials and unit activity were recorded simultaneously along trajectories perpendicular to the cortical layers at spatial intervals of 100 microm by multiple-site recording silicon probes. Current source density (CSD) analysis revealed that the spatial positions of sinks in layers IV, V-VI, and II-III and of the accompanying sources were similar during sleep spindles, HVSs, and thalamic-evoked responses, although their relative strengths and timings differed. The magnitude and relative timing of the multiple pairs of sinks and sources determined the amplitude variability of HVSs and sleep spindles. The presence of temporally shifted dipoles was also supported by the time distribution of unit discharges in different layers. Putative interneurons discharged with repetitive bursts of 300-500 Hz. The spike component of HVSs was associated with fast field oscillations (400-600 Hz &quot;ripples&quot;). Discharges of pyramidal cells were phase-locked to the ripples. These findings indicate that the major extracellular currents underlying sleep spindles, HVSs, and evoked responses result from activation of intracortical circuitries. We hypothesize that the fast field ripples reflect summed IPSPs in pyramidal cells resulting from the high frequency barrage of interneurons.
During low-frequency firing, action potentials actively invade the dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons. At higher firing rates, however, activity-dependent processes result in the attenuation of back-propagating action potentials, and propagation failures occur at some dendritic branch points. We tested two major hypotheses related to this activity-dependent attenuation of back-propagating action potentials: (1) that it is mediated by a prolonged form of sodium channel inactivation and (2) that it is mediated by a persistent dendritic shunt activated by back-propagating action potentials. We found no evidence for a persistent shunt, but we did find that cumulative, prolonged inactivation of sodium channels develops during repetitive action potential firing. This inactivation is significant after a single action potential and continues to develop during several action potentials thereafter, until a steady-state sodium current is established. Recovery from this form of inactivation is much slower than its induction, but recovery can be accelerated by hyperpolarization. The similarity of these properties to the time and voltage dependence of attenuation and recovery of dendritic action potentials suggests that dendritic sodium channel inactivation contributes to the activity dependence of action potential back-propagation in CA1 neurons. Hence, the biophysical properties of dendritic sodium channels will be important determinants of action potential-mediated effects on synaptic integration and plasticity in hippocampal neurons.
B-50/GAP-43 is an intraneuronal membrane-associated growth cone protein with an important role in axonal growth and regeneration. By using adenoviral vector-directed expression of B-50/GAP-43 we studied the morphogenic action of B-50/GAP-43 in mature primary olfactory neurons that have established functional synaptic connections. B-50/GAP-43 induced gradual alterations in the morphology of olfactory synapses. In the first days after overexpression, small protrusions originating from the preterminal axon shaft and from the actual synaptic bouton were formed. With time the progressive formation of multiple ultraterminal branches resulted in axonal labyrinths composed of tightly packed sheaths of neuronal membrane. Thus, B-50/GAP-43 is a protein that can promote neuronal membrane expansion at synaptic boutons. This function of B-50/GAP-43 suggests that this protein may subserve an important role in ongoing structural synaptic plasticity in adult neurons and in neuronal membrane repair after injury to synaptic fields.
Na+ action potentials propagate into the dendrites of pyramidal neurons driving an influx of Ca2+ that seems to be important for associative synaptic plasticity. During repetitive (10-50 Hz) firing, dendritic action potentials display a marked and prolonged voltage-dependent decrease in amplitude. Such a decrease is not apparent in somatic action potentials. We investigated the mechanisms of the different activity dependence of somatic and dendritic action potentials in CA1 pyramidal neurons of adult rats using whole-cell and cell-attached patch-clamp methods. There were three main findings. First, dendritic Na+ currents decreased in amplitude when repeatedly activated by brief (2 msec) depolarizations. Recovery was slow and voltage-dependent. Second, Na+ currents decreased much less in somatic than in dendritic patches. Third, although K+ currents remained constant during trains, K+ currents were necessary for dendritic action potential amplitude to decrease in whole-cell experiments. These results suggest that regional differences in Na+ and K+ channels determine the differences in the activity dependence of somatic and dendritic action potential amplitudes.
We have shown previously that in tissue culture stellate astrocytes downregulate F-actin and actin binding proteins (ABPs) (Abd-El-Basset et al.: J Neurosci Res 30:1-17, 1991), whereas the reactive-like astrocytes upregulate their F-actin (Fedoroff et al.: Neuroscience 22:255-266, 1987). In the present study we report that in normal brain, as in tissue culture, neither F-actin nor alpha-actinin (an ABP) could be detected in stellate astrocytes. When a stab wound was made in brain, F-actin and alpha-actinin were upregulated in reactive astrocytes. We also demonstrated that reactive-like astrocytes in tissue culture express alpha-actinin, which has a &quot;dotted&quot; appearance when immunostained, and is colocalized with F-actin in a specific arrangement.

Studies of analgesia in cancer patients have revealed that intrathecal administration of opioids can deliver potent analgesia with fewer systemic side effects than equivalent doses of systemic opioids. In addition, several trials have examined the safety and efficacy of this modality in patients with pain of nonmalignant origin. In one survey of 35 physicians involving 429 patients treated with intrathecal therapy, physician reports of global pain relief scores were excellent in 52.4% of patients, good in 42.9%, and poor in 4.8%. In another study of 120 patients, the mean pain intensity score had fallen from 93.6 to 30.5 six months after initiation of therapy. In both studies, patients reported significant improvement in activities of daily living, quality of life measures, and satisfaction with the therapy. Constipation, urinary retention, nausea, vomiting, and pruritus are typical early adverse effects of intrathecal morphine and are readily managed symptomatically. Other potential adverse effects include amenorrhea, loss of libido, edema, respiratory depression, and technical issues with the intrathecal system.
A comparison was made between Raman and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis of aspirin tablets. The basis was an assay of aspirin content and the determination of salicylic acid produced by decomposition. Raman observations were performed directly on both intact and powdered tablet material. The limit of detection of HPLC with an ultraviolet detector is lower than that of the Raman measurement, but both are adequate for this application. The reproducibility of the Raman measurement is somewhat better than that of the HPLC measurement. Both methods were used in a degradation study in which samples were stored in a humid atmosphere for a maximum period of 8 weeks. Aside from somewhat higher salicylic acid responses from the HPLC method, which were attributed to hydrolysis during chromatography, results from the two methods were comparable. Direct Raman measurements are faster and do not require the use of solvents.
Cannabinoid receptor activation of G-proteins can be measured by WIN 55212-2-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding. Receptor/transducer amplification factors, interpreted as the number of G-proteins activated per occupied receptor, are the ratio of the apparent B(max) of net agonist-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding to the B(max) of receptor binding. The present study examined whether amplification factors for cannabinoid receptors differ among various rat brain regions. In autoradiographic studies with [3H]WIN 55212-2 and WIN 55212-2-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding, some regions displayed different relative levels of agonist-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding than receptor binding. To quantify amplification factors, membranes from different brain regions were assayed by saturation binding analysis of net WIN 55212-2-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS, [3H]SR141716A (antagonist) and [3H]WIN 55212-2 (agonist) binding. For [3H]SR141716A binding, amplification factors varied significantly from 2.0 (frontal cortex) to 7.5 (hypothalamus). For [3H]WIN 55212-2 binding, amplification factors ranged from 2.4 (hippocampus) to 5.5 (thalamus). Comparison of receptor binding and G-protein activation at subsaturating concentrations of WIN 55212-2 indicated that amplification factors may vary with receptor occupancy in some regions like cerebellum. Ratios between high-affinity [3H]WIN 55212-2 B(max) and [3H]SR141716A B(max) also differed significantly among brain regions. These results demonstrate that G-protein coupling by cannabinoid receptors differs among brain regions, and therefore depends on the cellular environment.
Gabapentin and S-(+)-3-isobutylgaba are anticonvulsant agents that selectively interact with the alpha2delta subunit of voltage-dependent calcium channels. This report describes the activities of these two compounds in a rat model of postoperative pain. An incision of the plantaris muscle of a hind paw induced thermal hyperalgesia and tactile allodynia lasting at least 3 days. Postoperative testing was carried out using the plantar test for thermal hyperalgesia and von Frey hairs for tactile allodynia. A single s.c. dose of gabapentin, 1 h before surgery, dose-dependently (3-30 mg/kg) blocked the development of allodynia and hyperalgesia with a minimum effective dose (MED) of 10 and 30 mg/kg, respectively. The highest dose of gabapentin prevented development of hyperalgesia and allodynia for 24 and 49 h, respectively. Similar administration of S-(+)-3-isobutylgaba also dose-dependently (3-30 mg/kg, s.c.) prevented development of hyperalgesia and allodynia with MED of 3 and 10 mg/kg, respectively. The highest dose of S-(+)-3-isobutylgaba completely blocked development of both nociceptive responses for 3 days. The administration of S-(+)-3-isobutylgaba (30 mg/kg s.c.) 1 h after surgery also completely blocked the maintenance of hyperalgesia and allodynia, but its duration of action was much shorter (3 h). The administration of morphine (1-6 mg/kg s.c.) 0.5 h before surgery prevented the development of thermal hyperalgesia with a MED of 1 mg/kg. However, unlike gabapentin and S-(+)-3-isobutylgaba, it had little effect on the development of tactile allodynia. It is suggested that gabapentin and S-(+)-3-isobutylgaba may be effective in the treatment of postoperative pain.
This study set out to examine in detail the distribution of axons of sympathetic non-noradrenergic neurons innervating the arterial bed in skeletal muscles of the forelimb and hindlimb of guinea-pigs. The distribution of non-noradrenergic axons with immunoreactivity to vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) was examined in limb muscles of different histochemical character. The immunohistochemical demonstration of myosin heavy chain from fast-twitch muscle, and the histochemical demonstration of adenosine triphosphatase and succinic dehydrogenase, were used to determine the muscle fibre profile of 6 different limb muscles. Muscles included the oxidative type I muscle fibre-rich accessory semimembranosus muscle, the predominantly glycolytic type II muscle fibre-rich cranial gracilis and biceps brachii muscles and the plantaris, gastrocnemius medial head and triceps brachii long head of mixed muscle fibre composition. The frequency with which the VIP-immunoreactive (VIP-IR) axons innervated intramuscular arterial vessels was compared between categories of muscles defined by their muscle fibre profile. This study demonstrated that the projection of non-noradrenergic sympathetic neurons to skeletal muscle vasculature was widespread in guinea-pig limb muscles, but that it was not uniform. VIP-IR axons were more likely to innervate the arterial vasculature of muscles with a high proportion of type I and/or oxidative muscle fibres than of muscles with a large proportion of type IIb muscle fibres. This relationship between the distribution of sympathetic non-noradrenergic axons and the metabolic characteristics of muscle suggests that these presumed vasodilator neurons have an important role in matching blood flow to the particular metabolic demands of different limb muscles.
Psychophysical measurements of the level at which observers set a small visual target so as to appear at eye level (VPEL) were made on 13 subjects in 1.0 g and 1.5 g environments in the Graybiel Laboratory rotating room while they viewed a pitched visual field or while in total darkness. The gravitoinertial force was parallel to the z-axis of the head and body during the measurements. The visual field consisted of two 58 degrees high, luminous, pitched-from-vertical, bilaterally symmetric, parallel lines, viewed in otherwise total darkness. The lines were horizontally separated by 53 degrees and presented at each of 7 angles of pitch ranging from 30 degrees with the top of the visual field turned away from the subject (top backward) to 30 degrees with the top turned toward the subject (top forward). At 1.5 g, VPEL changed linearly with the pitch of the 2-line stimulus and was depressed with top backward pitch and elevated with top forward pitch as had been reported previously at 1.0 g (1,2); however, the slopes of the VPEL-vs-pitch functions at 1.0 g and 1.5 g were indistinguishable. As reported previously also (3,4), the VPEL in darkness was considerably lower at 1.5 g than at 1.0 g; however, although the y-intercept of the VPEL-vs-pitch function in the presence of the 2-line visual field (visual field erect) was also lower at 1.5 g than at 1.0 g as it was in darkness, the G-related difference was significantly attenuated by the presence of the visual field. The quantitative characteristics of the results are consistent with a model in which VPEL is treated as a consequence of an algebraic weighted average or a vector sum of visual and nonvisual influences although the two combining rules lead to fits that are equally good.
Prolidase deficiency is an autosomal recessive inherited disease characterized clinically by frequent infections, mental retardation, and various skin lesions. Fundamental treatments for these manifestations have not been established. We performed adenovirus-mediated gene transfer of human prolidase cDNA into fibroblasts from patients with prolidase deficiency. Infection with the adenovirus vector carrying human prolidase cDNA increased prolidase activity in fibroblasts up to approximately 7.5 times of that of normal control fibroblasts. This indicates the feasibility of adenovirus-mediated gene therapy to treat patients with prolidase deficiency in the future.



The dorsal median cells are unique mesodermal cells that reside on the surface of the ventral nerve cord in the Drosophila embryo. The Buttonless homeodomain protein is specifically expressed in these cells and is required for their differentiation. We have determined that proper buttonless gene expression and dorsal median cell differentiation requires signals from underlying CNS midline cells. Thus, dorsal median cells fail to form in single-minded mutants and do not persist in slit mutants. Through analysis of rhomboid mutants and targeted rhomboid expression, we also show that the EGF signaling pathway regulates the number of both the dorsal median cells, as well as a set of mesodermal cells that arise next to the midline and express the single-minded gene. Finally, wingless-patched double mutants exhibit defects in the restriction of dorsal median cells to segment boundaries and alterations in CNS midline cell fates. Taken together, these data define a novel neuroectoderm to mesoderm signaling pathway and suggest that unique mesodermal cell types are specified by a combination of midline and segmental cues.
Ornithine Transcarbamylase (OTC) is a key urea cycle enzyme. Congenital OTC deficiencies in humans result in hyperammonemia and a spectrum of neurological symptoms including hypotonia, seizures and mental retardation. Neuropathologic evaluation reveals cerebral atrophy, ventricular enlargement and Alzheimer type II astrocytosis. Using an animal model of congenital OTC deficiency, the sparse fur (spf) mouse, recent studies have revealed significant alterations of cholinergic, serotoninergic and glutamatergic neurotransmitter systems. Possible pathophysiologic mechanisms responsible for neuronal cell loss in OTC deficiency include a deficit in cerebral energy metabolism, and glutamate excitotoxicity. Therapy continues to rely on alternative substrate administration including sodium benzoate and sodium phenylacetate. Experimental evidence suggests that acetyl-L-carnitine and glutamate (NMDA) receptor antagonists could be potentially useful therapeutic agents. Liver transplantation is effective in many patients and recent experimental studies using adenoviral vectors suggest that gene therapy may ultimately be useful in the treatment of congenital OTC deficiency.
The relations between serum urate levels and age, serum cholesterol, creatinine, glucose, and triglyceride concentrations were studied in 930 men and 298 premenopausal and 478 postmenopausal women, taking into account the renal handling of uric acid. All subjects were outpatients, and statistical evaluation was performed on cases corresponding to the central 95th percentile of the biochemical variables measured. An alternative analysis excluding subjects with serum glucose or creatinine levels outside the normal range was also performed. In men, premenopausal and postmenopausal women, and their normoglycemic normocreatininemic subsets, serum triglyceride level was positively correlated with serum urate concentration and inversely correlated with fractional urate excretion in both simple and multiple linear regression analysis. In men and postmenopausal women, there was also a strong positive independent association between serum urate and creatinine levels. This association was significant also in the normoglycemic normocreatininemic subset of men, but it was insignificant in normoglycemic normocreatininemic postmenopausal women. In this large cross-sectional study, a negative correlation between serum triglyceride concentration and renal uric acid excretion has been demonstrated.
This study examines the changes in cellular lipids that take place when Trypanosoma cruzi epimastigotes and metacyclic trypomastigotes are transferred from 28 to 37 degrees C. We found a rise in the sterol to phospholipid ratio, as well as in the triacylglycerol and steryl ester cellular content in T. cruzi epimastigotes. In addition, saturated to unsaturated fatty acid ratios in phospholipids increase. This latter effect appears to be due to two concurrent processes. Firstly, fatty acyl delta9 and, especially, delta12 desaturations are significantly diminished at 37 degrees C. Secondly, triacylglycerols and steryl esters undergo changes in their fatty acyl composition opposite to those simultaneously observed in phospholipids, i.e. the ratio of saturated to unsaturated fatty acids markedly decreases. Similar alterations in each of the lipid classes and in the fatty acid composition of polar and neutral lipids were found in cultured metacyclic trypomastigotes on exposure to the same shift-up. These observations suggest that a global remodeling of cellular lipids that involves extensive fatty acid exchange between neutral and polar lipid pools represents a novel and important mechanism of adaptation of the parasites to the temperature changes they encounter in their life cycle.
The alpha4beta2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), a major subtype in the brain, have been shown to be modulated by chronic treatment with nicotine. In this study, the regulation of recombinant human alpha4beta2 nAChR subtype by (-)-nicotine and other cholinergic channel modulators was studied using human embryonic kidney 293 cells stably expressing this subunit combination. The treatment of transfected cells with (-)-nicotine and other activator ligands, including (-)-cytisine, 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium, (S)-3-methyl-5-(1-methyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)isoxazole, and (+/-)-epibatidine, resulted in concentration-dependent increases in the levels of alpha4beta2 nAChRs. The increase in [3H]cytisine binding sites was initiated by low concentrations of (-)-nicotine (&lt;100 nM); was maximal at 10 microM (15-fold), rapid (t0.5 = 4.0 +/- 0.5 hr), and totally reversible (t0.5 = 11.7 +/- 0.1 hr); and occurred with no change in ligand binding affinity. Antagonists, including dihydro-beta-erythroidine, d-tubocurarine, and methyllycaconitine, also elicited significant increases in receptor levels. A good correlation was observed between the Ki values for binding inhibition and the EC50 values for receptor up-regulation. Treatment of cells with mecamylamine, a noncompetitive antagonist, did not change receptor levels or alter (-)-nicotine-evoked up-regulation. (-)-Nicotine-evoked up-regulation was blocked by cycloheximide, suggesting a role for protein synthesis. Treatment of cells with (-)-nicotine or dihydro-beta-erythroidine differentially modulated the efficacy of acetylcholine to activate cation efflux. Both 6-beta-[beta'(piperidino)propionyl]forskolin and phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate increased [3H]cytisine binding sites and nAChR function and enhanced the effects of chronic (-)-nicotine treatment in a synergistic manner. These results collectively demonstrate that human alpha4beta2 nAChRs can be differentially up-regulated by chronic treatment with nAChR ligands and activation of protein kinase A- and protein kinase C-dependent mechanisms.
There is mounting evidence indicating that overexpression or aberrant processing of amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) is causally related to Alzheimer's disease. betaAPP is principally cleaved within the amyloid beta protein domain to release a large soluble ectodomain (betaAPPs) that has been known to have a wide range of trophic and protective functions. Activation of phospholipase C-coupled receptors has been shown to increase the release of betaAPPs through protein kinase C and calcium. Here we have examined whether nicotine can modulate the expression and processing of betaAPP in PC12 cells. Treatment of PC12 cells with nicotine increased the release of a carboxyl-terminally truncated, secreted form of betaAPP into the conditioned medium without affecting the expression level of betaAPP mRNA. The effect of nicotine on the secretion of betaAPPs is concentration (&gt;50 microM)- and time (&gt;2 hr)-dependent and attenuated by cotreatment with either mecamylamine, a specific nicotinic receptor antagonist, or EGTA, a calcium chelator, indicating calcium entry through the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor is essential in enhanced betaAPPs release by nicotine. However, nicotine did not significantly change the amyloid beta protein secretion from Swedish mutant betaAPP-transfected PC12 cells. These results imply that nicotinic receptor agonist might be beneficial in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease by not only supplementing the deficient cholinergic neurotransmission but also stimulating the release of betaAPPs.

The concept is proposed that the central control of mammalian female puberty requires the interactive participation of neuronal networks and glial cells of the astrocytic lineage. According to this concept neurons and astrocytes control the pubertal process by regulating the secretory activity of those neurons that secrete luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH). LHRH, in turn, governs sexual development by stimulating the secretion of pituitary gonadotropins. Astrocytes affect LHRH neuronal function via a cell-cell signaling mechanism involving several growth factors and their corresponding receptors. Our laboratory has identified two members of the epidermal growth factor/transforming growth factor (EGF/TGF alpha) family as components of the glial-neuronal interactive process that regulates LHRH secretion. Transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha) and its distant congener neu-differentiation factor, NDF, are produced in hypothalamic astrocytes and stimulate LHRH release via a glial intermediacy. The actions of TGF alpha and NDF on hypothalamic astrocytes involve the interactive activation of their cognate receptors and the synergistic effect of both ligands in stimulating the glial release of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). In turn, PGE2 acts directly on LHRH neurons to stimulate LHRH release. A variety of experimental approaches has led to the conclusion that both TGF alpha and NDF are physiological components of the central mechanism controlling the initiation of female puberty.


In this report, we describe the effect of staged bilateral posteroventral pallidotomy in three patients with advanced Parkinson's disease who were all of the young-onset type. Two patients had developed response fluctuations after the use of levodopa, with severe hypokinesia, painful dystonia, and rigidity in the &quot;off&quot; phase and violent dyskinesias in the &quot;on&quot; phase. One patient, in a continuous hypokinetic rigid state, was totally unresponsive to dopaminergic medication. All were at Hoehn and Yahr stage 5 in the &quot;off&quot; phase before surgery. After surgery, the hypokinetic state was reversed and dyskinesias were abolished in all patients. Hoehn and Yahr stages were 3 in the &quot;off&quot; phase postoperatively. Overall functional improvement was marked and lasting after follow-up for 7, 12, and 13 months, respectively. Complications were visual field deficit and transient central facial paresis, both in the same patient. Bilateral posteroventral pallidotomy can ameliorate response fluctuations, hypokinesia, rigidity, and painful dystonia in advanced Parkinson's disease.
The motor effects of stimuli delivered through four-channel, quadripolar macroelectrodes chronically implanted in the ventrolateral thalamus were studied in 20 awake cooperating human subjects. Single stimuli could inhibit voluntary contraction of the contralateral first dorsal interosseous muscle (FDI) for up to 200 ms. The inhibition was often followed by a rebound facilitation or by oscillatory activity. This inhibition appeared to arise from the ventrolateral thalamus and could not be obtained in other patients by stimulation of the periventricular grey matter (PVG), the globus pallidus internus (GPI), or the subthalamic nucleus (STN). The neural elements activated by the stimulus had a short chronaxie and a short refractory period, implying that they were large-diameter axons. Similar effects were obtained from each of the four electrodes in the row, suggesting that this fiber system lay parallel rather than perpendicular to the implanted macroelectrode. The inhibition resulting from a single stimulus was diminished by a prior stimulus or train of stimuli. A continuous train of stimuli produced inhibition for only the first 200 ms. We propose that the thalamic stimulus activates a neural network which includes thalamic relay cells and neurons of the thalamic reticular nucleus and that the inhibition of thalamic relay cells habituates with repeated stimuli. It has been suggested that parkinsonian rest tremor results from synchronization of the oscillatory activity of this network. If this is the case, continuous thalamic stimulation might disrupt this oscillation by diminishing the inhibitory phase.

Despite only modest homology between h5-HT1B and h5-HT1D receptor amino acid sequences, these receptors display a remarkably similar pharmacology. To date there are few compounds which discriminate between these receptor subtypes and those with some degree of selectivity, such as ketanserin, have greater affinity for other 5-HT receptor subtypes. We now report on two compounds, SB-216641 (N-[3-(2-dimethylamino) ethoxy-4-methoxyphenyl]-2'-methyl-4'-(5-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)-(1,1'-biphenyl)-4-carboxamide) and BRL-15572 3-[4-(3-chlorophenyl) piperazin-1-yl]-1,1-diphenyl-2-propanol), which display high affinity and selectivity for h5-HT1B and h5-HT1D receptors, respectively. In receptor binding studies on human receptors expressed in CHO cells, SB-216641 has high affinity (pKi = 9.0) for h5-HT1B receptors and has 25-fold lower affinity at h5-HT1D receptors. In contrast, BRL-15572 has 60-fold higher affinity for h5-HT1D (pKi = 7.9) than 5-HT1B receptors. Similar affinities for these compounds were determined on native tissue 5-HT1B receptors in guinea-pig striatum. Functional activities of SB-216641 and BRL-15572 were measured in a [35S]GTPgammaS binding assay and in a cAMP accumulation assay on recombinant h5-HT1B and h5-HT1D receptors. Both compounds were partial agonists in these high receptor expression systems, with potencies and selectivities which correlated with their receptor binding affinities. In the cAMP accumulation assay, results from pK(B) measurements on the compounds again correlated with receptor binding affinities (SB-216641, pK(B) = 9.3 and 7.3; BRL-15572, pK(B) = &lt;6 and 7.1, for h5-HT1B and h5-HT1D receptors respectively). These compounds will be useful pharmacological agents to characterise 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptor mediated responses.
An increasing number of signal transduction disturbances have been reported in Alzheimer's disease. These changes are not restricted to histopathologically changed brain areas but are seen also in peripheral tissues. One of the most severe disturbances is a loss of calcium-mobilizing intracellular inositol(1,4,5)-trisphosphate receptors in Alzheimer cerebellar and cortical tissues. In the present study, the binding of [3H]inositol(1,4,5)trisphosphate ([3H]Ins(1,4,5)P3) to the calcium-mobilizing inositol(1,4,5)trisphosphate receptors in platelet membranes from eight Alzheimer's disease patients and eight control subjects were investigated to determine its possible role as a biological marker in Alzheimer's disease. It was found that there were no significant difference in [3H]Ins(1,4,5)P3 binding with respect to the number of sites measured at different protein concentrations or to the sensitivity of the binding to inhibition by nonradioactive Ins(1,4,5)P3 between Alzheimer disease platelets and controls. It is concluded that inositol(1,4,5)trisphosphate receptor levels are preserved in platelets from patients with Alzheimer's disease.
Complement activation is present in the brain in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and C1q concentrations are decreased in AD cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). To determine whether concentrations of other complement proteins are also altered in AD CSF, we measured concentrations of C3a and SC5b-9 in CSF from patients with probable AD (n = 19), normal aged controls (n = 11), and normal younger controls (n = 15). C3a concentrations were similar between AD and aged controls, but threefold higher than in younger controls (p &lt; 0.05 vs. both groups). A similar pattern was found with SC5b-9, though the increase was only twofold and statistically significant only for AD vs. younger controls. These results suggest that an increased generation of complement proteins in localized areas of the AD brain does not result in elevated concentrations of these proteins in CSF, compared with age-matched controls. Increased C3a (and, to a lesser extent, SC5b-9) in aged controls may be due to increased complement activation, increased central nervous system production, and/or blood-brain barrier leakage of these proteins.
The perforant path, which consists of the projection from the layer II neurons of the entorhinal cortex to the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, is a critical circuit involved in learning and memory formation. Accordingly, disturbances in this circuit may contribute to age-related cognitive deficits. In a previous study, we demonstrated a decrease in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 immunofluorescence intensity in the outer molecular layer of aged macaque monkeys. In this study, we used the optical fractionator, a stereological method, to determine if a loss of layer II neurons occurred in the same animals in which the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 alteration was observed. Our results revealed no significant differences in the number of layer II neurons between juvenile, young adult, and aged macaque monkeys. These results suggest that the circuit-specific decrease in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 reported previously occurs in the absence of structural compromise of the perforant path, and thus may be linked to an age-related change in the physiological properties of this circuit.
Thirty male rats pressed a lever three times (FR3) when a stimulus light (sD) was off to obtain sucrose pellets. They were then evenly divided into sham Controls versus groups lesioned bilaterally in the hippocampus by stercotaxic injection of ibotenic acid into the dentate hilum (HIL) or the CA2/CA3 region (CA2/3). On measures of recall of the FR3-sD task taken during the initial 30 min of a postlesion test session, the CA2/3 and especially the HIL groups showed significant (p &lt; .05) impairments relative to the Controls. During an ensuing 30-min period, rats were reshaped to criterion, beginning at FR1, and no appreciable intergroup differences were noted on this schedule or at FR1-sD. At FR2-sD, the HIL but not the CA2/3 group showed some impairment relative to Controls. At FR3-sD, both the CA2/3 and HIL groups had impaired task performance. An immunocytochemical index of glial activation showed higher reactivity in CA2/3 or the dentate hilum among CA2/3 or HIL animals, respectively, that was associated with the degree to which they showed an FR3-sD performance deficit.
The antisense oligonucleotide approach has been established as a tool to analyse the functional role of c-fos gene expression in the striatum. Studies on the distribution and cellular localization of microinjected oligonucleotides, as well as their effect on gene expression, demonstrate that the action of the c-fos oligonucleotides can be used to evaluate the role of c-fos gene expression selectively in neuronal function. Antisense oligonucleotides to c-fos inhibit both basal and stimulated c-fos expression in the striatum, which leads to characteristic changes in behavioural and biochemical parameters, as evaluated by analysis of rotational behaviour and dual probe in vivo microdialysis for the neurotransmitter GABA, respectively. These observations could be explained by a postulated D1/NMDA receptor interaction in the striatonigral GABA pathway controlled by the immediate early gene c-fos. We concluded that c-fos might be involved not only in the control of long-term changes in the cellular phenotype but also in control of firing rate.
Antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ODN) offer the potential advantage to manipulate neuropeptide or neuropeptide receptor expression within the brain transiently and site-specifically, thus providing a tool for neuroendocrinological research into the physiological function of a particular neuropeptide system. In this study, various approaches are introduced which reveal that antisense ODN may exert acute, short-term effects on neuronal responsiveness to afferent stimuli, as well as long-term effects on neuropeptide/receptor protein availability in a given system depending on the duration of treatment. Short-term effects were seen in that oxytocin (OXT) and vasopressin (AVP) antisense ODN affected electrophysiological and secretory parameters of oxytocinergic and vasopressinergic neurons, respectively, as well as their ability to express the Fos protein in response to afferent stimulation a few hours after a single infusion into the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus. In this study, two methodological approaches to study long-term effects of the antisense ODN are exemplified, in which antisense ODN directed against the mRNA coding for the neuropeptide itself or its receptor were used. The repeated infusion of corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) antisense ODN into the paraventricular nucleus resulted in reduced immunoreactive CRH, but not AVP, in the external zone of the median eminence. Furthermore, in order to evaluate the receptor-mediated effects of CRH and AVP released locally within the paraventricular nucleus on adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) release from the pituitary, CRH receptor (and also AVP receptor) antisense ODN were repeatedly infused into the hypothalamic nuclei; this treatment resulted in an elevation of stimulated, but not basal, ACTH release into the blood. However, in addition to these obvious antisense effects, results are discussed which demonstrate sequence-unspecific effects of phosphorothioated ODN, suggesting that some of their mechanisms of action are not yet understood.
The use of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides, targeted to the transcripts encoding biologically active proteins in the nervous system, provides a novel and highly selective means to further our understanding of the function of these proteins. Recent studies of these agents also suggest the possibility of their being used therapeutically for a variety of diseases involving neuronal tissue. In this paper we review studies showing the in vitro and in vivo effects of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides as they relate to neurobiological functions. Particular attention is paid to the behavioral and biochemical effects of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides directed to the various subtypes of receptors for the neurotransmitter dopamine. An example is also provided showing the effects of a plasmid vector expressing an antisense RNA targeted to the calmodulin mRNAs in the PC12 pheochromocytoma cell line. The advantages of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides over traditional pharmacological treatments are assessed, and the advantages of using vectors encoding antisense RNA over the use of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides are also considered. We also describe the criteria that should be used in designing antisense oligodeoxynucleotides and several controls that should be employed to assure their specificity of action.
The effect of chronic administration of Imipramine on [3H]Spiperone binding to 5-HT2 sites and inositoltrisphosphate (IP3) levels in rat cerebral cortex was studied. Our data shows that treatment with imipramine (5 mg/kg body weight, intraperitoneally) for 30 days significantly down regulates 5-HT2 receptors sites (262 +/- 29 fmol/mg protein) in cerebral cortex (38%), compared to control rats (425 +/- 60 fmol/mg protein., P &lt; 0.001). However there was no significant change in the affinity of [3H]-Spiperone binding (kd) to 5-HT2 sites in cerebral cortex after exposure to imipramine (Kd = 0.84 +/- 0.11 nM). It is also observed that imipramine treatment significantly reduces 5-HT stimulated [3H]IP3 formation in cerebral cortex (6,411 +/- 708 dpm/mg protein), compared to the saline treated rats (12,238 +/- 1,544 dpm/mg protein; P &lt; 0.001), with concomitant decrease in Pdtlns-4-5-P2. This study suggests that the therapeutic action of imipramine in brain might be by reducing hypersensitivity of 5-HT2 receptors by down regulation, which leads to reduced levels of inositolphospholipids. This inturn reduces the levels of IP3. In conclusion, imipramine acts at presynaptic site by blocking the reuptake of serotonin and at post synaptic site it downregulates 5-HT2 sites with decreased IP3 levels after chronic exposure.
Recent data suggest that death of muscle cells during development and in selected pathological conditions occurs via apoptosis. We investigated the occurrence of apoptosis in normal and pathological human skeletal muscle, using in situ end-labeling (ISEL) to detect DNA fragmentation, and immunohistochemistry for the expression of tissue transglutaminase and interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme (ICE)-like proteases. In normal subjects, apoptotic myonuclei were occasionally observed as evidence of normal tissue turnover. Myonuclear apoptosis due to a deficit of trophic support from nerve cells also occurred in spinal muscular atrophies. No apoptosis of muscle cells was found in dystrophinopathies, myotonic dystrophy and inflammatory myopathies, suggesting that death of myofibers in those conditions is not due to activation of a gene-directed program of death. In dystrophinopathies and inflammatory myopathies, apoptosis was found in interstitial mononuclear cells, as a likely mechanism of clearance of the inflammatory infiltrates.
The objective of this study was to determine the sensitivity and specificity of clinical criteria for possible vascular dementia (VaD) recently developed independently by two groups: the State of California Alzheimer's Disease Diagnostic and Treatment Centers (ADDTC) and the National Institute for Neurological Disorders and Stroke with the Association Internationale pour la Recherche et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences (NINDS-AIREN). We also wished to compare the performance of the new criteria to that of the Hachinski Ischemic Score (HIS). The study was comprised of a retrospective chart review and clinicopathologic correlation, and took place in 304-bed acute-care geriatric hospital. The subjects were 113 autopsied elderly patients with dementia, who were assessed to determine sensitivity and specificity of the ADDTC and NINDS-AIREN criteria for possible VaD. Sensitivity and specificity were calculated using the neuropathologic diagnosis as a gold standard. Sensitivity was 0.63, and specificity was 0.64 for the ADDTC, 0.58 sensitivity and 0.80 specificity for the NINDS, and 0.43 sensitivity and 0.88 specificity for the HIS. Test combinations did not lead to substantial gains in sensitivity or specificity. The majority of patients with Alzheimer's disease were successfully excluded by the ADDTC (87%), the NINDS-AIREN (91%), and the HIS (97%). The proportion of mixed dementia cases clinically misclassified as VaD was 54% for the ADDTC, 29% for the NINDS-AIREN, and 18% for the HIS. Low sensitivity is the main weakness of the above clinical criteria for possible VaD. Mixed dementia is better excluded by the NINDS-AIREN than the ADDTC. Data from this validation study should provide valuable information to clinicians and researchers who wish to apply these criteria to the diagnosis of VaD.
Synapses are continually regulated by chemical modulators and by their own activity. We tested the specificity of regulation in two excitatory pathways of the neocortex: thalamocortical (TC) synapses, which mediate specific inputs, and intracortical (IC) synapses, which mediate the recombination of cortical information. Frequency-sensitive depression was much stronger in TC synapses than in IC synapses. The two synapse types were differentially sensitive to presynaptic neuromodulators: only IC synapses were suppressed by activation of GABA(B) receptors, only TC synapses were enhanced by nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors suppressed both synapse types. Modulators also differentially altered the frequency sensitivity of the synapses. Our results suggest a mechanism by which the relative strength and dynamics of input and associational pathways of neocortex are regulated during changes in behavioral state.
The acquisition of cell type-specific morphologies is a central feature of neuronal differentiation and has important consequences for nervous system function. To begin to identify the underlying molecular mechanisms, we have explored the role of Rho-related GTPases in the dendritic development of cortical neurons. Expression of dominant negative mutants of Rac or Cdc42, the Rho-inhibitory molecule C3 transferase, or the GTPase-activating protein RhoGAP p190 causes a marked reduction in the number of primary dendrites in nonpyramidal (multipolar) neurons and in the number of basal dendrites in neurons with pyramidal morphologies. Conversely, the expression of constitutively active mutants of Rho, Rac, or Cdc42 leads to an increase in the number of primary and basal dendrites. In cortical cultures, as in vivo, dendritic remodeling leads to an apparent transformation from pyramidal to nonpyramidal morphologies over time. Strikingly, this shift in favor of nonpyramidal morphologies is also inhibited by the expression of dominant negative mutants of Cdc42 and Rac and by RhoGAP p190. These observations indicate that Rho, Rac, and Cdc42 play a central role in dendritic development and suggest that differential activation of Rho-related GTPases may contribute to the generation of morphological diversity in the developing cortex.
Collapsin-1, a member of the semaphorin family, activates receptors on specific growth cones, thereby inhibiting their motility. Neuropilin, a previously cloned transmembrane protein, has recently been identified as a candidate receptor for collapsin-1. We have completed the cloning of chick collapsin-3 and -5 and show that collapsin-1, -2, -3, and -5 bind to overlapping but distinct axon tracts. We infer that in situ, there are distinct receptors with different affinities for collapsin-1, -2, -3, and -5. In contrast, these four collapsins all bind recombinant neuropilin with similar affinities. Strong binding to neuropilin is mediated by the carboxy third of the collapsins, while the semaphorin domain confers their unique binding patterns in situ. We propose that neuropilin is a common component of a semaphorin receptor complex, and that additional differentially expressed receptor components interact with the semaphorin domains to confer binding specificity.
The semaphorin family contains secreted and transmembrane signaling proteins that function in the nervous, immune, and cardiovascular systems. Chick collapsin-1 is a repellent for specific growth cones. Two other secreted members of the semaphorin family, collapsin-2 and -3, are structurally similar to collapsin-1 but have different biological activities. Semaphorins contain a 500 amino acid family signature semaphorin domain. We show in this study that (1) the semaphorin domain of collapsin-1 is both necessary and sufficient for biological activity, (2) the semaphorin domain contains a 70 amino acid region that specifies the biological activity of the three family members, and (3) the positively charged carboxy terminus potentiates activity without affecting specificity. We propose that semaphorins interact with their receptors through two independent binding sites: one that mediates the biological response and one that potentiates it.
Of the cloned P2X receptor subunits, six are expressed in sensory neurons, suggesting that the native channels may be heteromultimers with diverse composition. It has been proposed that P2X2 and P2X3 form heteromultimers in sensory neurons. We further tested this hypothesis by examining the relationship of P2X2 and P2X3 immunocytochemically. In rat dorsal root and nodose ganglia, P2X2- and P2X3-immunoreactivity (-ir) were highly colocalized, although single-labeled cells were also present. In dorsal root ganglia (DRG), in some cases P2X2-ir appeared to be present in satellite cells. In dorsal horn of spinal cord, at low magnification the laminar localization of P2X2- and P2X3-ir overlapped, but at high magnification colocalization was rarely observed. In contrast, in the solitary tract and its nucleus (NTS), colocalization of P2X2- and P2X3-ir was seen at low and high magnification. These results suggest that the relationship of P2X2- and P2X3-ir is different in nodose and dorsal root ganglia and might reflect differences in the targeting of P2X receptors in different sensory neurons. In monkey, P2X2-ir was observed in DRG neurons and satellite cells and in dorsal horn of spinal cord. P2X3-ir was also seen in DRG neurons. However, the presence of P2X2-ir in NTS as well as the presence of P2X3-ir in spinal cord and NTS could not be established definitively. These results suggest species differences, although a more extensive study of primate sensory systems is necessary.
The posterior parietal cortex, particularly in the right hemisphere, is crucially important for covert orienting; lesions impair the ability to disengage the focus of covert orienting attention from one potential saccade target to another (Posner, M. I. et al., Journal of Neuroscience, 1984, 4, 1863-1874). We have developed a task where precues allow subjects to covertly prepare subsequent cued hand movements, as opposed to an orienting or eye movement. We refer to this process as motor attention to distinguish it from orienting attention. Nine subjects with lesions that included the left parietal cortex and nine subjects with lesions including the right parietal cortex were compared with control subjects on the task. The left hemisphere subjects showed the same ability as controls to engage attention to a movement when they were forewarned by a valid precue. The left hemisphere subjects, however, were impaired in their ability to disengage the focus of motor attention from one movement to another when the precue was incorrect. The results support the existence of two distinct attentional systems allied to the orienting and limb motor systems. Damage to either system causes analogous problems in disengaging from one orienting/movement target to another. The left parietal cortex, particularly the supramarginal gyrus, is associated with motor attention. All the left hemisphere subjects had ideomotor apraxia and had particular problems performing sequences of movements. We suggest that the well documented left hemisphere and apraxic impairment in movement sequencing is the consequence of a difficulty in shifting the focus of motor attention from one movement in a sequence to the next.
We describe a patient (NJ), with a progressive visual disturbance, who showed an impairment in identifying larger visually-presented objects relative to their smaller counterparts. NJ showed this size effect for line drawings of objects, words and single letters. When presented with large letters comprised of smaller letters and asked to give speeded identification responses to either the large or small letters, NJ was grossly impaired at identifying the large letter. Additionally, when presented with a context meant to bias responding to either the large or small letter, NJ showed faster and more accurate responding in the small direction, but not in the large direction. We interpret these results as indicative of an impaired 'spotlight' of attention, which is deployed across the visual array, and is necessary for providing the selective visual attention responsible for the integration of visual features.

Over the past two decades, evidence has been accumulating that diffusible molecules, such as growth factors and steroids hormones, play an important part in neural senescence, particularly in the hippocampus. There is also evidence that these molecules do not act as independent signals, but show interrelated regulation and cooperative control over the aging process. Here, we review some of the changes that occur in the hippocampus with age, and the influence of two classes of signaling substances: glucocorticoids and neurotrophins. We also examine the interactions between these substances and how this could influence the aging process.
A challenge dose of nicotine (0.4 mg kg-1 s.c.) produced a long-lasting potentiation (LLP) of field EPSPs evoked in the dentate gyrus by stimulation of the medial perforant path of urethane-anaesthetized rats primed four weeks previously with seven daily injections of nicotine (0.8 mg kg-1 s.c.). The same dose of nicotine did not alter EPSPs evoked in rats primed with saline vehicle. Systemic injection of either mecamylamine or propranolol, 30 min before nicotine challenge, prevented induction of LLP without affecting baseline EPSPs but neither drug affected LLP when given after it was established. Since the nicotine-priming regime is known to increase tyrosine hydroxylase activity and hippocampal noradrenaline release in response to nicotine challenge, the results suggest that systemic injection of nicotine released sufficient noradrenaline in nicotine-primed rats to induce a beta-adrenoceptor-mediated LLP.
The central posterior/prepacemaker nucleus of gymnotiform fish is a bilateral cell group located in the dorsal thalamus. This complex consists of approximately 10,000 neurons which can be divided into several subpopulations. One subpopulation comprised of a few hundreds of neurons projects to the pacemaker nucleus in the medulla oblongata, thus constituting the prepacemaker nucleus portion of this complex. By employing in vitro tract-tracing techniques, we have, in the present investigation, examined the pattern of connectivity formed by the central posterior/prepacemaker nucleus with a diencephalic cell group, the preglomerular nucleus. As demonstrated by anterograde and retrograde tracing, a subpopulation of several hundreds of neurons located in the central posterior/prepacemaker nucleus project to the ipsi- and contralateral preglomerular nucleus. Double-labelling experiments revealed that at least a fraction of these neurons also innervate the pacemaker nucleus. In the preglomerular nucleus, a large number of neurons give rise to projections that terminate in the ipsilateral central posterior/prepacemaker nucleus. The reciprocal connection between the central posterior/prepacemaker nucleus and the preglomerular nucleus may be used to relay sensory information directly conveyed to one of the two nuclei indirectly to the other nucleus. The existence of at least some central posterior/prepacemaker nucleus neurons projecting to both the preglomerular nucleus and the pacemaker nucleus may provide the morphological basis for the transmission of an efference copy of electromotor information produced by neurons in the central posterior/prepacemaker nucleus to the preglomerular nucleus.
Schwann cells are integral cellular components of the dense cholinergic presynaptic plexus (nerve plate) which innervates each electrocyte in skate electric organ. Using the Ca2+-sensitive dye fura-2, we have followed the response in these cells to various chemical challenges. In K+ depolarized nerve plates nerve terminals consistently responded with a rapid and sustained Ca2+ signal. Schwann cell responses to depolarization were rarely seen but, when observed, were always delayed in onset when compared to nerve terminal response (6-10 s later). The possibility that these responses were triggered by mediators released from nerve terminals was tested by direct application of candidate substances. Schwann cells were found to respond to adenosine triphosphate and adenosine diphosphate with a biphasic increase of intracellular Ca2+ concentration, a rapid peak response being followed in the majority of cells by a sustained plateau phase. In the absence of external Ca2+ only the transient peak response was observed. Depletion of internal Ca2+ stores with thapsigargin completely inhibited the adenosine triphosphate-stimulated rise in Schwann cell Ca2+. The response to adenosine triphosphate was concentration-dependent (EC50 2.8 microM) and was reversibly blocked by two antagonists of P2 purinoceptors: suramin and reactive blue 2. Adenosine diphosphate and 2-methylthio-adenosine triphosphate were equipotent with adenosine triphosphate and at high concentrations (100 microM) diadenosine tetraphosphate produced responses comparable to low concentrations of adenosine triphosphate. Adenosine, adenosine monophosphate, the alpha beta-methylene analogues of adenosine triphosphate and adenosine diphosphate, uridine triphosphate, cytidine triphosphate and guanosine triphosphate were without significant effect. These results show that, in skate electric organ Schwann cells, the release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores is triggered by adenosine triphosphate acting on P(2gamma) receptors and suggest that Schwann cells may be targets for synaptically-released adenosine triphosphate in the electric organ model of the neuromuscular junction.
By using selective tachykinin NK1 and NK2 receptor antagonists and agonists, we studied the excitatory non-adrenergic non-cholinergic transmission to the circular muscle of the corpus of guinea-pig stomach by the sucrose-gap method. After elimination of inhibitory junction potentials by apamin (0.1 microM), L-nitroarginine (30 microM) and tetraethylammonium (10 mM), electrical field stimulation (10 Hz) in the presence of atropine (1 microM) and nifedipine (1 microM) evoked a pure excitatory junction potential and contraction. The selective tachykinin NK2 receptor antagonist, MEN 11420, concentration-dependently inhibited the non-adrenergic non-cholinergic excitatory junction potential (EC50=0.09 microM) and contraction (EC50=0.04 microM) evoked by electrical field stimulation. On the other hand, the selective NK1 receptor antagonist GR 82334 (3 microM) only slightly (by about 30%) inhibited the excitatory junction potential while leaving the contraction unaffected. The combined administration of GR 82334 (1 microM) and MEN 11420 (0.3 microM) produced an additive inhibition of the excitatoryjunction potential, significantly larger than that produced by each antagonist alone. In the presence of both GR 82334 (1 microM) and MEN 11420 (0.3 microM), the P2 purinoreceptor antagonist pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid (30 microM) remarkably inhibited the fast component of the excitatory junction potential. In the presence of atropine (1 microM), indomethacin (3 microM) and guanethidine (3 microM) either the selective NK2 receptor agonist, [betaAla8]neurokinin A (4-10) (0.01 microM), or the selective NK1 receptor agonist, [Sar9]substance P sulfone (0.3 microM), produced tetrodotoxin-(1 microM) and nifedipine-(1 microM) resistant depolarization and contraction. The [Sar9]substance P sulfone (0.3 microM)-induced contraction, but not that induced by [betaAla8]neurokinin A (4 10) (0.01 microM), was potentiated by apamin (0.1 microM) plus L-nitroarginine (30 microM). In the presence of atropine (1 microM), indomethacin (3 microM), guanethidine (3 microM), apamin (0.1 microM) and L-nitroarginine (30 microM), the selective tachykinin NK2 and NK1 receptor agonists, [betaAla8]neurokinin A (4-10) and [Sar9]substance P sulfone, both produced a concentration-dependent depolarization and contraction of the circular muscle. MEN 11420 inhibited the responses to [[Ala8]neurokinin A (4-10) without affecting the responses to [Sar9]substance P sulfone, while GR 82334 inhibited the responses to [Sar9]substance P sulfone but not that to [betaAla8]neurokinin A (4-10). These data provide evidence that tachykinin NK2 receptors predominantly mediate the non-adrenergic non-cholinergic excitatory transmission to the circular muscle of the corpus of guinea-pig stomach. In addition, after blocking the non-adrenergic non-cholinergic inhibitory junction potential by apamin, L-nitroarginine and tetraethylammonium, the fast component of the non-adrenergic non-cholinergic excitatory junction potential could be mediated by adenosine triphosphate.
In normal mouse superior cervical ganglion, dystrophin immunoreactivity is present in ganglionic neurons, satellite cells and Schwann cells. It is associated with several cytoplasmic organelles and specialized plasma membrane domains, including two types of structurally and functionally different intercellular junctions: synapses, where it is located at postsynaptic densities, and adherens junctions. Dystrophin immunostaining can be ascribed to the 427,000 mol. wt full-length dystrophin, as well as to the several dystrophin isoforms present in superior cervical ganglion, as revealed by western immunoblots. In mdx mouse superior cervical ganglion, which lacks the 427,000 mol. wt dystrophin, the unchanged pattern of dystrophin immunolabelling observed at several subcellular structures indicates the presence of dystrophin isoforms at these sites. Moreover, the absence of labelled adherens junctions indicates the presence of full-length dystrophin at this type of junction in the normal mouse superior cervical ganglion. The lower number of immunopositive postsynaptic densities in mdx mouse superior cervical ganglion than in normal mouse ganglion suggests the presence, in the latter, of postsynaptic densities with differently organized dystrophin cytoskeleton: some containing dystrophin isoforms alone or together with 427,000 mol. wt dystrophin, and others containing 427,000 mol. wt dystrophin alone.
Withdrawal from morphine evokes increases in Fos-like immunoreactivity in the spinal cord, particularly in the superficial dorsal horn, laminae I/II. To determine the origin of the increased Fos-like immunoreactivity, we selectively targeted central or peripheral opioid receptors with naloxone-methiodide, an antagonist that does not cross the blood-brain barrier, or induced withdrawal after eliminating possible sources of input to the superficial dorsal horn. To induce tolerance, we implanted rats with morphine or placebo pellets (75 mg, six pellets over three days). On day 4, withdrawal was precipitated and after 1 h, the rats were killed, their spinal cords removed and 50 microm transverse sections of the spinal cord immunoreacted with a rabbit polyclonal antiserum directed against the Fos protein. In placebo-pelleted rats, none of the different procedures, viz. spinal transection, unilateral dorsal rhizotomy (L4-S2), neonatal capsaicin treatment or direct intrathecal opioid antagonist injection, induced expression of the Fos protein. However, both spinally transected and rhizotomized withdrawing animals showed significant increases in Fos-like immunoreactivity in laminae I/II, compared to intact withdrawing rats. Neonatal treatment with capsaicin, which eliminates C-fibres, did not alter Fos-like-immunoreactivity. Selective withdrawal of morphine from peripheral opioid receptors by naloxone-methiodide did not induce Fos-like immunoreactivity in the lumbar spinal cord greater than that recorded in nonwithdrawing rats. However, intrathecal injection of naloxone-methiodide increased Fos-like immunoreactivity in laminae I/II and the ventral horn to a greater extent than did subcutaneous injection of naloxone. We hypothesize that the increased Fos expression after systemic withdrawal in spinally-transected rats results from a loss of descending inhibitory control that is activated during withdrawal. The increase in withdrawal-induced Fos-like immunoreactivity after rhizotomy may be secondary to loss of inhibitory controls exerted by large diameter primary afferents or to deafferentation-induced reorganization in the dorsal horn. Since capsaicin did not alter the magnitude of Fos-like immunoreactivity in withdrawing rats, we conclude that hyperactivity of opioid receptor-laden C-fibres is not a necessary contributor to the withdrawal-induced increase in Fos-like immunoreactivity in laminae I and II. Taken together with the results recorded after intrathecal injection of naloxone-methiodide in tolerant rats, we conclude that the pattern of lumbar spinal cord Fos expression following systemic withdrawal is primarily a consequence of increased activity in opioid receptor-containing circuits intrinsic to the dorsal horn and that the magnitude of Fos expression is normally dampened by supraspinal and primary afferent-derived inhibitory inputs.
The nucleus retroambiguus in the cat has been shown to receive strong projections from the periaqueductal gray and to send fibres to distinct motoneuronal cell groups in brainstem and spinal cord. The nucleus retroambiguus plays a role in the production of vocalization and possibly copulatory (lordosis and mounting) behaviour. The question arises of whether a periaqueductal gray nucleus retroambiguus-spinal cord projection also exists in the rat. In the present study, using the retrograde wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase tracing technique, the nucleus retroambiguus was defined as the area in the caudal medulla oblongata (1.0-2.0 mm caudal to the obex) which sends its fibres mainly through the contralateral spinal cord. Further retrograde tracing experiments demonstrated that a relatively large number of neurons in the lateral and ventral periaqueductal gray and immediately adjacent tegmentum projects to the caudal medullary lateral tegmentum. Anterograde wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase tracing studies finally showed that neurons in the lateral periaqueductal gray and immediately adjoining tegmentum project specifically to the nucleus retroambiguus and not to the lateral tegmentum in general, which seems to be the case for the neurons in the ventral periaqueductal gray. The results indicate that in the rat a periaqueductal gray nucleus retroambiguus spinal cord projection also exists, which may be of crucial importance for the study of the anatomical and physiological framework of respiration, vocalization, and female and male reproductive behaviour in this animal.
We have recently reported that the antinociception induced by etorphine given i.c.v. is mediated in part by the stimulation of both mu- and epsilon-opioid receptors and the activation of both monoaminergic and opioidergic descending pain control systems. [Xu J. Y. et al. (1992) J. Pharmac. exp. Ther. 263, 246-252]. Since the opioid epsilon-receptor-mediated antinociception induced by beta-endorphin is mediated by the release of [Met]enkephalin and subsequent stimulation of delta-opioid receptors in the spinal cord, the present studies were designed to determine if beta-endorphin-like action is also involved in etorphine-induced antinociception. The tail-flick test was used to assess the antinociceptive response performed in male ICR mice. Etorphine at doses from 5 to 20 ng given i.c.v. produced a dose-dependent inhibition of the tail-flick response. The inhibition of the tail-flick response induced by etorphine given i.c.v. was antagonized by intrathecal pretreatment for 60 min with antiserum against [Met]enkephalin (10 microg), but not with antiserum against [Leu]enkephalin (10 microg) or dynorphin A (1-13) (10 microg). Desensitization of delta-opioid receptors in the spinal cord by intrathecal pretreatment with [Met]enkephalin (5 microg) for 60 min attenuated i.c.v. administered etorphine-induced tail-flick inhibition. However, intrathecal pretreatment with [Leu]enkephalin (5 microg) or dynorphin A (1-17) (0.1 microg) for 60 min did not attenuate i.c.v. administered etorphine-induced tail-flick inhibition. The results indicate that antinociception induced by etorphine given i.c.v. is mediated in part by the stimulation of the epsilon-opioid receptor at the supraspinal sites and by the release of [Met]enkephalin, which subsequently stimulates delta-opioid receptors in the spinal cord.
During prolonged exposure to morphine, oxytocin neurons of the rat supraoptic nucleus develop dependence, shown by hyperexcitation following morphine withdrawal. The present study investigated the role of afferent projections to the supraoptic nucleus in this withdrawal excitation. Rats were made morphine-dependent by continuous intracerebroventricular infusion of morphine at increasing doses (up to 50 microg/h). On the sixth day, rats were anaesthetized with pentobarbitone and morphine withdrawal was precipitated by intraperitoneal injection of naloxone (5 mg/kg). Fos-immunoreactivity in the supraoptic nucleus, and also in the median preoptic nucleus, organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis and subfornical organ, which project to the supraoptic nucleus, increased following morphine withdrawal. However, retrograde tracing from the supraoptic nucleus showed that, of the neurons in these regions which project to the supraoptic nucleus, only 0.4-7.1% expressed Fos in response to morphine withdrawal. Following morphine withdrawal, Fos-immunoreactivity was present in 39.2% and 19.8% of the tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons of the A1/C1 and A2/C2 cell groups. Of the cells in these regions identified as projecting to the supraoptic nucleus, 11.3% in the region of the A2 cell group and 12.7% in the region of the A1 cell group expressed Fos after morphine withdrawal. In a second study, monoamine release was measured in the supraoptic nucleus of urethane-anaesthetized morphine-dependent and -naive rats. Retrodialysis of naloxone (10[-5] M) into the supraoptic nucleus induced a small increase in plasma oxytocin concentration in morphine-dependent rats (13.5+/-4.8 pg/ml increase) but not in naive rats (1.2+/-5.9 pg/ml decrease), with no significant change in monoamine release in either morphine-dependent or -naive rats. Intravenous injection of naloxone (5 mg/kg) 1 h later produced a further significant increase in plasma oxytocin concentration in morphine-dependent rats concomitant with a significant increase in noradrenaline release from the supraoptic nucleus. Thus, morphine-withdrawal excitation of supraoptic oxytocin neurons occurs concurrently with a modestly increased activity of their input from the brainstem, and very little activation in other known inputs.
We have recently shown both inhibitory and excitatory effects of serotonin on neonatal rat dorsal column axons. While neonatal rat dorsal column axons also respond to norepinephrine and GABA, adult rat dorsal columns are insensitive to the actions of both compounds. Therefore, we studied the effects of serotonin agonists on adult rat dorsal column axons using randomized double pulse stimuli at 0.2 Hz with random interpulse intervals of 3, 4, 5, 8, 10, 20, 30, 50 and 80 ms. The serotonin(1A) agonist, 8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin-hydrobromide (8-OH-DPAT), significantly modulated test response amplitudes at 3, 4, 5 and 8 ms interpulse intervals by 29.6+/-4.0%, 17.4+/-2.1%, 9.6+/-2.3%, and 12.4+/-2.2% of conditioning pulse amplitudes, respectively. The mean latencies at 3, 4 and 5 ms interpulse intervals increased by 17.0+/-5.1%, 8.6+/-2.1%, and 5.1+/-1.4%, respectively (P&lt;0.05). However, neither 10 microM 8-OH-DPAT nor 100 microM serotonin hydrochloride affected the compound action potentials evoked by conditioning or test pulses. In contrast, treatment with 100 microM quipazine dimaleate (a serotonin(2A) agonist) decreased the refractory period. While the response amplitudes to a 3-ms double pulse were reduced by 11.0+/-1.5% during the control period, the test response fell to only 2.4+/-1.8% of the conditioning response amplitudes after exposure to 100 microM quipazine. 8-OH-DPAT decreased the amplitude, prolonged the latency and increased the refractory periods of compound action potentials in the adult rat dorsal column, although a high concentration of the agonist (100 microM) was required for these effects. In contrast, the serotonin(2A) agonist, quipazine, decreased refractory periods. These results suggest that both serotonin(1A) and serotonin(2A) receptor subtypes are present on adult spinal dorsal column axons. Further, these receptors have opposing effects on axonal excitability, despite the fact that their sensitivities are relatively low.
Neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and pars compacta of the rat were studied using a combination of intracellular electrophysiological recording in in vitro and subsequent immunocytochemical double and triple labelling techniques. The neurons recorded in the pars reticulata were identified as either GABA or dopamine neurons: neurons were considered to be GABA neurons if they were immunopositive for glutamate decarboxylase, whereas those neurons which were immunopositive for tyrosine hydroxylase were considered to be dopaminergic. The GABA neurons had short duration action potentials (0.45+/-0.03 ms halfwidth), no apparent rectifying currents, no low threshold calcium spikes, were spontaneously active (7.4+/-3.7 Hz), and could maintain high firing rates. The dopamine neurons had long duration action potentials (1.49+/-0.10 ms), displayed both anomalous inward and transient outward rectifying currents, and more than half (12/17 neurons) displayed a low threshold calcium spike. Their spontaneous firing rate was lower than that of the GABA neurons (2.3+/-1.0 Hz), and they displayed strong frequency adaptation. Morphological reconstruction of neurobiotin-filled neurons revealed that the pars reticulata GABA neurons had more extensive local dendritic arborization than the dopamine neurons from either the pars reticulata or the pars compacta. All of the neurons recorded from the pars compacta were dopamine neurons; they were found not to be different either electrophysiologically or morphologically from pars reticulata dopamine neurons. The electrophysiology of the GABA neurons suggests that input activity is translated linearly to spike frequency. These GABA neurons probably represent the projection neurons of the pars reticulata, and it is thus likely that this basal ganglia output is frequency coded. The close similarity between the dopamine neurons in the pars compacta, which give rise to the nigrostriatal pathway, and those in the pars reticulata supports the notion that the dopamine neurons in these two regions are part of the same neuronal population.
Four experiments were conducted to investigate the role of pallidal and nigral GABA in the generation of tremulous jaw movements in rats. In these experiments, tremulous jaw movements were induced by i.p. injections of the anticholinesterase tacrine (5.0 mg/kg). Previous work has shown that the tremulous jaw movements induced by cholinomimetics and dopamine depletion are dependent upon striatal mechanisms. Thus, the present study investigated potential striatal output pathways that could be involved in the generation of these movements. Because there are GABAergic projections from neostriatum to entopeduncular nucleus (medial globus pallidus) and substantia nigra pars reticulata, the GABA agonist muscimol was injected directly into these structures to study the effects of GABA stimulation on tacrine-induced jaw movements. Injections of muscimol into the entopeduncular nucleus (25-100 ng) failed to have any significant effects on tacrine-induced vacuous jaw movements. However, injections of muscimol (12.5-50 ng) into the substantia nigra pars reticulata blocked the jaw movements induced by tacrine. In the third experiment, it was again demonstrated that 25.0 ng of muscimol injected directly into the substantia nigra pars reticulata blocked the jaw movements induced by tacrine; in addition, it was shown that injections of this dose 2.0 mm dorsal to the substantia nigra pars reticulata failed to affect tacrine-induced tremulous jaw movements. It was shown in the fourth experiment that injections of muscimol into a more medial portion of the substantia nigra pars reticulata also reduced tacrine-induced tremulous jaw movements. These results indicate that stimulation of GABA(A) receptors in substantia nigra pars reticulata can block tacrine-induced tremulous jaw movements. This finding is consistent with the notion that striatonigral GABA projections are involved in the generation of tremulous jaw movements. It is also possible that striatonigral GABA mechanisms are involved in human clinical phenomena such as parkinsonian tremor.
The ventral pallidum receives major inputs from the nucleus accumbens, a striatal region related to the prefrontal cortex. The ventral pallidum, through its projections to the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus, has been considered as the main output structure of the prefrontal-basal ganglia circuits. However, as shown recently, the ventral pallidum also sends efferents to the subthalamic nucleus and the substantia nigra, suggesting that it could participate in intrinsic basal ganglia circuits. The aim of the present investigation was to determine the position of the ventral pallidum in the prefrontal-basal ganglia circuit originating from the prelimbic and medial orbital areas. Following injections of biocytin (an anterograde tracer) into the region of the core of the nucleus accumbens receiving excitatory inputs from the prelimbic and medial orbital areas, axonal terminal fields were observed in a delineated dorsal region of the ventral pallidum. When the biocytin injections were made into this ventral pallidal region, anterogradely labelled fibres were observed in both the dorsomedial substantia nigra pars reticulata and the medial subthalamic nucleus, but not in the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus. Confirming these anatomical observations, electrical stimulation of the core of the nucleus accumbens induced an inhibition of the spontaneous activity (D=34.9+/-13.3 ms, L=9.2+/-3.3 ms) in 46.5% of the ventral pallidal cells. Among these responding cells, 43% were antidromically driven from the subthalamic nucleus, 30% from the substantia nigra pars reticulata and only 6% from the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus. These data demonstrate that the region of the ventral pallidum involved in the prefrontal cortex-basal ganglia circuit originating from the prelimbic and medial orbital areas represents essentially a ventral subcommissural extension of the external segment of the globus pallidus since it exhibits similar extrinsic connections and functional characteristics. In conclusion, in this prelimbic and medial orbital channel, the ventral pallidum cannot be considered as a major output structure but is essentially involved in intrinsic basal ganglia circuits.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors have been implicated in modulation of synaptic transmission in many different systems. This study reports the effects of selective activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors on synaptic transmission in intracellularly recorded locus coeruleus neurons in brain slice preparations. Perfusion of either L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4; 0.1-500 microM) or (+/-)-1-aminocyclopentane-trans-1,3,dicarboxylic acid (t-ACPD; 0.1-500 microM) caused a depression of excitatory postsynaptic potentials in a dose-dependent fashion to about 70% inhibition. Both agonists exerted their effects at relatively low concentrations with estimated EC50s of 2.6 microM and 11.5 microM for L-AP4 and t-ACPD, respectively. This inhibition was not observed with the potent group I metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG; 100 microM). Conversely, (R)-4-carboxy-3-hydroxyphenyl-glycine (4C-3H-PG), a group I antagonist/group II agonist, and 2R,4R-4-aminopyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (APDC), a novel and specific group II agonist, also caused an inhibition of excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Both t-ACPD and L-AP4 produced an increase in paired-pulse facilitation, and failed to change the locus coeruleus response to focally applied glutamate, indicating a presynaptic locus of action. The L-AP4 inhibition was antagonized by (S)-amino-2-methyl-4-phosphonobutanoic acid (MAP4: group III antagonist) but not by (RS)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine [(RS)-MCPG; mixed antagonist], suggesting that this agonist acts through a type 4 metabotropic glutamate receptor. Conversely, t-ACPD was antagonized by MCPG and by ethyl glutamate (group II antagonist), but not by aminoindan dicarboxylic acid (AIDA; group I antagonist) or MAP4, suggesting that this agonist acts on a type 2 or 3 metabotropic glutamate receptor. Taken together, these results suggest that two pharmacologically distinct presynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptors function in an additive fashion to inhibit excitatory synaptic transmission in locus coeruleus neurons. These receptors may be involved in a feedback mechanism and as such may function as autoreceptors for excitatory amino acids.
A novel gene, designated neurorep 1, was isolated by differential hybridization screening from a complementary DNA library constructed from the rat facial nucleus whose nerve had been transected seven days before sampling. In situ hybridization revealed that this gene was up-regulated in the repair stage after axotomy. The deduced protein, Neurorep 1, consists of 293 amino acid residues, and its molecular mass is approximately 34,000. Protein sequence motif search indicates that this protein has an ecto-5'-nucleotidase consensus sequence at the carboxyl terminal region. In vitro studies showed that Neurorep 1 significantly increased the activity of ecto-5'-nucleotidase, which is considered to be involved in regeneration and repair of the central nervous system. Neurorep 1 might play a significant role in the repair process of nerve tissues by its regulation of ecto-5'-nucleotidase activity.
The neurotransmitter L-glutamate has been associated with a number of developmental events within the central nervous system including synaptogenesis and the refinement of topographically ordered neural maps. As a model for studying such events at the molecular level, we have examined the expression of glutamate and glutamate receptors in neurons that develop from P19 cells in response to retinoids. We report here that many P19-derived neurons do contain glutamate in secretory vesicles and that this glutamate appears to function as a neurotransmitter. The neurotransmitter GABA is also present in these cultures and both glutamate and GABA appeared to co-localize in some neuronal processes. Both neurotransmitters were released from the neurons in response to membrane depolarization. These neurons also express various glutamate receptor subunits including GluR1, GluR4 and NMDAR1 as detected by immunological methods. Using whole-cell patch-clamping, we have recorded spontaneous postsynaptic potentials which increase in both amplitude and frequency with time in culture and which are sensitive to the glutamate antagonist kynurenic acid Thus, P19-derived neurons mature in culture and form electrically active neural networks involving glutamate and glutamate receptors.
Cholecystokinin, substance P and methionine enkephalin all regulate the display of reproductive behaviour. Their expression is exquisitely regulated by estrogen in the limbic-hypothalamic circuit, a circuit that regulates the display of estrogen-sensitive female reproductive behavior. Relatively little is known, however, about the interaction of endogenous opioid peptides with cholecystokinin and substance P in the limbic-hypothalamic circuit. Opiates antagonize the release of cholecystokinin and substance P in the hypothalamus and periaqueductal gray and stimulate cholecystokinin messenger RNA levels in the amygdala. To determine the effect of endogenous opioid input on estrogen-induced cholecystokinin, enkephalin and substance P expression, in situ hybridization histochemistry was used to examine estrogen-induced messenger RNA levels of these neuropeptides in specific nuclei of the limbic system and hypothalamus in the presence of opiate receptor antagonists. Estrogen treatment of ovariectomized rats significantly elevated cholecystokinin messenger RNA levels in the central portion of the medial preoptic nucleus, the encapsulated portion of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the posterodorsal medial amygdala, as well as increased preproenkephalin and preprotachykinin messenger RNA levels in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus and the posterodorsal medial amygdala. The universal opiate receptor antagonist naltrexone and the delta-opiate receptor antagonist naltrindole each potentiated the estrogen-induced increase and elevated cholecystokinin messenger RNA levels an additional 1.9- to 2.8-fold depending on the nucleus examined, but had no effect on the estrogen-induced expression of either preproenkephalin or preprotachykinin messenger RNA. beta-Funaltrexamine, a mu-opiate receptor antagonist, had no effect on the medial preoptic or medial amygdaloid cholecystokinin messenger RNA levels or on the estrogen-induced expression of preproenkephalin messenger RNA but did cause a decrease in estrogen-induced cholecystokinin messenger RNA levels in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and a decrease in the preprotachykinin messenger RNA levels in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus. These results indicate that endogenous opioids, acting on the delta-opiate receptor within nuclei of the limbic-hypothalamic circuit, restrain the estrogen-induced increase of cholecystokinin messenger RNA expression. Activation of the mu-opiate receptor, however, may facilitate cholecystokinin messenger RNA expression in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and preprotachykinin messenger RNA expression in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus. Thus, endogenous opioid peptides may act in a site- and receptor-specific manner to modulate estrogen-induced neuropeptide levels in the limbic system and hypothalamus.
Transections of the infraorbital nerve in adult rats resulted in progressive alterations of microglia identified by Lipocortinl immunoreactivity at the sites where the primary afferents terminate, i.e. in the trigeminal brainstem sensory nuclei. Microglia proliferated three- to four-fold. Their cell bodies enlarged and their processes thickened. Microglial responses were similar to the removal of whisker follicles. However, they were restricted to discrete nuclear subregions that matched with the known whisker somatotopy. Astrocytes identified by S100beta immunoreactivity showed minor increases in size and in population density. No microglial or astrocytic reactions were found in the second and third synaptic relays of the somatosensory pathway. Because both types of lesion reportedly lead to the reorganization of primary afferents, our results establish the two experimental designs as valuable tools to elucidate the role of microglia and Lipocortin1 in adult brain plasticity.
Ionizing radiation produces apoptosis in the developing rat brain. Strong c-Jun immunoreactivity, as revealed with the antibody c-Jun/AP-1 (N) which is raised against the amino acids 91-105 mapping with the amino terminal domain of mouse c-Jun p39, is simultaneously observed in the nucleus and cytoplasm of apoptotic cells. Western blotting of total brain homogenates, using the same antibody, shows a p39 band in control rats which is accompanied by a strong, phosphorylated p62 double-band in irradiated animals. In addition, increased c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1 expression, as found on western blots, is found in irradiated rats when compared with controls. Intraperitoneal injection of kainic acid at convulsant doses to the adult rat produces cell death with morphological features of necrosis, together with the appearance of cells with fine granular chromatin degeneration and small numbers of apoptotic-like cells, in the entorhinal and piriform cortices, basal amygdala, certain thalamic nuclei, and CA1 region of the hippocampus. c-Jun expression in kainic acid-treated rats, as revealed with the c-Jun/AP-1 (N) antibody, is found in the nuclei of a minority of cells in the same areas. The vast majority of c-Jun-immunoreactive cells have normal nuclear morphology, whereas necrotic cells are negative and only a few cells with fine granular chromatin condensation and apoptotic cells following kainic acid injection are stained with c-Jun antibodies. Western blotting, using the same antibody, shows a p39 band in control rats, which is accompanied by a band at about p26 from 6 h onwards following kainic acid injection. Decreased c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1 expression, as revealed on western blots, is observed in kainic acid-treated rats. These results show that the antibody c-Jun/AP-1 (N) recognizes three different forms of c-Jun-related immunoreactivity in normal and pathological states, which are associated with the different outcome of cells. These results stress the necessity of examining in detail the composition of c-Jun-immunoreactive bands and the metabolic state of c-Jun(s) in different paradigms of cell death and survival.
It is not clear whether macrophages which can phagocytose dead cells, may also contribute to death of potentially viable neurons when they enter brain lesion sites after insult. We have initially examined the effects of macrophage-conditioned medium on the integrity of hippocampal neurons in culture. We assessed qualitative and quantitative changes in neuronal status in terms of nuclear morphology, internucleosomal cleavage, cell membrane integrity and process density. Cell morphology with manual counts to quantitate findings showed that macrophage conditioned medium significantly increased the percentage of neurons with abnormal nuclei. Aurintricarboxylic acid attenuated this effect. Demonstration of laddering of DNA on agarose gels suggested an apoptosis-like event. A commercially available kit used to detect high concentrations of 3'-OH DNA ends showed marked increase in labelled cells. These combined findings confirmed that apoptosis was the main event triggered by conditioned medium. Although the number of cells with incompetent membranes also increased with conditioned medium application the majority of cells with apoptotic nuclei maintained membrane integrity. Conditioned medium also resulted in significant loss of cell processes. Conditioned medium from stimulated microglia showed a similar pattern of injury. The response of stressed neurons to conditioned medium was also tested. Exposure of cultures to mild hypoxia resulted in injury but did not significantly alter their subsequent vulnerability to macrophage-conditioned medium. Early experiments suggest that the documented changes in neuronal status are caused by relatively large and stable secreted macrophage proteins.
In order to determine whether granule cell death stimulates the proliferation of granule cell precursors in the dentate gyrus of the adult rat, we performed both excitotoxic and mechanical lesions of the granule cell layer and examined the numbers of proliferating cells at different survival times. Using [3H]thymidine autoradiography, bromodeoxyuridine labelling and proliferating cell nuclear antigen immunohistochemistry, we observed an increase in proliferating cells on the lesioned side compared to the unlesioned side 24 h after surgery. A significant positive correlation between the extent of granule cell damage and the number of proliferating cells was observed. Combined [3H]thymidine autoradiography and immunohistochemistry for cell-specific markers revealed that the vast majority of proliferating cells had the morphological characteristics of granule cell precursors and were not immunoreactive for vimentin, a marker of immature glia. Combined [3H]thymidine autoradiography and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labelling for degenerating cells showed that the proliferating cells did not rapidly degenerate. Three weeks after the lesion, most cells produced in response to the lesion had the morphological characteristics of mature granule neurons, were located in the granule cell layer and expressed markers of mature granule neurons, including neuron-specific enolase, the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit NRI and calbindin. These findings suggest that granule cell death stimulates the proliferation of precursor cells, many of which survive and differentiate into mature granule neurons.
Several studies with adrenalectomized rats have shown that the suppressive effects of exogenous corticosteroids on 5-hydroxytryptamine(1A) receptor function are mediated by the high-affinity mineralocorticoid receptor, rather than the lower affinity glucocorticoid receptor. In the present study, adrenally intact rats were subcutaneously implanted for six days with pellets containing a small amount of corticosterone, which leads to a flattening of the circadian rhythm in the level of circulating hormone. The peak in daily corticosterone is suppressed, the basal trough is increased, and the hormone levels remain at a constant value equivalent to the daily average of about 5 microg/dl, which is usually observed in rats. Accordingly, this regime of corticosterone treatment did not enhance exclusively glucocorticoid receptor-controlled parameters, such as the weight of the thymus. Effects involving mineralocorticoid receptor activation were enhanced, since reductions were observed in stress-induced plasma corticosterone levels and adrenal weight. 5-Hydroxytryptamine(1A) receptor messenger RNA levels were found to be suppressed by approximately 25% in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus of these corticosterone pellet-implanted rats. This suppression was reflected in significantly reduced [3H]8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin binding in the hippocampal region. We propose therefore that this suppressive effect on 5-hydroxytryptamine(1A) receptor expression involves enhanced occupation of mineralocorticoid receptors, under a condition of elevated basal trough corticosteroid levels as is commonly observed in human depression.
Our laboratory has been utilizing the model of hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth, which has been suggested to occur in Alzheimer's disease, to investigate the effects of cholinergic denervation and hippocampal rearrangements. After cholinergic denervation by medial septal lesions, peripheral sympathetic fibres originating from the superior cervical ganglia grow into the rat hippocampus. This hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth can be prevented by superior cervical ganglionectomy. We examined the long-term effects of these treatments on muscarinic receptors by comparing [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate binding in rat dorsal hippocampus four and 12 weeks post lesion. Four groups of animals were employed, including controls (sham lesion+sham ganglionectomy), animals with ingrowth (medial septal lesion+ sham ganglionectomy), animals with cholinergic denervation alone (medial septal lesion+ ganglionectomy), and ganglionectomy alone (sham lesion+ganglionectomy) animals. In dorsal hippocampus four weeks post lesion, binding affinity was similar among all groups, while muscarinic receptor number was increased in ingrowth animals as compared to both the control (P&lt;0.0002) and ganglionectomy animals (P&lt;0.01). By 12 weeks, receptor affinity was significantly decreased in ingrowth (P&lt;0.0001) and cholinergic denervation (P&lt;0.0003) groups, and receptor number remained significantly elevated in ingrowth animals as compared to control (P&lt;0.01), ganglionectomy (P&lt;0.02) and cholinergic denervation (P&lt;0.01) groups. The decrease in muscarinic receptor affinity may provide some insight into the ineffectiveness of cholinomimetic therapies in Alzheimer's disease, in that agonist efficacy would be reduced at the receptor.
The loss of somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons and the sprouting of mossy fibers are typical histopathological abnormalities in the hippocampus in experimental and human temporal lobe epilepsy. To investigate whether the development of seizure-induced alterations is regulated by the subcortical afferent pathways to the hippocampus, we lesioned cholinergic, noradrenergic or serotonergic afferent pathways in rats two days after seizures were induced with kainate. Two months later, somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons were counted in the hilus to assess the severity of neuronal damage. Mossy fiber sprouting was analysed from adjacent Timm-stained sections. Kainate-induced seizures caused a loss of hilar somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons in the septal end of the hippocampus, where 63% of the somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons survived. Even more severe damage was found in the temporal end of the hippocampus (only 21% surviving). Cholinergic deafferentation of the hippocampus (using 192-IgG saporin) decreased the overall number of hilar somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons. In control rats that did not receive kainate, 87% (septal end) and 74% (temporal end) of the hilar somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons remained after cholinergic deafferentation. Moreover, seizure-induced damage to hilar somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons was further exacerbated by 192-IgG-saporin, with only 35% of the neurons remaining in the septal end and 14% in the temporal end of the hippocampus. Noradrenergic [using N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine] or serotonergic (using 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine) lesions did not affect the number of hilar somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons either in control or in kainate-treated rats. The severity and distribution of seizure-induced mossy fiber sprouting were also not affected by any of the lesions. These data suggest that various subcortical afferent pathways may differentially modulate seizure-induced damage to the hippocampus. Damage to cholinergic neurons results in the loss of hilar somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons and exacerbates the seizure-induced loss of somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons.
Intraventricular 192 IgG-saporin was used to induce a selective lesion of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in rats. When subjected to 40 rapid hippocampal kindling stimulations with 5-min intervals, these animals exhibited increased number of generalized seizures and a higher mean seizure grade in response to the first five stimulations, and required fewer stimuli to develop focal behavioural seizures, as compared to non-lesioned rats. In contrast, both groups showed similarly enhanced responsiveness when test stimulated four weeks later. Using in situ hybridization, cholinergic denervation was found to cause a significant decrease of basal brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA levels in the hippocampal formation and piriform cortex, whereas gene expression for nerve growth factor, neurotrophin-3, and TrkB and TrkC was unchanged. Four weeks after rapid kindling stimulations, basal levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in the dentate granule cells were restored to normal in the lesioned rats, whereas neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA levels were decreased. No differences in the seizure-evoked levels of neurotrophin and Trk messenger RNAs were detected, except in the dentate granule cell layer, which had significantly higher brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA expression in the lesioned animals at 2 h. In conclusion, the basal forebrain cholinergic system (i) dampens the severity of recurring seizures induced by rapid hippocampal kindling stimulations, but has no effect on the subsequent delayed phase of epileptogenesis; and (ii) exerts a tonic stimulation of basal brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA levels in the hippocampal formation and piriform cortex. The findings also indicate that the cholinergic lesion does not affect neurotrophin and Trk gene expression after recurring seizures, and that the kindling process leads to long-term changes in basal brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA levels in the denervated animals.
The convergence/divergence of mossy fibre afferent projections to the cerebellar anterior lobe from a single lumbar segment, from adjacent or widely separated lower thoracic and lumbar segments, and finally from the lower thoracic-upper lumbar spinal cord and the brainstem cuneate nuclei was quantitatively analysed in adult rats. Spinal and cuneate mossy fibre terminals were differentially labelled with biotinylated dextran amine and cholera toxin subunit B, immunohistochemically identified in the same histological sections, and their spatial distributions quantitatively plotted in computer reconstructions of the unfolded anterior lobe cortex. Afferent convergence was quantified by calculating the number of biotinylated dextran amine-labelled terminals that radially overlapped with cholera toxin-labelled terminals at points on the unfolded cortical map that represented theoretical Purkinje cells. Spino- and cuneocerebellar mossy fibre terminals are organized in patches that are oriented in parasagittally-oriented stripes or transversely oriented bands. Afferent convergence was greatest following biotinylated dextran amine and cholera toxin injections in the same or adjacent spinal lumbar segments (60 and 52%, respectively). When biotinylated dextran amine and cholera toxin were injected in a single segment differentially labelled terminals appeared randomly intermingled in common patches. There was a trend for terminals labelled from adjacent lumbar segments to be more segregated in the patches. Segmentally separated biotinylated dextran amine and cholera toxin spinal cord injections (four lumbar segments) resulted in clearly segregated (80%) biotinylated dextran amine from cholera toxin-labelled terminal patches or patches with distinct divergence of the differentially labelled terminals in the patch. Cuneocerebellar terminals labelled with biotinylated dextran amine were located in patches, stripes, and bands spatially segregated from terminal patches, stripes, and bands of cholera toxin-labelled spinal afferents except at their immediate borders where some radial overlap occurred (9-22%). These anatomical findings for a fractured somatotopy of spinal and cuneate inputs to the cerebellar anterior lobe complement neurophysiological findings for a very similar pattern of organization of cutaneous inputs to the posterior lobe, and are discussed in light of potential mechanisms for anterior lobe processing of somatosensory information.
The distribution of wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase-labelled mossy fibre terminals of internal and external cuneate projections to the cerebellar anterior and posterior lobes were quantitatively analysed in adult rats. Computer-based image analysis mapped the spatial distribution of labelled cuneocerebellar terminals in two-dimensional reconstructions of the unfolded cortex. Cuneocerebellar projections are mainly ipsilateral in their distribution. Cuneate projections to the anterior lobe vermis-medial paravermis terminate in well-circumscribed, irregularly-shaped patches. These terminal patches are aligned and form a longitudinally continuous, parasagittally oriented stripe in the lateral vermis-medial paravermis of lobules I-V. These terminal patches represent the topographically organized divergent projections of different parts of the internal and external cuneate nuclei. Cuneocerebellar projections to the lateral paravermis-hemisphere, particularly in the posterior part of lobule V, are organized as a transversely oriented band of terminals. Cuneocerebellar projections to the posterior lobe terminate mainly in three transversely oriented bands of terminals located at the junction between lobules. An anterior band of terminals was located in lobule VI anteriorly and was continuous with the band of terminals located in the posterolateral part of lobule V at the junction of these two lobules. Intermediate and posterior transversely oriented bands of terminals were located at the VII-VIII and VIII-IX junctions, respectively. Cuneocerebellar projections to these three bands largely appear to represent convergent projections from different parts of the cuneate nuclei. These findings are discussed in relation to similarly analysed and previously reported findings on the organization of lower thoracic-upper lumbar spinocerebellar projections and in the context of how cuneocerebellar somatosensory input may be differentially organized and processed in disparate areas of the cerebellar cortex.
G-protein-gated inward rectifier potassium channels mediate the synaptic actions of numerous neurotransmitters in the mammalian brain, and were recently shown to be candidates for genetic mutations leading to neuronal cell death. This report describes the localization of G-protein-gated inward rectifier potassium channel-2 and G-protein-gated inward rectifier potassium channel-4 proteins in the rat brain, as assessed by immunocytochemistry. G-protein-gated inward rectifier potassium channel-2 immunoreactivity was widely distributed throughout the brain, with the strongest staining seen in the hippocampus, septum, granule cell layer of the cerebellum, amygdala and substantia nigra pars compacta. In contrast, G-protein-gated inward rectifier potassium channel-4 immunoreactivity was restricted to some neuronal populations, such as Purkinje cells and neurons of the globus pallidus and the ventral pallidum. The presence of G-protein-gated inward rectifier potassium channel-2 immunoreactivity in substantia nigra pars compacta dopaminergic neurons was confirmed by showing its co-localization with tyrosine hydroxylase by double immunocytochemistry, and also by selectively lesioning dopaminergic neurons with the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine. At the cellular level both proteins were localized in neuronal cell bodies and dendrites, but clear differences were seen in the degree of dendritic staining among neuronal groups. For some neuronal groups the staining of distal dendrites (notably dendritic spines) was strong, while for others the cell body and proximal dendrites were preferentially labelled. In addition, some of the results suggest that G-protein-gated inward rectifier potassium channel-2 protein could be localized in distal axonal terminal fields. A knowledge of the distribution of G-protein-gated inward rectifier potassium channel proteins in the brain could help to elucidate their physiological roles and to evaluate their potential involvement in neurodegenerative processes in animal models and human diseases.
Autoradiographic studies of the distribution of the histamine H2 receptor and its messenger RNAs were performed on serial frontal and a few sagittal sections of guinea-pig brain using [(125)I]iodoaminopotentidine for radioligand binding and a 33P-labelled complementary RNA probe for in situ hybridization, respectively. Both probes were validated by assessing non-specific labelling using non-radioactive competing H2 receptor ligands and a sense probe for binding sites and gene transcripts, respectively. In some areas, e.g., cerebral cortex, hippocampal complex or cerebellum, such studies were completed by identification of neurons expressing the H2 receptor messenger RNAs on emulsion-dipped sections. Nissl-stained sections from comparable levels were used to localize brain structures. In many brain areas, the distribution of the H2 receptor and its messenger RNAs appeared to parallel that known for histaminergic axons. For instance. high levels of both H2 receptor markers were detected in striatal and limbic areas known to receive abundant histaminergic projections. In contrast, in septum, hypothalamic, pontine and several thalamic nuclei, a comparatively low density of both H2 receptor markers was detected, suggesting that histamine actions in these areas are mediated by H1 and/or H3 receptors. Generally, the distribution of H2 receptor messenger RNA correlates well with that of [(125)I]iodoaminopotentidine binding sites, although some differences were observed. In a few regions (e.g., substantia nigra, locus coeruleus) high or moderate densities of binding sites were accompanied by a much more restricted expression of H2 receptor transcripts. Conversely, the mammillary region and the pontine nucleus exhibited higher levels of hybridization than of binding sites. In hippocampus, cerebral and cerebellar cortex there was a selective localization of the H2 receptor messenger RNA in the granule cells of dentate gyrus, pyramidal cells of the Ammon's horn and cerebral cortex, and Purkinje cells of cerebellum, whereas [(125)I]iodoaminopotentidine binding sites were located in layers where the dendritic trees of these messenger RNA-expressing neurons extend. The same discrepancy between messenger RNAs and binding sites suggests that striatonigral endings are endowed with the H2 receptor. The histamine H1 and H2 receptors both appear to be present in several brain areas, in some cases in a way suggesting their potential co-expression by the same neuronal populations, e.g., in granule and pyramidal cells in the hippocampal formation. This co-expression accounts for synergic responses, e.g., on cAMP generation, previously observed upon co-stimulation of both receptor subtypes. The widespread distribution of the H2 receptor, namely in thalamic nuclei or in telencephalic areas such as most layers of the cerebral cortex, together with its excitatory role previously established in electrophysiological studies, support its alleged function in mediating the histamine-driven control of arousal mechanisms. In addition, the detection of H2 receptor expression in brainstem areas from which other monoaminergic pathways involved in the control of states of sleep and wakefulness emanate, e.g., several raphe nuclei, locus coeruleus or substantia innominata, suggests possible interrelationships between all of these systems with highly divergent projections to the thalamus and telencephalon. The present mapping of the H2 receptor and its gene transcripts should facilitate neurochemical, neurophysiological and behavioural studies aimed at clarifying the role of histaminergic systems in brain.
The precursor proteins of Alzheimer's disease beta-amyloid peptide, the beta-amyloid precursor protein isoforms, comprise a family of neuronal proteins with synaptic localization whose physiological roles in brain are poorly understood. One possible role for synaptic proteins is involvement in neuronal plasticity. After exposure to an enriched environment compared to impoverished conditions, rats exhibited superior cognitive capacity. Up to approximately four-fold increased overall levels of beta-amyloid precursor proteins were found in cortical/subcortical tissue of the enriched animals displaying significantly more synapses immunoreactive for the different beta-amyloid precursor protein isoforms (beta-amyloid precursor protein695- and beta-amyloid precursor protein751/770) in hippocampus and adjacent occipital cortex. This correlation thus provides in vivo evidence for an association of beta-amyloid precursor proteins with plastic changes induced by complex environment with consequences for cognitive functions and suggests that impaired beta-amyloid precursor protein metabolism at synapses might contribute to brain dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease.
Visual experience is necessary for the normal development of the visual system. Dark-reared mammals show abnormal vision when reintroduced into a normal environment. The absence of visual experience during the critical period results in reduced and/or inappropriate neural responses in visual cortical neurons. The change in electrical activity induced by dark rearing is probably reflected by the modulation of specific unknown molecules. Neurotrophins are present in the developing visual cortex and their production depends on visually driven electrical activity. Recent findings support the possibility that an important link between electrical activity in the visual pathway and correct development of visual properties is represented by neurotrophins. We advance the hypothesis that the visual abnormalities present in dark-reared animals could be due to a decreased production of a neurotrophin secondary to the lack of visual stimulation. We report that some properties of visual cortical response such as receptive field size, orientation selectivity, adaptation to repeated stimulation, response latency and visual acuity are virtually normal in dark-reared rats transplanted with polymer-encapsulated baby hamster kidney cells genetically engineered to release nerve growth factor.
The mechanical response of human m. flexor pollicis longus to slow (3.2 degrees/s) linear stretch by 5.5 degrees was measured during sustained (45-60 s, 9-13.5 p.p.s.) unfused tetanus evoked by electrical stimulation. The stiffness increased during unfused tetanus. At the late phase of unfused tetanus it was 1.8 +/- 0.2 (mean +/- S.D.) times greater than at the early phase. The sensitivity of the isometric tension level to a short change in a stimulation frequency also increased. At the late phase of unfused tetanus force oscillations increased 1.2 +/- 0.2-fold during slow stretch or shortening and immediately reached a smaller amplitude after the cessation of length change. This was probably related to the friction and thixotropy in muscles. Muscle resistance to slow ramp depended only weakly on activation level. In the late phase of unfused tetanus the stiffness per unit force was 1.5 +/- 0.4 times greater at 9-13.5 p.p.s. than at 20-25 p.p.s. Thus, the relative value of muscle stiffness was greater for smaller activation levels typical for maintenance of posture. The enhancement of muscle stiffness during sustained unfused tetanus and a weak stiffness dependence on the activation level indicated a non-additivity of processes occurring in active muscle.
Differential activation of neural substrates was investigated in female sheep exposed to a male when they were in oestrus, and sexually receptive and attracted to males, as opposed to anoestrus when they were not. Changes in neuronal activation were visualized in ovariectomized, hormone-treated ewes by quantifying changes in cellular expression of c-fos messenger RNA by in situ hybridization histochemistry. Results showed that, while oestrus induction had no significant effects on c-fos expression per se, a 5-min exposure to a male significantly increased it in a number of primary and association cortical regions (the mitral and granule cell layers of the olfactory bulb, visual, somatosensory, orbitofrontal, piriform, cingulate and temporal cortices), the limbic system (CA1 region of the hippocampus, subiculum, lateral septum, lateral and basolateral amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis) and hypothalamus (mediobasal hypothalamus, medial preoptic area and paraventricular nucleus) as well as the nucleus accumbens and mediodorsal thalamus. Intromissions did not contribute significantly to these c-fos changes however. In anoestrus females, exposure to a male only produced a small significant increase in c-fos messenger RNA expression in the temporal cortex inspite of receiving similar amounts of visual and olfactory cues from him and a number of mating attempts. These results clearly demonstrate that changes in sexual motivation markedly alter the neural processing of sensory cues from males. They also show that the hormonal induction of sexual attraction to males cues and the resultant stimulation of sexual behaviour is due not only to altered responsiveness of oestrogen-sensitive brain regions involved in mediating behavioural responses towards the male, but also to changes in primary and secondary/tertiary somatosensory, olfactory and visual processing regions which relay sensory information to them.
The fatty Zucker rat has impaired heat production and fails to mount an adequate thermogenic response to cold exposure, partly because of decreased sympathetic drive to thermogenesis in brown adipose tissue. Neuropeptide Y, synthesized in neurons of the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus and released in the paraventricular nucleus, stimulates feeding and inhibits brown adipose tissue activity. The neuropeptide Y neurons are overactive in fatty Zucker rats and are thought to contribute to hyperphagia, reduced energy expenditure and obesity. We have examined the relationship between thermogenic activity in brown adipose tissue (measured as uncoupling protein messenger RNA levels) and hypothalamic neuropeptide Y and neuropeptide Y messenger RNA levels in response to cold exposure (4 degrees C) for 2.5 and 18 h, in fatty and lean Zucker rats. In lean Zucker rats, cold exposure at 4 degrees C for 2.5 and 18 h significantly increased uncoupling protein messenger RNA levels by 3.5-fold (P&lt;0.01) and 3.3-fold (P&lt;0.01), respectively, compared with warm-maintained controls. Exposure to cold for 18 h also increased neuropeptide Y concentrations in the paraventricular nucleus (P&lt;0.01) and ventromedial nucleus (P&lt;0.001) in lean rats, with no change in neuropeptide Y messenger RNA after either 2.5 or 18 h. By contrast, fatty Zucker rats showed no significant changes in uncoupling protein messenger RNA (P&gt;0.05) at either duration of cold exposure. There were also no significant changes in neuropeptide Y levels in any region nor in neuropeptide Y messenger RNA, with cold exposure for either period (P&gt;0.05). In lean rats, cold exposure therefore stimulates brown fat uncoupling protein messenger RNA and also increases neuropeptide Y concentrations in its hypothalamic sites of release. We suggest that increased brown fat thermogenic capacity induced by cold in lean rats may be mediated, at least in part, by decreased neuropeptide Y release in the paraventricular nucleus, resulting in its accumulation in this site. Defective thermogenic responses in fatty rats may result from central dysregulation of brown adipose tissue due to sustained and non-suppressible overactivity of hypothalamic neuropeptide Y neurons.
We characterized toxin-insensitive calcium currents expressed by acutely dissociated embryonic dorsal root ganglion neurons. In the presence of 3 microM omega-conotoxin-GVIA, 3 microM nitrendipine and either 500 nM omega-agatoxin-IVA or 500 nM omega-conotoxin-MVIIC to inhibit N-, L- and P/Q-type currents, respectively, all neurons expressed two residual currents: a T-type and another which we referred to as toxin-resistant current. The toxin-resistant current (i) consisted of an inactivating and a sustained components, (ii) had a threshold of activation and a steady-state inactivation comprised between that of the T-type current and that of the other high-voltage-activated currents, (iii) had the same permeability for barium and calcium used as charge carriers, (iv) was highly sensitive to both cadmium and nickel; and (v) was insensitive to 500 microM amiloride which abolished the T-type at this concentration. The properties of the toxin-resistant current are very similar to those of the currents expressed in oocytes following injection of alpha(1E) subunits which we demonstrated to be present in these neurons. Therefore a component of the toxin-resistant current calcium channels in sensory neurons may be closely related to those calcium channels formed by alpha(1E) subunits.
The importance of receptors for N-methyl-D-aspartate in synaptic plasticity and in triggering long-term pronociceptive changes is explained by their voltage-dependence. This suggests that their contribution to acute nociceptive responses would be determined both by the magnitude of synaptic input and by the level of background excitation. We have now examined the role of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in acute nociceptive transmission in the spinal cord. Drugs selectively affecting activity mediated by these receptors were tested on responses of dorsal horn neurons to noxious stimuli of different intensities and at different levels of ongoing spike discharge. The drugs used were the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channel blocker ketamine; the competitive antagonists, 3-((R)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (D-CPP) and D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (D-AP5), and the positive modulator thyrotropin-releasing hormone. The activity of dorsal horn wide dynamic range neurons was recorded extracellularly in alpha-chloralose-anaesthetized spinalized rats. Their responses to noxious stimuli (pinch, heat and electrical) were monitored in parallel with responses to iontophoretic N-methyl-D-aspartate and (RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid (AMPA). Drugs were given i.v. or (D-AP5) iontophoretically. At doses that selectively inhibited responses to exogenous N-methyl-D-aspartate, ketamine (4 or 8, mean 5 mg/kg i.v.) reduced the nociceptive responses of the majority of the cells in deep dorsal horn. Ketamine also reduced wind-up of the responses to repetitive electrical stimulation. Ketamine (4 or 8 mg/kg). D-CPP (2 mg/kg), D-AP5 (iontophoretically) and thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (1 mg/kg) were tested on different magnitude nociceptive responses evoked by alternating intensities of noxious heat or pinch. In percentage terms, the less vigorous responses were affected by all four drugs as much as or more than the more vigorous responses. When background activity of neurones was enhanced by continuous activation of C-fibres with cutaneous application of mustard oil, ketamine was less effective against superimposed noxious pinch responses. Ongoing background activity was affected in parallel with evoked responses. When background discharge of the cells was maintained at a stable level with continuous ejection of kainate, neither the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists nor thyrotrophin-relasing hormone affected the responses to noxious pinch or heat, although responses to exogenous N-methyl-D-aspartate were still blocked. The wind-up of the electrical responses was, however, reduced by ketamine irrespective of the level of background activity. The results indicate that under these conditions in vivo, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors mediate ongoing low-frequency background activity rather than phasic high-frequency nociceptive responses. The effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists and positive modulators on nociceptive responses are evidently indirect, being secondary to changes in background synaptic excitation. These results cannot be explained simply in relation to the voltage-dependence of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated activity; other factors, such as modulation by neuropeptides, must be involved.
The release of [3H]GABA from slices of rat substantia nigra pars reticulata induced by increasing extracellular K+ from 6 to 15 mM in the presence of 10 microM sulpiride was inhibited by 73 +/- 3% by 1 microM SCH 23390, consistent with a large component of release dependent upon D1 receptor activation. The histamine H3 receptor-selective agonist immepip (1 microM) and the non-selective agonist histamine (100 microM) inhibited [3H]GABA release by 78 +/- 2 and 80 +/- 2%, respectively. The inhibition by both agonists was reversed by the H3 receptor antagonist thioperamide (1 microM). However, in the presence of 1 microM SCH 23390 depolarization-induced release of [3H]GABA was not significantly decreased by 1 microM immepip. In rats depleted of dopamine by pretreatment with reserpine, immepip no longer inhibited control release of [3H]GABA, but in the presence of 1 microM SKF 38393, which produced a 7 +/- 1-fold stimulation of release, immepip reduced the release to a level not statistically different from that in the presence of immepip alone. Immepip (1 microM) also inhibited the depolarization-induced release of [3H]dopamine from substantia nigra pars reticulata slices, by 38 +/- 3%. The evidence is consistent with the proposition that activation of histamine H3 receptors leads to the selective inhibition of the component of depolarization-induced [3H]GABA release in substantia nigra pars reticulata slices which is dependent upon D1 receptor activation. This appears to be largely an action at the terminals of the striatonigral GABA projection neurons, which may be enhanced by a partial inhibition of dendritic [3H]dopamine release.
This study describes the use of the microdialysis technique to elucidate specific properties of the circadian pacemaking system in the hypothalamus, by measurement of melatonin production in the pineal gland. Melatonin has appeared to be a reliable marker of the pacemaker activity, which is influenced by the light/dark cycle. A phase shift in the light/dark cycle was applied to perturb the rhythm generating system. An 8-h phase advance resulted in the disappearance of melatonin production over two days, with basal levels comparable to normal daytime levels. In the subsequent return of rhythmic melatonin production, new clock characteristics could be revealed, due to the high time-resolution measurements of microdialysis. While half of the animals still did not show any rhythmicity, the other half of the animals regained rhythmicity with entrained onset of melatonin production, while the offset was variable and not stably entrained to lights on. Ten days after the shift, the system had completely recovered and all animals regained normal rhythmicity, in phase with the new light/dark cycle. The results are interpreted in terms of the two-oscillator model, with one oscillator reacting with a phase advance and the other with a phase delay to adapt to the phase shift.
Cerebral ischemia and also excitotoxicity induce the expression of 72,000 mol. wt heat shock protein (Hsp70), c-Fos, and cyclooxygenase-2. In the present work we have examined whether Hsp70, c-Fos and cyclooxygenase-2 are expressed by the same cells in the rat brain at 6, 12 and 24 h following transient focal ischemia or kainic acid administration, by means of single and double immunohistochemistry. At 6 h after kainic acid, some co-localization of Hsp70 with c-Fos and cyclooxygenase-2 was seen in pyramidal hippocampal neurons and superficial cortical layers, however by 24 h such colocalization became rare within the cortex but was partially maintained in the hippocampus. Cyclooxygenase-2 was seen in many neurons that were also immunoreactive for c-Fos in superficial cortical layers, dentate gyrus and pyramidal cell layer of the hippocampus from 6 h after kainic acid. Co-localization of cyclooxygenase-2 and c-Fos was also observed in superficial cortical layers within the ipsilateral hemisphere at 6 h following focal ischemia. Also, some co-localization of Hsp70 with c-Fos and cyclooxygenase-2 was seen at this time. However, by 24 h cyclooxygenase-2 and c-Fos-immunoreactive cells were restricted to perifocal regions, and only a very limited co-localization with Hsp70 was seen in perifocal neurons located in the border of the penumbra-like area that surrounds the ischemic core and is strongly immunoreactive for Hsp70. This study shows a selective and dynamic cellular expression of inducible proteins following either ischemia or kainic acid, with a remarkable neuronal co-localization of c-Fos and cyclooxygenase-2. The results suggest that, first, stimuli underlying neuronal c-Fos expression can also lead to the induction of cyclooxygenase-2; second, transient co-localization of Hsp70 and c-Fos can take place in non-vulnerable neurons; and finally, expression of c-Fos, cyclooxygenase-2, and/or Hsp70 at a given time-point is part of the response to altered environmental conditions and can be related to the particular cellular sensitivity rather than the pathological outcome.
To examine the functional expression of embryonic GABA receptors, the inhibitory effects were studied of GABA (GABA responses) on the excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked by vagal stimulus in seven- to 10-day-old embryonic chick brainstem slice preparations. A multiple-site optical recording technique was used, with a multiple element photodiode array system and a fast voltage-sensitive merocyanine-rhodanine dye (NK2761). First, in the GABA response, three components were pharmacologically identified: component 1, related to GABA(A) receptors; component 2, related to GABA(B) receptors; and component 3 which is insensitive to GABA(A) and GABA(B) antagonists, but is stimulated by both GABA(A) and GABA(B) agonists. Subsequently. the embryogenesis and early development of the three components were investigated, and early developmental maps of regional distribution patterns of the three components were constructed. Components 1 and 3 have already emerged in the seven-day-old embryonic brainstem preparation; component 2 appeared in the eight-day-old preparations. No component related to GABA(C) receptors was observed in the seven- to 10-day-old embryonic stages. From the pharmacological properties of component 3, we suggest that it is related to a new subtype, the GABA(D) receptor.
We used the in vitro whole-cell recording technique to study the nicotinic responses of relay cells and interneurons in the adult rat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, the thalamic nucleus that conveys visual signals from the retina to the cortex. These geniculate relay cells and interneurons were identified by their physiological and morphological properties. We found that, in the presence of a muscarinic antagonist, atropine, acetylcholine induced a depolarization in relay cells. A similar depolarization was induced by application of nicotine. These depolarizations were completely blocked by a nicotinic antagonist, hexamethonium, but were little affected by bath solution that contained tetrodotoxin and/or low calcium concentration to block synaptic transmission. This suggests that the depolarization is mediated directly by nicotinic receptors in relay cells. Application of nicotine also induced a depolarization in geniculate interneurons. The interneurons continued to exhibit a response to nicotine in the presence of synaptic blockade, although the time-course of the response was altered. The nicotinic responses in relay cells and interneurons shared many similar properties. Both exhibited desensitization, although this characteristic was much more pronounced in the interneurons. In both cell types, the nicotinic response activated a relatively linear conductance with a slight inward rectification. The reversal potential for the conductance was about - 33 mV, which is consistent with a permeability to sodium and potassium ions. The reversal potential shifted negatively by 5-6 mV when the bath solution contained low calcium, which further suggests a permeability to calcium ions. Our results indicate that nicotinic receptors are present in both geniculate relay cells and interneurons. The nicotinic depolarization in relay cells may serve to enhance transmission of visual signals through the lateral geniculate nucleus as well as to contribute to a voltage-dependent shift in the response mode of geniculate relay cells from burst to tonic (single-spike) firing. The nicotinic depolarization in interneurons may provide an explanation for reports that activation of the cholinergic system can enhance inhibitory tuning in the lateral geniculate nucleus.
The lurcher mutation induces Purkinje cell degeneration in heterozygous mice, and neonatal death in homozygous animals. Using the D6Mit16 Simple Sequence Length Polymorphic marker in F2 hybrids between AKR +/+ mice and B6+/Lc mice, homozygous lurcher fetuses and newborns as well as heterozygous and normal littermates were identified, and their brain morphology was analysed. In homozygous lurcher embryos at embryonic day 18 and neonates the cerebellum was hypotrophic, particularly in the posterior half. Purkinje cells were smaller in the whole cerebellum and showed a maturational delay. Calretinin-positive cells were less frequently observed in the depth of the vermis than in normal mice. Both Purkinje cells and the vermal calretinin-positive cells were more abnormal in fetuses at day 19 and newborn mutants than one day earlier. An abnormal number of pycnotic cells were observed in the cerebellum, especially in newborn mutants. Brainstem abnormalities were characterized by abnormal curvature, caudal displacement of the pontine gray nuclei which were located caudally along the ventral border of the superior olivary complex, a drastic decrease in Purkinje cell axons in all the vestibular nuclei and the presence of dystrophic processes in at least two calbindin-positive cell groups of the dorsal pontine region. These results show that the mutation, which is semidominant in Purkinje cells, is recessive in other cell groups of the cerebellum and brainstem. They reveal that the sequence leading to Purkinje cell death appears to be similar in homozygous and heterozygous mice, although occurring earlier and worsening more quickly in the former. Lastly, they confirm the absence of effect of the mutation on the neurons of the inferior olivary complex.
The beta subunits of voltage-dependent calcium channels, exert marked regulatory effects on the biophysical and pharmacological properties of this diverse group of ion channels. However, little is known about the comparative neuronal expression of the four classes of beta genes in the CNS. In the current investigation we have closely mapped the distribution of beta1, beta2, beta3 and beta4 subunits in the human cerebellum by both in situ messenger RNA hybridization and protein immunohistochemistry. To our knowledge, these studies represent the first experiments in any species in which the detailed localization of each beta protein has been comparatively mapped in a neuroanatomically-based investigation. The data indicate that all four classes of beta subunits are found in the cerebellum and suggest that in certain neuronal populations they may each be expressed within the same cell. Novel immunohistochemical results further exemplify that the beta voltage-dependent calcium channel subunits are regionally distributed in a highly specific manner and studies of Purkinje cells indicate that this may occur at the subcellular level. Preliminary indication of the subunit composition of certain native voltage-dependent calcium channels is suggested by the observation that the distribution of the beta3 subunit in the cerebellar cortex is identical to that of alpha(1E). Our cumulative data are consistent with the emerging view that different native alpha1/beta subunit associations occur in the CNS.
Stress-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase-1/c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase kinase is a dual-specificity kinase which phosphorylates and activates stress-activated protein kinase/c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase, a recently discovered mitogen-activated protein kinase that is stimulated by stressful stimuli and that regulates cellular transcriptional activity. The distribution of the messenger RNA encoding for stress-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase-1 was evaluated in the adult and developing rat central nervous system. In situ hybridization with a 35S-labelled 45mer oligodeoxynucleotide probe was used to map the distribution of the stress-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase-1 messenger RNA in postnatal day 1, 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21 and adult rat brains. Specific labelling was generally associated with neuronal profiles. In the adult central nervous system, high hybridization signals were observed in the hippocampus, the granular layer of the cerebellum, the medial habenula, the anterodorsal thalamic nucleus, the red nucleus, the pontine nuclei, the facial nucleus, the motor and mesencephalic nuclei of the trigeminal nerve, the hypoglossal nucleus, the vestibular nucleus and the nucleus ambiguus. Intermediate levels were present in diencephalic and mesencephalic regions and in the neocortex, while basal ganglia displayed a low hybridization signal. In the developing brain, the heterogeneous distribution of the hybridization signal observed in the adult brain was already present, but in the hippocampus and basal ganglia the stress-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase-1 messenger RNA levels were significantly higher at postnatal day 3 and during the second postnatal week than in the adult. The results show that stress-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase-1 is widely expressed in the rat central nervous system and co-localizes with its substrate stress-activated protein kinase. The observed changes in stress-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase-1 messenger RNA levels during postnatal development suggest a role for this protein in the maturation of brain circuits.
In a previous study, miniature inhibitory synaptic events recorded in the Mauthner cell of the 52-hour-old zebrafish larvae (Brachydanio rerio) were found to be mainly glycinergic. Their amplitude distribution was not Gaussian and it was proposed that their large amplitude variation might reflect the activation of immature synapses. However, ultrastructural studies of the synaptic contacts over the M-cell soma of 52 h larvae described here, revealed that numerous synaptic contacts on this neuron are already mature at this developmental stage and that most of them already contain a single active zone. As in the adult goldfish, immunohistochemistry indicates the presence of both glycine- and GABA-immunoreactive boutons which establish synaptic contacts. We also found that, in addition to the predominant glycinergic postsynaptic inhibitory currents, some postsynaptic currents are also GABAergic since they are specifically inhibited by bicuculline (20 microM). GABAergic miniature events (time to peak close to 0.8 ms and decay time-constant close to 45 ms) were only detected in the presence of 11.5 mM [KCl]o. Their amplitude distributions were well fitted by one, or at most two, Gaussian curves. Outside-out recordings showed one class of GABA receptors with a main conductance state of 23 pS. This indicates that the smallest GABAergic miniature inhibitory synaptic events correspond to the opening of 14-20 chloride channels Pre- and postsynaptic factors which contribute to the predominance of glycinergic synaptic currents over GABAergic ones in untreated preparations and to the striking differences between their frequencies and their respective amplitude distribution histograms are discussed with reference to the morphological characteristics of the mature synaptic endings impinging on this still developing neuron.
The entorhinal cortex projects via layer III neurons directly to the hippocampal area CA1 and the subiculum. We studied the functional properties of the medial entorhinal cortex projection cells in horizontal hippocampal-entorhinal cortex combined slices. These cells displayed, upon single-shock synaptic stimulation, an excitatory postsynaptic potential followed by a fast and/or slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential. Short train repetitive stimulation subthreshold for generation of action potentials induced a slow hyperpolarization of up to 20 s. Pharmacological analysis shows that the slow hyperpolarization could be divided into three components: i) the first component, which lasted 1 s, was sensitive to GABA(B) receptor antagonists; ii) the second component lasting for about 6 s was sensitive to atropine, suggesting muscarinic acetylcholinergic nature of these responses; iii) a late component lasting for up to 20 s was sensitive to naloxone, suggesting a role for opioids in its generation. The finding that layer III projection neurons to the hippocampus proper develop long-lasting hyperpolarizations suggests possible control mechanisms for the output functions of the entorhinal cortex.
Nitric oxide has been postulated as a retrograde intercellular messenger for long-term potentiation, a form of synaptic plasticity that is associated with learning and memory processes. In the present study we investigated whether the loss or survival of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) diaphorase-containing neurons, which are known to synthesize nitric oxide, would be an useful indicator for evaluating the structural and functional state of the rat hippocampus after status epilepticus that is induced by intraperitoneal injection of kainic acid. Besides NADPH diaphorase histochemistry, two other histological parameters were studied: the grade of cell damage evaluated from silver-impregnated sections, and the number of somatostatin-containing neurons in different hippocampal subfields. We found that the number of NADPH diaphorase-containing neurons in the hilus and granule cell layer correlated well with spatial learning and memory performance as assessed by the Morris water-maze test. The extent of cell damage in the CA1 subfield analysed in silver-impregnated sections and the number of hilar somatostatin-containing neurons also significantly correlated with latencies in the water-maze test. Furthermore, linear regression analysis revealed that the number of somatostatin-containing neurons in the hilus explains about 50% of the variation in water-maze learning. These findings emphasize that although general structural preservation is of crucial importance for the function of the hippocampus also interneurons, such as somatostatin- and NADPH diaphorase-containing neurons, may play an important role during the acquisition phase and processing of information in hippocampal circuitry. Therefore, in addition to evaluating general cell damage, analysis of the cell loss that occurs in the interneuron subpopulations will be beneficial in verifying structural and functional deficits of the hippocampus after status epilepticus.
The subiculum is the major output region of the hippocampal formation. We have studied pyramidal neurons in slices of rat ventral subiculum to determine if there is a correlation between nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase (NADPH-d) activity and electrophysiological phenotype. The majority of NADPH-d-positive pyramidal neurons were found in the superficial cell layer (i.e. nearest to the hippocampal fissure) of the subiculum and appreciable NADPH-d activity was absent from pyramidal neurons in area CA1. This distribution of NADPH-d activity was mimicked by that of immunoreactivity for the neuronal isoform of nitric oxide synthase. Subicular pyramidal neurons were classified, electrophysiologically, as intrinsically burst-firing or regular spiking. After electrophysiological characterization, neurons were filled with Neurobiotin and revealed using fluorescence immunocytochemistry. The slices containing these neurons were also processed for NADPH-d. NADPH-d activity was found in six out of eight regular spiking neurons but was not found in any of 13 intrinsically burst-firing neurons (P=0.0008, Fisher's Exact Test). We conclude that in rat ventral subiculum, NADPH-d activity is present in a proportion of pyramidal neurons and indicates the presence of the neuronal isoform of nitric oxide synthase. Furthermore, amongst pyramidal neurons, NADPH-d activity is distributed preferentially to those with the regular spiking phenotype. The distribution of regular spiking neurons suggests that they may not be present to the same extent in all subicular output pathways. Thus, the actions of nitric oxide may be relatively specific to particular hippocampal connections.
Selective activation of second messenger pathways were tested on presynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptor action at mossy fibre-CA3 synapses, using a rat hippocampal slice preparation. Application of the protein kinase C activator, phorbol 12,13-diacetate, or the adenylate cyclase activator, forskolin, markedly enhanced the mossy fibre field excitatory postsynaptic potentials, and suppressed the relative magnitude of the synaptic depression induced by (2S,1'R,2'R,3'R)-2-(2,3-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine, an agonist at group-II metabotropic glutamate receptors. These effects were also observed in a low Ca2+ solution, suggesting that they were not due to saturation of transmitter release process. Inactive analogues of the respective activators (4alpha-phorbol 12,13-didecanoate and 1,9-dideoxyforskolin) neither enhanced the mossy fibre responses nor suppressed (2S,1'R,2'R,3'R)-2-(2,3-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine-induced synaptic depression. These results suggest that the presynaptic inhibitory action of group-II metabotropic glutamate receptors at mossy fibre-CA3 synapses could be negatively regulated by protein kinase C- and cyclic AMP-dependent mechanisms.
Hippocampal interneurons form distinct populations identified on the basis of their projection pattern and neurochemical characteristics, which includes the expression of specific neuropeptides and/or calcium-binding proteins. The neurochemical maturation of hippocampal interneurons is largely a postnatal event, and factors which govern this maturation are presently unknown. Using slice cultures, we have investigated the role of neuronal activity in regulating the expression of somatostatin and calretinin during the postnatal maturation of hippocampal interneurons. Blocking inhibitory activity with bicuculline, or excitatory activity with 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, for 14 days in slice cultures from seven-day-old rat increased and decreased, respectively, the number of somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons. Withdrawal of the blocking agents resulted in a reversal of the effects on somatostatin immunoreactivity. In addition, bicuculline slightly increased the number of calretinin-positive neurons, while 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione exerted no effect. However, bicuculline and 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione markedly increased and decreased, respectively, the number of calretinin-labelled axons. Despite activity-linked modifications of immunoreactivity levels, no change in the organotypic location of somatostatin-labelled neurons was observed, whatever the treatment. Double labelling studies demonstrated that somatostatin and calretinin were expressed by different neurons, even when the number of labelled cells was highly increased. These results show that the levels of expression of somatostatin and calretinin in maturing hippocampal interneurons are tuned to the endogenous balance of excitatory and inhibitory activity. In contrast, the neurochemical specificity of each subtype of interneurons does not depend upon variations in neuronal activity.
Memory formation is believed to alter neural circuitry at the synaptic level. Although the hippocampus is known to play an important role in spatial learning, no experimental data exist on the synaptic correlates of this process at the ultrastructural level. Here, we have employed quantitative electron microscopy in order to compare the density, size and spatial arrangement of synapses in the dentate gyrus, and in area CA1, of spatially trained (water maze, invisible platform) versus control (visible platform) rats. No training-associated changes of hippocampal volume were found using a stereological estimaion (disector) of the volume density of dentate granule, or CA1 pyramidal cells. Nor were changes found in either density, or sizes of synapses (spinous or dendritic), in CA1 or dentate gyrus. However, analysis of synaptic spatial distribution showed a training-associated increase in the frequency of shorter distances (i.e. clustering) between synaptic active zones in CA1, but not dentate, thus indicating alterations in local neural circuitry. This finding indicates subtle changes in synaptic organization in area CA1 of the hippocampus following a learning experience, suggesting that spatial memory formation in mammalian hippocampus may involve topographical changes in local circuitry without synapse formation de novo.
Strong converging evidence indicates that the intermediate and medial part of the hyperstriatum ventrale (IMHV) of the chick forebrain is a site of recognition memory for the learning process of imprinting. Clathrin proteins have been implicated in synaptic plasticity. In the present study we demonstrate for the first time that they are involved in vertebrate learning. Chicks were trained by exposure to a conspicuous object and their preference for it versus a novel object subsequently measured as a preference score (an index of learning). Trained chicks with low preference scores were classed as &quot;poor learners&quot; and those with high preference scores as &quot;good learners&quot;. An additional group of chicks was untrained (&quot;dark-reared&quot;). Tissue was removed from the left and right IMHV, hyperstriatum accessorium and posterior neostriatum 9.5 h or 24 h after training. Clathrin heavy chain and clathrin light chains a and b were assayed using sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting. In the IMHV, and only for clathrin heavy chain, was there a significant effect of training. The effect occurred 24 h but not 9.5 h after training, and was significant only in the left IMHV. In this region at 24 h, there was (i) significantly more clathrin heavy chain in good learners than in dark-reared chicks, and (ii) a significant positive correlation between the amount of clathrin heavy chain and preference score; the amount of protein present in the dark-reared chicks did not differ significantly from the amount predicted from the regression line for trained chicks performing at chance (preference score 50). These findings imply that for the left IMHV, visual experience per se, locomotor activity and other side effects of training did not affect the amount of clathrin heavy chain. Rather, the increase observed was a function of the amounts chick learned and, because it was delayed, is likely to be involved in long-term memory. The results for clathrin heavy chain taken together suggest that enhanced presynaptic events in the IMHV, possibly associated with an increase in synaptic vesicle release/uptake, are important in the recognition memory underlying imprinting.
Anatomically coupled neurons (17 of 137) and non-coupled neurons (120 of 137), in and near the nucleus tractus solitarius and dorsal motor nucleus (i.e. solitary complex), were studied by rapid perforated patch recording in slices (rat, 150-350 microm thick, postnatal day 0-21) before, during and after exposure to hypercapnic acidosis. Anatomical coupling refers to the intercellular transfer of Lucifer Yellow and Biocytin into adjoining neurons, presumably via gap junctions [see Dean et al. (1997) Neuroscience 80, 21-40]. Eighty-six per cent of the anatomically coupled neurons (12 of 14) were depolarized by hypercapnic acidosis, a response referred to as CO2 excitation or CO2 chemosensitivity. In all, 28% (12 of 43) of the CO2-excited neurons were anatomically coupled to at least one other neuron. None (0 of 39) of the CO2-inhibited neurons were anatomically coupled, and only 4% (two of 46) of the CO2-insensitive neurons were anatomically coupled. Increasing the fractional concentration of CO2 from five to 10 and 15% in constant bicarbonate (26 mM) decreased intracellular pH (control 7.3 7.4, 22-25 degrees C) by approximately 1.0 and 1.5 pH units, respectively, as measured using the pH-sensitive fluorescent dye, 2',7'-bis (2-carboxyethyl)-5,6-carboxyfluorescein. Nine of the anatomically coupled neurons (six CO2-excited, one CO2-insensitive and two unidentified) exhibited spontaneous electrotonic postsynaptic potential-like activity, suggesting that they were also electrotonically coupled. During hypercapnic acidosis, the amplitudes of electrotonic postsynaptic potentials were unchanged, concomitant with small changes in input resistance. The frequency of electrotonic postsynaptic potentials increased during hypercapnic acidosis in many anatomically coupled neurons (eight of nine), indicating that both neurons of the coupled pair were stimulated. Cell-cell coupling occurred preferentially in and between CO2-excited neurons of the solitary complex. Further, CO2-excited neurons were not electrotonically uncoupled during intracellular acidosis, in contrast to the effect that decreased intracellular pH has on many other types of coupled cells. It was not determined whether anatomical coupling was affected by hypercapnic acidosis since dye mixture was always administered under normocapnic conditions. The high correlation between anatomical coupling, electrotonic coupling activity and CO2-induced depolarization suggests that cell-cell coupling is an important electroanatomical feature in CO2-excited neurons of the solitary complex. CO2-excited neurons have been hypothesized to function in central chemoreception for the cardiorespiratory control systems, suggesting that cell cell coupling may contribute in part to central chemoreception of CO2 and H+.
Dye (Lucifer Yellow) and tracer (Biocytin) coupling, referred to collectively as anatomical coupling, were identified in 20% of the solitary complex neurons tested in medullary tissue slices (120-350 microm) prepared from rat, postnatal day 1-18, using a modified amphotericin B-perforated patch recording technique. Ten per cent of the neurons sampled in nuclei outside the solitary complex were anatomically coupled. Fifty-eight per cent of anatomically coupled neurons exhibited electrotonic postsynaptic potential-like activity, which had peak-to-peak amplitudes of &lt; or = 7 mV, with the same polarity as action potentials; increased and decreased in frequency during depolarizing and hyperpolarizing current injection; was maintained during high Mg2+-low Ca2+ chemical synaptic blockade; and was measured only in anatomically coupled neurons. The high correlation between anatomical coupling and electrotonic postsynaptic potential-like activity suggests that Lucifer Yellow, Biocytin and ionic current used the same pathways of intercellular communication, which were presumed to be gap junctions. Anatomical coupling was attributed solely to the junctional transfer of Lucifer Yellow and Biocytin since potential sources of non-junctional staining were minimized. Specifically, combining 0.26 mM amphotericin B and 0.15-0.5% Lucifer Yellow produced a hydrophobic, viscous solution that did not leak from the pressurized pipette tip &lt; or = 3 microm outer diameter) submerged in artificial cerebral spinal fluid. Moreover, unintentional contact of the pipette tip with adjacent neurons that resulted in accidental staining, another source of non-junctional staining, wits averted by continuously visualizing the tip prior to tight seal formation with infrared video microscopy, used here for the first time with Hoffman modulation contrast optics. During perforated patch recording which typically lasted for 1-3 h. Lucifer Yellow was confined to the pipette, indicating that the amphotericin B patch was intact. However, once the patch was intentionally ruptured at the end of recording, the viscous, lipophilic solution entered the neuron resulting in double labeling. Placing a mixture of amphotericin B, Biocytin and Lucifer Yellow directly into the pipette tip did not compromise tight seal formation with an exposed, cleaned soma, and resulted in immediate (&lt;1 min) steady-state perforation at 22-25 degrees C. This adaptation of conventional perforated patch recording was termed &quot;rapid perforated patch recording&quot;. The possible functional implication of cell-cell coupling in the dorsal medulla oblongata in central CO2/H+ chemoreception for the cardiorespiratory control systems is discussed in the second paper of this set [Huang et al. (1997) Neuroscience 80, 41-57].
Chronic application of various mild stress has been shown to decrease the responsiveness to reward in rats. This effect, which was suggested to mimic anhedonia, one of the main symptoms observed in depressive patients, can be measured by various tests. Thus chronic mild stress was shown to reduce the consumption of a palatable sucrose solution, and to decrease the acquisition of preferences for a distinct environment paired with a variety of reinforcing substances. These negative responses could be prevented by chronic treatment with tricyclic or atypical antidepressants. The behavioural changes, induced by exposure to chronic mild stress, were shown to be associated with a number of changes in dopaminergic neurotransmission in the mesolimbic system, especially in the nucleus accumbens. The nucleus accumbens contains a large number of enkephalinergic cell bodies giving rise to local collaterals and axons projecting to the globus pallidus-ventral pallidum region (for review see Ref. 9). Furthermore, there is evidence that this structure is instrumental in mediating the reward effects of exogenous and endogenous opioids (for reviews see Refs 5,7,17). This study was carried out to analyse the possible contribution of the enkephalinergic system in the anhedonic-like state induced by chronic mild stress. Microdialysis was used to study the extracellular levels of [Met]enkephalin-like material in the rostral part of the nucleus accumbens of freely moving rats exposed or not to chronically mild stress. In both groups, the basal levels of [Met]enkephalin-like material were found to be similar. Exposure of the two groups to a congener, increased the extracellular levels of [Met]enkephalin in the controls but not in chronic mild stressed rats. This suggests that the reactivity of the endogenous opioid system could be reduced in stress induced model of anhedonia.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor was initially identified as a survival factor for developing midbrain dopamine neurons (for reviews, see Refs 17 and 19). Subsequent studies have demonstrated a more wide-spread role for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor in the developing and adult CNS. In the adult rat brain, for instance, prior administration of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor protects nigrostriatal dopamine neurons from 6-hydroxydopamine-induced damage. When given several weeks after 6-hydroxydopamine injection, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor also restores the function of these neurons. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor attenuates excitotoxin-induced cell death in the striatum and hippocampal formation and protective effects of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor following axotomy have been reported for spinal motor neurons and basal forebrain cholinergic neurons. These findings suggest that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor may be a protective/restorative agent for a diverse population of neurons and imply that it may be a useful therapeutic tool for a variety of neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's, Huntington's and Alzheimer's diseases. The potential receptor mediating the pleiotropic effects of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor has been characterized only recently as a novel glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol-linked protein, GDNFR-alpha. Because GDNFR-alpha is a cell surface receptor, an additional protein(s) was thought to be involved in the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor signalling cascade. The identity of the likely candidate, ret, was inferred initially from indirect evidence. Not only were there remarkable similarities in the distribution of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor and the proto-oncogene ret in the developing rat and mouse brain, but also in the phenotype of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor knockout mice and mice with ret mutations. Mice with either mutation exhibited pronounced renal and enteric abnormalities, implicating the receptor tyrosine kinase protein product of the ret proto-oncogene as the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor signalling protein. More conclusive evidence showing that activation of GDNFR-alpha by glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor induces phosphorylation of ret has confirmed ret as a signalling protein for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor. Preliminary results showing that 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the substantia nigra markedly reduced ret messenger RNA expression, established its localization to presumably glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor-responsive dopamine neurons in the nigrostriatal pathway. In contrast, it is not clear whether other glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor-responsive neurons in the CNS, such as the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and striatal neurons, also express ret, nor is it evident whether levels of the protein are regulated by disruption of the respective pathways. The present study shows that dense networks of ret immunoreactivity are distributed throughout the nigrostriatal pathway, with lower densities of staining in other brain regions, including the septohippocampal pathway. Following extensive unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the medial forebrain bundle, ret immunoreactivity in the substantia nigra and striatum was reduced significantly, to a similar extent as tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. In contrast, excitotoxic lesions of the striatum, achieved by intrastriatal quinolinic acid injections, resulted in increased ret staining in this brain region. In addition, marked decrements in septal ret immunoreactivity were consequent to complete transections of the fimbria-fornix.
Neurons are highly polarized cells that contain a wealth of cytoplasmic and membrane proteins required for neurotransmission, synapse formation and various forms of neuronal plasticity. Typically, these proteins are differentially distributed over somatic, dendritic and axonal compartments. Until recently, it was believed that all proteins destined for various neuronal sites were synthesized exclusively in the somata and were subsequently targeted to appropriate extrasomal compartments. The discovery of various messenger RNA molecules in both dendrites and axons is suggestive of de novo protein synthesis in extrasomatic regions. The latter process has been demonstrated in few neuronal svrstems, but direct proof for the axonal transcription of a specific protein from a given messenger RNA is still lacking. This lack of fundamental knowledge in the field of cellular and molecular neurobiology is due primarily to both anatomical and experimental difficulties encountered in most animal preparations studied thus far. In this study we developed a neuronal experimental system comprising of individually identified neurons and their isolated axons from the mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis. We injected a foreign messenger RNA encoding a peptide precursor into the isolated axons of cultured neurons; and utilizing cellular, molecular and immunocytochemical techniques, we provide direct evidence for specific protein synthesis in isolated axons. The Lymnaea model provides us with an opportunity to examine the role and specificity of de novo protein synthesis in the extrasomal regions.

Guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency is a recently described inborn error of creatine biosynthesis that responds to treatment with oral creatine supplementation. The previously reported clinical features consist of developmental arrest and an extrapyramidal movement disorder. We describe a patient who presented with epilepsy, global developmental delay, and a persistently low plasma creatinine level. The diagnosis was established by measuring urinary guanidinoacetate and by demonstrating absence of the creatine/phosphocreatine peak in the patient's basal ganglia in 1H magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The clinical and biochemical abnormalities responded to creatine replacement.
Changes in the AMPA glutamate receptor subunits (GluR1, 2-3, and 4) and dopamine D2 receptor (D2R) were investigated in 16 cases of hypoxic-ischemic basal ganglia necrosis (BGN) by immunohistochemistry. Immunoreactivity to GluR1, 2-3, and 4 was observed in the cytoplasm and dendrites of small and large neurons in the basal ganglia. Neuronal immunoreactivity to GluR1, 2-3, and 4 was decreased in cases with acute BGN as compared with that in age-matched controls, the areas of decreased immunoreactivity corresponding to the damaged regions observed on hematoxylin and eosin staining. Glia in the basal ganglia exhibited immunoreactivity to GluR4 in 4 patients with acute BGN, 3 of the 4 surviving for 12 to 35 days. In addition, neuronal immunoreactivity to D2R was also decreased in cases of acute BGN, the decrease being similar to that of GluR1, 2-3, and 4. Our results suggest that excitotoxicity mediated by GluR1, 2-3, and 4 is involved in the pathogenesis of hypoxic-ischemic neuronal damage, and that GluR4 expressed in glia of the BG in the late stage of hypoxic-ischemic injury may participate in the delayed and long-term response of the glia to injury. The decrease in neuronal D2R may be related to downregulated synthesis of the D2R protein induced by the decrease in GluR1-4 in the basal ganglia.
Growth inhibitory factor, a new metallothioneinlike protein, was investigated at postmortem examination in the brains of 18 patients with Down syndrome ranging in age from 18 weeks gestation to 50 years of age and in 20 age-matched normal controls by developmental immunohistochemistry. In the frontal cortex of both Down syndrome patients and controls, growth inhibitory factor immunoreactivity was localized in the cell bodies and processes of protoplasmic astrocytes from 18 weeks gestation, and these immunoreactive processes formed so dense a meshwork in the gray matter that they outlined neuronal perikarya as negative contours in the brain at age more than 16 years. The number of growth inhibitory factor-immunoreactive astrocytes exhibited a greater increase in layer 3 than in layer 2 in controls from 37 weeks gestation to 7 months of age, although there was no difference in the growth inhibitory factor-positive cell number between layers 2 and 3 in young Down syndrome patients. Therefore, growth inhibitory factor in astrocytes may be correlated with dendritic maturation of neurons. On the other hand, growth inhibitory factor-immunoreactive astrocytes in layer 2, where senile plaques are abundant, were smaller than those in layer 3 in adult Down syndrome patients from age 32 years. When senile plaques began to immunoreact with the amyloid precursor protein, the number of growth inhibitory factor-immunoreactive astrocytes decreased around senile plaques in elderly Down syndrome brains with the Alzheimer type of dementia. On the contrary, the number of glial fibrillary acidic protein-immunoreactive astrocytes around senile plaques increased. This loss of growth inhibitory factor around senile plaques may be correlated with neuronal loss or degeneration and lead to sprouting responses which may be involved in the formation of senile plaques.
To clarify the role of P-type Ca2+ channels in catecholamine release from adrenal chromaffin cells we examined the concentration dependence of the effect of omega-agatoxin IVA on the release both of adrenaline and noradrenaline induced by a K(+)-evoked depolarization. omega-Agatoxin IVA caused a biphasic dose-dependent inhibition of secretion with a high-potency component (IC50 &lt; 1 nM), responsible for 10-15% of catecholamine release evoked by 70 mM K+, and a low-potency component that accounted for about 40% of release, with IC50 values of 57 nM and 48 nM for noradrenaline and adrenaline release, respectively. The release of catecholamines from chromaffin cells was also inhibited dose dependently by omega-conotoxin MVIIC with IC50 values of 182 and 218 nM for noradrenaline and adrenaline release, respectively. The effects of 3 nM omega-agatoxin IVA and 3 microM omega-conotoxin MVIIC were additive, indicating that at the concentrations used the toxins were acting at independent sites, presumably, P- and Q-type Ca2+ channels. The blockade of Q-type channels inhibited the release of adrenaline (72 +/- 4.1%) significantly more than the release of noradrenaline (50 +/- 2.7%), suggesting a higher density or a closer coupling of these channels to exocytosis in adrenergic chromaffin cells. The blockade of P-type channels caused a greater inhibition of catecholamine secretion at low levels of K(+)-evoked depolarization and shorter times of stimulation than that observed at higher levels of stimulation. The contribution of Q-type channels to catecholamine secretion did not change significantly with the intensity of stimulation. The data show that two types of omega-agatoxin IVA-sensitive Ca2+ channels are coupled to catecholamine release in chromaffin cells, and that the contribution of P-type channels to secretion is larger at low levels of depolarization.

Pharmacological studies in Japanese quail based on behavioral tests with a variety of dopaminergic compounds suggest that the activation of D2 dopamine receptors inhibits, and the activation of D1 dopamine receptors enhances, appetitive and consummatory components of male sexual behavior. This hypothesis was tested by studying the behavioral effects of specific D1 and D2 dopaminergic-receptor agonists and antagonists in castrated male Japanese quail chronically treated with exogenous testosterone (subcutaneous Silastic implants). The effects of 5 compounds were tested: 1 D1 (SKF38393) and 2 D2 (PPHT and quinpirole) agonists, and 1 D1 (SCH23390) and 1 D2 (Spiperone) antagonist. All compounds were tested at a low and a high dose (0.1 and 1 mg/kg, respectively, for all drugs, except spiperone where the doses were 2 and 10 mg/kg). A consistent effect of all drugs on consummatory sexual behavior was observed: it was stimulated by the D1 agonist and the D2 antagonist, but inhibited by the D1 antagonist and the D2 agonists. Far fewer effects of the treatments were detected on the measures of appetitive behavior. Measures of appetitive behavior were decreased by the 2 D2 agonists, but not affected by the other treatments. These data suggest that male copulatory behavior in quail is stimulated by dopamine acting on D1 receptors, but inhibited by activation of the D2 receptor subtype. The partial dissociation observed between the effects of the same treatments on appetitive and consummatory aspects of sexual behavior also suggests that these 2 behavioral systems may be controlled by the action of dopamine on different neuronal systems.
The role of endogenous opioids in pregnancy and parturition, and the influence exerted on prenatal and postnatal features of the offspring, were studied in rats. Females received daily injections of 50 mg/kg naltrexone (NTX), a dosage found to block opioids from interacting with opioid receptors for 24 h, throughout pregnancy. No effects on the length of gestation, course of pregnancy, litter size, or the viability of the mother or offspring were noted. The body weights, crown-rump lengths, and wet and dry weights of the brain, heart, kidney, liver, and skeletal muscle (triceps surae) in neonates delivered by NTX-treated rats were substantially elevated compared to newborn animals of saline-injected mothers. Offspring exposed to NTX during prenatal life were larger in body weight and length, and organ wet and dry weights on postnatal days 10 and 21. By weaning (day 21 ), body weights of NTX-exposed rats were 36% greater than controls, and increases were observed in the wet weights of brain (18%), heart (42%), kidney (38%), lungs (22%), liver (44%), and triceps surae (246%). These data lead us to hypothesize that native opioids are important growth-inhibiting, tonically active regulators of prenatal ontogeny, and that events occurring in prenatal life are determinants to postnatal outcome insofar as somatic development.




Reports on habituation from the last part of the nineteenth and the first part of this century are reviewed. Publications are selected according to their significance for the understanding of the properties that characterize habituation. Reports that have contributed to the establishment of a causative link between habituation and synaptic depression are also reviewed. A kinetic analysis of experimental cases of habituation is made for different reflexes in a number of species. The results of the analysis indicate the existence of two distinct subcategories of habituation: a slow and a fast version. Each category has a remarkably narrow range of kinetic variability, regardless of species and type of reflex. In one particular reflex, the tentacle withdrawal of Helix pomatia, both versions of habituation are displayed in response to different stimulation paradigms. On the basis of the kinetic analysis, a new criterion for identification of habituation is suggested.
The natural ability of the adult central nervous system of higher vertebrates to recover from injury is highly limited. This limitation is most likely due to an inhospitable environment and/or intrinsic incapacities of the neurons to re-extend their neurites after injury or axotomy. The rat corticospinal tract is the largest tract leading from brain to spinal cord and is often used as a model in developmental and regeneration studies. The extensive know-how of factors involved in the development of the corticospinal tract did provide the foundation for many studies on corticospinal tract regrowth after injury in the adult spinal cord. The results of these experiments, as discussed in this review, have led to important contributions to the further understanding of central nervous system regeneration.
The development of psychopharmacologic strategies for ameliorating the symptoms associated with major psychiatric disorders is relatively recent in the history of medicine. Regarding depression, the past 30 years have seen the advent of several clinically therapeutic antidepressant medication classes. With the advent of these newer and safer antidepressants, more primary care practitioners are prescribing these drugs, and as a result, more people are being prescribed antidepressant medication than ever before. This article reviews this psychopharmacologic revolution that has emerged as a consequence of a greater understanding of the neurochemical perturbations underlying major affective disorders.

The present study investigates the effects of 25 or 50 mg tetrahydroaminoacridine (THA), a cholinesterase inhibitor, on auditory mismatch negativity (MMN) event-related response in 19 patients with Alzheimer disease (AD). MMN is produced by the deviant tones representing passive attention and automatic detection of stimulus change. In an inattentive task condition, standard (85%) and deviant (15%) tones were represented in a random order with interstimulus interval of 1 s in separate blocks. THA 25 mg had no effect on MMN in AD patients. In contrast, THA 50 mg diminished MMN in AD subjects. The results suggests that acute treatment of AD subjects with a cholinesterase inhibitor disrupts the passive detection of change in an auditory input.
[carbonyl-11C]WAY-100635 is a new radioligand which can be used with positron emission tomography (PET) to provide high contrast delineation of human brain regions that are rich in 5-HT1A receptors. In the present PET study, the binding of [carbonyl-11C]WAY-100635 was characterized in the cynomolgus monkey brain. Pretreatment with each of the two reference compounds, WAY-100635 and 8-OH-DPAT, as well as the drugs buspirone and pindolo, induced a marked inhibition of [carbonyl-11C]WAY-100635 binding in the neocortex and the raphe nuclei. A preliminary Scatchard analysis yielded 5-HT1A receptor density values of the same order as those that have been reported in vitro. The study shows that [carbonyl-11C]WAY-100635 binds specifically to 5-HT1A receptors in the primate brain and has potential for determination of 5-HT1A receptor occupancy and density in psychiatric patients.
The ventral striatum is included in brain circuits which connect brain areas classically ascribed to the motor or to the limbic system. In fact, the ventral striatum is involved in the connection between motivationally relevant stimuli and adaptive behaviours. Dopamine neurotransmission in the ventral striatum is essential for the increase in motor activity produced by motivational, salient, stimuli, such as food or novelty or by the administration of psychostimulants. Adenosine plays a role opposite to dopamine in the striatum and adenosine agonists produce similar behavioural effects as dopamine antagonists. On the other hand, adenosine antagonists, like caffeine, produce similar effects to increased dopaminergic neurotransmission in the striatum. Specific antagonistic interactions between specific subtypes of adenosine and dopapaine receptors in the basal ganglia play an essential role in the behavioural effects of adenosine agonists and antagonists. In particular, a strong antagonistic interaction between adenosine A2A and dopamine D2 receptors seems to take place in the striopallidal GABAergic neurons which originate in the ventral striatum. Therefore, adenosine A(ZA) agonists provide a potential new treatment for schizophrenia, since the dopamine D2 receptors of the ventral striopallidal neurons appear to be involved in the antipsychotic effects of neuroleptics. In fact, in animal models, the adenosine A2A agonist CGS 21680 has a profile of antipsychotic with a low liability to induce extrapyramidal side effects.
Repeated treatment of rats with ethanol (1 g/kg, once daily for 15 days) enhanced the locomotor effect of morphine, 3 weeks post-treatment. This ethanol-induced long-term behavioural sensitization to morphine was associated with an increase in the electrically evoked release of [3H]dopamine (DA) and [14C]acetylcholine (ACh) from nucleus accumbens slices. A similar enhanced responsiveness of accumbal dopaminergic and cholinergic neurons to depolarization was apparent 3 weeks after repeated morphine, amphetamine or cocaine administration. Prior ethanol exposure also caused a long-term enhancement of electrically evoked release of [3H]DA and [14C]ACh from slices of the caudate-putamen. Unlike the locomotor effect of morphine, that of amphetamine was not enhanced in ethanol-pretreated rats. These data indicate that ethanol administration may cause long-term behavioural sensitization associated with adaptive changes in dopaminergic and cholinergic neurons of rat nucleus accumbens and caudate-putamen. Furthermore, an enhanced reactivity of nucleus accumbens dopaminergic nerve terminals and dopamine-sensitive cholinergic neurons appears to be a common long-term neuroadaptive effect of distinct types of addictive drugs. However, since repeated ethanol exposure did not cause a long-term increase in the locomotor effect of amphetamine, these neuroadaptations may not always be sufficient to cause long-lasting behavioural (cross-)sensitization.
Misallocating variance, in event-related potential analysis, refers to attributing an experimental effect to components not actually affected. A vector interpretation of the relationship between mathematically derived and true underlying components shows that misallocation depends exclusively on incorrect identification of the affected component. Simulations, using seven imperfect rotations, confirmed all predictions from the vector interpretation concerning the presence, direction, and size of misallocated variance. Contrary to principal component analysis (PCA). Mcks's topographic component model (TCM) is not subject to rotation problems. These two methods were compared over 100 simulations in which the components had constant waveforms and topographics across participants. The group effect was always detected, but only PCA and not TCM showed significance on other components, except when their random weights happened to differ between groups.
The development of the nervous system implies not only the generation of neurons, but also their death. This neuronal death can occur through several mechanisms, one of them being apoptosis. This type of cell death seems to be also implicated in some neurodegenerative diseases. This study of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans has led to the discovery of several genes controlling apoptosis in neurons. Two of them, the pro-apoptotic ced3 and the anti-apoptotic ced9, have mammalian homologs. The mammalian homologs to Ced9 form the Bcl-2 family and can be either pro-apoptotic or anti-apoptotic. Some of them, Bcl-x, and Bax have been shown to be involved in neuronal death during development in some pathological situations. The first mammalian homolog of Ced3 to be described was the Interleukin-1b Converting Enzymes (ICE). Since then, many other homologs of the proteases Ced3 and ICE have been discovered constituting the Caspases family. These Cysteinyl Aspartate Specific Proteases are pro-apoptotic in many different systems. Several studies using viral or peptidic inhibitors of the Caspases have demonstrated their role in neuronal death in vitro. In vivo, CPP32, a member of the Caspases family, has been shown to be clearly involved in the development of the nervous system. Finally, the analysis of apoptosis in Caenorhabditis elegans has led to the discovery of two families of genes involved in the cascade of events inducing neuronal death in mammals. Indeed, the Caspases seem to be controlled by the Bcl-2 family, as Ced3 is by Ced9.
A retrospective study was performed to assess the incidence of sinus disease in patients with MS. The MRI scans of 108 patients referred to a regional Neurosciences Unit with a diagnosis of multiple sclerosis were examined. There were 71 females and 37 males with an age range of 22 to 67 years (mean: 39.7 years). The sagittal and axial images were reviewed and the degree of sinus disease noted. This was graded as absent, minimal, polypoid and pansinus. Fifty-seven patients (53%) had disease, the most common sinus involved was the maxillary followed by the ethmoid, frontal and sphenoid. Thirty-six patients had bilateral disease affecting the ethmoid sinuses most commonly. Three patients had fluid levels and four patients had retention cysts. The incidence of sinus disease is higher than in some other studies of normal populations.



CART (cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript) peptides are proposed to play a role in the action of psychostimulants as neurotransmitters/neuromodulators. In the present study, we demonstrate that the shell of the nucleus accumbens, a brain structure involved in drug reinforcement, is densely innervated by a dense plexus of CART peptide-immunoreactive varicose fibers in register with immunoreactive perikarya in monkeys. At the electron microscopic level, varicosities appeared as immunoreactive axon terminals packed with round electron-lucent vesicles and a variable number of darkly stained dense-core vesicles that formed symmetric synapses with dendrites. These findings suggest that CART peptides may be a cotransmitter with gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) in intrinsic axon collaterals of striatal projection neurons or interneurons in the primate nucleus accumbens.
Aging disrupts the expression of synaptic plasticity in many central nervous system (CNS) structures including the striatum. We found age differences in paired-pulse plasticity to persist at excitatory striatal synapses following block of gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA)A and GABA(B) receptors, a property that was independent of the number of afferents activated. High Mg2+/low Ca2+ artificial cerebral spinal fluid (ACSF) reduced release probability and consequently the size of the evoked excitatory post-synaptic potential (EPSP). High Mg2+/low Ca2+ ACSF also increased the expression of paired-pulse facilitation and eliminated the age difference seen previously in normal ACSF. These data suggest that age differences in paired-pulse plasticity reflect an alteration in release probability at excitatory striatal synapses. In support of this hypothesis, we found age differences in another presynaptic form of plasticity referred to as synaptic augmentation. Examination of the synaptic depression that developed during the conditioning tetanus also revealed an age-related increase in synaptic depression. These data indicate that age-related changes in facilitation may be due in part to a reduction in the readily releasable pool of synaptic vesicles. Dendritic structure (spine density and dendritic length) was correlated with short-term synaptic plasticity, but these relationships depended upon the variance associated with age (hierarchical regression). Post-hoc within-age group regressions demonstrated relationship between spine density and paired-pulse plasticity. No other age-specific correlations were found. These findings imply an age-dependent association between altered dendritic morphology and changes in synaptic plasticity.

Recognizing the existence of memory disorders in elderly subjects necessarily involves developing a diagnostic strategy to identify the causes. Three types of complementary investigation are available: neurophysiological and neurobiological tests, and anatomical and functional brain imaging studies. Major efforts have been made to identify diagnostic markers on the electroencephalogram. Quantified EEG may have a certain value. However, it provides a plethora of data and there is no consensus on which items are most relevant on the EEG, whether the patient is awake or asleep. Evoked 'cognitive' potentials may also provide useful data, particularly to distinguish between the different types of degenerative dementia. Exaggerated pupil dilation in response to a mydriatric drug has also been put forward as a diagnostic test. The results, however, are controversial. For the time being there is no diagnostic laboratory parameter that can be used routinely, even if studies of the proteins tau and P97 are promising. Molecular genetics-based studies have identified a number of chromosomal abnormalities in certain families. Apart from studies of chromosome 19 and apolipoprotein 3, these markers have no practical utility. Allele sigma 4 is associated with a higher risk of Alzheimer's disease. Apolipoprotein E phenotyping can of course be of diagnostic value, but no more so than neuropsychological or neuroimaging methods. On the other hand, it is difficult to derive a predictive test. It also seems difficult to develop a diagnostic strategy without including brain imaging studies. The value of morphological imaging (CT, MRI) in the diagnosis of dementias is clear. Volumetric measurements of certain brain structures might be a useful diagnostic approach for early detection. Functional brain imaging methods (PET and SPECT) appear particularly suited to the diagnosis of degenerative dementias. The presence of functional abnormalities at onset, and, even before the first clinical signs appear, is clearly valuable.
Diabetes produces dramatic changes in retinal microvasculature, triggering endothelial cell proliferation and microaneurysms. Capillaries become weakened, releasing blood into vitreal and retinal spaces. Photoreceptors become occluded and separated from the choriocapillaris, resulting in visual acuity decline, detachment and cell death. Several models have been developed that have proved useful for the study of this disease, resulting in a better understanding of the processes involved. Streptozotocin treatment affects the pancreatic beta cells, rapidly reducing them until insulin is no longer synthesized in sufficient amounts. The galactosemic model shifts metabolism away from glucose, increasing aldose reductase and retinal polyol metabolism. Finally, two weeks of cycled oxygen from high to low tension every 24 hours, followed by return to room air, triggers microangiogenesis in developing retinas. Use of these models, separately or in combination, as well as electroretinographic analysis, has begun to reveal the events taking place as diabetic retinopathy progresses. Endothelial cells become separated from pericytes as basement membranes thicken, and vascular endothelial growth factor increases, triggering their proliferation. Finally, early changes occurring within photoreceptors can now be studied.


Few concepts have meant more to neuroscience than the synapse, commonly understood to mean the junction between two excitable cells. The term was introduced by Charles Sherrington in 1897. The centenary of this event is an appropriate time to review the term's origins and utility. There are some surprises. The term didn't actually come from him. His concept was more functional than structural. The pioneering physiological and structural studies in the 1950s in fact did not lead to a rigorous definition. There is still confusion on how to define neurotransmitters. As molecular biological approaches are increasingly refining the concept of a fundamental synaptic unit, many types of neuronal interactions are appearing that do not fit with the synaptic concept. Are the neural circuits underlying behaviour strictly synaptic? In dealing with these questions, a longer perspective is useful for understanding how the term arose, how it has evolved to the present, and what kinds of challenges may be coming in the future.
Although the histogenesis of meningeal hemangiopericytomas (HMP) remains controversial, both biological and clinical evidence seems to identify these neoplasms as a separate entity with respect to meningiomas. In order to assess the current prognosis of HMP we reviewed our personal experience limited to the last decade (1986-1995): during this period 7 patients (4M, 3F) were treated by surgery alone or surgery combined with postoperative radiotherapy. In spite of meticulous attempts at radical resection, the tumors recurred in all but two cases with a mean interval of 85 months, and a total of 18 operations were performed (2.57/patient; range 1-4). Massive intratumoral hemorrhage determined acute deterioration and required emergency surgery in two cases while in one patient diffuse visceral metastases were discovered at autopsy. Five patients are still alive at follow-up but only 2 of them are in good neurological conditions and without evidence of disease. These results are similar to those reported in other series. In view of our results we conclude that intracranial hemangiopericytomas still have a dismal prognosis. Advances in neuroimaging, neuroanesthesia, microneurosurgery and adjuvant therapy do not seem to have significantly affected the recurrence rate, quality of life and mortality.

Macaque monkeys are widely used as a model species for investigations of the biology of human vision. Previous measurements suggest that the cone-based spectral sensitivity of these two primates is greatly similar, but perhaps not identical. We measured the photopic spectral sensitivity of 42 male macaque monkeys from two species (Macaca mulatta, M. fascicularis) using an objective index, electroretinogram flicker photometry. The variations among individuals and between the two species were very small and there was no evidence for any significant cone pigment polymorphism in this sample. There are small but systematic differences in spectral sensitivity between macaque monkeys and equivalently tested human subjects--the monkeys were slightly more sensitive to short wavelengths (&lt; 520 nm) and slightly less sensitive to wavelengths longer than this value. The results obtained from the curve fitting of standard photopigment absorption spectra to the spectral-sensitivity functions suggest that the difference between human and macaque monkey spectral sensitivity principally reflects differences in the relative proportions of the long- and middle-wavelength cones in the retinas of the two species.
Previous immunohistochemical studies combined with retrograde tracing in macaque monkeys have demonstrated that corticocortical projections can be differentiated by their content of neurofilament protein. The present study analyzed the distribution of nonphosphorylated neurofilament protein in callosally projecting neurons located at the V1/V2 border. All of the retrogradely labeled neurons were located in layer III at the V1/V2 border and at an immediately adjacent zone of area V2. A quantitative analysis showed that the vast majority (almost 95%) of these interhemispheric projection neurons contain neurofilament protein immunoreactivity. This observation differs from data obtained in other sets of callosal connections, including homotypical interhemispheric projections in the prefrontal, temporal, and parietal association cortices, that were found to contain uniformly low proportions of neurofilament protein-immunoreactive neurons. Comparably, highly variable proportions of neurofilament protein-containing neurons have been reported in intrahemispheric corticocortical pathways, including feedforward and feedback visual connections. These results indicate that neurofilament protein is a prominent neurochemical feature that identifies a particular population of interhemispheric projection neurons at the V1/V2 border and suggest that this biochemical attribute may be critical for the function of this subset of callosal neurons.



We have previously shown that alerting responses (documented by appearance of theta rhythm in the hippocampal EEG) are associated with a characteristically timed acute vasoconstriction in the ear artery bed of the conscious rabbit. We have now determined what happens to forebrain blood flow (Doppler probe chronically implanted around the internal carotid artery) during similar alerting responses in conscious rabbits, comparing forebrain flow to simultaneously measured ear flow. During an alerting response, forebrain flow increased by 31 +/- 8% of baseline (n = 6, P &lt; 0.01), with the increase commencing within 1 s of the stimulus, at approximately the same time as the decrease in ear flow. Arterial pressure increased from 77 +/- 3 to 81 +/- 3 mmHg (P &lt; 0.01), so that internal carotid conductance increased from 0.17 +/- 0.02 to 0.20 +/- 0.02 kHz/mmHg (P &lt; 0.01). During a 1 h continuous recording period in the laboratory there was a negative correlation between forebrain and skin flow, with the Pearson coefficient in individual rabbits ranging from -0.18 to -0.62 (n = 6, all correlations P &lt; 0.01). During this period, forebrain blood flow was just as variable, from second to second, as distal aortic flow, but not as variable as ear blood flow. Our study thus demonstrates that alerting responses in rabbits are associated with rapid increases in cerebral vascular conductance. We believe that this is the first demonstration of this phenomenon in the conscious experimental animal.
Fibrillogenesis of the amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) is a seminal pathogenetic event in Alzheimer's disease. Inhibiting fibrillogenesis is thus one approach toward disease therapy. Rational design of fibrillogenesis inhibitors requires elucidation of the stages and kinetics of Abeta fibrillogenesis. We report results of studies designed to examine the initial stages of Abeta oligomerization. Size exclusion chromatography, quasielastic light scattering spectroscopy, and electron microscopy were used to characterize fibrillogenesis intermediates. After dissolution in 0.1 M Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, and removal of pre-existent seeds, Abeta chromatographed almost exclusively as a single peak. The molecules composing the peak had average hydrodynamic radii of 1.8 +/- 0.2 nm, consistent with the predicted size of dimeric Abeta. Over time, an additional peak, with a molecular weight &gt;100,000, appeared. This peak contained predominantly curved fibrils, 6-8 nm in diameter and &lt;200 nm in length, which we have termed &quot;protofibrils.&quot; The kinetics of protofibril formation and disappearance are consistent with protofibrils being intermediates in the evolution of amyloid fibers. Protofibrils appeared during the polymerization of Abeta-(1-40), Abeta-(1-42), and Abeta-(1-40)-Gln22, peptides associated with both sporadic and inherited forms of Alzheimer's disease, suggesting that protofibril formation may be a general phenomenon in Abeta fibrillogenesis. If so, protofibrils could be attractive targets for fibrillogenesis inhibitors.
In everyday life, eye movements enable the eyes to gather the information required for motor actions. They are thus proactive, anticipating actions rather than just responding to stimuli. This means that the oculomotor system needs to know where to look and what to look for. Using examples from table tennis, driving and music reading we show that the information the eye movement system requires is very varied in origin and highly task specific, and it is suggested that the control program or schema for a particular action must include directions for the oculomotor and visual processing systems. In many activities (reading text and music, typing, steering) processed information is held in a memory buffer for a period of about a second. This permits a match between the discontinuous input from the eyes and continuous motor output, and in particular allows the eyes to be involved in more than one task.
A number of behavioural phenomena distinguish the recognition of faces and objects, even when members of a set of objects are highly similar. Because faces have the same parts in approximately the same relations, individuation of faces typically requires specification of the metric variation in a holistic and integral representation of the facial surface. The direct mapping of a hypercolumn-like pattern of activation onto a representation layer that preserves relative spatial filter values in a two-dimensional (2D) coordinate space, as proposed by C. von der Malsburg and his associates, may account for many of the phenomena associated with face recognition. An additional refinement, in which each column of filters (termed a 'jet') is centred on a particular facial feature (or fiducial point), allows selectivity of the input into the holistic representation to avoid incorporation of occluding or nearby surfaces. The initial hypercolumn representation also characterizes the first stage of object perception, but the image variation for objects at a given location in a 2D coordinate space may be too great to yield sufficient predictability directly from the output of spatial kernels. Consequently, objects can be represented by a structural description specifying qualitative (typically, non-accidental) characterizations of an object's parts, the attributes of the parts, and the relations among the parts, largely based on orientation and depth discontinuities (as shown by Hummel &amp; Biederman). A series of experiments on the name priming or physical matching of complementary images (in the Fourier domain) of objects and faces documents that whereas face recognition is strongly dependent on the original spatial filter values, evidence from object recognition indicates strong invariance to these values, even when distinguishing among objects that are as similar as faces.
Past studies have shown that schizophrenic men tend to be impaired on the olfactory identification task. We examined individual differences in the olfactory function in relation to schizotypy. Healthy individuals who might carry latent liability for schizophrenia participated in olfactory identification and acuity tasks. Psychometrically ascertained schizotypic men showed deficits on the olfactory identification task but not on the olfactory acuity task. The olfactory identification function partly depended on the menstrual cycle in women. But further systematic research is needed to clarify the possible role of estrogen.
Non-amyloid-beta component precursor (NACP) is a presynaptic protein which may play a role in amyloidogenesis in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Since an abnormal function of platelets has been demonstrated in AD, platelets could be used as a model to investigate the role of NACP in this disease. We characterized the patterns of NACP and beta-synuclein expression in a megakaryocyte-platelet system (K562). In this hematopoietic cell line, NACP expression was up-regulated during phorbol ester-induced megakaryocytic differentiation, while beta-synuclein was down-regulated. Consistent with this, NACP but not beta-synuclein was abundantly expressed in platelets. Immunogold electron microscopy of platelets showed that NACP is loosely associated with the plasma membrane, the endomembrane system and, occasionally, with the membrane of secretory alpha-granules. These findings suggest that coordinate expression of the synuclein family members may play a critical role during hematopoietic cell differentiation. Additionally, expression of the synuclein family members may be developmentally regulated during neural differentiation.
Using brain microdialysis, it was demonstrated that the release of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in the central nucleus of the amygdala is under inhibitory control of somatodendritic and postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors. Systemic administration of flesinoxan, a selective 5-HT1A receptor agonist, significantly reduced the extracellular levels of 5-HT in the central nucleus of the amygdala. This effect could be completely antagonized by the 5-HT1A receptor antagonist N-(2-(4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl)-N-(2-pyridyl)cyclohexane carboxamine trihydrochloride (WAY 100635). Local administration of these compounds by reversed microdialysis into the raphe nuclei revealed that extracellular 5-HT levels in the central nucleus of the amygdala can be regulated through 5-HT1A receptors in the caudal linear raphe nucleus, but not in the dorsal and median raphe nuclei. Interestingly, administration of flesinoxan into the central nucleus of the amygdala also decreased dialysate 5-HT levels both locally and in the caudal linear raphe nucleus. The former effect could be blocked by pretreatment with WAY 100635 when applied into the central nucleus of the amygdala, but not when applied into the caudal linear raphe nucleus. These data provide circumstantial evidence for the existence of a 5-HT1A receptor mediated feedback loop from the central nucleus of the amygdala to the caudal linear raphe nucleus.
The present study was designed to investigate the effect of i.c.v. administration of various muscarinic receptor antagonists in rats on memory performance in delayed non-matching to position test. The drugs chosen were the non-selective antagonist scopolamine (3 and 10 micrograms), the muscarinic M1 receptor-selective antagonist pirenzepine (10 and 30 micrograms) and the muscarinic M2 receptor-selective antagonist methoctramine (2, 5 and 20 micrograms). Scopolamine delay-independently decreased % correct choices and reduced motor activity. Pirenzepine also delay-independently decreased % correct choices. In contrast, methoctramine 2 micrograms, but not at 5 or 20 micrograms, improved slightly, but significantly, % correct performance delay-dependently. The present data suggests that the decrease in activation of inhibitory muscarinic M2 autoreceptors induced by methoctramine produces a specific improvement of short-term memory at long forgetting delays.
The effects of corticosterone after binding to 5-HT1A and 5-HT2 receptors were studied in rats. Binding of [3H]8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) to 5-HT1A receptors in the hippocampus decreased 24 h after both acute and chronic (14 day) administration of CORT (50 mg/kg, s.c.). Chronic, but not acute, CORT treatment increased [3H]ketanserin binding to 5-HT2 receptors in the frontal cortex. Receptor-mediated behavioral responses were also examined following acute and chronic CORT treatment. Flat body posture and hypothermia induced by 8-OH-DPAT, a 5-HT1A receptor agonist, were attenuated following chronic, but not acute, CORT administration. (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI), a 5-HT2 receptor agonist, induced wet-dog shakes, but not hyperthermia and this response was increased 24 h after the chronic administration of CORT. These findings indicate that both 5-HT1A and 5-HT2 receptor functions were changed following chronic exposure to high levels of CORT. Such changes in these receptor systems may play an important role in the etiology of affective disorders.
The quintessential feature of the dendritic microtubule array is its nonuniform pattern of polarity orientation. During the development of the dendrite, a population of plus end-distal microtubules first appears, and these microtubules are subsequently joined by a population of oppositely oriented microtubules. Studies from our laboratory indicate that the latter microtubules are intercalated within the microtubule array by their specific transport from the cell body of the neuron during a critical stage in development (Sharp, D.J., W. Yu, and P.W. Baas. 1995. J. Cell Biol. 130:93- 104). In addition, we have established that the mitotic motor protein termed CHO1/MKLP1 has the appropriate properties to transport microtubules in this manner (Sharp, D.J., R. Kuriyama, and P.W. Baas. 1996. J. Neurosci. 16:4370-4375). In the present study we have sought to determine whether CHO1/MKLP1 continues to be expressed in terminally postmitotic neurons and whether it is required for the establishment of the dendritic microtubule array. In situ hybridization analyses reveal that CHO1/MKLP1 is expressed in postmitotic cultured rat sympathetic and hippocampal neurons. Immunofluorescence analyses indicate that the motor is absent from axons but is enriched in developing dendrites, where it appears as discrete patches associated with the microtubule array. Treatment of the neurons with antisense oligonucleotides to CHO1/MKLP1 suppresses dendritic differentiation, presumably by inhibiting the establishment of their nonuniform microtubule polarity pattern. We conclude that CHO1/MKLP1 transports microtubules from the cell body into the developing dendrite with their minus ends leading, thereby establishing the nonuniform microtubule polarity pattern of the dendrite.
The innervation of the intervibrissal fur in the mystacial pad of the rat and mouse was examined by immunofluorescence with a wide variety of antibodies for neuronal related structural proteins, enzymes, and peptides as well as for lectin binding histofluorescence with Griffonia simplicifolia (GSA). Anti-protein gene product 9.5 (PGP) immunofluorescence labeled all sets of axons and endings. The innervation in the upper dermis and epidermis was distributed through a four tiered dermal plexus. From deep to superficial, the second tier was the source of all apparent myelinated mechanoreceptors, the third tier of nearly all the peptidergic and GSA binding innervation, and the fourth tier of nonpeptidergic GSA negative innervation (peptide-/GSA-). Three types of mechanoreceptors-Merkel, transverse lanceolate, and longitudinal lanceolate endings-innervated guard hair follicles. All had similar labeling characteristics for 160 kDa and 200 kDa neurofilament subunits, peripherin, carbonic anhydrase, synaptophysin, and S100. Palisades of longitudinal lanceolate endings were part of piloneural complexes along circumferentially oriented sets of transverse lanceolate endings, peptidergic free nerve endings (FNEs), and peptide-/GSA- FNEs. The longitudinal lanceolate endings were the only mechanoreceptors in the mystacial pad that had detectable calcitonin gene-related peptide. The epidermis contained four types of unmyelinated endings: simple free nerve endings (FNEs), penicillate endings, cluster endings and bush endings. Only the simple FNEs were clearly peptidergic. Virtually all others were peptide-/ GSA-. Each bush ending was actually an intermingled cluster of endings formed by several unmyelinated axons and occasionally an Adelta axon. In contrast to the other unmyelinated innervation to the epidermis, bush endings labeled with an antibody against the Schwann cell protein S100. The necks and mouths of follicles, as well as superficial vasculature, were innervated by a mixture of unmyelinated peptidergic and/or GSA labeled sensory and sympathetic axons. Small presumptive sweat glands were innervated by three sets of peptidergic axons of which one was immunoreactive for somatostatin. Potential functions of the various sets of innervation are discussed.
The innervation of the vibrissal follicle sinus complexes (FSCs) in the mystacial pad of the rat was examined by lectin binding histofluorescence with the B subunit of Griffonia simplicifolia (GSA) and by immunofluorescence with a wide variety of antibodies for neuronal related structural proteins, enzymes, and peptides. Only anti-protein gene product 9.5 labeled all sets of innervation. Several types of mechanoreceptors were distributed to specific different targets by medium to large caliber myelinated axons. All were positive for 200 kDa neurofilament subunit, peripherin, and carbonic anhydrase. Their endings expressed synaptophysin. Labeling for the 160 kDa neurofilament subunit, calbindin, and parvalbumin varied. Anti-Schwann cell protein S100 was completely co-extensive with the axons, terminal arbors, and endings of the mechanoreceptor afferents including Merkel innervation. At least 15 different sets of unmyelinated innervation were evident based upon distribution and labeling characteristics. They consisted of four basic types: 1) peptidergic; 2) GSA binding; 3) peptidergic and GSA binding; and 4) nonpeptidergic and GSA negative (peptide-/GSA-). Previous studies had not revealed that several major sets of unmyelinated innervation were peptide-/GSA-. The unmyelinated innervation had detectable peripherin but not 160 kDa or 200 kDa neurofilament subunits. GSA-positive axons uniquely lacked anti-S100 immunoreactivity. The dense circumferentially oriented unmyelinated innervation of the inner conical body contained major sets of peptide-/GSA- and GSA innervation as well as a smaller peptidergic GSA component. A small contingent of sympathetic and possibly parasympathetic innervation was affiliated with microvasculature in the FSCs. This study confirms and refutes some previous hypotheses about biochemical and morphological relationships between peripheral innervation and sensory ganglion cells.

Previous work showed that the activity rates of certain neurons in the anterior dorsal tegmentum (ADT) of the midbrain correlated with the onset of stepping elicited by hypothalamic stimulation. This study determined if reversible inactivation of the ADT would block locomotion elicited by hypothalamic stimulation of anesthetized rats (urethane, 800 mg/kg). GABA (concentrations 0.25-1.0 mg/microl in saline) were injected in 52 sites in 21 rats. GABA at volumes of 0.1 or 0.2 microl blocked hindlimb stepping in 18 cases. Locomotor blocks occurred within 5 min of the injection, and typically recovered within 10-20 min. The effective blocking sites were clustered around the interstitial nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus. Sites more dorsal and more anterior were not as effective as sites in and ventral to this nucleus. The data are consistent with a role for the ADT of the midbrain in locomotor initiation.
The purpose of the present study is to characterize the striatum of the lamprey by immunohistochemical and tracing techniques. Cells immunoreactive for GABA and substance P (SP), and positive for acetylcholinesterase, are present in the lamprey striatum. Immunoreactive (ir) fibers were detected by antisera raised against SP, dopamine, enkephalin and serotonin. These immunoreactive fibers were mainly located in the periventricular neuropil that borders the striatum and in which GABAergic striatal neurons distributed their dendritic arbors. Putative connections between the striatum, the ventral part of the lateral pallium, and the diencephalic motor centers involved in the control of locomotion were studied by using fluorescein-coupled dextran amines (FDA) as a tracer. The striatum projects to the ventral part of the lateral pallium (lpv), where GABA-ir cells and SP-ir fibers were also present. The lpv in turn projects to the ventral thalamus, which has descending connections to the reticulospinal cells involved in the control of locomotion. These results, together with previous findings of histaminergic and neurotensin projections, suggest that the lamprey striatum and its inputs with regard to neurotransmitters/modulators are very similar to those of modem amniotes, including primates, and are thus conserved to a high degree.
Voltage-gated potassium channels constitute the largest group of heteromeric ion channels discovered to date. Over 20 genes have been isolated, encoding different channel subunit proteins which form functional tetrameric K+ channels. We have analyzed the subcellular localization of subunit Kv3.1b, a member of the Kv3 (Shaw-like) subfamily, in rat brain at the light and electron microscopic level, using immunocytochemical detection. Detailed localization was carried out in specific neurons of the neocortex, hippocampus and cerebellum. The identity of Kv3.1b-positive neurons was established using double labeling with markers for specific neuronal populations. In the neocortex, the Kv3.1b subunit was expressed in most parvalbumin-containing bipolar, basket or chandelier cells, and in some bipolar or double bouquet neurons containing calbindin. In the hippocampus, Kv3.1b was expressed in many parvalbumin-containing basket cells, as well as in calbindin-positive neurons in the stratum oriens, and in a small number of interneurons that did not stain for either parvalbumin or calbindin. Kv3.1b protein was not present in pyramidal cells in the neocortex and the hippocampus, but these cells were outlined by labeled presynaptic terminals from interneuron axons that surround the postsynaptic cell. In the cerebellar cortex, granule cells were the only population expressing the channel protein. Careful examination of individual granule cells revealed a non-uniform distribution of Kv3.1 staining on the somata: circular bands of labeling were present in the vicinity of the axon hillock. In cortical and hippocampal interneurons, as well as in cerebellar granule cells, the Kv3.1b subunit was present in somatic and unmyelinated axonal membranes and adjacent cytoplasm, as well as in the most proximal portion of dendritic processes, but not throughout most of the dendrite. Labeling was also seen in the terminals of labeled axons, but not at a higher concentration than in other parts of the axon. The distribution in the cells analyzed supports a role in action potential transmission by regulating action potential duration.
Bursts of rhythmical fast waves (&gt; 1 mV, peak frequency approximately 16 Hz; mean frequency approximately 20 Hz) are elicited in the olfactory bulb and pyriform cortex in waking or urethane-anesthetized rats (1.25 g/kg, i.p.) by olfactory stimulation with organic solvents (xylene, toluene, methyl methacrylate, oil of turpentine) or components of anal gland secretions of rat predators (2-propylthietane, weasel; trimethyl thiazoline, red fox). These waves are specifically related to olfaction since they: (a) are blocked when the nares are sealed; (b) are not elicited by non-olfactory stimuli; (c) are unrelated to concurrent motor activity; and (d) can only be elicited in anesthetized-tracheotomized rats when an odorous airstream is drawn through the nasal passages. Pyriform fast waves appear to be somewhat specific to the odors of organic solvents and predators as other strong odors (ammonia, caproic and butyric acids, cadaverine) are ineffective. During natural sleep or after treatment with scopolamine hydrobromide, low voltage pyriform background activity is replaced by larger amplitude, irregular 1-20 Hz waves. The scopolamine-induced waves are not blocked by spontaneous motor activity. We suggest that the pyriform cortex, like the archicortex and the neocortex, receives a cholinergic activating input.
The semaphorin family contains a large number of phylogenetically conserved proteins and includes several members that have been shown to function in repulsive axon guidance. Semaphorin III (Sema III) is a secreted protein that in vitro causes neuronal growth cone collapse and chemorepulsion of neurites, and in vivo is required for correct sensory afferent innervation and other aspects of development. The mechanism of Sema III function, however, is unknown. Here, we report that neuropilin, a type I transmembrane protein implicated in aspects of neurodevelopment, is a Sema III receptor. We also describe the identification of neuropilin-2, a related neuropilin family member, and show that neuropilin and neuropilin-2 are expressed in overlapping, yet distinct, populations of neurons in the rat embryonic nervous system.
We have identified the first putative integral membrane pentraxin and named it neuronal pentraxin receptor (NPR). NPR is enriched by affinity chromatography on columns of a snake venom toxin, taipoxin, and columns of the taipoxin-binding proteins neuronal pentraxin 1 (NP1), neuronal pentraxin 2 (NP2), and taipoxin-associated calcium-binding protein 49 (TCBP49). The predominant form of NPR contains an putative NH2-terminal transmembrane domain and all forms of NPR are glycosylated. NPR has 49 and 48% amino acid identity to NP1 and NP2, respectively, and NPR message is expressed in neuronal regions that express NP1 and NP2. We suggest that NPR, NP1, NP2, and TCBP49 are involved in a pathway responsible for the transport of taipoxin into synapses and that this may represent a novel neuronal uptake pathway involved in the clearance of synaptic debris.
Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) induces neuronal differentiation in vitro. In the present study, we examined the signaling pathway underlying IGF-I-mediated neurite outgrowth. In SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells, treatment with IGF-I induced concentration- and time-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of the type I IGF receptor (IGF-IR) and extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases (ERK) 1 and 2. These effects of IGF-I were blocked by a neutralizing antibody against IGF-IR. Whereas IGF-IR phosphorylation was observed within 1 min, maximal phosphorylation of ERKs was not reached for 30 min. Both IGF-IR and ERK phosphorylation were maintained for at least 24 h. Also, the concentration dependence of IGF-I-stimulated IGF-IR and ERK tyrosine phosphorylation paralleled that of IGF-I-mediated neurite outgrowth. We further examined the role of mitogen-activated protein kinase activation in IGF-I-stimulated neuronal differentiation using the mitogen-activated protein kinase/ERK kinase inhibitor PD98059. Whereas PD98059 had no effect on IGF-IR phosphorylation, PD98059 reduced IGF-I-mediated ERK tyrosine phosphorylation and ERK phosphorylation of the substrate Elk-1. PD98059 also produced a parallel reduction of IGF-I-stimulated neurite outgrowth. Finally, consistent with its ability to block neuronal differentiation, PD98059 inhibited IGF-I-dependent changes of GAP-43 and c-myc gene expression. Together these results suggest that activation of ERKs is essential for IGF-I-stimulated neuronal differentiation.
Human amniotic epithelial (HAE) cells have been used for allotransplantation in patients with lysosomal storage disease due to lack of expression of HLA antigens. Previously, we have reported the expression of differentiation markers for both neural stem cells, and neuron and glial cells. In the present study, we investigated the presence of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and acetylcholine (ACh) in HAE cells using different experimental approaches. Cultured HAE cells showed strong immunoreactivity against ChAT antibody. ChAT activity in primary cells was 24.9 +/- 8.5 pmol/mg protein/h. Using HPLC with electrochemical detection, ACh was detected in both cell incubation media and cell pellets indicating that these cells synthesize and release ACh in a time-dependent manner. Additional confirmation of this hypothesis was gained from the data obtained from RT-PCR and Western blot analyses which revealed the expression of ChAT mRNA and ChAT protein, respectively, in HAE cells. Results of the present study suggest that HAE cells can possibly be applied for intracerebral allografting to treat neurologic diseases in which cholinergic neurons are damaged.
The number of nicotinic and muscarinic receptors and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity were investigated in the temporal cortex of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) with different apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotypes. A significant reduction in the ChAT activity (P &lt; 0.001) and in the number of nicotinic receptors (P &lt; 0.001) was observed in the temporal cortex of AD brains independent of APOE genotype. The number of muscarinic receptors were unchanged in AD brains compared to control in both epsilon 4 and epsilon 3 carriers. A significant negative correlation (P &lt; 0.001) was observed in AD brains between the histopathological dementia score and ChAT activity, which was independent of the APOE genotype. In this study the presence of the APOE epsilon 4 allele was not related to specific deficits in cholinergic activity in the temporal cortex of AD brains.
Difference in striatal dopamine D2 receptors and in spontaneous and theophylline-induced motor activity in rats withdrawn (for 72 h) from prolonged treatment with haloperidol or clozapine were studied. Haloperidol but not clozapine pretreatment increased the binding of the dopamine D2 antagonist [3H]raclopride in striatal membrane preparations, due to an increased number of striatal dopamine D2 receptors (Bmax) without changes in affinity (Kd). Haloperidol induced a significant increase (in motility and locomotion) and clozapine a decrease (in locomotion) of the spontaneous motor activity. Haloperidol but not clozapine pretreatment was associated with a stronger theophylline-induced motor activation. These results suggest that prolonged treatment with typical but not with atypical antipsychotics are associated with adaptive changes at both dopamine and adenosine receptors.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is a neurotrophic factor secreted by cells that are the targets of innervation of sympathetic and some sensory neurons. However, the mechanism by which the NGF signal is propagated from the axon terminal to the cell body, which can be more than 1 meter away, to influence biochemical events critical for growth and survival of neurons has remained unclear. An NGF-mediated signal transmitted from the terminals and distal axons of cultured rat sympathetic neurons to their nuclei regulated phosphorylation of the transcription factor CREB (cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein). Internalization of NGF and its receptor tyrosine kinase TrkA, and their transport to the cell body, were required for transmission of this signal. The tyrosine kinase activity of TrkA was required to maintain it in an autophosphorylated state upon its arrival in the cell body and for propagation of the signal to CREB within neuronal nuclei. Thus, an NGF-TrkA complex is a messenger that delivers the NGF signal from axon terminals to cell bodies of sympathetic neurons.
Anandamide, an endogenous ligand for central cannabinoid receptors, is released from neurons on depolarization and rapidly inactivated. Anandamide inactivation is not completely understood, but it may occur by transport into cells or by enzymatic hydrolysis. The compound N-(4-hydroxyphenyl)arachidonylamide (AM404) was shown to inhibit high-affinity anandamide accumulation in rat neurons and astrocytes in vitro, an indication that this accumulation resulted from carrier-mediated transport. Although AM404 did not activate cannabinoid receptors or inhibit anandamide hydrolysis, it enhanced receptor-mediated anandamide responses in vitro and in vivo. The data indicate that carrier-mediated transport may be essential for termination of the biological effects of anandamide, and may represent a potential drug target.
In this article it is argued that an evolutionary perspective leads to the view that adaptation and learning is a widespread and old property of living organisms, even as old as life itself. Cognition, defined as knowledge processing mediated by a centralised nervous system, is suggested mainly to be based on the same principles as non-neural adaptive processes. The emergence of conscious cognition, however, is seen as a major transition in the evolution of life, although it appears in different degrees and at various stages in evolution. Both cognition and consciousness depend on the organisation and complexity of the organism, primarily with regard to the nervous system. Computational and neurophysiological approaches are discussed, in particular some experimental attempts to determine anatomical, physiological and physical correlates to consciousness. It is argued that an evolutionary perspective suggests an interactionistic solution to the mind-brain problem, i.e. the question of subjective experience. In an interactionistic perspective consciousness can be understandable as a biological phenomenon. It can be regarded as a driving force in evolution, amplifying and improving the adaptive and cognitive processes of an organism.
Cannabinoid receptors are molecular targets for marijuana and hashish, the widespread drugs of abuse. These receptors are expressed in areas of the central nervous system that contribute in important ways to the control of memory, cognition, movement and pain perception. Indeed, such functions can be strongly influenced by cannabinoid drugs, with consequences that include euphoria, analgesia, sedation and memory impairment. Although the pharmacology of cannabinoid drugs is now beginning to be understood, we still lack essential information on the endogenous signalling system(s) by which cannabinoid receptors are normally engaged. An endogenous ligand for cannabinoid receptors, anandamide, has been described. Here we report that sn-2 arachidonylglycerol (2-AG), a cannabinoid ligand isolated from intestinal tissue, is present in brain in amounts 170 times greater than anandamide. 2-AG is produced in hippocampal slices by stimulation of the Schaffer collaterals, an excitatory fibre tract that projects from CA3 to CA1 neurons. Formation of 2-AG is calcium dependent and is mediated by the enzymes phospholipase C and diacylglycerol lipase. 2-AG activates neuronal cannabinoid receptors as a full agonist, and prevents the induction of long-term potentiation at CA3-CA1 synapses. Our results indicate that 2-AG is a second endogenous cannabinoid ligand in the central nervous system.

We have established a differential peptide display method, based on a mass spectrometric technique, to detect peptides that show semiquantitative changes in the neurointermediate lobe (NIL) of individual rats subjected to salt-loading. We employed matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry, using a single-reference peptide in combination with careful scanning of the whole crystal rim of the matrix-analyte preparation, to detect in a semiquantitative manner the molecular ions present in the unfractionated NIL homogenate. Comparison of the mass spectra generated from NIL homogenates of salt-loaded and control rats revealed a selective and significant decrease in the intensities of several molecular ion species of the NIL homogenates from salt-loaded rats. These ion species, which have masses that correspond to the masses of oxytocin, vasopressin, neurophysins, and an unidentified putative peptide, were subsequently chemically characterized. We confirmed that the decreased molecular ion species are peptides derived exclusively from propressophysin and prooxyphysin (i.e., oxytocin, vasopressin, and various neurophysins). The putative peptide is carboxyl-terminal glycopeptide. The carbohydrate moiety of the latter peptide was determined by electrospray tandem MS as bisected biantennary Hex3HexNAc5Fuc. This posttranslational modification accounts for the mass difference between the predicted mass of the peptide based on cDNA studies and the measured mass of the mature peptide.
Global long-term potentiation (LTP) was induced in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures by a brief application of 10 mM glycine. Glycine-induced LTP was occluded by previous theta burst stimulation-induced potentiation, indicating that both phenomena share similar cellular processes. Glycine-induced LTP was associated with increased [3H]alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) binding in membrane fractions as well as increased amount of a selective spectrin breakdown product generated by calpain-mediated spectrin proteolysis. Antibodies against the C-terminal (C-Ab) and N-terminal (N-Ab) domains of GluR1 subunits were used to evaluate structural changes in AMPA receptor properties resulting from glycine-induced LTP. No quantitative or qualitative changes were observed in Western blots from membrane fractions prepared from glycine-treated slices with C-Ab. In contrast, Western blots stained with N-Ab revealed the formation of a 98-kDa species of GluR1 subunits as well as an increased amount of immunoreactivity after glycine-induced LTP. The amount of spectrin breakdown product was positively correlated with the amount of the 98-kDa species of GluR1 after glycine treatment. Functional modifications of AMPA receptors were evaluated by determining changes in the effect of pressure-applied AMPA on synaptic responses before and after glycine-induced LTP. Glycine treatment produced a significant increase in AMPA receptor function after potentiation that correlated with the degree of potentiation. The results indicate that LTP induction produces calpain activation, truncation of the C-Ab domain of GluR1 subunits of AMPA receptors, and increased AMPA receptor function. They also suggest that insertion of new receptors takes place after LTP induction.
Axon number in the splenium was examined at 15, 25 and 60 days of age in male and female rats. The splenium (posterior fifth) of the corpus callosum was found to contain the axons from the visual cortex at all three ages and was extensively sampled with electron microscopy. Overall, there was a 15% decrease in the total number of axons between postnatal day 15 and day 60 in both sexes. The observed decrease in axon number between day 15 and 25 in both males and females is consistent with Elberger's (A.J. Elberger, Transitory corpus callosum axons projecting throughout developing rat visual cortex revealed by DiI, Cereb. Cortex 4 (1994) 279-299) data which suggest that the pattern of visual callosal projections in the rat visual cortex is not restricted to the adult form until the fourth postnatal week. There was a further decrease in axon number between day 25 and day 60 in females only such that by 60 days of age, the total number of axons was equivalent between the sexes. Thus in the rat splenium, males appear to attain the adult number of axons earlier than females. These results also indicate that there is a sex difference in the timing of axon withdrawal in the rat splenium, with axon withdrawal continuing in females after it has ceased in males.
Previous studies have demonstrated sialyltransferase (ST) enzyme activity to be induced in hepatic cells by corticosteroids. In this study, we used the H411e rat hepatoma cell line to further characterise this induction with particular reference to the subsequent changes in the pattern of sialoglycoprotein (SGP) expression. The induction of total ST activity by dexamethasone was concentration dependent with maximum induction occurring 12 h subsequent to drug addition. Western blot analysis demonstrated that the induction was associated with an increase in the expression of the alpha2,6(N) ST enzyme with no change in the expression levels of the alpha2,3(N) enzyme. While the induction resulted in an increase in the reaction velocity (Vmax) of the enzyme for both the sugar donor (CMP-Neu5Ac) and the asialofetuin acceptor protein, there was no significant change in the enzyme affinity (Km) for the substrates, suggestive of either an increase in the expression or efficiency of the existing enzyme(s) rather than an induction of novel ST enzymes. Lectin blot analysis of cellular glycoprotein expression demonstrated no change in the expression patterns of either alpha2,3 or alpha2,6-linked SGP following enzyme induction. These results suggest that the available acceptor sites for the terminal sialic acid group(s) may be fully occupied in the control cells and therefore there are no further sites onto which the sialic acid can be transferred following induction of ST enzyme activity. This may be due to the high basal enzyme levels in the control cells already exhausting endogenous acceptor sites.
We studied the distribution of phosphorylated tau (p-tau) in neonatal and adult rat cerebrum using monoclonal antibodies that recognize distinct tau epitopes in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. In neonatal cortex, p-tau was detected in the apical dendrites and somata of pyramidal neurons as well as in axons. In adults, p-tau was present predominantly in neuronal somata and dendrites and, to a lesser extent, in axons, whereas tau-1, that recognizes a dephosphorylated tau epitope, immunolabeled neuropil and axons, and not the neuronal somata and dendrites. These results suggest that tau phosphorylated at multiple sites is present in somatodendritic compartments of rat cortical neurons throughout life, and that phosphorylation may be one of the determinants for the compartmentalization of tau in the brain.
Participation of the neuronal nicotinic receptor subunit alpha6 in a physiologically relevant receptor has yet to be demonstrated, but its high degree of expression in catecholaminergic nuclei has attracted considerable interest. To investigate the pattern of expression of the alpha6 protein, a subunit specific antibody against the alpha6 subunit was used to immunohistochemically label sections of the adult rat brain. Alpha6 immunoreactivity was found to be present in the substantia nigra, the ventral tegmental area, the locus coeruleus and the medial habenula, and double-labeling for tyrosine hydroxylase demonstrated that the alpha6 protein is present on dopaminergic neurons of the midbrain. A possible role for the alpha6 subunit in nicotinic modulation of dopaminergic transmission is therefore proposed.
Temporary periods of amnesia are encountered in acute encephalitides. We investigated the association between transient encephalitic amnesia (TENA) and outcome in 60 patients. Twenty-six patients had TENA lasting &lt; or = 1 day (short TENA), 17 had TENA lasting 2-7 days, and 17 had TENA for &gt; 7 days (long TENA). The long TENA group had more neuropsychological impairment, larger brain lesions, and more difficulty in daily activities than the short TENA group. The findings were not explained by the number of epileptic seizures, delay of acyclovir medication, or the aetiology of encephalitis. TENA is a useful new clinical tool in predicting the outcome of acute encephalitis and selecting patients who are in need of detailed neuropsychological evaluation.
Recent studies have established that the expression of defensive rage behavior in the cat is mediated over a descending pathway from the medial hypothalamus to the dorsolateral quadrant of the midbrain periaqueductal gray matter (PAG). The present study was designed to determine the roles played by 5-HT1A and 5-HT2/1C receptors in this region of PAG in modulating defensive rage behavior elicited from the cat's medial hypothalamus. Monopolar stimulating electrodes were implanted into the medial hypothalamus from which defensive rage behavior could be elicited by electrical stimulation. During the course of the study, the 'hissing' component of the defensive rage response was used as a measure of defensive rage behavior. Cannula-electrodes were implanted into sites within the PAG from which defensive rage could also be elicited by electrical stimulation in order that 5-HT compounds could be microinjected into behaviorally identifiable regions of the PAG at a later time. Microinjections of the selective 5-HT1A agonist, (+)-8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin hydrobromide (8-OHDPAT) (50 pmol, 2.0 and 3.0 nmol), into the PAG suppressed the hissing response in a dose-dependent manner. Administration of the selective 5-HT1A antagonist, 4-iodo-N-[2-[4-(methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl] ethyl]-N-2-pyridinyl-benzamide hydrochloride (p-MPPI) (1.5 and 3.0 nmol), blocked the suppressive effects of 8-OHDPAT upon hissing. In contrast, microinjections of the 5-HT2/1C receptor agonist (+)-1-(4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-aminopropane hydrochloride ((+)-DOI hydrochloride) (0.01, 1.0 and 1.5 nmol) facilitated the occurrence of hissing elicited from the medial hypothalamus in a dose-dependent manner. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed the presence of 5-HT axons and preterminals throughout the PAG, and in particular, in its dorsolateral aspect which receives major inputs from the medial hypothalamus in association with defensive rage behavior. The overall findings of the study provide evidence that activation of 5-HT1A and 5-HT2/1C receptors within the midbrain PAG differentially modulate the expression of defensive rage behavior elicited from the medial hypothalamus of the cat.
In familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD), three missense mutations, V642I, V642F and V642G, that co-segregate with the disease phenotype have been discovered in the 695 amino acid form of the amyloid precursor protein APP. Expression of these mutants causes a COS cell NK1 clone to undergo pertussis toxin-sensitive apoptosis in an FAD trait-linked manner by activating the G protein Go, which consists of G alpha(o) and G betagamma subunits. We investigated which subunit was responsible for the induction of apoptosis by V642I APP in NK1 cells. In the same system, expression of mutationally activated G alpha(o) or G alpha(i) induced little apoptosis. Apoptosis by V642I APP was antagonized by the overexpression of the carboxy-terminal amino acids 495-689 of the beta-adrenergic receptor kinase-1, which blocks the specific functions of G betagamma. Co-transfection of G beta2gamma2 cDNAs, but not that of other G beta(x)gamma(z) (x = 1-3; z = 2, 3), induced DNA fragmentation in a manner sensitive to bcl-2. These data implicate G betagamma as a cell death mediator for the FAD-associated mutant of APP.

Auditory neurons of the anterior forebrain (AF) in adult zebra finches are highly selective for the bird's own song (BOS): they respond more to BOS than to songs of other zebra finches (conspecifics) and to BOS played in reverse. In contrast, juvenile AF neurons are not selective at 30 d of age, responding equally well to all song stimuli. Both BOS and tutor song experience are required by juveniles for normal song learning and may produce the selective properties of adult neurons. Because such selectivity could subserve song learning, it is important to determine when it arises. Birds were therefore studied at an intermediate stage of learning, after substantial experience of both tutor song and their own developing (plastic) song. Extracellular single neuron recordings in 60-d-old zebra finches revealed that AF neurons had significant song and order selectivity for both tutor song and BOS (the bird's plastic song). The degree of BOS selectivity was less than that found in adults, as indicated in part by 60 d neurons that were sensitive to the local order within syllables but not yet to the global order of syllables within a song. When responses to BOS and tutor song were compared, most neurons preferred BOS, some preferred tutor song, and others responded equally to both stimuli. The latter type of neuron was not simply immature, because many of these neurons responded significantly more to BOS and tutor song than to conspecific and reverse songs. The selectivity of AF neurons at 60 d is markedly different from the unselective properties of neurons at 30 d and may function in vocal learning at this stage. Moreover, the selectivity for both BOS and tutor song raises the possibility that both aspects of the birds' sensory experience during learning are reflected in properties of AF neurons.
Voltage-dependent calcium (Ca2+) currents were characterized and modulatory effects of somatostatin were measured in acutely dissociated chick ciliary ganglion neurons at embryonic stages 34, 37, and 40. This developmental time period coincides with the period of synapse formation between ciliary ganglion neurons and peripheral eye muscles. At all three developmental stages Ca2+ current could be blocked almost completely by combined application of omega-CgTX GVIA and nitrendipine. At young embryonic ages there was significant overlap in sensitivity, with approximately 75% of the current sensitive to either blocker applied independently. By stage 40, there was very little or no overlap in sensitivity, with approximately 75% of the current blocked by omega-CgTX GVIA (N-type) and 30% blocked by nitrendipine (L-type). These data are consistent with earlier findings that the pharmacology of acetylcholine release from ciliary ganglion nerve terminals changes during development from sensitivity to both dihydropyridines and omega-CgTX GVIA to selective sensitivity to omega-CgTX GVIA (Gray et al., 1992). Somatostatin reduced Ca2+ current by 50-60% at all three developmental stages. At early developmental stages somatostatin receptors coupled predominantly to the current that was sensitive to both omega-CgTX GVIA and nitrendipine. By stage 40, somatostatin primarily inhibited classically defined N-type current (selectively sensitive to omega-CgTX GVIA). Thus, somatostatin receptor coupling to Ca2+ channels persisted throughout development as Ca2+ current pharmacology changed.
Transient, severe forebrain or global ischemia leads to delayed cell death of pyramidal neurons in the hippocampal CA1. The precise molecular mechanisms underlying neuronal cell death after global ischemia are as yet unknown. Glutamate receptor-mediated Ca2+ influx is thought to play a critical role in this cell death. In situ hybridization revealed that the expression of mRNA encoding GluR2 (the subunit that limits Ca2+ permeability of AMPA-type glutamate receptors) was markedly and specifically reduced in gerbil CA1 pyramidal neurons after global ischemia but before the onset of neurodegeneration. To determine whether the change in GluR2 expression is functionally significant, we examined the AMPA receptor-mediated rise in cytoplasmic free Ca2+ level ([Ca2+]i) in individual CA1 pyramidal neurons by optical imaging with the Ca2+ indicator dye fura-2 and by intracellular recording. Seventy-two hours after ischemia, CA1 neurons that retained the ability to fire action potentials exhibited a greatly enhanced AMPA-elicited rise in [Ca2+]i. Basal [Ca2+]i in these neurons was unchanged. These findings provide evidence for Ca2+ entry directly through AMPA receptors in pyramidal neurons destined to die. Downregulation of GluR2 gene expression and an increase in Ca2+ influx through AMPA receptors in response to endogenous glutamate are likely to contribute to the delayed neuronal death after global ischemia.
The expression of multiple classes of voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs) allows neurons to tailor calcium signaling to functionally discrete cellular regions. In the developing hippocampus a central issue is whether the expression of VDCC subtypes plays a role in key phases such as migration and synaptogenesis. Using radioligand binding and immunoblotting, we show that some N-type VDCCs exist before birth, consistent with a role in migration; however, most N-VDCC subunit expression is postnatal, coinciding with synaptogenesis. Immunoprecipitation studies indicate that the increased expression of N-VDCCs in early development occurs without subunit switching because there is no change in the fraction of beta3 subunits in the N-VDCC alpha1B-beta3 heteromers. Fluorescence imaging of cell surface N-VDCCs during this period reveals that N-VDCCs are expressed on somata before dendrites and that this expression is asynchronous between different subfields of the hippocampus (CA3-CA4 before CA1-CA2 and dentate gyrus). Our data argue that N-VDCC expression is an important cue in the genesis of synaptic transmission in discrete hippocampal subfields.
The early endosome is the first vacuolar compartment along the endocytic pathway. It is the site of internalization and initial processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and apolipoprotein E (ApoE), two proteins of etiological importance in Alzheimer's disease, and a putative site of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) formation. Here, we identify early endosomes in human pyramidal neurons, using specific compartmental markers and morphometry, and show that in Alzheimer's disease individual endosomes display up to 32-fold larger volumes than the normal average. Endosomal enlargement contributed to an average 2.5-fold larger total endosomal volume per neuron, implying a marked increase in endocytic activity. Endosomal alterations were evident in most pyramidal neurons in Alzheimer brain, detectable at early stages of the disease but absent in several other neurodegenerative disorders examined. In addition, mature and proenzyme forms of the proteases cathepsin B and cathepsin D, a candidate APP secretase, were identified in most early endosomes in Alzheimer brains but were detectable in only a minor proportion of endosomes in normal brain. Expression of the cation-dependent 46 kDa mannose 6-phosphate receptor was elevated in pyramidal neurons of Alzheimer brains, which could be a possible basis for the altered cathepsin trafficking pattern. Enhanced endocytic activity, coupled with increased trafficking to endosomes of proteases, which may have the ability under pathological conditions to generate Abeta, constitutes a potential mechanism by which beta-amyloidogenesis may become accelerated in sporadic AD and also be subject to influences by ApoE.
The effects of galanin (GAL) on magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) were examined during microelectrode recordings from supraoptic neurons in superfused hypothalamic explants. Application of the full-length peptide (GAL1-29) or of the N-terminal fragment GAL1-16 produced reversible membrane hyperpolarization with an IC50 near 10 nM. These effects were associated with an increase of membrane conductance, with a reversal potential near -70 mV, and were not blocked by tetrodotoxin, indicating that the receptors mediating these effects are located postsynaptically. Hyperpolarizing responses were also observed in response to the GAL-like chimeric ligands M35 and M40, suggesting that these behave as partial agonists at galanin receptors. The reversal potential of the GAL-mediated effect was unaffected by reducing extracellular chloride or by intracellular chloride injection, indicating that the effects of galanin are not mediated by modulation of chloride conductances. In contrast, reducing the external concentration of potassium ions from 3 to 1 mM shifted the reversal potential of the responses to -85 mV, suggesting the involvement of a potassium conductance. When tested on spontaneously active MNCs, the hyperpolarizing effects of galanin were associated with a suppression of firing in both continuously active and phasically active neurons. Inhibition of phasic bursts was mediated both through the inhibitory effects of the hyperpolarization and through a GAL-mediated inhibition of the depolarizing afterpotential that is responsible for the production of individual bursts. These results suggest that galanin may be a potent endogenous modulator of firing pattern in hypothalamic neuroendocrine cells.
In mammals, the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) are the anatomical site of localization of the light-entrainable circadian clock responsible for the generation of daily rhythms in physiology and behavior. In addition to direct retinohypothalamic innervation, the SCN receive a prominent projection of fibers from the intergeniculate leaflet (IGL) of the thalamus, the geniculohypothalamic tract (GHT), some of which contain the neurotransmitter, neuropeptide Y (NPY). Since the GHT has been suggested to play a role in the modulation of photic entrainment of the SCN circadian clock in rodents, we investigated the effects of local administration of NPY into the region of the SCN on light-induced phase shifts of the free-running activity rhythm in hamsters. Injection of 60 nmol of NPY into the SCN region 10 min prior to light exposure at circadian time 19 completely blocked light-induced phase advances. Similar treatment at circadian time 14 had no significant effect on the magnitude of light-induced phase delays. Injection of NPY at either time point without light exposure did not alter circadian phase. The findings support a modulatory role for NPY in the photic entrainment of the SCN circadian clock.
We have examined a potential role for integrins in an animal model of epileptogenesis termed in vitro kindling. Integrins mediate cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, and also participate in the transduction of information from the extracellular environment to the intracellular milieu. As many extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules contain the conserved amino acid sequence arg-gly-asp-ser (RGDS) at the integrin recognition site, integrin-ECM binding can be disrupted using RGDS peptides. Hippocampal slices were washed in either RGDS, gly-gly-gly-gly (GGGG), vehicle or artificial cerebral spinal fluid (ACSF) for 1 h prior to in vitro kindling. Baseline electrophysiological responses were unaltered by RGDS peptide. The RGDS-treated slices displayed a significant decrease in the rate of spontaneous bursts, whereas the period of spontaneous bursting increased dramatically. Our results indicate that the competitive peptide, RGDS, changed hippocampal slice excitability over time, indicating that interference with ECM-integrin binding may alter neuronal signaling through an RGDS binding site.
To describe the spectral characteristics of the EGG development through autoregressive (AR) time series models it is necessary to perform regression analysis of the AR parameters with regards to the age of the subject. A major difficulty in this approach is the very complex nature of the admissible region of the AR coefficients, which impedes the straight use of regression techniques. The present paper overcomes this difficulty by first applying the Barndoff-Nielsen and Schou reparametrization of AR models, followed by Fisher's transformation and then carrying out age regression analysis of the transformed parameters. We apply this approach to real EEG data obtained from a normative sample of subjects in the age range from 5 to 95 years.


The study of herpes virus biology has produced two vector delivery strategies which exploit the highly evolved neuronal tropism and life cycle regulation exhibited by this class of viruses. Amplicon and recombinant herpes simplex virus systems show promise for use in gene transfer to the nervous system and although neither vector has been used in clinical trials to date, their application to gene delivery and perturbation of neuronal physiology have been well established. We will review the properties of the herpes amplicon system, and demonstrate its utility in neuroscience applications.
We identified four guanine nucleotide binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptors from planarians by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with degenerate primers. They all showed a significant homology to human 5HT1A serotonin receptor and therefore were designated as serotonin receptor-like planarian receptor 1 similar to 4 (5HTLpla1 similar to 4). cDNA clones of 5HTLpla4 and 5HTLpla1 were isolated from the planarian cDNA library and their complete nucleotide sequences were determined. The deduced amino acid sequences of these planarian receptors, which are highly homologous to one another, show significant similarity to that of Drosophila 5HTdrol serotonin receptor. Northern blot analysis revealed that expression of 5HTLpla4 mRNA increased during planarian regeneration, suggesting that 5HTLpla4 might be involved in the regeneration mechanism.
The pattern of development of several subpopulations of second-order vestibular neurons was investigated by using intracellular recordings from chicken brain slices to define the timing of morphological and electrophysiological changes occurring at 3 critical ages. Two embryonic stages, embryonic day 13 (E13) and E15-16, and also newborn chicks were selected according to previous anatomical findings showing the differentiation of primary vestibular afferents and their synapses within a distinctive brainstem vestibular nucleus, the tangential nucleus. The responses of these cells to depolarizing and hyperpolarizing current pulses and their postsynaptic responses to vestibular nerve stimulation were recorded, while simultaneously biocytin was injected for subsequent morphogenetic analysis. From this study, developmental schedules of membrane properties, synaptic responses, and dendritic differentiation were established for the 2 cell populations of the tangential nucleus and other neurons located in the surrounding vestibular nuclei. Compared with all other second-order vestibular neurons, the principal cells of the tangential nucleus exhibited a distinctive schedule. Mainly, this includes their pattern of firing on depolarization, the shape and duration of the vestibular-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potential, and the time of onset of dendritic outgrowth. In regard to these observations, E15-16 appears to be a turning point in principal cell ontogeny, whereas these features occur earlier in development for other second-order vestibular neurons. These findings, which indicate that the principal cells may have distinct membrane properties at specific ages, are discussed in light of their unique vestibular innervation and the possible consequences for vestibular signal processing.
We explored the development of clustered connections in cat somatosensory cortex by using intracortical injections of biocytin and carbocyanine dye (DiI). Biocytin injections in adults revealed clusters of retrogradely labeled cells, affirming earlier reports of the patchy nature of corticocortical connectivity in the adult cat somatosensory cortex. On postnatal days (PNDs) 1 and 3, a diffuse distribution of axons and labeled cells were found after DiI injections. A dramatic rearrangement of connections had taken place by PND 6. Well-defined clusters of labeled cells surrounded the injection site. Intercluster zones were relatively free of labeled cells and contained few labeled axons. At later ages (PNDs 12 and 15), a clear patchy distribution of intrinsic connections was seen. We analyzed neuronal clustering by using spatial point process analysis, which corroborated our qualitative observations. The density of labeled neurons was significantly higher in clusters than in the intercluster zones on PND 6. Autocorrelations run on profile plots of optical density values, along paths parallel to the edge of the injection sites (reflecting axonal distributions), revealed significant periodicity (P &lt; .05; center-to-center approximately 750 pm) by PND 6. These data demonstrate that corticocortical connections in cat somatosensory cortex develop from a diffuse network at birth, which transforms into a patchy network by the end of the 1st postnatal week. This is substantially earlier than the development of local circuits in the cat visual cortex and may reflect fundamental differences in the organization of the two cortices.
It has previously been suggested that increases of L-arginine uptake into brain following portacaval shunting may result in increased activities of constitutive neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). In order to further address this issue, nNOS protein and gene expression were studied by Western blot analysis using a monoclonal nNOS antibody and RT-PCR respectively in the brains of rats following portacaval shunting or sham operation. Portacaval shunting resulted in a 2-fold increase (P &lt; 0.01) in nNOS protein and a concomitant 2.4-fold increase (P &lt; 0.01) in nNOS mRNA. Increased nNOS activity in brain and the resulting increase in nitric oxide production could contribute to the increased cerebral blood flow and to the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy in chronic liver disease.
Ceruloplasmin is a copper-binding protein, which is the major ferroxidase in plasma of hepatic origin. We now provide evidence for a novel membrane-bound form of ceruloplasmin expressed by astrocytes in the mammalian central nervous system. Using a monoclonal antibody (1A1), we show that the cell surface antigen recognized by this antibody is ceruloplasmin and that it is directly anchored to the cell surface via a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor. Our peptide mapping and other immunochemical studies indicate that, except for the GPI anchor, the membrane-bound and secreted plasma forms are similar. We also show that the membrane-bound form of ceruloplasmin has oxidase activity. These studies therefore suggest that the GPI-anchored form of ceruloplasmin may play a role similar to the secreted form in oxidizing ferrous iron. The GPI-anchored form of ceruloplasmin expressed by astrocytes is likely to be the major form of this molecule in the central nervous system because serum ceruloplasmin does not cross the blood-brain barrier. Lack of this form of ceruloplasmin in the central nervous system could lead to the generation of highly toxic free radicals, which can cause neuronal degeneration as seen in aceruloplasminemia and other neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease.
The hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) receives afferents from the retina and the midbrain raphe. The retinal innervation mediates photic entrainment of the SCN circadian oscillator whereas the serotonergic input arising from the midbrain raphe nuclei appears to modulate retinohypothalamic neurotransmission. We hypothesized that serotonergic innervation of the SCN may modulate retinal input by activation of 5HT1B presynaptic receptors on retinal axon terminals in the SCN. We tested this hypothesis using the 5HT1B receptor agonist, 1-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-piperazine (TFMPP). Systemic administration of TFMPP prior to light stimulation significantly attenuated light-induced phase shifts of the circadian activity rhythm and Fos expression in the SCN. These results in the mouse support our earlier findings in the hamster [Pickard, G.E., Weber, E.T., Scott, P.A., Riberdy, A.F. and Rea, M.A., J. Neurosci., 16 (1996) 8208-8220] and are consistent with the interpretation that 5HT1B presynaptic receptors participate in the regulation of photic input to the SCN.
Rats were treated with vehicle, ritanserin (5 mg/kg, i.p.), haloperidol (1 mg/kg, i.p.) or both ritanserin and haloperidol for 19 days to determine whether chronic administration of the serotonin (5HT2) antagonist ritanserin affects D2 receptor up-regulation produced by haloperidol. Brain sections were prepared for D2 and 5HT2 receptor autoradiography with [3H]spiperone and [3H]ketanserin, respectively. Ritanserin significantly reduced 5HT2 receptors to 80% of vehicle in the sulcal area of the frontal cortex but had no effect on D2 receptors. Haloperidol significantly increased striatal and n. accumbens D2 receptors with no effect on 5HT2 receptors. In ritanserin/haloperidol-treated rats, D2 receptors were significantly increased along with significant decreases in 5HT2 receptors of the frontal cortex. These results suggest 5HT2 receptor antagonism by ritanserin does not significantly affect D2 receptor up-regulation produced by haloperidol.
Interleukin-4 (IL-4) has been demonstrated to possess anti-tumourigenic properties in vivo which is initially attributed to the infiltration of eosinophils proposed to occur by IL-4 binding to its receptors on endothelial cells, thereby mediating eosinophil adhesion. We have investigated whether the binding of IL-4 to receptors on endothelial cells could elicit other biological responses which may also play a role in tumour inhibition, such as angiogenesis. We have demonstrated that mouse IL-4 (mIL-4) down-regulates the expression of one of the receptors for VEGF, VEGF-R2, on endothelial cells in vitro. By generating stable transfectants of C6 glioma cells that express mIL-4 under a tetracycline-responsive promoter system, we were able to apply tight regulatory control of mIL-4 expression in vivo. Subcutaneous implantation of mIL-4/C6 cell lines in nu/nu mice revealed that tumour growth is inhibited by mIL-4 expression. mIL-4-expressing tumours were demonstrated to have a reduced level of vascularisation compared with controls, in addition to a high degree of eosinophil infiltration. Our results suggest that mIL-4 has bimodal biological roles in potentiating tumour inhibition in athymic mice: the suppression of angiogenesis and the augmentation of the host local immune response.
Thyroid hormone is a critical mediator of central nervous system (CNS) development, acting through nuclear receptors to modulate the expression of specific genes. Transcription of the rat hairless (hr) gene is highly up-regulated by thyroid hormone in the developing CNS; we show here that hr is directly induced by thyroid hormone. By identifying proteins that interact with the hr gene product (Hr), we find that Hr interacts directly and specifically with thyroid hormone receptor (TR)-the same protein that regulates its expression. Unlike previously described receptor-interacting factors, Hr associates with TR and not with retinoic acid receptors (RAR, RXR). Hr can act as a transcriptional repressor, suggesting that its interaction with TR is part of a novel autoregulatory mechanism.
Feline Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease which shares many of the clinical, biochemical and pathological features of the corresponding human disorder. Cytopathological alterations in distinct neuronal cell populations were investigated in this animal model to gain a better understanding of the pathogenesis of brain dysfunction. Golgi and immunocytochemical methods were employed to characterize the cell architectural changes occurring in neuronal somata, dendrites and axons at different stages of disease progression. Cortical pyramidal neurons in laminae II, III, and V exhibited various degrees of meganeurite and/or swollen axon hillock formation with or without ectopic dendritogenesis. Enlarged axon hillock regions with neuritic processes and spines were recognized early in the progression of feline NPC but were less prevalent in mid to late stages of the disease. Glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) immunocytochemistry demonstrated immunoreactive spheroids in numerous GABAergic axons in neocortex, subcortical areas, and cerebellum. Parvalbumin-immunoreactive axonal spheroid distribution in brain closely mirrored results from the GAD studies, whereas calbindin D-28k-immunoreactive spheroids were conspicuously absent in most cortical and subcortical areas examined. Purkinje cell axonal spheroid formation progressed in a distal to proximal direction, with eventual involvement of recurrent axon collaterals. Purkinje cell death and a concomitant decrease in the numbers of spheroids in the cerebellum were observed late in the disease course. Clinical neurological signs in feline NPC occur in parallel with neuronal structural alterations and suggest that GABAergic neuroaxonal dystrophy is a contributor to brain dysfunction in this disease.
Prolonged ischemia is known to damage the blood-brain barrier, causing an increase in vascular permeability to proteins. We studied the time course of extravasation of endogenous albumin in rats after 1 and 2 h of middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion followed by 6, 12, and 24 h of recirculation. In a separate group of rats that had undergone 1 h of MCA occlusion and 6 h of recirculation, influx of [14C]aminoisobutyric acid (AIB) from blood to brain was also measured. After 1 h of occlusion followed by 6 h of recirculation, neuronal damage was evident in caudoputamen, but there were no signs of blood-brain barrier leakage to either AIB or albumin. At 12 h, the caudoputamen contained extravasated albumin, and at 24 h extravasation was extended to the somatosensory cortex. Animals subjected to 2 h of MCA occlusion showed albumin extravasation in caudoputamen already at 6 h of recirculation, and at 12 and 24 h albumin was abundant in the major part of the right hemisphere. This study suggests that damage to neurons precedes leakage of the blood-brain barrier. Even a relatively short period of ischemia such as 1 h will result in markedly increased vascular permeability. However, a longer transient ischemic insult disrupts the blood-brain barrier earlier than a shorter one.

Antidepressants detected by the National Department of Forensic Chemistry in 5281 suicides in Sweden during the period 1992-1994 were related to data on usage expressed in person-years of exposure. Antidepressants were detected in 874 subjects (16.5%). In relation to their use, fluvoxamine, citalopram, moclobemide, mianserin and trimipramine were found more often than the reference drug, amitriptyline (i.e. over-risks). Toxic concentrations of antidepressants were detected in 232 subjects (4.4%). Most people committing suicide were not taking antidepressants immediately before their death, even though 40-85% may have been depressed. Undertreatment and therapeutic failure are the main problems with antidepressants, not the risk of using antidepressants in overdose. Comparisons of new antidepressants should focus on efficacy in relation to reference tricyclics. The huge increase in the use of antidepressants in Sweden since 1990-1991 has been paralleled by a significant decrease in suicide rates.

The cerebellum is especially vulnerable to ethanol's neurotoxic effects during development, and ethanol exposure during the brain growth spurt will deplete cerebellar neurons. The mechanisms undertying this neuronal cell loss remain elusive. Nerve growth factor (NGF) is a neurotrophin that promotes cell survival in various brain areas, and there is evidence that NGF may play a role in the developing cerebellum. This study examined whether ethanol exposure of the neonatal rat cerebellum altered the levels of either NGF or the expression of p75 and trkA, which are two components of the NGF receptor. Ethanol exposure had no effect on NGF levels in the neonatal cerebellum, as determined by an NGF-specific ELISA. Immunohistochemical labeling techniques indicated that both the p75 and trkA NGF receptors were expressed on Purkinje cell dendrites in the developing cerebellum, with posterior lobules expressing higher levels of p75 and trkA NGF receptor, compared with anterior lobules. Ethanol exposure of neonatal rats reduced the expression of both p75 and trkA NGF receptors on the Purkinje cell dendrites. These results suggest that ethanol could interfere with neurotrophic support of Purkinje cells by reducing the levels of available NGF receptor.
Exposure of human fetuses to ethanol often results in the fetal alcohol syndrome. Animal models of fetal alcohol syndrome have been developed and used to examine the consequences of prenatal ethanol exposure on the central nervous system. The objective of this study was to determine the long-term effects of prenatal ethanol exposure on parvalbumin-expressing (PA+) GABAergic neurons of the rat medial septum. Pregnant Long-Evans rats were maintained on 1 of 3 diets from gestational day 0 to 21: an ethanol-containing liquid diet in which ethanol accounted for 35% of the total calories, a similar diet with the isocaloric substitution of sucrose for ethanol, or a lab chow control diet. Offspring were killed on postnatal day 60, and their brains were prepared for parvalbumin immunocytochemistry. Female rats exposed to the ethanol-containing diet during gestation had 42% fewer PA+ neurons in the medial septum and reduced PA+ cell density when compared with female rats exposed to the sucrose diet. Ethanol females also had fewer PA+ neurons per unit volume than sucrose females. Male rats exposed to ethanol did not display a similar reduction in PA+ neurons or density. No effect of prenatal diet was found on the area or volume of the medial septum, nor were cell diameters affected. As such, prenatal exposure to ethanol seems to reduce permanently the number of PA+ neurons in the female rat medical septum without affecting area, volume, or neuronal size. Functional implications and possible relations to the fetal alcohol syndrome are discussed.

Brown adipose tissue (BAT) expresses several adenylyl cyclase (AC) subtypes, and adrenergic stimulation selectively upregulates AC-III gene expression. Previous studies have described synergistic interactions between the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) and 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (T3) on the regulation of gene expression in BAT. Because adrenergic stimulation also increases the activity of BAT type II thyroxine 5'-deiodinase (DII) and local T3 generation is important for many functional responses in BAT, we examined the effects of thyroid hormone status on the expression of various AC subtypes. Hypothyroidism selectively increased AC-III mRNA levels in BAT but not in white adipose tissue. Of the other subtypes examined, hypothyroidism did not alter AC-VI mRNA levels and slightly reduced AC-IX mRNA levels in BAT. The increase in AC-III expression was paralleled by an increase in forskolin-stimulated AC activity in BAT membranes. Sympathetic denervation of BAT abolished the increase in both AC activity and AC-III mRNA expression produced by hypothyroidism, but did not affect the expression of other subtypes. Surgical denervation also prevented the induction of AC-III in the cold-stressed euthyroid rat, but injections of T3 failed to alter AC-III expression in intact or denervated BAT. Our results indicate that T3 does not directly affect expression of AC-III. Rather, hypothyroidism increases BAT AC-III expression indirectly via an increase in sympathetic stimulation. Furthermore, our results strongly indicate that the increase in AC activity in hypothyroid BAT is due to increased expression of AC-III.
Sympathoexcitatory neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) play a key role in the tonic maintenance of resting arterial pressure. Removal of tonically active inhibitory inputs to the RVLM provided by the caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVLM) elicits a large increase in arterial pressure. The present study addresses the hypothesis that excitatory amino acids (EAA) provide the excitation of the RVLM responsible for the increase in arterial pressure that occurs after withdrawal of CVLM-mediated inhibition of the RVLM. In rats anesthetized with either alpha-chloralose or urethan, inhibition of the CVLM by local injection of muscimol markedly elevated arterial pressure. Subsequent injection of the EAA receptor antagonist kynurenic acid into the RVLM caused arterial pressure to fall to levels comparable to those that occur-with total autonomic blockade. In contrast, injection of kynurenic acid into the RVLM of control rats had little effect on arterial pressure. These results indicate that the large increase in arterial pressure produced by inhibition of the CVLM is mediated by EAA excitation of RVLM neurons. Furthermore, these data suggest that EAA play a prominent role in the tonic excitation of RVLM neurons, but, in intact rats, inhibition of EAA in the RVLM elicits no change in arterial pressure because of removal of inhibitory as well as excitatory drives of the RVLM.
We present evidence that activity of native Kv1.3 channels in human T lymphocytes can be increased by inhibiting phosphatases [using okadaic acid (OA)] or by activating protein kinase A (PKA). OA increased the maximal conductance (Gmax) by 40% and shifted the voltage dependence of activation and inactivation, resulting in a significant increase in window current around the normal membrane potential. PKA inhibition [using the PKA inhibitor peptide PKI-(5-24)] decreased Gmax by 43%, whereas PKA activation [by the Sp diastereomer of adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphothioate (Sp-cAMPS)] increased Gmax by 60% and shifted the inactivation curve, producing an increase in the window current. These results are consistent with our previously published work using cell-attached patches but differ from some studies of Kv1.3. Because we previously reported a similar upregulation by protein kinase C (PKC) activation in these cells, we tested whether the PKA and PKC effects were additive. Our results suggest that PKC-dependent phosphorylation acts as a master switch, inasmuch as calphostin C greatly inhibited the current even after Sp-cAMPS, OA, or PKC activation was used to increase protein phosphorylation. Inasmuch as phosphorylation by both kinases (phorbol ester followed by Sp-cAMPS) abrogated the effects of either kinase alone, our results support the view that Kv1.3 is regulated in a complex manner by serine/threonine phosphorylation.

The cause of the selective degeneration of motor neurons in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) remains unexplained. One potential pathogenetic mechanism is chronic toxicity due to disturbances of the glutamatergic neurotransmitter system, mediated via alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA)-sensitive glutamate receptors. Functional AMPA receptors consist of various combinations of four subunits (designated GluR1-4). The GluR2 subunit is functionally dominant and renders AMPA receptors impermeable to calcium. Most native AMPA receptors in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS) contain the GluR2 subunit and are calcium impermeable. We have investigated the composition of AMPA receptors expressed on normal human spinal motor neurons by in situ hybridization to determine their likely subunit stoichiometry. Highly significant levels of mRNA were detected for the GluR1, GluR3, and GluR4 subunits. However, GluR2 subunit mRNA was not detectable in this cell group. The absence of detectable GluR2 mRNA in normal human spinal motor neurons predicts that they express calcium-permeable AMPA receptors unlike most neuronal groups in the human CNS. Expression of atypical calcium-permeable AMPA receptors by human motor neurons provides a possible mechanism whereby disturbances of glutamate neurotransmission in ALS may selectively injure this cell group.

Ischemia causes long-term effects on brain volume and neurologic function but the relationship between the two is poorly characterized. We studied the relationships between brain volume and three measures of rodent behavior after cerebral ischemia was induced by injecting several thousand microspheres into the internal carotid arteries of rats. Forty eight hours later, each subject was rated using a global neurologic rating scale. Several weeks later, the subjects were tested for open field activity and visual spatial learning. Post-mortem we measured the volume of the cerebral hemispheres and estimated the volume densities of cortex, white matter, hippocampus, basal ganglia, thalamus, ventricle, and visible infarction. Ischemia caused significant impairment, as measured by the global rating scale; the probability of an abnormal rating was correlated with the number of microspheres trapped in the brains. Visual spatial learning was significantly impaired by ischemia, but this deficit was independent of the count of microspheres, whether the subject was abnormal at 48 h, and whether the left or right hemisphere was embolized. Cerebral hemisphere volume was reduced from 430 mm3 to 376 mm3 (P &lt; 0.05). The cortex was reduced from 22 to 19% of cerebrum (P &lt; 0.05) and the white matter compartment was reduced to similar degree. The lesion volume was 6% of cerebrum, comparable to that seen with other ischemia methods. The global outcome rating was significantly related to total cerebral volume, but not to volume changes in any single compartment. On the other hand, visual spatial learning was significantly influenced by volume changes in the cortex and white matter, but not by the topography of the visible infarctions. Open field activity was not altered by infarction. Our data suggests that the total volume of brain tissue lost to infarction may partially determine global neurological rating independently of the topography of the volume loss. Integrative functions such as learning may depend more on the integrity of specific compartments and less on the total volume of intact brain. The volume of visible cystic infarction was not related to long term behavioral outcome. These results should be confirmed using another method of inducing ischemia.
Although cognitive decline has been well established as a consequence of aging in non-human primate models, the prevalence or frequency of impairment for specific age ranges has not been described. The first aim of this study was to estimate prevalence of cognitive impairment on each of the six tests of cognitive performance by comparing the performance of early-aged (19-23 years old), advanced-aged (24-28 years old), and oldest-aged (29+ years old) monkeys to that of young adults (&lt; 15 years old). The second aim was to derive a single overall measure of cognitive performance to help classify behavioral function in our aged monkeys. Accordingly, we obtained performance measures for these age groups on six behavioral measures: (1) acquisition of the delayed non-matching-to-sample task (DNMS); (2) performance of the DNMS with a delay of 120 sec; (3) the spatial condition of the delayed recognition span test (DRST); (4) the color condition of the DRST; (5) spatial reversal learning; and (6) object reversal learning. Early-aged monkeys displayed prevalence rates of impairment significantly greater than zero on all tasks except the DRST-color. The highest prevalence of impairment was observed in this age group in a task measuring spatial memory (DRST). Significant trends toward progressively higher impairment rates in advanced-aged and oldest-aged monkeys were observed for DNMS-acquisition, DRST-color and spatial reversal learning tasks. A linear transformation of standardized scores on the six cognitive tests was derived by means of principal components analysis (PCA). The first PCA (PCA1) included data from 30 monkeys with available data on all six measures, and yielded a composite measure which declined linearly with increasing age (r = -0.74). A second PCA (PCA2) was performed on data from 53 monkeys for which three test scores (DNMS-acquisition, DNMS-120s delay, and DRST-spatial condition) were available. The composite score derived from this analysis was highly correlated (r = 0.93) with the composite score from PCA1, suggesting that a score based on only three tests may provide an adequate classification of global cognitive ability.
The area postrema (AP), a chemosensitive organ located in the fourth ventricle, has been shown to mediate the formation of a lithium-induced conditioned taste avoidance (CTA) in rats. The present experiments examined the role of the AP in the discrimination between two equimolar solutions of sodium chloride (NaCl) and lithium chloride (LiCl). In the first experiment adult male rats were trained to discriminate between equimolar (0.12 M) solutions of NaCl and LiCl in a forced-choice procedure over a 10-day acquisition phase. Subsequently half of the rats (n = 7) received AP lesions (APX) and the other half (n = 7) were given sham lesions (SHAM). In the retention phase all animals were again exposed to the same salt solutions over a 10-day period. Good discrimination (P &lt; 0.001) between the two salt solutions was demonstrated by the end of the acquisition phase and both the APX and SHAM groups exhibited robust retention (P &lt; 0.01) of this discrimination in the second phase. However, when only a LiCl solution was available the APX group ingested significantly more (P &lt; 0.01) than the SHAM rats. No significant group difference emerged when only NaCl was available. In the second experiment rats received ablations of AP or sham lesions and were then trained to discriminate between 0.12 M NaCl and LiCl solutions in a forced-choice procedure over a 10-day period. Both groups exhibited a clear discrimination (P &lt; 0.01) between the two solutions by the end of the acquisition phase. APX rats ingested significantly more LiCl (P &lt; 0.01) than did the SHAM group when this was the only type of fluid available. Again, no such difference was evident when only NaCl was available. These experiments demonstrate that the AP is not necessary for either the acquisition or retention of a discrimination between equimolar solutions of NaCl and LiCl in a forced-choice procedure and that this discrimination is not mediated by a conditioned taste aversion to the LiCl solution.
Bilateral lesion of the fimbria resulted in a reduction of social interdependency and agonistic behavior in male-male encounters in rats. These findings are hypothesized to be consistent with J. A. Gray's (1982) supervisor model, which assigns an executive function to the septohippocampal system. To achieve this interpretation, social behavior is described in terms of relational processes (social hypothesis, behavioral sequencing, and behavioral competition). This study focused mainly on the effects of the lesion on behavioral sequencing by studying the alterations of the predictability of the behavior of a rat in terms of the behavior of its partner.
The possible modulatory role of motor cortex in classical conditioning of the eyeblink response was examined by ablating anterior neocortex in rabbits and training them with an auditory conditioned stimulus (CS) and an airpuff unconditioned stimulus (US) in either a delay (Experiment 1) or a trace (Experiment 2) conditioning paradigm. Topographic measures such as amplitude and onset latency were assessed during conditioning sessions for conditioned responses (CRs) and on separate test days for unconditioned responses (URs) by using a range of US intensities. No lesion effects were observed for learning or performance measures in acquisition or retention of either delay or trace conditioning. During trace conditioning, lesioned rabbits did, however, exhibit a trend toward impairment and demonstrated significantly longer CR latencies. Damage to motor and frontal cortex does not significantly affect eyeblink response performance or learning in either a delay or a trace conditioning paradigm.


The environmental toxicant 4-tert-octylphenol (OP) has been shown to exert estrogenic effects on mammalian cells in culture. Recent findings from our laboratories demonstrate clearly that OP administration disrupts reproductive hormone secretion in the adult male rat, quite likely as a result of estrogenic action. In the present study, we investigated the impact of these or other OP-induced changes on male reproductive tissues. Adult male rats were injected with OP (20 or 80 mg) or estradiol valerate (EV; 0.8 or 8 microg) s.c. in oil three times a week for either 1 or 2 mo. We found that an 80-mg dosage of OP for 2 mo or an 8-microg dosage of EV for 1 or 2 mo greatly reduced sperm numbers and adversely influenced the sizes, weights, and histological structures of the testes, epididymides, ventral prostate glands, seminal vesicles, and coagulating glands. The 80-mg dosage of OP for 1 mo reduced epididymal tubule size to a lesser extent than after 2 mo of treatment. Otherwise, treatment with 80 mg OP for 1 mo, 20 mg OP for 1 or 2 mo, or 0.8 microg EV for 1 mo had little or no effect on the histology of the tissues we examined. Additional evaluation of sperm morphology revealed marked increases in the proportions of head and tail abnormalities from animals that had received 80 mg of OP or 8 microg of EV for 1 mo and 20 mg of OP for 2 mo. The head abnormalities consisted mainly of pin heads, detached heads, and the absence of hooks, while tail abnormalities included mainly broken, coiled, and bent tails. Our results clearly demonstrate that OP can severely reduce the size and/or function of all of the male gametogenic and accessory reproductive organs studied. Moreover, the similarity of these cell and tissue changes between rats treated with OP and those treated with EV further suggests that OP may exert its action in an estrogenic-like manner.
4-Tert-octylphenol (OP) is a prevalent environmental pollutant that has been shown to exert both toxic and estrogenic effects on mammalian cells. The effects of OP on the reproductive system of adult male vertebrates are virtually unknown. In the present study, we investigated the effects of chronic exposure to OP on reproductive hormone secretion in the adult male rat and compared the results qualitatively with those observed in other male rats treated chronically with estrogen. We injected corn oil vehicle or OP (20 or 80 mg) or estradiol valerate (EV; 0.8 or 8 microg) in oil s.c. into 2-mo-old male rats thrice weekly for either 1 or 2 mo. The 80-mg dosage of OP and one or both dosages of EV had the following effects: decreased anterior pituitary gland (APG) and serum LH and FSH concentrations; increased APG and serum prolactin (PRL) concentrations; increased APG/body weight ratios; decreased serum testosterone concentrations; decreased hematocrit; and decreased food consumption and body weight gain. To evaluate the response of the hypothalamus-APG to gonadal removal, we orchidectomized some of the rats after the end of treatment and decapitated them 3 wk later. In orchidectomized controls, serum LH and FSH concentrations rose markedly and serum PRL concentrations decreased. Similar changes were seen in orchidectomized rats treated previously with 20 or 80 mg OP. Moreover, there were no differences in mean serum LH, FSH, or PRL concentrations between controls and rats treated previously with either dosage of OP at 3 wk after orchidectomy. The results demonstrate that chronic administration of OP to adult male rats can adversely affect the secretion of reproductive hormones and strongly suggest that OP exerts these effects by acting like an estrogen. The opposite changes in LH, FSH, and PRL secretion observed after cessation of treatment with OP and orchidectomy suggest that chronic treatment with OP under the conditions of the present study did not result in any significant permanent deleterious effects on gonadotrophs or lactotrophs or the hypothalamic neurons controlling the secretion of the gonadotropins or PRL.
1. SB-204269 (trans-(+)-6-acetyl-4S-(4-fluorobenzoylamino)-3, 4-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-2H-benzol[b]pyran-3R-ol, hemihydrate) shows potent anticonvulsant activity in a range of animal seizure models, with a lack of neurological or cardiovascular side-effects. The profile of the compound suggests that it may have a novel mechanism of action. This study describes the characteristics of a binding site for [3H]-SB-204269 in rat forebrain membranes. 2. Specific [3H]-SB-204269 binding was saturable and analysis indicated binding to a homogenoeous population of non-interacting binding sites with a dissociation constant (KD) of 32 +/- 1 nM and a maximum binding capacity (Bmax) of 253 +/- 18 fmol mg-1 protein. Kinetic studies indicated monophasic association and dissociation. Binding was similar in HEPES or Tris-HCl buffers and was unaffected by Na+, K+, Ca2+ or Mg2+ ions. Specific binding was widely distributed in brain, but was minimal in a range of peripheral tissues. 3. Specific [3H]-SB-204269 binding was highly stereoselective, with a 1000 fold difference between the affinities of SB-204269 and its enantiomer SB-204268 for the binding site. The affinities of analogues of SB-204269 for binding can be related to their activities in the mouse maximal electroshock seizure threshold (MEST) test of anticonvulsant action. 4. None of the standard anticonvulsant drugs, phenobarbitone, phenytoin, sodium valproate, carbamazepine, diazepam and ethosuximide, or the newer anticonvulsants, lamotrigine, vigabatrin, gabapentin and levetiracetam, showed any affinity for the [3H]-SB-204269 binding site. A wide range of drugs active at amino acid receptors, Na+ or K+ channels or various other receptors did not demonstrate any affinity for the binding site. 5. These studies indicate that SB-204269 possesses a specific CNS binding site which may mediate its anticonvulsant activity. This binding site does not appear to be directly related to the sites of action of other known anticonvulsant agents, but may have an important role in regulating neuronal excitability.
1. Earlier optimization of structure-activity relationships in a novel series of 4-(benzoylamino)-benzopyrans, led to the discovery of SB-204269 (trans-(+)-6-acetyl-4S-(4-fluorobenzoylamino)-3,4-dihydro-2, 2-dimethyl-2H-benzo[b]pyran-3R-ol, hemihydrate), a potent orally-active anticonvulsant in the mouse maximal electroshock seizure threshold (MEST) test. 2. Studies have now been undertaken to determine the effects of SB-204269 in a range of seizure models and tests of neurological deficits in rats. In addition, the compound has been evaluated in a series of in vitro mechanistic assays. 3. SB-204269 proved to be an orally-effective anticonvulsant agent, at doses (0.1-30 mg Kg-1) devoid of overt behavioural depressant properties, in models of both electrically (MEST and maximal electroshock (MEST)) and chemically (i.v. pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) infusion)-evoked tonic extension seizures. However, the compound did not inhibit PTZ-induced myoclonic seizures at doses up to 30 mg kg-1, p.o. 4. SB-204269 also selectively reduced focal electrographic seizure activity in an in vitro elevated K+ rat hippocampal slice model at concentrations (0.1-10 microM) that had no effect on normal synaptic activity and neuronal excitability. 5. In all of these seizure models, SB-204269 was equivalent or better than the clinically established antiepileptic drugs carbamazepine and lamotrigine, in terms of anticonvulsant potency and efficacy. 6. Unlike SB-204269, the corresponding trans 3S,4R enantiomer, SB-204268, did not produce marked anticonvulsant effects, an observation in accord with previous findings for other related pairs of trans enantiomers in the benzopyran series. 7. In the rat accelerating rotarod test, a sensitive paradigm for the detection of neurological deficits such as sedation and motor incoordination, SB-204269 was inactive even at doses as high as 200 mg kg-1, p.o. This was reflected in the excellent therapeutic index (minimum significantly effective dose in the rotarod test/ED50 in the MES test) for SB-204269 of &gt; 31, as compared to equivalent values of only 7 and 13 for carbamazepine and lamotrigine, respectively. 8. At concentrations (&gt; or = 10 microM) well above those required to produce anticonvulsant activity in vivo (i.e. 0.1 microM in brain), SB-204269 did not interact with many of the well known mechanistic targets for established antiepileptic drugs (e.g. Na+ channels or GABAergic neurotransmission). Subsequent studies have shown that the anticonvulsant properties of SB-204269 are likely to be mediated by a novel stereospecific binding site present in the CNS. 9. The overall efficacy profile in rodent seizure models, together with a minimal liability for inducing neurological impairment and an apparently unique mechanism of action, highlight the therapeutic potential of SB-204269 for the treatment of refractory partial and generalized tonic-clonic seizures.
1. In vitro studies were performed to examine the mechanisms underlying substance P-induced enhancement of constriction rate in guinea-pig mesenteric lymphatic vessels. 2. Substance P caused an endothelium-dependent increase in lymphatic constriction frequency which was first significant at a concentration of 1 nM (115 +/- 3% of control, n = 11) with 1 microM, the highest concentration tested, increasing the rate to 153 +/- 4% of control (n = 9). 3. Repetitive 5 min applications of substance P (1 microM) caused tachyphylaxis with tissue responsiveness tending to decrease (by an average of 23%) and significantly decreasing (by 72%) for application at intervals of 30 and 10 min, respectively. 4. The competitive antagonist of tachykinin receptors, spantide (5 microM) and the specific NK1 receptor antagonist, WIN51708 (10 microM) both prevented the enhancement of constriction rate induced by 1 microM substance P. 5. Endothelial cells loaded with the Ca2+ sensing fluophore, fluo 3/AM did not display a detectable change in [Ca2+]i upon application of 1 microM substance P. 6. Inhibition of nitric oxide synthase by NG nitro-L-arginine (L-NOARG; 100 microM) had no significant effect on the response induced by 1 microM substance P. 7. The enhancement of constriction rate induced by 1 microM substance P was prevented by the cyclooxygenase inhibitor, indomethacin (3 microM), the thromboxane A2 synthase inhibitor, imidazole (50 microM), and the thromboxane A2 receptor antagonist, SQ29548 (0.3 microM). 8. The stable analogue of thromboxane A2, U46619 (0.1 microM) significantly increased the constriction rate of lymphangions with or without endothelium, an effect which was prevented by SQ29548 (0.3 microM). 9. Treatment with pertussis toxin (PTx; 100 ng ml-1) completely abolished the response to 1 microM substance P without inhibiting either the perfusion-induced constriction or the U46619-induced enhancement of constriction rate. 10. Application of the phospholipase A2 inhibitor, antiflammin-1 (1 nM) prevented the enhancement of lymphatic pumping induced by substance P (1 microM), without inhibiting the response to either U46619 (0.1 microM) or acetylcholine (10 microM). 11. The data support the hypothesis that the substance P-induced increase in pumping rate is mediated via the endothelium through NK1 receptors coupled by a PTx sensitive G-protein to phospholipase A2 and resulting in generation of the arachidonic acid metabolite, thromboxane A2 this serving as the diffusible activator.
1. Gabapentin (neurontin) is a novel antiepileptic agent that binds to the alpha 2 delta subunit of voltage-dependent calcium channels. The only other compound known to possess affinity for this recognition site is the (S)-(+)-enantiomer of 3-isobutylgaba. However, the corresponding (R)-(-)-enantiomer is 10 fold weaker. The present study evaluates the activity of gabapentin and the two enantiomers of 3-isobutylgaba in formalin and carrageenan-induced inflammatory pain models. 2. In the rat formalin test, S-(+)-3-isobutylgaba (1-100 mg kg-1) and gabapentin (10-300 mg kg-1) dose-dependently inhibited the late phase of the nociceptive response with respective minimum effective doses (MED) of 10 and 30 mg kg-1, s.c. This antihyperalgesic action of gabapentin was insensitive to naloxone (0.1-10.0 mg kg-1, s.c.). In contrast, the R-(-)-enantiomer of 3-isobutylgaba (1-100 mg kg-1) produced a modest inhibition of the late phase at the highest dose of 100 mg kg-1. However, none of the compounds showed any effect during the early phase of the response. 3. The s.c. administration of either S-(+)-3-isobutylgaba (1-30 mg kg-1) or gabapentin (10-100 mg kg-1), after the development of peak carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia, dose-dependently antagonized the maintenance of this response with MED of 3 and 30 mg kg-1, respectively. Similar administration of the two compounds also blocked maintenance of carrageenan-induced mechanical hyperalgesia with MED of 3 and 10 mg kg-1, respectively. In contrast, R-(-)-3-isobutylgaba failed to show any effect in the two hyperalgesia models. 4. The intrathecal administration of gabapentin dose-dependently (1-100 micrograms/animal) blocked carrageenan-induced mechanical hyperalgesia. In contrast, administration of similar doses of gabapentin into the inflamed paw was ineffective at blocking this response. 5. Unlike morphine, the repeated administration of gabapentin (100 mg kg-1 at start and culminating to 400 mg kg-1) over 6 days did not lead to the induction of tolerance to its antihyperalgesic action in the formalin test. Furthermore, the morphine tolerance did not cross generalize to gabapentin. The s.c. administration of gabapentin (10-300 mg kg-1), R-(-) (3-100 mg kg-1) or S-(+)-3-isobutylgaba (3-100 mg kg-1) failed to inhibit gastrointestinal motility, as measured by the charcoal meal test in the rat. Moreover, the three compounds (1-100 mg kg-1, s.c.) did not generalize to the morphine discriminative stimulus. Gabapentin (30-300 mg kg-1) and S-(+)-isobutylgaba (1-100 mg kg-1) showed sedative/ataxic properties only at the highest dose tested in the rota-rod apparatus. 6. Gabapentin (30-300 mg kg-1, s.c.) failed to show an antinociceptive action in transient pain models. It is concluded that gabapentin represents a novel class of antihyperalgesic agents.
1. 4-Amino-7-hydroxy-2-methyl-5,6,7,8,-tetrahydrobenzo[b]thieno[2,3-b]pyrid ine-3-carboxylic acid, but-2-ynyl ester (SB-205384) and other gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) (GABA(A)) receptor modulators were tested for their effects on GABA-activated chloride currents in rat cerebellar granule cells by use of the whole-cell patch clamp technique. 2. The major effect of SB-205384 on GABA(A)-activated current was an increase in the half-life of decay of the response once the agonist had been removed. This is in contrast to many GABA(A) receptor modulators that have previously been shown to potentiate GABA-activated currents. 3. This profile could be explained if SB-205384 stabilizes the channel in open and desensitized states so that channel closing is dramatically slowed. Such a modulatory profile may produce a novel behavioural profile in vivo.
Brown and Jeeves (1993) found that an evoked potential estimate of interhemispheric transfer time, from the left to the right hemisphere, correlated negatively with a bilateral field advantage (BFA) in a response-choice letter matching task. We implemented a go no-go dot size matching task to determine whether the crossed-uncrossed difference (CUD) in reaction time, commission errors and omission errors (estimates of the &quot;cost&quot; of interhemispheric transfer) would correlate with BFAs in data from the same experiment and whether the type of decision (&quot;same&quot; versus &quot;different&quot;) would modulate the CUDs and/or BFAs. Sixteen normal right-handed subjects were tested. The CUDs were negatively correlated with the BFAs. Canonical correlation analysis of this set of relations was highly significant (r = .95). Estimates of left-to-right relay were far more strongly related to BFA (p = .0001) than were estimates of right-to-left relay (p = .03). &quot;Same&quot; decisions yielded a unilateral field advantage and &quot;different&quot; decisions a bilateral field advantage in omission error data, this crossed interaction reaching significance. More efficient interhemispheric relay favored BFAs, i.e., strongly suggesting in such cases an advantage of interhemispheric over intrahemispheric integration. This effect appeared to be markedly asymmetric. Furthermore, resource sharing within and between the hemispheres was a function of the &quot;same&quot; versus &quot;different&quot; dimensions of the decision to be made, especially in omission errors. The opposite dissociation occurred less markedly in the reaction times, this double dissociation reaching significance, revealing presence of a subtle speed-accuracy trade-off in interhemispheric dynamics.
Opioid receptors have been demonstrated by light microscopic techniques in fine cutaneous nerves in naive animals. The present study extends these findings by showing that 29 and 38% of unmyelinated cutaneous sensory axons can be immunostained for mu- or delta-opioid receptors respectively. Local cutaneous injection of DAMGO, a mu-opioid ligand, ameliorates the nociceptive behaviors caused by local cutaneous injection of glutamate, a purely nociceptive chemical stimulus showing that the mu-receptors are functional. By contrast the delta-opioid ligand [2-D-penicillamine, 5-D-penicillamine]enkephalin (DPDPE) had no effect on these behaviors. These findings indicate a wider function for opioid receptors in naive animals than previously envisioned.
Previous studies have shown that the presence of hippocampal theta activity (theta) is important for learning and that the medial supramammillary nucleus (SuM) is involved in the control of the frequency of theta. In the present experiments, a single-day version (20 trials) of the Morris water maze was used to investigate the effects of drug injections into SuM on hippocampal theta frequency and spatial learning. Two groups of rats received an injection of chlordiazepoxide (CDP, 0.5 microl, 40 microg/microl) or saline (0.5 microl) into SuM 10 min before training in the Morris water maze. Two other groups of rats received an i.p. injection of 5 mg/kg CDP or saline, and two further groups received short (10 min) or long (15 min) immersion in cool water (22 degrees C) before training. The results showed: (1) in all groups theta frequency was an inverse logarithmic function of training time; (2) systemic CDP or long cool water exposure decreased theta frequency to a greater extent (by 1 Hz), and also impaired learning to a greater extent, than the other treatments; (3) that SuM-CDP produced a modest decrease in theta frequency (0.35-0.5 Hz) and a modest impairment of spatial learning. These data suggest that theta frequency per se may be important for spatial learning and that total abolition of theta is not necessary for dysfunction; and that while a lesser part of the effect of i.p. CDP on spatial learning appears to be mediated by SuM the greater part appears to involve other nuclei as well.
Surprisingly the first generation of tract-tracing techniques based on intra-axonal transport, that is the methods utilizing the uptake and transport of horseradish peroxidase (HRP), still rank among the most widely used neuroanatomical tracing techniques. The success of these methods can be ascribed to several characteristics. They are fast and easy to implement. Complicated injection apparatus is unnecessary. The reaction products are visualized through simple histochemical reactions, and they are permanent or can be stabilized into permanency. Most usefully, the reaction products are visible in the light and electron microscopes. HRP (mol. wt. 44 kDa) is extracted from the roots of the horseradish plant (Cochlearia armoracia L.). Uptake of HRP into cells occurs via a passive process of endocytosis. Since lectins like wheat germ agglutinin (WGA) and bacterial toxin fragments (subunit B of cholera toxin (CTB)) strongly induce active, receptor-mediated uptake mechanisms, conjugates of these substances with HRP have been successfully applied in sensitive tract-tracing HRP and its conjugates are transported both in anterograde and retrograde direction. Retrograde transport occurs in small vesicles that are incorporated in lysosome-like vacuoles and in the Golgi apparatus. These vesicles differ in membrane properties from the anterogradely transported HRP vesicles. The retrogradely transported vesicles tend to fuse and thus accumulate HRP at high densities, facilitating the visibility of the final reaction product. The anterogradely transported HRP does not accumulate directly in lysosome-like bodies and is distributed diffusely and therefore often requires specific visualization methods. HRP and WGA-HRP may therefore be used in anterograde and retrograde transneuronal (multineuron) transport studies. Even in fixed material, labeling through diffusion of HRP can provide details on neural connections. Visualization of transported HRP is achieved by means of using the oxidative enzymatic activity of HRP to precipitate a chromogen according to the following reaction: [symbol: see text] The final reaction product may be soluble in buffer or ethanol and may require stabilization to prevent fading. In this protocol we discuss the widely used chromogens 3,3'-diaminobenzidine tetrahydrochloride (DAB), 3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine (TMB), benzidine dihydrochloride (BDHC) and p-phenylenediamine dihydrochloride with pyrocatechol (PPD-PC). Other possible chromogens, not discussed here, are 4-chloro-1-naphthol (4C1N), 3-amino-9-ethylcarbazole (AEC) and o-phenylenediamine (OPD). The visualization of the reaction product can be further improved by intensification with metal salts. At the light microscopic level (LM) this intensification enables color differentiation between distinct markers. In the present protocol we provide an up-to-date guideline for the application of HRP and its conjugates in tracing with special emphasis on electron microscopic (EM) visualization. Some modifications for stabilization and of metal intensification to enhance visibility are incorporated in conjunction with specific methods for multiple labeling in combined tract-tracing experiments.
Research on mnemonic processes in rats has predominantly made use of either appetitively or aversively motivated tasks. These behavioral paradigms are popular because rats are easily trained and a range of stimuli and response alternatives are available. Also, these paradigms have been generally found to be sensitive to pre- and post-trial manipulations with a variety of drugs having hypo- and hypermnesic effects. However, the available procedures do not permit a qualitative analysis of the memory changes, namely, a dissociation between the effect of a compound under study on the memory for pleasant versus unpleasant events, under the same experimental conditions. The discriminated approach-avoidance paradigm presented here is a novel method that enables this to be investigated quite easily, in rats. This behavioral paradigm was developed originally to assess the retrieval bias in the learned helplessness condition, and subsequently has been employed in studies of the pharmacological effects of several stress-related neuropeptides on appetitive and aversive memory processes.
Within the central nervous system, nitric oxide is an important physiological messenger. However, when synthesized excessively in neurones, cell death may occur. An impairment of mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase and subsequent cellular energy depletion seems to be a likely mechanism for this neurotoxicity. Within neurones, nitric oxide is synthesized by the constitutive, Ca(2+)-dependent form of nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). Astrocytes, however, possess both the constitutive and the inducible Ca(2+)-independent NOS (iNOS), which is expressed by endotoxin and/or cytokines. In vitro, activation of nNOS rapidly produces neuronal cell death. In contrast to neurones, following induction of iNOS, astrocytes synthesize large quantities of nitric oxide, but cell death is not apparent despite marked damage to mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase. The resistance of astrocytes to nitric oxide synthase-mediated cell damage may be due to their ability to increase their glycolytic rate when mitochondrial ATP synthesis is compromised. On the basis of this phenomenon, we propose that activated astrocytes represent a suitable system for studying the efficacy of potential therapeutic agents at protecting from nitric oxide synthase-mediated mitochondrial damage.
Biochemical studies of amyloidoses have been plagued by the sparing solubility of most amyloids in denaturant solvents. Consequently often only a subclass of amyloid protein is analyzed, a fact that is omitted in most studies. This means that there is often no evaluation of the chemical basis for amyloid insolubility, a factor that may provide valuable information concerning amyloid pathogenesis. We have devised a protocol to quantitatively evaluate the solubilization of insoluble amyloid proteins. Specifically, we use protein extraction and reduction in the volume of insoluble material as quantitative assays to establish solvents that dissolve all protein. Here we describe the application of this protocol to quantitatively establish complete solubilization of the paired helical filaments (PHFs) from Alzheimer disease. PHFs are distinct from the other amyloid that defines Alzheimer disease (AD), i.e., extracellular amyloid-beta deposits of senile plaques, nonetheless, PHFs share all the properties of, and are defined as, an amyloid, i.e., binding Congo red; beta-pleated sheet conformation and, most significantly, sparing solubility. PHFs of neurofibrillary tangles are the most striking intraneuronal change seen within the brains of patients with AD. Despite intense efforts to understand the molecular composition of this amyloid, quantitative biochemical analyses have been severely hampered by the extreme insolubility of PHF and by difficulties obtaining a homogeneous PHF fraction. Therefore, to date, all of the published studies on the biochemical composition of insoluble PHFs (SDS-insoluble) are qualitative and have provided little or no quantitative data on the proportion of material assayed. Using the solubilization protocol described herein, we found that only high pH was effective in solubilizing PHF while a variety of denaturants and chaotropes resulted in only partial release of component protein. Significantly, the approach is analytical because it allows direct assessment of the significance of two posttranslational modifications in mediating PHF insolubility, i.e., phosphorylation and glycation. Further this protocol provides solubilized protein that can be readily characterized. For example, coupling the method to immunoblotting, ELISA, microsequencing or other analytical techniques would identify components as well as provide a quantitative measure.
Arginine vasopressin (AVP) plays an important role in the regulation of secretory function and hemodynamics of choroid plexus, the primary site of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) production. In the present study, localization of AVP and its transcripts in choroid plexus of adult male Sprague-Dawley rats was studied by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization histochemistry, respectively. For immunohistochemical analysis, AVP-specific polyclonal rabbit antibody was employed. Plasmid, pGrVP, containing a 232-bp fragment of rat AVP cDNA encoding the C-terminus of proAVP, was used as a probe to detect AVP mRNA. AVP-immunoreactive product was predominantly localized close to the apical (CSF-facing) membrane of choroidal epithelium while AVP transcripts were distributed throughout the cytoplasm of the cells. Our findings indicate that AVP is synthesized in choroid plexus epithelium, which suggests autocrine and/or paracrine actions of this peptide in choroidal tissue.
RNA editing determines receptor kinetics and permeability of glutamate receptors. This post-transcriptional modification alters single nucleotides within an RNA transcript changing the codon specified by the genome resulting in the incorporation of a different amino acid, profoundly affecting the properties of the protein subunit. We have studied the three sites subject to RNA editing within the kainate-specific subunit GluR6 in the mammalian hippocampus to determine developmental changes and cell-specific variation in editing. GluR6, when measured in the whole rat hippocampus, is predominantly expressed in the unedited form at E18, with a gradual progression to the edited form during the 1st post-natal week, and remains stable from P8 through 30 months. Individual neurons from P0 through P8 rat hippocampal slices analyzed with single-cell PCR show predominant expression of fully edited GluR6, unlike the population profile. In contrast, single astrocytes from P0 hippocampal cultures show that the most common variant is partially edited. Thus, editing in neurons and glia differs, and this difference accounts for part of the disparity between single-neuron and whole-hippocampus data. Editing in astrocytes is affected by conditions in the external environment, as purified astrocytes fail to edit GluR6, although editing occurs in astrocytes from hippocampal cultures. The homogeneity of GluR6 editing between species was also determined by comparing editing in avians and mammals. Genomic and cDNA analysis of chick glutamate receptors demonstrates avian editing of GluR2 but not GluR6.
A cDNA encoding a neuron-specific glutamate transporter was isolated from mouse cerebellum and characterized. Expression of this cDNA in HEK293 cells induced high-affinity uptake of L-glutamate that was dependent on external Na+. The deduced amino-acid sequence of the cDNA shares 96% identity with its human homologue. Northern blot analysis of mouse tissues revealed that the mRNA of this transporter is specific to the brain. In situ hybridization in mouse brain sections showed that the mRNA is expressed densely and selectively in cell bodies of Purkinje cells.
Recently deposited egg cordons are a source of water-borne pheromones that attract the marine mollusk Aplysia into breeding aggregations and coordinate male and female reproductive behavior within the aggregation. A potential pheromonal attractant has been isolated from egg cordon eluates and the peptide partially characterized [S.D. Painter, B. Clough, X. Fan, G.T. Nagle, Soc. Neurosci. Abstr., Vol. 22 (1996) 837]. Using this information, we have cloned an Aplysia albumen gland cDNA that encodes a precursor protein containing a single copy of the full-length peptide, and demonstrated that there are abundant levels of pheromone mRNA transcripts (0.8 and 2.5 kb) in the albumen gland. This is consistent with the reported function of the gland (i.e. packaging the eggs into a cordon for deposition), with behavioral studies showing that the albumen gland is a potential source of attractants, and more recent biochemical studies in which the full-length peptide has been isolated from the albumen gland. This is the first candidate peptide pheromone in mollusks and the first in invertebrates. The pheromonal regulatory system in Aplysia may provide a model system for examining the structural characteristics of peptide pheromones.
Glutamic acid decarboxylase mRNA expression was studied in the striatum of rats subjected to a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the nigrostriatal dopamine projection, followed by either intrastriatal transplants of fetal nigral neurons or chronic apomorphine treatment. For in situ hybridization histochemistry, a 35S-labelled cRNA probe selective for the mRNA encoding the 67-kDa isoform of the enzyme (GAD67) was used. The results show that fetal dopaminergic grafts in the dopamine-denervated striatum restore an inhibitory control on GAD67 gene expression in the host neurons and also counteract the up-regulation of GAD67 mRNA levels induced by chronic apomorphine treatment.
A recently identified neuronal Na+-dependent phosphate cotransporter (rBNPI) has been shown to import inorganic phosphate (P(i)) required for the production of high-energy phosphates which are vital to neuronal energy metabolism. In the present study, we have examined the expression of rBNPI mRNA in the hippocampus of rats subjected to 30 min of global ischemia by four-vessel occlusion. In situ hybridization reveals that transient forebrain ischemia results in a selective reduction in rBNPI mRNA expression in CA1 pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus. Expression of rBNPI is significantly reduced by 24 h and completely absent at 72 h following global ischemia when CA1 pyramidal neurons begin to show cell damage. By contrast, there is no change in the expression of Nedd2 mRNA, a developmentally regulated cell death gene, in CA1 pyramidal neurons at these same time points. The loss of rBNPI transcripts appears to be selective for CA1 pyramidal neurons since rBNPI mRNA expression is unchanged in neurons of the CA2-CA4 pyramidal cell layers following global ischemia. Our data indicate that an early reduction of rBNPI transcripts may contribute to a reduction in P(i)-dependent energy metabolism or signal transduction which has been reported in CA1 hippocampal neurons following global ischemia.
In spite of its importance as a tool to manipulate cell calcium, the versatility of the octadentate chelator BAPTA in cell physiological and diverse other applications is limited by the difficulty with which it can be quantified and its cell and tissue distributions determined. Conventional approaches, such as HPLC analysis or autoradiography, are of limited sensitivity and resolution and have attendant biohazard risks. We now describe a versatile, facile and inexpensive means for quantifying and determining the distribution of BAPTA which exploits an immunological approach based on our generation of novel antibodies to BAPTA. Antibodies to BAPTA were prepared by immunizing rabbits with BAPTA conjugated to keyhole limpet hemocyanin via a zero-order cross-linking reagent-EDC. The ability of anti-BAPTA IgGs to recognize free or conjugated BAPTA was confirmed using enzyme-linked and immunoblotting assays made possible by our introduction of a BAPTA-BSA adduct. Using such assays, we show that the anti-BAPTA antibodies possess marked selectivity for BAPTA compared to several structurally-related BAPTA analogs. The utility of the anti-BAPTA antibodies in cell calcium research has been confirmed in two ways. First, by determining the spatial distribution of BAPTA through immunocytochemistry and confocal microscopy of cortical neurons loaded with BAPTA/AM and, second, by determination of the kinetics of loading and efflux of BAPTA through enzyme-linked cell immunoassays (ELISA) and immunocytochemistry. Together, these data demonstrate that anti-BAPTA antibodies are a powerful new tool with which to quantify BAPTA and to define the spatial and temporal distribution of this important calcium chelator in live cells. Such information should greatly aid the design of cell physiological experiments, the development of new chelators and the identification of sources of chelator selectivity in emerging therapeutic applications.
Ablation of rat myenteric plexus with benzalkonium chloride has provided a model of intestinal aganglionosis, but the degenerative responses are not well understood. We examined the effects of this detergent on neurons and glia, including expression of c-Myc, c-Jun, JunB, and c-Fos, and on immunocytes in the guinea-pig ileum. Benzalkonium chloride (0.1%) or saline was applied to the serosal surface of distal ileum. Tissues were analyzed 2, 3, or 7 days later and compared with cyclosporine-treated and untreated animals. More than 90% of myenteric neurons were destroyed in ileal segments 3-7 days after benzalkonium-chloride treatment. Glia withdrew processes from around neurons after 2 days and were mostly gone after 3 days. Neuronal c-Myc began to disappear while c-Fos, c-Jun, and JunB were evident in some neuronal nuclei after 2 or 3 days. After 3 days, widespread apoptosis was evident in the myenteric plexus. Populations of T cells, B cells, and macrophage-like cells in untreated and saline-treated myenteric plexuses were substantially increased 3 and 7 days after benzalkonium-chloride treatment. Cyclosporine delayed significant neuronal loss. We conclude that a variety of degenerative mechanisms may be active in this model, including an immune response which may actively contribute to tissue destruction.
1. The present report gives a detailed account of histamine-stimulated phospholipase C (PLC) activity in bovine adrenal chromaffin cells. 2. Histamine activation of H1 receptors stimulates PLC with a biphasic sensitivity to extracellular Ca2+. The initial response (the first 15 s stimulation) was not reduced by the removal of extracellular Ca2+, whereas the maintenance of PLC activity beyond this time required Ca2+ influx. 3. Phospholipase C activity in response to a 10 min incubation with histamine was inhibited by La3+ (3 mmol/L) or SKF96365 (10 mumol/L). Nifedipine (10 mumol/L), but not omega-agatoxin IVA (100 nmol/L) or omega-conotoxin GVIA (300 nmol/L), produced a partial inhibition of PLC activity. The response was also partially inhibited by a reduction in the extracellular Cl- concentration (40 mmol/L) or by the inclusion of the Cl- channel blocker N-phenylanthranilic acid (300 mumol/L). 4. Kinetic analysis of the rate of turnover of the various inositol phosphate isomers in response to histamine suggested that the inositol monophosphates were being produced from a source in addition to inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (Ins(1,4,5)P3) metabolism. This conclusion was supported by the differential action of pertussis toxin and neomycin on Ins(1,4,5)P3 formation compared with inositol monophosphate formation. 5. We have attempted to identify a defined role for the intracellular Ca2+ mobilized in these cells in response to histamine. After short incubations (up to 3 min), histamine was able to regulate the site-specific phosphorylation of tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine synthesis. This observation has important implications for a possible role for the PLC signalling pathway in controlling the rate of catecholamine biosynthesis.
A 24 year-old woman developed acute hemiplegia and a seizure following accidental catheterization of the right common carotid artery and total parenteral nutrition infusion. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain showed lesions in the frontal lobe and putamen consistent with an ischemic stroke. Angiography through the central venous catheter confirmed its intra-arterial location. The patient's weakness improved after hyperbaric oxygen treatment. We concluded that stroke or seizures during total parenteral nutrition administration through a central venous catheter should alert one to the possibility of inadvertent intra-arterial infusion, especially in patients who have had central lines inserted several times previously.
The syndrome of spontaneous intracranial hypotension (SIH) is an uncommon cause of postural headache. We describe three patients with classical low pressure headache associated with low CSF pressure, one of whom presented with sudden deafness and another with a unilateral VIth nerve palsy. Initial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans revealed bilateral diffuse subdural fluid collections in all three cases. Follow up MRI scans performed on two patients at 6 months demonstrated partial resolution of the subdural collections but persistent striking meningeal enhancement despite clinical recovery. These findings differ from previous reported cases wherein clinical resolution of postural symptoms was preceded or closely followed by resolution of the MRI changes.
Our understanding of the cellular and molecular bases of transduction of painful stimuli has burgeoned in the past year, mainly as a result of studies on isolated sensory neurones in culture. The ion channels underlying neuronal responses to noxious heat, to protons and to ATP have recently been characterized. The typical increase in nociceptor sensitivity produced by tissue damage has been found to be mediated by at least two distinct mechanisms. In the first, bradykinin augments the current activated by heat through a mechanism that involves activation of protein kinase C. In a second sensitization mechanism, prostaglandin E2 alters the voltage threshold of several ion channels, including a novel tetrodotoxin-insensitive Na+ channel, in such a way that initiation of action potentials is facilitated.
Unlike any other known sensory receptor, the hair cell uses positive feedback to augment the stimulus to which it responds. In the internal ears of many vertebrates, hair cells amplify the inputs to their mechanosensitive hair bundles. Outer hair cells of the mammalian cochlea display a unique form of somatal motility that may underlie their contribution to amplification. In other receptor organs, hair cells may effect amplification by hair-bundle movements driven by the activity of myosin or of transduction channels. Recent work has demonstrated the presence of several myosin isozymes in hair bundles, confirmed that bundles display myosin ATPase activity, and shown that the work performed by myosin molecules could account for one aspect of the amplificatory process.
Advances in understanding basal ganglia function have suggested several nondopaminergic approaches to the treatment of parkinsonian symptoms. Data from studies in animal models of Parkinson's disease suggest that it is realistic to believe that these approaches might have antiparkinsonian efficacy comparable to those of currently available dopamine-replacing agents and might not be associated with debilitating dyskinetic side-effects after prolonged treatment.
Knowledge about the spectrum of autistic disorders, including Asperger's syndrome, has grown significantly. Diagnoses can be made more reliably and there is better characterization of elements within the spectrum than ever before. A clearer picture of the cognitive limitations displayed by persons with conditions in the autistic spectrum is emerging. Deficits in manipulating abstract meanings, translating principles across contexts, and attending to contextual meanings can be seen in lower and higher functioning individuals. Links between &quot;executive function,&quot; &quot;theory of mind,&quot; and findings from functional imaging are becoming apparent. There are consistent indications that frontal and temporal regions play a crucial role in these disorders. Associations with specific genetic defects has been suggested, but methods capable of discovering the complex interplay of several genes will be needed before generalized conclusions can be reached.
The effects of unilateral lesioning of the claustrum (CL) either prior to or following completion of amygdaloid (AM) kindling was examined in cats. CL lesioning ipsilateral to the kindling or the kindled AM caused the emergence of a mirror image pattern of expected or established AM onset convulsive seizure originating in the contralateral hemisphere. This finding suggests that: (1) the CL is involved in the convulsive evolution of AM onset non-convulsive limbic seizure; (2) an alternative transhemispheric route is available for the convulsive evolution of AM onset limbic seizure when the ipsilateral CL is disrupted; and (3) the CL is not critical for secondary convulsive generalization.
The initiation of follicular growth in the mammalian ovary is a gonadotropin-independent phenomenon. Although some of the intraovarian signaling molecules that control the later phases of this process have been recently identified, the factors involved in the acquisition of gonadotropin receptors by early growing follicles have not been fully defined. In the rat, development of the ovarian innervation precedes the onset of folliculogenesis and occurs before follicles acquire responsiveness to gonadotropins. Because vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and norepinephrine (NE), two of the neurotransmitters contained in ovarian nerves, are present in the ovary before the gland becomes responsive to gonadotropins, we sought to determine if VIP and/or NE are able to act on early follicles to facilitate the process of molecular differentiation that leads to gonadotropin dependency. In vitro exposure of 2-day-old rat ovaries to isoproterenol (ISO), a beta-adrenoreceptor agonist, or VIP, a neurotransmitter contained in both sympathetic and sensory nerves, increased the steady state levels of the messenger RNAs encoding cytochrome P-450 aromatase (P-450arom) and FSH receptors (FSHR) within 8 h of treatment. A similar effect was observed following forskolin-induced activation of cAMP formation. In situ hybridization experiments revealed that both the P-450arom and FSHR hybridization signals were localized to follicles. The increase in FSHR messenger RNA was accompanied by formation of functional receptor molecules, as demonstrated by the ability of FSH to stimulate cAMP formation in ovaries preexposed to either ISO or VIP, but not in untreated ovaries. The stimulatory effect of ISO and VIP on the formation of FSHR coupled to the cAMP generating system was not reproduced by phenylephrine, an alpha-adrenergic agonist, or secretin, a member of the VIP family not recognized by ovarian VIP receptors. Treatment of VIP-primed ovaries with FSH resulted in follicular growth, demonstrating that exposure of the gland to the neurotransmitter led to the formation of a functional complement of FSH receptors. These results suggest that ovarian nerves, acting via neurotransmitters coupled to the cAMP generating system, contribute to the differentiation process by which newly formed primary follicles acquire FSH receptors and responsiveness to FSH. Follicles that begin to grow in more densely innervated ovarian regions, may have a selective advantage over those not exposed to neurotransmitter-activated, cAMP-dependent signals and, thus, may become more rapidly subjected to gonadotropin control.

The aim of this study was to evaluate different arm supports by comparing the activity of shoulder and arm muscles during various work tasks, with and without the lower arm supported. Twelve female subjects, aged between 23 and 37 years, were asked to perform three types of tasks: typing, simulated assembly work (in two different positions), and pipetting. The supports used were: fixed arm support (FIX), horizontal movable arm support (HOR), and spring-loaded arm support (SLA). During the experiments, the electromyograms (EMG) of four muscles were simultaneously recorded: m. deltoideus anterior and lateralis, m. trapezius pars descendens and m. extensor carpi radialis brevis. Normalization was made against maximum isometric contraction. The mean values of the normalized EMG levels showed a reduced EMG level of the shoulder muscles when using arm supports in all the tasks, and for all muscles but the wrist extensor, compared to the EMG levels without arm supports. The horizontal movable support was more effective in reducing the EMG levels of the shoulder muscles than other arm supports, in tasks at table height. Thus, it is possible to reduce muscle activity of the shoulder region by using arm supports. Further research is needed to make biomechanical calculations to compare the EMG level of these muscles using suspension and the effects of inclination of work task.
Circadian rhythms have been shown both in the expression of the period (per) gene in 'lateral neurons' and in cells of the outermost neuropil, or lamina, of the fly's optic lobe. Some lateral neurons also exhibit PDH peptide-like immunoreactivity, arborizing widely throughout the optic lobe. Using confocal microscopy in the housefly, we analysed the size and spacing of PDH neurite varicosities, sites of possible peptide release exhibiting circadian rhythmicity. During the subjective day in constant darkness, there were fewer, larger varicosities than during subjective night. The endogenous rhythm was masked by the light exposure that occurred under a day-night cycle and continuous light conditions. Our findings indicate that PDH neurites convey circadian information out from the pacemaker, where they could regulate the circadian rhythms that have been described in the lamina, possibly via cyclical release of their peptide.
Clostridial neurotoxins proteolyse specific proteins implicated in synaptic vesicle exocytosis, but their actions on the release machinery in functional synapses is not well understood. Here we examine the effects of botulinum toxin A (BoNT/A) and tetanus toxin (TeTx) on autaptic transmission in cultured rat hippocampal neurons using whole-cell voltage clamp recordings. The proportion of cells responding to stimulation with an excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) and the magnitude of the remaining responses decreased gradually with increasing concentration of either toxin. However, the activity-dependent modulation (5 Hz repetitive stimulation) of EPSCs remaining after toxin inhibition differed markedly between the two toxins. The TeTx inhibition was associated with a persistent activity-dependent depression similar to that in control cells. In contrast, the BoNT/A inhibition was accompanied by a reversal of the modulation into facilitation, resembling that induced by lowering of the calcium concentration. These results demonstrate a difference between BoNT/A and TeTx in their mode of inhibition of synaptic vesicle exocytosis, which suggests that they exert their preferential actions at distinct steps of the release process.
The pathways from the hippocampal formation to the nucleus accumbens and the prefrontal cortex are likely to play a role in several aspects of learning and memory. In the present study we addressed the question of how plastic changes in these structures may occur simultaneously. This question can be studied in an appropriate way in the hippocampal/fornix-fimbria to prefrontal cortex/nucleus accumbens system, since electrical stimulation of the fornix-fimbria fibre bundle evokes characteristic field potentials in the two target areas simultaneously. First, we examined the termination field in the nucleus accumbens (medial shell and core region with an extension into the ventro-medial caudate-putamen) and the prefrontal cortex (deeper layers of the ventral prelimbic and ventral infralimbic areas) by recording single unit activity evoked by stimulation of fornix-fimbria fibres in halothane anaesthetized rats. Second, we studied short-term plasticity, namely paired pulse facilitation, in these two areas upon stimulation of the fornix-fimbria fibres. In the nucleus accumbens, paired pulse facilitation was encountered for double pulse intervals between 25 and 500 ms, peaking around 100 ms. In the medial prefrontal cortex it was confined to intervals between 25 and 200 ms, with a peak around 75 ms. Third, we investigated whether LTP could be elicited simultaneously in the two target structures by a single tetanic stimulation (50 Hz, 2 s) of the fornix-fimbria fibres. LTP that was sustained for more than 90 min in the medial prefrontal cortex, reached levels of 130% of control values. In the nucleus accumbens, however, only a transient form of potentiation was found which lasted no more than 60 min. These data show that synaptic weights can be changed in several target structures of the hippocampal formation, simultaneously, in a distributed way.
The present experiments examined the central systems which mediate the electrocorticographic activation induced by electrical stimulation of forebrain and midbrain areas known to play a role in cerebral activation. In urethane-anesthetized rats, 100-Hz electrical stimulation of the amygdaloid cmplex or dorsal raphe changed neocortical electrocorticographic activity from large irregular slow activity (LISA; 1-6 Hz, up to 2 mV) to low voltage fast activity (LVFA; less than 0.5 mV, including frequencies above 10 Hz). The LVFA during amygdala stimulation, but not that during dorsal raphe stimulation, was completely abolished and replaced by LISA after administration of the anti-muscarinic agent scopolamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.), confirming previous work suggesting that neocortical LVFA is maintained by two distinct neurochemical inputs to the cortex that can be dissociated using anti-muscarinic drugs. Electrical stimulation of the locus coeruleus area or of the superior colliculus also suppressed LISA and induced LVFA. The LVFA during stimulation of the locus coeruleus area was abolished by the anti-muscarinic drug atropine (50 mg/kg, i.p.), whereas the LVFA during superior colliculus stimulation was atropine-resistant but could be abolished by the serotonergic antagonists methiothepin (5 mg/kg, i.p.) or ketanserin (5 mg/kg, i.p.). Stimulation of 44% of electrode sites in the orbitofrontal cortex produced neocortical LVFA which was reduced by atropine and completely abolished by additional administration of methiothepin. Stimulation of the entorhinal or cingulate cortex was ineffective in producing LVFA and often resulted in the appearance of epileptiform activity. Single-pulse electrical stimulation of those sites that effectively induced atropine-sensitive LVFA (amygdala, locus coeruleus area) produced excitation of over 65% of those extracellularly recorded basal forebrain neurons that fired at higher rates during the presence of neocortical LVFA relative to LISA. About 80% of basal forebrain cells that were more active during LISA relative to LVFA were inhibited by single-pulse stimulation of the amygdala or locus coeruleus area. The present results suggest that widely distributed neuronal systems can produce electrocorticographic activation by acting through mechanisms sensitive to anti-muscarinic or anti-serotonergic drugs, suggeting that these activating influences involve the release of acetylcholine and/or serotonin. Those neural systems that produce atropine-sensitive (i.e., putative cholinergic) LVFA, believed to be dependent on the cholinergic innervation of the cortex arising in the basal forebrain, may produce electrocorticographic activation by exciting basal forebrain cells that appear to contribute to neocortical LVFA, while concurrently inhibiting cells that may contribute to LISA.
In Parkinson's disease the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway degenerates, resulting in an imbalance in activity of two pathways of information flow through the basal ganglia. In animal models of the disease, the striatonigral pathway becomes underactive and the striatopallidal pathway becomes overactive. In the present study immunocytochemistry for enkephalin and GABA and anterograde labelling were used to investigate whether morphological plasticity occurs in striatopallidal terminals following unilateral removal of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway. Pallidal terminals were immunostained to reveal enkephalin and examined in the electron microscope (n=399). Immunoreactive synaptic bouton profiles were on average 64% larger on the experimental side 26 days after the lesion. Analysis of their shape revealed that those on the dopamine-depleted side of the brain were more irregular in profile and that their synaptic specialisations were more complex in shape but not significantly different in length. Striatopallidal terminals were also identified by GABA immunocytochemistry combined with anterograde labelling (n=20). Double-labelled boutons were significantly larger in cross-sectional area on the experimental side (57%). Analysis of terminals that were simply labelled by the immunogold method to reveal GABA (n=278) showed no significant differences in size between terminals from the dopamine-depleted and control side. This suggests that a substantial number of GABAergic terminals in the globus pallidus do not belong to the striatopallidal population of terminals. These morphological changes correlate with previous studies suggesting striatopallidal boutons are more active after destruction of dopaminergic input to the neostriatum.
The eyeblink reflex is one of the most extensively studied behaviors in mammals. The active downward force that causes lid closure is controlled by the orbicularis oculi (OO) muscle. To augment our studies on the neurophysiology and plasticity of the rat eyeblink circuit, here we present the first anatomical paper to focus exclusively on identifying and characterizing the OO motoneurons of the rat facial motor nucleus (FMN). One thousand and twenty-nine cells from four animals were retrogradely labeled by injecting the OO muscle with HRP and were imaged conventionally. One hundred and one cells from five animals were labeled by injecting the OO muscle with a 3000 mol. wt. fluorescent dextran and were imaged using confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). The latter method resulted in little tissue shrinkage, bright labeling, and excellent resolution of the soma, dendrites, and axon. Furthermore, it is a histologically simple alternative to HRP for retrograde labeling from the neuromuscular junction. Both methods revealed that the OO motoneurons were distributed over the entire length of the FMN, that they were concentrated along the dorsal crest of the nucleus, and that they were less numerous in the extreme rostral and caudal regions. As measured using the CLSM method, cell body areas were highly variable, ranging from 317 to 1500 microm2, but there was no size gradient along the rostrocaudal extent of the FMN. The neurons exhibited seven primary dendrites on average, which gave rise to bifurcating and even trifurcating secondary dendrites. Using the HRP method, the estimated area of OO motoneurons ranged from 161 to 1381 microm2. The combined methods furnished a detailed characterization of the number, spatial distribution, and morphology of rat OO motoneurons. Moreover, these methods provide a useful way to analyze the circuitry that modulates the rat eyeblink.
The present study was carried out with a variety of neuroanatomical techniques to investigate the consequences of chronic continuous nicotine treatment (0.125 mg x kg(-1) x h(-1), s.c., 14 days) on the lesion-induced effects of a partial meso-diencephalic hemitransection. Both the striatonigral substance P (SP) and the nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) pathways were studied. The lesion-induced degenerative changes were most pronounced in the lateral parts of the ipsilateral substantia nigra and striatum. We have previously demonstrated that chronic nicotine infusion counteracts the lesion-induced loss of nigral tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactive/Nissl stained DA neurons. The main finding of this study is that this phenomenon also involves changes in the striatonigral pathways. Thus, nicotine induced a disappearance of SP immunoreactive nerve terminals in substantia nigra pars compacta on the lesioned side, while it was again shown to counteract the lesion-induced disappearance of nigral TH immunoreactivity in the same animals. These data are interpreted on the basis of previous electrophysiological findings, where nicotine under similar experimental conditions counteracted the lesion-induced increase in burst firing in vivo in nigral dopamine neurons. Taken together these results indicate that nicotine may act by a reduced SP excitatory input to the nigral DA cells, which rescues them from dying. It is likely that the surviving cells are functional, since increased extracellular striatal DA levels have been observed after nicotine treatment ipsilateral to the lesion in a previous microdialysis experiment in vivo. These findings might contribute to the development of new neuroprotective therapies for patients suffering from neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease.
Acentrally active drug that enhances AMPA receptor-mediated currents was tested for its effects on memory in humans. Evidence for a positive influence on encoding was obtained in four tests: (i) visual associations, (ii) recognition of odors, (iii) acquisition of a visuospatial maze, and (iv) location and identity of playing cards. The drug did not improve scores in a task requiring cued recall of verbal information. The selectivity of drug effects on memory was confirmed using tests of visual recognition, motor performance, and general intellectual functioning. These results suggest that positive modulators of AMPA receptors selectively improve at least some aspects of memory.
Excitatory amino acids (EAAs) have been implicated as mediators of cell death in neurodegenerative diseases involving catecholamine neurons. Few studies, however, have examined the toxic effects of EAAs on identified catecholamine neurons in vitro. We have investigated the neurotoxic effects of kainic acid in a rat brain substantia nigra (SN) slice preparation. Rats (60-80 g) were anesthetised with halothane and killed by cervical dislocation. SN slices, 300 microm thick, were incubated at 35 degrees C in a modified Krebs solution in the presence or absence of kainic acid and then fixed and processed for either immunohistochemistry (IHC) or electron microscopy (EM). In IHC experiments, SN neurons were labeled using antibody to tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) coupled to diaminobenzidine. In control slices, the antibody labeled not only the cell body but also the prolific dendritic arbor of SN neurons. Treatment with 50 microM kainic acid for 15 min or 2 h resulted in loss of TH staining and apparent fragmentation of the dendrites. EM provided ultrastructural evidence for kainic acid-induced degeneration of the dendritic arbor of SN neurons. Typically, the dendritic membrane was broken, or diffuse and collapsed. Ultrastructural damage, including clumping and marginalization of chromatin and vacuolation of the cytoplasm, was also observed in cell bodies. Damage to the dendritic arbor may occur early in the neurotoxic events leading to cell death, preceding the loss of the cell body. Our observations are consistent with the postulated role of EAAs as mediators of catecholamine neuron death.
The effect of varying the volume of grafted fetal mesencephalic tissue was studied in patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease in a single-blinded study. Evaluations were performed according to the Core Assessment Program for Intracerebral Transplantation and videotaped both prior to transplantation and in 3-month intervals after transplantation. One group, low-volume grafts (six subjects; mean age, 57.2 years), received ventral mesencephalon grafts from one to two donors with an approximate volume up to 20 mm3, while the second group, high-volume grafts (seven subjects; mean age, 59.5 years), received ventral mesencephalon grafts from three or more donors with an approximate volume of 24 mm3. Both groups of patients demonstrated significant improvement over presurgical baseline scores on all major parameters. The high-volume group had significantly greater improvements on all the UPDRS scores and also better performance on a variety of motor performance tasks over that seen among low-volume patients. These results indicate that variations of fetal graft volume do have an impact on clinical outcome.
To explore new therapeutic strategies for Parkinson's disease, we studied the possible protective effect of an immunosuppressant, cyclosporin A (CsA), treatment on changes in dopaminergic function in rats with intrastriatal injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). Four weeks after injection of 6-OHDA, dopamine (DA) and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in the striatum were depleted by 70-80%, and repeated high-dose CsA (20 mg/kg) treatment for 1 week significantly protected against these depletions. Tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity (TH-IR) of the cell bodies in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) ipsilateral to the injection were lower than on the contralateral side at 4 weeks but not at 1 week after 6-OHDA injection. The number of TH-positive cell bodies in the SNc decreased to 64% but CsA treatment increased this to 87%. The staining of microglia in the SN with OX42 and Griffonia simplicifolia B4 isolectin was intense at 3 days and gradually decreased by 28 days after injection. At 3 and 7 days after injection, the microglial staining in the SN was prominent and equal both in the 6-OHDA group and in ascorbic acid (SA)-injected controls. By 28 days postinjection, the staining had decreased to control levels in the SA group but was still above the control in the 6-OHDA group. CsA treatment did not affect this staining in either group. These results suggest that CsA protects against 6-OHDA-induced injury of nigrostriatal DA neurons by a mechanism not involving microglia.
In the present communication, we have characterized focal adhesions in cultured glial cells derived from the Xenopus retina. Using antibodies directed against focal adhesion proteins we found that beta1 integrin immunoreactivity colocalized with talin, vinculin, and phosphotyrosine immunoreactivities in glial cells from primary cultures of Xenopus retina, as well as in the XR1 glial cell line, an immortal cell line derived from Xenopus retinal neuroepithelium. beta1 integrin immunoreactivity also colocalized with the termini of rhodamine phalloidin-labeled filamentous-actin at focal adhesions. The regulation of focal adhesion assembly was examined in XR1 glial cells using inhibitors against actin polymerization (cytochalasins) or tyrosine kinase activity (genistein). Compared to control cultures, those treated with the inhibitors exhibited a dose-dependent decrease in the proportion of cells displaying focal adhesions. Treatment with cytochalasin B also resulted in a dose-dependent decrease in cell area. Mature focal adhesions in XR1 cells with a flattened, spread morphology also were disrupted by the presence of these inhibitors. These results provide strong evidence that an intact actin cytoskeleton and tyrosine kinase activity regulate focal adhesion assembly and also play important roles in the maintenance of the integrity of focal adhesions in glial cells.
As in many mammalian and avian species, testicular androgens or their metabolites activate courtship and copulatory behaviors in adult male zebra finches. However, studies of sexual differentiation of these behaviors and related anatomical structures provide conflicting results. For example, posthatching estradiol can both masculinize courtship and the neural structures involved in song in females and inhibit the development of masculine copulation in males. These and other results have led to the hypotheses that (1) testicular androgens are converted to estradiol in the brain of developing males, and estradiol serves to masculinize the song system, whereas (2) estradiol secretion by the female ovary allows feminine rather than masculine copulatory behavior to develop. Treating embryonic zebra finches with the estrogen synthesis inhibitor fadrozole causes functional testicular tissue to develop in genetic females. The present study investigated the effects of such treatment on the development of singing and copulatory behavior as well as song system anatomy in males and females. While exogenous testosterone facilitated the display of sexual behaviors in adult males, the testicular tissue in females had no masculinizing effect on the production of audible courtship song or copulation. Their song control nuclei were also not masculinized, even in individuals lacking ovarian tissue. In contrast, embryonic inhibition of estrogen synthesis in males significantly stimulated song production. These results suggest that while manipulations of steroid hormone exposure can influence the display of sexual behaviors, gonadal secretions may not be required for normal sexual differentiation of the song system in zebra finches.
Motivated social behaviors such as mating are controlled by a complex network of limbic nuclei. Concepts of network organization derived from computational neuroscience may aid our understanding of the links between the neuroanatomical circuitry and what is represented by the anatomy. Research in my laboratory uses mating behavior in the male Syrian hamster as a model to elucidate how chemosensory and steroid cues are integrated in the brain. An interaction of odors and hormones is required for mating in this species. These two essential stimuli are transmitted through separate parallel pathways in the limbic system. The functional organization of the hamster mating behavior circuit is characterized by distributed representation, divergent and convergent neural pathways, and recurrent feedback. Odors and hormones have different modes of action on this neural network. While chemosensory cues stimulate the input units of the network, steroids facilitate behavior through the hidden units. In this manner, steroids appear to create a permissive environment for subsequent activation by odor cues.
These studies determined whether deficits in reproductive behavior observed in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic female rats are caused by hyperglycemia or loss of insulin. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were ovariectomized and made diabetic by a single ip injection of STZ (75 mg/kg). Reproductive behavior was measured 12 days after the onset of hyperglycemia following the injection of estrogen and progesterone in doses known to restore reproductive behavior in nondiabetic rats. Rats in which STZ produced diabetes showed significantly reduced receptive and proceptive sexual behaviors. Normalization of blood glucose levels either by restricting diet or by phlorizin treatment failed to restore reproductive behavior in diabetic animals. However, even doses of insulin which were not fully effective in correcting peripheral hyperglycemia were able to prevent the STZ-induced behavioral deficit. No changes in general activity were observed in any experimental group as assessed by open field activity. The density of the norepinephrine transporter, as measured by [3H]nisoxetine binding, was reduced in the cortex but not in the brain stem, hypothalamus, or hippocampus of diabetic animals. Insulin treatment prevented the loss of cortical [3H]nisoxetine binding, and even partial normalization of blood glucose restored cortical [3H]nisoxetine binding to control levels. These findings suggest that diabetes-induced reproductive deficits are due to hypoinsulinemia and cannot be corrected simply by the normalization of blood glucose, whereas reductions in the density of cortical norepinephrine transporter result from hyperglycemia.
Infant-onset myasthenia gravis, an autoimmune disease specific to Asians predominantly affects neuromuscular junctions in ocular muscles. An AChR alpha peptide (p71-91) specific autoreactive CD4+ alpha beta T cell clone was established by stimulating PBMC from a patient heterozygous for two disease-susceptible HLA-DR9-DQ9 and DR13-DQ6 haplotypes with a mixture of overlapping peptides covering AChR alpha. The T cell clone recognized the AChR alpha peptide in the context of the HLA-DQ6 molecule and produced a large amount of IFN-gamma and a trace amount of IL-4. A part (p75-83) of the core epitope of the autoantigenic peptide (p75-87) is encoded for by an exon P3A of the AChR alpha gene which can be alternatively spliced. The T cell clone responded to the recombinant AChR alpha protein with a P3A exon product, but not without a P3A exon product. We investigated responses of the T cell clone to 114 analogue peptides carrying single residue substitutions of the core AChR alpha peptide. The majority of analogues substituted at residues Phe-77, Leu-80 and Asn-82 stimulated proliferation of the T cell clone. Conversely, the majority of analogue peptides substituted at either Gln-81 or Glu-83 did not stimulate proliferative responses, and all exhibited strong or intermediate inhibitory effects on proliferative responses of the T cell clone to the wild type peptide, possibly by TCR antagonism. Thus, an HLA class II allele specific to Asians may directly control susceptibility to the Asian-specific type of myasthenia gravis. Analogues of the auto-antigenic AChR alpha peptide may prove effective for new immunosuppressive therapy.
Vascular smooth muscle cells of rat aorta express imidazoline receptors whose stimulation, by drugs or an endogenous ligand, agmatine, inhibits serum-stimulated proliferation. We investigated whether imidazoline receptors are expressed in human vascular smooth muscle cells if their stimulation is antiproliferative. Cultured human coronary artery vascular smooth muscle cells express a nonadrenergic binding site for 3H-idazoxan and an imidazoline receptor-binding protein as revealed by immunocytochemical and immunoblot analyses with a specific antibody. Idazoxan and agmatine dose-dependently inhibited serum-stimulated proliferation of these cells as measured by the incorporation of 3H-thymidine (IC50: 5 and 70 micromol/L, respectively) and serum-stimulated expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen and cell numbers. The agents inhibited proliferation of human and rat (aorta) smooth muscle cells stimulated by either norepinephrine (6560+/-440 disintegrations per minute norepinephrine versus 3345+/-220 norepinephrine and idazoxan), angiotensin II (7680+/-335 disintegrations per minute angiotensin II versus 3769+/-450 angiotensin II and idazoxan), or platelet-derived growth factor (IC50: 3 micromol/L for idazoxan and 40 micromol/L for agmatine), indicating inhibition of mitosis mediated by G-protein or receptor tyrosine kinase pathways. We conclude that human vascular smooth muscle cells express imidazoline-receptors whose activation inhibits proliferation by interacting at a distal step in an intracellular signal cascade common to G-protein and receptor tyrosine kinase mitogenic pathways. Agmatine, synthesized in endothelium, may act as a paracrine regulator of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation through imidazoline receptors, and agents acting at this site may be useful in treating vascular hyperplasia.
Hypotheses pertaining to the etiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) have suggested that the disease reflects an accelerated form of the normal aging process. Aging is associated with progressive failure of the pineal gland associated with a gradual decline in nighttime plasma melatonin secretion. The decline in melatonin secretion with age, at an average rate of 10-15% per decade, is considered a marker of brain aging in humans and estimations of plasma melatonin levels could be used to distinguish the processes of normal aging from pathological age-related changes. The accelerated aging hypothesis of PD is not supported by studies which have examined nocturnal melatonin secretion in drug naive Parkinsonian patients compared to age matched normal control subjects. Specifically, these studies have revealed no significant differences in the melatonin rhythms (i.e., peak nocturnal melatonin level and 24-hour melatonin output) between PD patients and normal age matched controls. On the other hand, melatonin secretion is significantly lower in Alzheimer's patients compared to age matched normal subjects. Collectively, it is suggested, on the basis of melatonin circadian rhythms, that Alzheimer's disease rather than PD is related to an accelerated aging process, a hypothesis which is supported by pathological and neurochemical studies.
It is estimated that 10-20% of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) have a chronic progressive (CP) course characterized by an insidious onset of neurological deficits followed by steady progression of disability in the absence of symptomatic remission. To date no therapeutic modality has proven effective in reversing the clinical course of CP MS although there are indications that prolonged treatment with picotesla electromagnetic fields (EMFs) alters the clinical course of patients with CP MS. A 40 year-old woman presented in December of 1992 with CP MS with symptoms of spastic paraplegia, loss of trunk control, marked weakness of the upper limbs with loss of fine and gross motor hand functions, severe fatigue, cognitive deficits, mental depression, and autonomic dysfunction with neurogenic bladder and bowel incontinence. Her symptoms began at the age of 18 with weakness of the right leg and fatigue with long distance walking and over the ensuing years she experienced steady deterioration of functions. In 1985 she became wheelchair dependent and it was anticipated that within 1-2 years she would become functionally quadriplegic. In December of 1992 she began experimental treatment with EMFs. While receiving regularly weekly transcortical treatments with AC pulsed EMFs in the picotesla range intensity she experienced during the first year improvement in mental functions, return of strength in the upper extremities, and recovery of trunk control. During the second year she experienced the return of more hip functions and recovery of motor functions began in her legs. For the first time in years she can now initiate dorsiflexion of her ankles and actively extend her knees voluntarily. Over the past year she started to show signs of redevelopment of reciprocal gait. Presently, with enough function restored in her legs, she is learning to walk with a walker and is able to stand unassisted and maintain her balance for a few minutes. She also regained about 80% of functions in the upper limbs and hands. Most remarkably, there was no further progression of the disease during the 4 years course of magnetic therapy. This patient's clinical recovery cannot be explained on the basis of a spontaneous remission. It is suggested that pulsed applications of picotesla EMFs affect the neurobiological and immunological mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of CP MS.
Tourette's syndrome (TS), a chronic familial neuropsychiatric disorder of unknown etiology, is characterized clinically by the occurrence of motor and vocal tics and by the presence of a variety of neurobehavioral and neurocognitive abnormalities including hyperactivity, self-mutilatory behavior, obsessive-compulsive behavior, learning disabilities, and conduct disorder. Cognitive deficits related to right hemispheric dysfunction are common in TS patients accounting for decrements in visuospatial, visuoconstructional and visuomotor skills. An 11 year old boy with a 5 years history of TS exhibited during a routine neuropsychological assessment an unusual visuoconstructional disorder which previously has been observed in dyslexic children. Specifically, when instructed to draw a bicycle from memory, he drew spontaneously a design executed from the perspective of a bird's eye view. After receiving a 20 minute treatment session with picotesla range electromagnetic fields (EMFs) applied extracranially, this visuocontructional disorder was spontaneously reversed and he drew an elaborate and detailed bicycle positioned in profile. A placebo EMF treatment, which was administered prior to magnetic therapy, had no effect on this child's visuoconstructional disorder. During the ensuing week there was a marked reduction in the child's hyperactive behavior with attentuation of motor tics. Spontaneous drawing of a bicycle a week after the administration of magnetic therapy was executed in profile although some elements were presented from a bird's eye view. This case demonstrates the potential impact of treatment with picotesla EMFs in reversing specific cognitive deficits in TS related to right posterior hemispheric dysfunction.
Sleep paralysis refers to episodes of inability to move during the onset of sleep or more commonly upon awakening. Patients often describe the sensation of struggling to move and may experience simultaneous frightening vivid hallucinations and dreams. Sleep paralysis and other manifestations of dissociated states of wakefulness and sleep, which reflect deficient monoaminergic regulation of neural modulators of REM sleep, have been reported in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). A 40 year old woman with remitting-progressive multiple sclerosis (MS) experienced episodes of sleep paralysis since the age of 16, four years prior to the onset of her neurological symptoms. Episodes of sleep paralysis, which manifested at a frequency of about once a week, occurred only upon awakening in the morning and were considered by the patient as a most terrifying experience. Periods of mental stress, sleep deprivation, physical fatigue and exacerbation of MS symptoms appeared to enhance the occurrence of sleep paralysis. In July of 1992 the patient began experimental treatment with AC pulsed applications of picotesla intensity electromagnetic fields (EMFs) of 5Hz frequency which were applied extracerebrally 1-2 times per week. During the course of treatment with EMFs the patient made a dramatic recovery of symptoms with improvement in vision, mobility, balance, bladder control, fatigue and short term memory. In addition, her baseline pattern reversal visual evoked potential studies, which showed abnormally prolonged latencies in both eyes, normalized 3 weeks after the initiation of magnetic therapy and remained normal more than 2.5 years later. Since the introduction of magnetic therapy episodes of sleep paralysis gradually diminished and abated completely over the past 3 years. This report suggests that MS may be associated with deficient REM sleep inhibitory neural mechanisms leading to sleep paralysis secondary to the intrusion of REM sleep atonia and dream imagery into the waking state. Pineal melatonin and monoaminergic neurons have been implicated in the induction and maintenance of REM sleep and the pathogenesis of sleep paralysis and it is suggested that resolution of sleep paralysis in this patient by AC pulsed applications of EMFs was related to enhancement of melatonin circadian rhythms and cerebral serotoninergic neurotransmission.


During development of the central nervous system (CNS) both deafferentation and axotomy induce increased neuronal death and result in a smaller brain with diminished function at maturity. Unilateral cerebellar pedunculotomy has been used as a model to study the relative importance of these 2 types of lesion on the survival of developing CNS neurons. Within the cerebellum, unilateral pedunculotomy causes deafferentation of the hemicerebellum and axotomy in the efferent pathway from the ipsilateral deep cerebellar nuclei. This results in a smaller hemicerebellum with normal cortical laminae but no extracerebellar outflow. In order to identify the sequence of events which leads to this altered structure and therefore to understand the relative importance of afferent versus target-derived trophic support, unilateral cerebellar pedunculotomy was performed on neonatal rat pups, aged between 1 and 3 days. The cerebella were analysed for histological and vascular changes after survival times of 0, 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 21, 24 and 48 h. The results show that the effects of axotomy on the deep cerebellar nuclear neurons begin within 3 h of the lesion and apoptotic neuronal degeneration occurs within 48 h. However, the cerebellar cortical neurons continue to undergo normal histological development for at least 48 h after deafferentation. In addition, since ischaemia induces similar effects, a study of the vascular tree was made. The results indicate that the pedunculotomy does not alter the blood supply to the cerebellum, nor induce ischaemia of the cerebellar neurons. From this it may be hypothesised that target-derived trophic support is more crucial for the survival of immature neurons than is the trophic effect of afferent input.
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is a developmental anomaly characterized by the malformation of the diaphragm and impaired lung development. In the present study, we tested several hypotheses regarding the pathogenesis of CDH, including those suggesting that the primary defect is due to abnormal 1) lung development, 2) phrenic nerve formation, 3) developmental processes underlying diaphragmatic myotube formation, 4) pleuroperitoneal canal closure, or 5) formation of the primordial diaphragm within the pleuroperitoneal fold. The 2,4-dichloro-phenyl-p-nitrophenyl ether (nitrofen)-induced CDH rat model was used for this study. The following parameters were compared between normal and herniated fetal rats at various stages of development: 1) weight, protein, and DNA content of lungs; 2) phrenic nerve diameter, axonal number, and motoneuron distribution; 3) formation of the phrenic nerve intramuscular branching pattern and diaphragmatic myotube formation; and 4) formation of the precursor of the diaphragmatic musculature, the pleuroperitoneal fold. We demonstrated that previously proposed theories regarding the primary role of the lung, phrenic nerve, myotube formation, and the closure of pleuroperitoneal canal in the pathogenesis of CDH are incorrect. Rather, the primary defect associated with CDH, at least in the nitrofen rat model, occurs at the earliest stage of diaphragm development, the formation of the pleuroperitoneal fold.
The enzymatic properties of Gap1(m) were characterized using three Ras and R-Ras proteins as substrates and were compared with those of p120GAP. Gap1(m) stimulated the GTPase of Ras better than that of R-Ras, in contrast to p120GAP which promoted the GTPase of R-Ras better than that of Ras. The EC50 values of Gap1(m) for Ha-Ras and R-Ras were 0.48 +/- 0.02 and 1.13 +/- 0.12 nM, respectively, whereas the EC50 values of p120GAP for Ha-Ras and R-Ras were 23.1 +/- 1.9 and 3.86 +/- 0.38 nM, respectively. The affinities of Gap1(m) and p120GAP to the substrates determined by competitive inhibition by using Ha-Ras.GTPgammaS (guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate)) or R-Ras.GTPgammaS as a competitor agreed well with the substrate specificities of these GTPase-activating proteins. The Km values of Gap1(m) for Ha-Ras and R-Ras were 1.53 +/- 0.27 and 3.38 +/- 0.53 microM, respectively, which were lower than that of p120GAP for Ha-Ras (145 +/- 11 microM) by almost 2 orders of magnitude. The high affinity of Gap1(m) to the substrates and its membrane localization suggest that Gap1(m) may act as a regulator of the basal activity of Ha-Ras and R-Ras.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade has been intensely studied as a primary biochemical pathway through which a variety of extracellular stimuli initiate and regulate processes of cellular transformation. That MAPKs are abundantly expressed in postmitotic neurons, however, suggests different yet currently unknown functions for this cascade in the mature nervous system. Here we report that the MAPK cascade is required for hippocampal long term potentiation (LTP), a robust and widely studied form of synaptic plasticity. We observed that PD 098059, a selective inhibitor of the MAPK cascade, blocked MAPK activation in response to direct stimulation of the NMDA receptor as well as to LTP-inducing stimuli. Furthermore, inhibition of the MAPK cascade markedly attenuated the induction of LTP. PD 098059, however, had no effect on the expression of established LTP, and the MAPK cascade was not persistently activated during LTP expression. Our observations provide the first demonstration of a role for the MAPK cascade in the activity-dependent modification of synaptic connections between neurons in the adult mammalian nervous system.
The dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) of the rat was studied with triple labeling immunofluorescence histochemistry to evaluate the quantitative relationships between neurons expressing 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), the neuropeptide galanin (GAL) and the nitric oxide (NO) synthesizing enzyme NO synthase (NOS). In addition retrograde tracing studies were performed. It could be established that a high percentage (between 40 and 60%) of the 5-HT neuron profiles in the ventromedial and dorsomedial subgroups of the DR contained both GAL and NOS after colchicine treatment. This triple coexistence was lower in the dorso-lateral subgroup and much lower in the lateral subgroup (down to 5%). All GAL neuron profiles contained 5-HT, and they constituted up to 80% of all labeled profiles in the rostral ventromedial and caudal dorsomedial subgroups, with the lowest percentage in the lateral subgroup (45%). The percentage of 5-HT-alone neuron profiles in these four subgroups varied between 15-40%. The proportion of 5-HT/NOS neurons was low (a few percent) at all levels, and this was the case also for NOS-alone neuron profiles except in the lateral subgroup, where 10-20% were of this type. It could be established that some 5-HT/GAL/NOS neurons project to the striatum. These retrogradely labeled cells were mainly found in the mid-line subgroups. In the striatum a moderately dense 5-HT fiber network and numerous NOS-positive cell bodies and fibers could be observed. However, only a few, weakly fluorescent GAL fibers were found and in a small number of cases it could be shown or was likely that 5-HT and GAL coexisted. No evidence for coexistence between 5-HT and NOS was obtained. The present findings strongly suggest that a large proportion of the DR 5-HT neurons can synthesize and release two additional messenger molecules, GAL and NO. Furthermore, even if the 5-HT/GAL/NOS neurons project to the striatum, the amounts of GAL and NOS transported to the terminal ramifications in this area are very low. This is in agreement with a very low GAL synthesis in the DR under normal circumstances, which is also indicated by the fact that colchicine treatment is needed to visualize GAL-like immunoreactivity in DR cell bodies. It is possible that NO, and perhaps GAL, in 5-HT neurons exert their main actions at the somatic and dendritic level in the DR.
The mu opioid receptor agonist Tyr-D-Arg-Phe-Lys-Amide (D-Arg2-Lys4-Dermorphin(1-4)amide=DALDA) was infused continuously for 2 h into sheep. The presence of DALDA in ovine plasma was determined by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) and mass spectrometry (MS) in plasma samples that were obtained at different times during and following that infusion. A stable isotope-incorporated internal standard, deuterated DALDA (d5-DALDA), was used for the MS quantification of DALDA via the protonated molecule ion, (M+H)+, of DALDA and of d5-DALDA. Time-course data (microg DALDA ml(-1) plasma vs. time) were obtained. Tandem MS (MS-MS) provided the product-ion spectrum of the (M+H)+ ion of DALDA in one of the samples to confirm the amino acid sequence of DALDA.


Heinrich Klver and Paul Bucy described a constellation of symptoms in monkeys following large resections of the temporal lobe that they termed the &quot;temporal lobe syndrome&quot;; now commonly referred to as the Klver-Bucy syndrome. The aim of this paper is threefold: (1) to review Heinrich Kluver's behavioral studies on monkeys that led up to his temporal lobe experiments with Paul Bucy; (2) to understand why Brown and Schfer dismissed the behavioral changes in temporal lobe monkeys they had observed fifty years prior to the studies of Klver and Bucy; and (3) to show that Klver's phenomenologically motivated conceptual paradigm helped to unify both neuropsychological and neuroanatomical theories regarding the visual and emotive functions of the non-human primate temporal lobe.
Dominico Cotugno was born in Ruvo Pugliese on January 29, 1736. In 1756, he graduated in Medicine from the Medical School in Salerno. In 1761, Cotugno published the &quot;Aquaeductibus auris humanae internae anatomica dissertatio&quot; (&quot;Anatomical dissertation on acqueducts of the human inner ear&quot;) in which he provided the first detailed description of aqueducts of the vestibule and cochlea and formulated the theory of resonance subsequently resumed by Helmholtz. Cotugno gave also the first description of the naso-palatine nerve and of its role in sneezing. In 1764, he published &quot;Commentarius de ischiade nervosa&quot; (&quot;Remarks on nervous ischialgia&quot;) advancing the hypothesis that some acrid fluid might penetrate the sheaths of the sciatic nerve. In 1766, he was appointed Professor of Anatomy at the University of Naples. In 1769, he published &quot;De sedibus variolarum syntagma&quot; (&quot;Investigation on the localization of variola pustules&quot;). Furthermore, he discovered albuminuria about a half century before Bright and was also one of the first scientists to identify urea in human urine. He died at the age of 86 in 1822.
The Italian anatomists Mondino dei Luzzi (c. 1275-1326) and Guido da Vigevano (c. 1280-1349) must be regarded as pivotal figures in the history of medieval anatomy. Mondino's book (written in 1316 and published in 1478) was the first treatise of anatomy based on the dissection of human cadavers, whereas the plates of Vigevano's manuscript (1345) marked the beginning of a new trend which became increasingly widespread during the following centuries: the use of anatomical illustration in textbooks. Though their neuroanatomical descriptions are rather simple and somewhat difficult to correlate with current descriptions, analysis of these works sheds new light on the knowledge of brain and spinal cord anatomy in the Middle Ages (Olry, 1996). Vigevano's contribution to neuroanatomy, however, appears more important than that of Mondino dei Luzzi, probably because his anatomical illustrations often compelled the draftsman to break free from Galen's dominating influence.
Emerging evidence suggests that, in addition to neuronal inputs, growth factors of glial origin are also important in the control of mammalian puberty via a cell-cell interaction that ultimately affects the neurons that release gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), a neurohormone controlling sexual development. Among these growth factors, transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF alpha) appears to be one of the physiologic components that controls the onset of female puberty by affecting GnRH neuronal activity in a glia-mediated autocrine/paracrine manner. Specifically, TGF alpha induces glia to produce bioactive substances, such as prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). In turn, PGE2 directly acts on GnRH neurons to stimulate the release of GnRH. Furthermore, the neuroregulin of glial origin neu differentiation factor (NDF) was found to facilitate the action of TGF alpha, suggesting that other growth factors may exert their biologic effects on GnRH neuronal function via a glia/neuron interaction. Another indication that glial cells may be involved in the regulation of neuroendocrine function is the presence of estrogen receptors on hypothalamic astrocytes. Thus, region-specific glial cells appear to play an integral role in the regulation of neuroendocrine function.
The Visual Evoked Potential (VEP) is an electrophysiological commonly used test in investigating various neurophysiological disorders. Through the years many methods have been developed, but there are not many objective criteria in distinguishing a normal VEP waveform from an abnormal. In this communication we use the phase characteristics of the power spectrum as a criterion of distinguishing normals and abnormals. From our analysis, it was shown that the phase spectrum of a VEP has a certain periodicity in the 0- to 40-Hz region. By studying these periodicities we were able to determine the range of the period that characterizes normal and abnormal populations and to establish an experimental method for objectively examining any kind of VEP waveforms.
The spread of measles virus into the brain was studied exploiting the olfactory pathway, which represents an important route of neuroinvasion by viruses. The virus was injected into the main olfactory bulb of wild-type mice and mice with disrupted TAP1 gene (TAP refers to the Transporter associated with Antigen Presentation), which codes for products essential for the cell-mediated immune response. Virus invasion was monitored for 4 weeks by immunohistochemistry. The distribution of measles virus was found to be restricted to brain areas connected with the olfactory bulbs. However, in the wild-type mice there was a marked infiltration of lymphocytes in the infected brain structures, and the virus did not pass beyond the piriform cortex. In the TAP1 -/- mice the virus spread more extensively along olfactory projections into the limbic system and monoaminergic brainstem neurons. Infected mice of both types developed seizures, which may have been focally evoked from the piriform cortex. This study provides evidence that measles virus can spread through axonal pathways in the brain. The findings obtained in the gene-manipulated mice point out that a compromised immune state of the host may potentiate targeting of virus to the limbic system through olfactory projections.
The neurotransmitter biosynthetic enzymes, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), and tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) are each composed of an amino-terminal regulatory domain and a carboxyl-terminal catalytic domain. A chimeric hydroxylase was generated by coupling the regulatory domain of TH (TH-R) to the catalytic domain of TPH (TPH-C) and expressing the recombinant enzyme in bacteria. The chimeric junction was created at proline 165 in TH and proline 106 in TPH because this residue is within a conserved five amino-acid span (ValProTrpPhePro) that defines the beginning of the highly homologous catalytic domains of TH and TPH. Radioenzymatic activity assays demonstrated that the TH-R/TPH-C chimera hydroxylates tryptophan, but not tyrosine. Therefore, the regulatory domain does not confer substrate specificity. Although the TH-R/TPH-C enzyme did serve as a substrate for protein kinase (PKA), activation was not observed following phosphorylation. Phosphorylation studies in combination with kinetic data provided evidence that TH-R does not exert a dominant influence on TPH-C. Stability assays revealed that, whereas TH exhibited a t1/2 of 84 min at 37 degrees C, TPH was much less stable (t1/2 = 28.3 min). The stability profile of TH-R/TPH-C, however, was superimposable on that of TH. Removal of the regulatory domain (a deletion of 165 amino acids from the N-terminus) of TH rendered the catalytic domain highly unstable, as demonstrated by a t1/2 of 14 min. The authors conclude that the regulatory domain of TH functions as a stabilizer of enzyme activity. As a corollary, the well-characterized instability of TPH may be attributed to the inability of its regulatory domain to stabilize the catalytic domain.
The neurotrophins are a family of proteins that promote neuronal survival and neurite outgrowth during development and can also enhance the regeneration of injured adult neurons. The local and continuous delivery of these proteins at the site of injury is problematic, since this requires repeated intraparenchymal injections or the use of invasive canula-micropump devices. In the present study we report the generation and characterization of an adenoviral vector for a member of the neurotrophins, neurotrophin-3 (Ad-NT-3). Using Ad-NT-3, we examined the expression and biological activity of NT-3 in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) explant cultures. Gene transfer with Ad-NT-3 results in the synthesis of genuine NT-3 and in a dosage-dependent neurite outgrowth response in DRG explants. Transduction of DRG explants with a viral vector dosage of 5 x 10(5) to 5 x 10(6) plaque-forming units induced the formation of a dense halo of neurites comparable to outgrowth observed following the addition of 100 ng/mL exogenous NT-3. In addition, a single infection with Ad-NT-3 produced biologically active NT-3 for at least 20 days in culture, as evidenced by continued neurite extension. This indicates that adenoviral vector-mediated expression of NT-3 results in high-level production of biologically active NT-3 and could therefore be used as a strategy to promote the regeneration of injured peripheral and central nerve projections.
The enormous diversity in neurochemical signals employed within the network of afferents to GnRH neurons is well-documented. An examination of novel and accumulating knowledge on the operation of these messengers indicates the presence of an interactive language governing GnRH secretion. The basic operational structures identified to date to affirm this interactive form of communication summarized in this review are the following: (i) the demonstration of interconnections within various components of the afferent network; (ii) coexistence and possible co-release of excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters/neuromodulators; (iii) co-action of various messengers at synaptic targets, and (4) modulation by gonadal steroids of the synthesis and release of signals and their receptors, and induction of synaptic plasticity for the timely relay of signals for GnRH secretion. Unraveling the molecular sequelae that promote this interactive communication to elicit periodic GnRH secretion is now a new challenge.


Congenital muscular dystrophy (CMD) is a relatively uncommon disease with a controversial nosological status. That collagen synthesis could be the primary abnormality has been suggested earlier (Fidzianska et al., 1982). Amongst eighteen cases of CMD diagnosed during the past twelve years, muscle biopsy in three cases revealed prominence of myofibre necrosis and phagocytosis, and serum CPK was markedly elevated suggesting a rapidly progressive form. In twelve cases, marked increase in endomysial collagen, pronounced fallout of myofibres and significant fibre diameter variation was seen. This was associated with myonecrosis and regenerative activity of mild degree resembling the classical form of CMD. In the remaining three cases, polyfocal, polyphasic necrosis was noticed. Fibre splitting was more frequently observed, better delineated in the enzyme histochemical preparations, affecting both fibre types, while endomysial fibrofatty tissue was only moderately increased. The histomorphology in the latter group resembled that of limb girdle dystrophy. Ultrastructural findings in all the eighteen cases correlated well with light microscopic observations. lmmunohistochemical studies done on three of the eighteen cases showed normal localization of dystrophin protein. Such variable histomorphology, revealing a spectrum of myopathic features, suggests that the primary change in CMD is likely to be in the myofibre rather than in collagen synthesis.
Well-differentiated astrocytomas may transform into malignant astrocytomas in time. In surgical specimens, when the histological picture strictly corresponds to that of grade II glioma, the transformation is unpredictable. Clinically, the bad outcome of a quota of astrocytomas is a well known phenomenon. The use of proliferation markers, and recently of MIB-1 LI, for detecting the proliferation potential comes out to be a useful tool for prognosis. A survival analysis of fifty astrocytomas grade II according to the WHO classification was performed with univariate and multivariate analysis of a series of clinical and histological parameters. MIB-1 LI was calculated and compared with all the other parameters. A cut-off of 8% of MIB-1 LI divided the astrocytomas in two groups with significantly different survival (p = 0.0066): median survival time of 1062 versus 1686 days. According to multivariate analysis MIB-1 LI resulted to be an independent factor (p = 0.002) along with extension of surgical removal (partial versus total), postoperative Karnofsky status (&gt; or = 70 versus &lt; 70) and age (&lt; or = 30 versus &gt; 30). The interpretation of well-differentiated astrocytomas with high MIB-1 LI is that the increasing number of cycling cells precedes phenotypic transformation. MIB-1 LI can be used as a prognostic factor.
The last ten years have seen rapid progress in both our understanding of the normal progression and control of gliogenesis and in the laboratory techniques necessary to sustain and study most glial cell types, including progenitor cells of both type-1 astrocyte (T1A) and oligodendrocyte-type-2 astrocyte (T2A) lineage. These studies have direct relevance for the lineage analysis of human gliomas, optimizing in vitro glioma models, and suggesting potentially fertile new grounds for glioma biology research. We do not yet known whether malignant transformation occurs only in mature glia that then 'de-differentiate' into cells with glial precursor phenotypes and behavior characteristics, whether neoplastic transformation occurs in O-2A progenitor cells, or whether both mechanisms may occur in different patients. However, preliminary results suggest that astrocytomas can arise from two different glial lineages, that oligodendrogliomas and mixed oligo-astrocytomas arise exclusively from the O-2A lineage, and that medulloblastomas may also have a connection with the O-2A lineage. An ontogeny-based glioma classification system may lead to better prognostic patient data and better predict patient response to treatment than currently available classification systems. Available data from the study of developmental glial biology raises serious doubts about the fidelity and relevance of in vitro glioma models that rely on culture media supplemented with animal serum and suggest that relying on chemically-defined media conditioned by astrocytes may be the better research strategy. Findings from the study of normal gliogenesis also suggest that growth factors are likely to act as much more than simple mitogens in glioma biology. Potentially fertile areas of research for glioma biology include studying the cooperative effect of multiple growth factors, potential growth factor effects as survival factors, inhibitors of differentiation, and differentiation inducers, and studying potential positive humoral feedback loops between glioma cells and normal glial cells, as well as normal non-glial cells, within and surrounding each glioma.
Recent studies have shown that deficient functioning of glutamate transporters (GTs) in Alzheimer disease (AD) might lead to neurodegeneration. The main objectives of the present study were to determine which GT subtype is most affected in AD and to asses to what extent altered GT function is associated with abnormal amyloid precursor protein (APP) expression. While EAAT2-immunoreactivity (IR) was decreased in AD frontal cortex, EAAT1- and EAAT3-IR were unaffected; mRNA levels for all 3 GTs were not affected. Decreased EAAT2-IR was associated with decreased GT activity. EAAT2-IR inversely correlated with EAAT2 mRNA levels, suggesting that in AD, GT expression alterations occur due to disturbance at the post-transcriptional level. EAAT2-IR was inversely correlated with APP770 mRNA. In addition, GT activity directly correlated with APP695 mRNA and total APP protein levels, and inversely correlated with APP751/770 mRNA levels. This study supports the notion that astroglial EAAT2 is affected in AD and abnormal functioning and/or processing of APP might play an important role in this process.
DNA damage has been proposed to underlie neuronal degeneration in aging and Alzheimer disease (AD). To determine the histological distribution of DNA damage, in situ end labeling (ISEL) was applied as a marker for DNA breaks on 4 differentially affected brain areas. Occipital cortex showed considerable variation between cortical layers and between patients. Temporal cortex displayed little ISEL-labeling in controls, and in AD, surprisingly. In the hippocampus, which is strongly affected in AD, many ISEL-positive nuclei and glialike cells were found in AD as compared with controls. The hypothalamic supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei showed little DNA-damage, whereas the nucleus basalis was often, but not always, labeled by ISEL. In contrast to others, no apoptotic morphology was observed, only necrotic morphology. Our results in relation to postmortem delay indicate that, area dependent, increased DNA vulnerability may occur in AD. Furthermore, the distribution of DNA damage in cortex differs from that of plaques and tangles, suggesting that these 3 phenomena are, in principle, independent. Whether the enhanced level of hippocampal DNA breaks in AD underlies, or rather is a consequence of, previous degenerative changes in this brain area remains to be established.
We have shown previously that the activity levels and preferred directions of supplementary eye field neurons change as monkeys learn to associate nonspatial visual information with a saccade (or the spatial target of that saccade). The present report describes changes in neuronal population vectors (PV) during such learning. PVs based on neuronal activity shortly before and after saccades predicted movement direction poorly in the earliest stage of learning, but as monkeys mastered novel stimulus-response mappings, PV accuracy and magnitude increased significantly.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor has been implicated in activity-dependent synapse stabilization, but its role as a detector of correlated activity during development is debated. In the amphibian retinotectal system, synaptic sorting and stabilization occur throughout larval life, and map refinement is dependent on continuous NMDA receptor function. Moreover, tadpole tecta chronically treated with NMDA selectively fail to maintain retinal synapses wherever their activity correlations are lowest. To determine whether this synapse elimination is associated with a specific down-regulation of NMDA receptor function, whole cell voltage-clamp recordings were made from single neurons in tectal slices. After chronic NMDA treatment, decreases in the magnitude of NMDA currents were detected in glutamatergic synaptic currents, in agonist-evoked currents, and in single-channel currents activated by NMDA. The results suggest that the efficacy of NMDA receptors on tectal neurons determines the amount of correlation required to stabilize sets of tectal inputs during formation of the retinotectal projection.
The sequence of changes in single neuron activity in the CA1 area of the rabbit hippocampus was examined during daily sessions (80 trials/session) of hippocampally dependent nonspatial trace eyeblink (i.e., nictitating membrane response) conditioning. Each trial for trace conditioned animals (n = 7) consisted of a tone conditioned stimulus (CS; 6 kHz; 90 dB, 100 ms) followed by a 500-ms silent trace period, then a corneal airpuff unconditioned stimulus (US; 3.0 psi; 150 ms). Control animals (n = 5) received unpaired CSs and USs. Most pyramidal (n = 309) and theta (n = 21) cells were recorded for a single day of training. The activity of cells for each animal were grouped according to: the day of training that CRs began to increase and the day of training that CR performance became asymptotic. Pyramidal cells from trace conditioned animals demonstrated several stages of learning-related activity: large increases in activity after both the CS and US early in conditioning on the day of training when CRs began to increase, smaller moderate increases in activity on the following days of training, and decreases in activity after the US during asymptotic CRs. Pyramidal cell-increases declined significantly across the trials of each daily session. Theta cells showed an activity pattern opposite to the pyramidal cells, consistent with the notion that theta cells have an inhibitory influence on pyramidal cells. Single pyramidal cells also were categorized into response profiles. Most pyramidal response profiles showed increases in activity specific to the day of initial CRs. Two of the pyramidal response profiles may be involved in assessing the temporal properties of the CS-US trace conditioning trial.
Temporal summation of sensory intensity was investigated in normal subjects using novel methods of thermal stimulation. A Peltier thermode was heated and then applied in a series of brief (700 ms) contacts to different sites on the glabrous skin of either hand. Repetitive contacts on the thenar or hypothenar eminence, at interstimulus intervals (ISIs) of 3 s, progressively increased the perceived intensity of a thermal sensation that followed each contact at an onset latency &gt; 2 s. Temporal summation of these delayed (late) sensations was proportional to thermode temperature over a range of 45-53 degrees C, progressing from a nonpainful level (warmth) to painful sensations that could be rated as very strong after 10 contacts. Short-latency pain sensations rarely were evoked by such stimuli and never attained levels substantially above pain threshold for the sequences and temperatures presented. Temporal summation produced by brief contacts was greater in rate and amount than increases in sensory intensity resulting from repetitive ramping to the same temperature by a thermode in constant contact with the skin. Variation of the interval between contacts revealed a dependence of sensory intensity on interstimulus interval that is similar to physiological demonstrations of windup, where increasing frequencies of spike train activity are evoked from spinal neurons by repetitive activation of unmyelinated nociceptors. However, substantial summation at repetition rates of &gt; or = 0.33 Hz was observed for temperatures that produced only late sensations of warmth when presented at frequencies &lt; 0.16 Hz. Measurements of subepidermal skin temperature from anesthetized monkeys revealed different time courses for storage and dissipation of heat by the skin than for temporal summation and decay of sensory intensity for the human subjects. For example, negligible heat loss occurred during a 6-s interval between two trials of 10 contacts at 0.33 Hz, but ratings of sensory magnitude decreased from very strong levels of pain to sensations of warmth during the same interval. Evidence that temporal summation of sensory intensity during series of brief contacts relies on central integration, rather than a sensitization of peripheral receptors, was obtained using two approaches. In the first, a moderate degree of temporal summation was observed during alternating stimulation of adjacent but nonoverlapping skin sites at 0.33 Hz. Second, temporal summation was significantly attenuated by prior administration of dextromethorphan, a N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist.
The functional roles of the major visuo-motor pathways were studied in lamprey. Responses to eye illumination were video-recorded in intact and chronically lesioned animals. Postural deficits during spontaneous swimming were analyzed to elucidate the roles of the lesioned structures for steering and postural control. Eye illumination in intact lampreys evoked the dorsal light response, that is, a roll tilt toward the light, and negative phototaxis, that is a lateral turn away from light, and locomotion. Complete tectum-ablation enhanced both responses. During swimming, a tendency for roll tilts and episodes of vertical upward swimming were seen. The neuronal circuitries for dorsal light response and negative phototaxis are thus essentially extratectal. Responses to eye illumination were abolished by contralateral pretectum-ablation but normal after the corresponding lesion on the ipsilateral side. Contralateral pretectum thus plays an important role for dorsal light response and negative phototaxis. To determine the roles of pretectal efferent pathways for the responses, animals with a midmesencephalic hemisection were tested. Noncrossed pretecto-reticular fibers from the ipsilateral pretectum and crossed fibers from the contralateral side were transected. Eye illumination on the lesioned side evoked negative phototaxis but no dorsal light response. Eye illumination on the intact side evoked an enhanced dorsal light response, whereas negative phototaxis was replaced with straight locomotion or positive phototaxis. The crossed pretecto-reticular projection is thus most important for the dorsal light response, whereas the noncrossed projection presumably plays the major role for negative phototaxis. Transection of the ventral rhombencephalic commissure enhanced dorsal light response; negative phototaxis was retained with smaller turning angles than normal. Spontaneous locomotion showed episodes of backward swimming and deficient roll control (tilting tendency). Transections of different spinal pathways were performed immediately caudal to the brain stem. All spinal lesions left dorsal light response in attached state unaffected; this response presumably is mediated by the brain stem. Spinal hemisection impaired all ipsiversive yaw turns; the animals spontaneously rolled to the intact side. Bilateral transection of the lateral columns impaired all yaw turns, whereas roll control and dorsal light response were normal. After transection of the medial spinal cord, yaw turns still could be performed whereas dorsal light response was suppressed or abolished, and a roll tilting tendency during spontaneous locomotion was seen. We conclude that the contralateral optic nerve projection to the pretectal region is necessary and sufficient for negative phototaxis and dorsal light response. The crossed descending pretectal projection is most important for dorsal light response, whereas the noncrossed one is most important for negative phototaxis. In the most rostral spinal cord, fibers for lateral yaw turns travel mainly in the lateral columns, whereas fibers for roll turns travel mainly in the medial spinal cord.
Diffusion anisotropy was investigated in the developing rat brain [postnatal day (P)6-29] with the use of ion-selective microelectrodes to measure the three-dimensional distribution of tetramethylammonium (TMA+) iontophoresed into the extracellular space (ECS). The diffusion parameters, ECS volume fraction alpha (alpha = ECS volume/total tissue volume), tortuosity lambda (lambda2 = apparent diffusion coefficient/free diffusion coefficient), and nonspecific TMA+ uptake (k'), were studied in cortical gray matter (layer V) and corpus callosum (CC) of anesthetized rats. ECS volume fraction in cortex and CC was about twice as large in the newborn rat as in adults. In this study, more detailed analysis revealed that alpha in CC gradually decreased from P4, when alpha ranged between 0.42 and 0.45, and reached a final value of 0.26 +/- 0.01 (SE, n = 12 measurements, 6 animals) at about P21. Diffusion in the ECS of CC was isotropic until about P12, i.e., there was no significant difference in the tortuosity factor, lambda, between the three perpendicular axes. From P13 to P17 anisotropy greatly increased as a result of preferential diffusion along the myelinated axons (X-axis). At P21-23 the tortuosity values were lambda(x) = 1.46 +/- 0.03, lambda(y) = 1.70 +/- 0.01, and lambda(z) = 1.72 +/- 0.02 (n = 12), and there were no further changes up to the last postnatal day studied, P29. In contrast to the myelinated CC, cortical gray matter remained isotropic up to P29, with a tortuosity of 1.54 +/- 0.02 (n = 12). The results suggest that diffusion anisotropy in the rat CC is related to myelination; it reaches a maximum at P17, when myelination is well advanced. In myelinated pathways, preferential diffusion of ions and transmitters occurs along the axons. These results are relevant to volume transmission and the interpretation of diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging.
We present a comparative analysis of electrotonus in the three classes of principal neurons in rat hippocampus: pyramidal cells of the CA1 and CA3c fields of the hippocampus proper, and granule cells of the dentate gyrus. This analysis used the electrotonic transform, which combines anatomic and biophysical data to map neuronal anatomy into electrotonic space, where physical distance between points is replaced by the logarithm of voltage attenuation (log A). The transforms were rendered as &quot;neuromorphic figures&quot; by redrawing the cell with branch lengths proportional to log A along each branch. We also used plots of log A versus anatomic distance from the soma; these reveal features that are otherwise less apparent and facilitate comparisons between dendritic fields of different cells. Transforms were always larger for voltage spreading toward the soma (V(in)) than away from it (V(out)). Most of the electrotonic length in V(out) transforms was along proximal large diameter branches where signal loss for somatofugal voltage spread is greatest. In V(in) transforms, more of the length was in thin distal branches, indicating a steep voltage gradient for signals propagating toward the soma. All transforms lengthened substantially with increasing frequency. CA1 neurons were electrotonically significantly larger than CA3c neurons. Their V(out) transforms displayed one primary apical dendrite, which bifurcated in some cases, whereas CA3c cell transforms exhibited multiple apical branches. In both cell classes, basilar dendrite V(out) transforms were small, indicating that somatic potentials reached their distal ends with little attenuation. However, for somatopetal voltage spread, attenuation along the basilar and apical dendrites was comparable, so the V(in) transforms of these dendritic fields were nearly equal in extent. Granule cells were physically and electrotonically most compact. Their V(out) transforms at 0 Hz were very small, indicating near isopotentiality at DC and low frequencies. These transforms resembled those of the basilar dendrites of CA1 and CA3c pyramidal cells. This raises the possibility of similar functional or computational roles for these dendritic fields. Interpreting the anatomic distribution of thorny excrescences on CA3 pyramidal neurons with this approach indicates that synaptic currents generated by some mossy fiber inputs may be recorded accurately by a somatic patch clamp, providing that strict criteria on their time course are satisfied. Similar accuracy may not be achievable in somatic recordings of Schaffer collateral synapses onto CA1 pyramidal cells in light of the anatomic and biophysical properties of these neurons and the spatial distribution of synapses.
Zone-to-zone projection of olfactory and vomeronasal sensory axons underlies the topographic and functional mapping of chemoreceptor expression zones of the sensory epithelia onto zonally arranged glomeruli in the main and accessory olfactory bulbs. Here we identified OCAM (R4B12 antigen), an axonal surface glycoprotein expressed by subsets of both olfactory and vomeronasal axons in a zone-specific manner. OCAM is a novel homophilic adhesion molecule belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily with striking structural homology to neural cell adhesion molecule. In both the main and accessory olfactory systems, OCAM mRNA is expressed by sensory neurons in restricted chemoreceptor expression zones, and OCAM protein-expressing axons project to the glomeruli in the corresponding zones of the main and accessory bulbs. OCAM protein is expressed on subsets of growing sensory axons in explant cultures even in the absence of the target bulb. These results demonstrate a precisely coordinated zonal expression of chemoreceptors and OCAM and suggest that OCAM may play important roles in selective fasciculation and zone-to-zone projection of the primary olfactory axons.
Tyrosine kinases and phosphatases are abundant in the nervous system, where they signal cellular differentiation, mediate the responses to growth factors, and direct neurite outgrowth during development. Tyrosine phosphorylation can also alter ion channel activity, but its physiological significance remains unclear. In an identified leech mechanosensory neuron, the ubiquitous neuromodulator serotonin increases the activity of a cation channel by activating protein kinase C (PKC), resulting in membrane depolarization and modulation of the receptive field properties. We observed that the effects on isolated neurons and channels were blocked by inhibiting tyrosine phosphatases. Serotonergic stimulation of PKC thus activates a tyrosine phosphatase activity associated with the channels, which reverses their constitutive inhibition by tyrosine phosphorylation, representing a novel form of neuromodulation.
We report that a novel sulfonylamino compound, 4-[2-(phenylsulfonylamino)ethylthio]-2,6-difluoro-phenoxyacetam ide (PEPA), selectively potentiates glutamate receptors of the AMPA subtype. PEPA (1-200 microM) dose dependently potentiated glutamate-evoked currents in Xenopus oocytes expressing AMPA (GluRA-GluRD), but not kainate (GluR6 and GluR6+KA2) or NMDA (zeta1 + epsilon1-epsilon4), receptor subunits. PEPA was effective at micromolar concentrations and, in contrast to the action of cyclothiazide, preferentially modulated AMPA receptor flop isoforms. At 200 microM, PEPA potentiated glutamate responses by 50-fold in oocytes expressing GluRCflop (EC50 approximately 50 microM) versus only threefold for GluRCflip; a similar preference for flop isoforms was observed for other AMPA receptor subunits. Dose-response analysis for GluRCflop revealed that 100 microM PEPA produced a sevenfold increase in AMPA receptor affinity for glutamate. PEPA produced considerably weaker potentiation of kainate-evoked than glutamate-evoked currents, suggesting modulation of the process of receptor desensitization. In human embryonic kidney 293 cells transfected with AMPA receptor subunits, PEPA either abolished or markedly slowed the rate of onset of desensitization and potentiated steady-state equilibrium currents evoked by glutamate with subunit (GluRC &gt;/= GluRD &gt; GluRA) and splice-variant (flop &gt; flip) selectivity similar to that observed in oocytes. Our results show that PEPA is a novel, flop-preferring allosteric modulator of AMPA receptor desensitization at least 100 times more potent than aniracetam.
The release of dopamine (DA) in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) is thought to be critical for mediating natural rewards as well as for the reinforcing actions of drugs of abuse. DA and amphetamine depress both excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission in the NAc by a presynaptic D1-like DA receptor. However, the mechanisms of depression of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission appear to be different. DA depressed the frequency of spontaneous miniature EPSCs, but the frequency of miniature IPSCs was depressed only when spontaneous release was made dependent on Ca2+ influx through voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. Furthermore, the K+ channel blocker Ba2+ attenuated the effects of DA on evoked IPSPs, but not on EPSPs. Thus, DA appears to depress inhibitory synaptic transmission in the NAc by reducing Ca2+ influx into the presynaptic terminal, but depresses excitatory transmission by a distinct mechanism that is independent of the entry of Ca2+.
Approximately 500,000 people suffer a new or recurrent brain attack each year. Despite advanced treatments, stroke continues to be the third leading cause of death in the United States. Survivors of stroke experience many different clinical problems and neurological deficits. Individual symptomatology varies according to specific vessel involvement and the location of brain tissue infarction or hemorrhage. Understanding basic cerebral anatomy provides a foundation for the neuroscience nurse to plan effective nursing care for the victim of brain attack.
In neuroscience critical care units, patients may have ventricular drains placed to aid management of acutely elevated intracranial pressure from a variety of causes. Correct placement of the ventricular drainage collection system, a nursing responsibility, is key to the process, and has the potential to influence patient outcome. A two-part study investigated the accuracy with which registered nurses levelled a ventricular drainage collection system. Part 1 found that nurses (N = 33) were unable to accurately level using visual means only. Part 2 found that nurses' (N = 31) use of a tool (a carpenter's level or a newly developed laser levelling device) dramatically improved accuracy. However, demographic differences between nurses in Part 1 and Part 2 may have contributed to this outcome. While both tools were accurate, the laser levelling device was superior to the carpenter's level for speed of use, nurses' rating of ease of use and patient safety.
In September 1995, the Guglielmi Detachable Coil (GDC) system received approval from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for treatment of surgically high-risk aneurysms. Up until that time, only the centers participating in the clinical device trial were able to offer the GDC system as an option to patients considered to be surgically high-risk and who would otherwise be assigned to conservative treatment. As additional sites become available, neuroscience nurses need to be educated on the device and the type of care necessary for these patients.
Niemann-Pick C (NPC) disease is an autosomal recessive lipidosis characterized by lysosomal accumulations of unesterified cholesterol. Cultured NPC cells exhibit a defect in the intracellular trafficking of LDL-derived cholesterol that leads to lysosomal accumulations of unesterified cholesterol. We found in a preliminary study that the myelination of regenerating axons was retarded in the NPC mouse following sciatic nerve crush. Because lipoprotein-mediated cholesterol transport is involved in myelination during nerve regeneration, we investigated whether this cholesterol reutilization pathway was perturbed in the NPC mouse. Mice received intraneural injections of [3H]acetate to label myelin cholesterol, and 2 weeks later the injected nerves were crushed above the injection site. Four weeks after crush, the nerves were examined by electron microscopic autoradiography. In normal mice, regeneration was well advanced, with thick myelin sheaths surrounding the regenerated axons and very little myelin debris remaining. The new myelin sheaths were well labeled, indicative of efficient cholesterol reutilization. In NPC mice, the new myelin sheaths were thinner and contained little label, indicative of retarded regeneration and little or no cholesterol reutilization. These data suggest the possibility of a causal link between compromised cholesterol reutilization and delayed or slowed regeneration of myelin sheaths.
We have successfully established highly enriched astrocyte cultures upon passaging of primary cultures derived from various regions of postmortem human adult brain and spinal cord. Tissues were collected at autopsies with relatively short postmortem times (3-9 hr) from multiple sclerosis (MS) and (normal) control cases. Immunocytochemical analysis showed that primary cultures were composed of colonies of oligoclonal cells that expressed the intermediate filament proteins glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), vimentin, as well as glutamine synthetase (GS). Passaging the astrocytes did not affect their proliferating capacity as monitored by bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation. Astrocyte-specific markers were stably expressed for at least 12 passages per individual tissue sample. Large numbers of GFAP-positive astrocytes were obtained from each sample and could be stored frozen and recultured. Very few macrophages/microglial cells (1-3%) were present in the human adult astrocyte cultures, using a panel of macrophage-specific markers. However, the monoclonal antibodies (mAbs KP1, EBM1, 25F9) and lysozyme antiserum directed against lysosomal antigens strongly immunostained cultured astrocytes derived from MS and control cases, implicating that expression of these lysosomal antigens is not restricted to macrophages/ microglial cells in human glial cell cultures. Interestingly, astrocytes derived from active demyelinated MS lesions showed an increased proliferating capacity compared to astrocytes derived from non-lesioned and normal brain and spinal cord regions, as shown with a microculture tetrazolium assay (MTT assay).
The effect of varying brain temperature on neutrophil accumulation in brain and the expression of E-selectin and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) on cerebrovascular endothelium after controlled cortical impact (CCI) was studied in rats. Sprague Dawley rats were anesthetized and subjected to CCI to the left parietal cortex. Ten minutes after CCI, brain temperature was modulated and maintained at 32 degrees C, 37 degrees C, or 39 degrees C (n = 8 per group) for 4 h. Rats were then decapitated and immunohistochemistry on brain sections was performed using monoclonal antibodies (MoAb) that recognize neutrophils (RP-3), ICAM-1 (TM-8, Athena Neurosciences), or MoAb that react with E-selectin (La-Roche). Each of these markers was quantified in 100 x fields. Neutrophil accumulation was also quantified with myeloperoxidase (MPO) assay. Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) was measured in blood samples before and 1 h and 4 h after CCI. Neutrophil accumulation in injured brain was decreased in rats maintained at 32 degrees C vs 39 degrees C (4-fold difference as assessed by immunohistochemistry, p &lt; 0.05; 8-fold difference as assessed by MPO assay, p &lt; 0.05). Peripheral blood ANC was not affected by temperature. E-selectin was induced on cerebrovascular endothelium after CCI (p &lt; 0.05), but was only decreased modestly at 32 degrees C versus 39 degrees C (p = 0.11). ICAM-1 was not upregulated on cerebrovascular endothelium at this early time following CCI. Neutrophil accumulation is directly dependent on brain temperature during the initial 4 h after CCI. This appears to be mediated by mechanisms other than effects of temperature on E-selectin or ICAM-1 expression or systemic ANC.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) frequently results in dysesthesias that have remained refractory to clinical treatments despite a variety of interventions. The failure of therapeutic strategies to treat dysesthesias after SCI is due to the lack of attention given to mechanisms that elicit chronic pain following SCI. An overview of the literature with respect to the development of chronic pain in the SCI patient population will be given. In addition, a mammalian model of chronic central pain following spinal cord trauma will be presented. The model is characterized by the development of mechanical and thermal allodynia, as demonstrated by measuring the thresholds of accepted nociceptive tests, the paw withdrawal responses accompanied by changes in behavior consistent with the experience of noxious stimuli. In addition, vocalization responses that are accompanied by postural and behavioral changes consistent with the receipt of a noxious stimulus and involving supraspinal pathways are measured. Locomotor function was also tested and scored using the Basso, Beattie, and Bresnahan (BBB) open field test scale. Our data indicate that somatosensory thresholds for both mechanical and thermal stimuli that elicit paw withdrawal (flexor reflex) or vocalizations, accompanied by complex changes in behavior, are significantly different following SCI. These changes represent the development of mechanical and thermal allodynia. To determine the underlying mechanism for the altered sensory responses, we used electrophysiological techniques to determine if nociceptive dorsal horn neurons demonstrated increased excitability to peripheral stimulation as evidenced by increased responses to natural somatosensory stimuli. The data presented support the development of central sensitization of dorsal horn neurons after spinal cord hemisection. This provides a mechanism for the development of mechanical and thermal allodynia after SCI. Hypotheses that account for the development of the central pain state after SCI, as well as therapeutic interventions to ameliorate the pain state, are discussed.
Spinal cord injuries (SCI) result in devastating loss of function and altered sensation. Presently, victims of SCI have few remedies for the loss of motor function and the altered sensation often experienced subsequent to the injury. A goal in SCI research is to improve function in both acute and chronic injuries. Among the most successful interventions is the utilization of transplanted tissues toward improved recovery. The theory is that the transplanted tissue could (1) bridge the spinal lesion and provide chemical and/or mechanical guidance for host neurons to grow across the lesion, (2) bridge the spinal lesion and provide additional cellular elements to repair the damaged circuitry, (3) provide factors that would rescue neurons that would otherwise die and/or modulate neural circuits to improve function. A variety of tissues and cells have been added to the adult mammalian spinal cord to encourage restoration of function. These include Schwann cells, motor neurons, dorsal root ganglia, adrenal tissue, hybridomas, peripheral nerves, and fetal spinal cord (FSC) tissue en bloc or as disassociated cells. It is postulated that these tissues would rescue or replace injured adult neurons, which would then integrate or promote the regeneration of the spinal cord circuitry and restore function. In some instances, host-appropriate circuitry is supplied by the transplant and functional improvement is demonstrated. In this presentation, specific examples of recent work with transplanted tissue and cells that demonstrate improved behavioral outcome are presented. New recent work describing the in vitro propagation and characterization of human fetal spinal cord multipotential progenitor cells are also described in the context of a potential resource for transplantable cells. Additionally, data from transplantation experiments of human FSC cells into nonimmunosuppressed rat spinal cord are described, and the resultant improvements in behavioral outcome reported. Lastly, directions for future SCI research are proposed.
HIV-1 infection is often complicated by central nervous system (CNS) dysfunction. Degenerative neuronal changes as well as neuronal loss have been documented in individuals with AIDS. Feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) infection of cats provides a model for both the immune and the central nervous system manifestations of HIV infection of humans. In this study we have examined neurons in the frontal cortex of feline immunodeficiency virus-infected cats and controls for immunoreactivity with SMI 32, an antibody recognizing a non-phosphorylated epitope on neurofilaments. We noted a significant increase in the number of immunoreactive pyramidal cells in infected animals compared to controls. The changes seen in the neuronal cytoskeleton as a consequence of the inoculation with FIV were similar to those seen in humans undergoing the normal aging process as well as those suffering from neurological diseases, including Alzheimer's and dementia pugilistica. The changes we noted in the feline brain were also similar to that reported in animals with traumatic injuries or with spontaneously occurring or induced motor neuron diseases, suggesting that the increase in reactivity represents a deleterious effect of FIV on the central nervous system.
Stimulant sensitization is defined as an enhancement of the behavioral response to drug after repeated drug exposure. We have examined the relation between the expression of behavioral sensitization and the release of the striatal neurotransmitters acetylcholine (ACh) and dopamine (DA). Rats were treated with amphetamine (4 mg/kg i.p., b.i.d.) for 12 days. The behavioral response to amphetamine challenge was assessed during the chronic treatment, at short withdrawal (2 days) and at long withdrawal (2-3 wk) from the drug. Neurochemical responses to amphetamine challenge were assessed in separate groups of rats at the two withdrawal timepoints using in vivo microdialysis. The expression of behavioral sensitization in response to a low challenge dose of amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg) was only observed after long withdrawal; indeed, tolerance was observed at the short withdrawal timepoint. In contrast, sensitization of the behavioral response to challenge with 4 mg/kg amphetamine developed progressively over the course of drug treatment and continued to increase throughout withdrawal. Striatal ACh release was enhanced by amphetamine challenge (4 mg/kg) in the chronically treated animals and this response also was greater at long withdrawal vs. short withdrawal. However, amphetamine administration had no net effect on striatal ACh release in animals previously given chronic saline injections. Amphetamine challenge increased striatal DA release but this response did not differ between drug- or saline-treated animals at either withdrawal timepoint. Thus, an enhancement of the drug-induced stimulation of striatal ACh release correlates with the temporal profile of the expression of behavioral sensitization to amphetamine. In contrast, amphetamine-induced DA release does not appear to correlate with the expression of behavioral sensitization in the same manner.
To investigate the efficacy of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in the augmentation of functional dopaminergic (DAergic) indices in aged rats, 24-month-old Fischer 344 (F344) rats received single intranigral injections of 10 microg GDNF (in 10 microl phosphate-buffered saline) or 10 microl phosphate-buffered saline. In locomotor activity tests, the GDNF-treated animals exhibited significant increases in both total distance traveled and movement speed compared with the vehicle group, 3 weeks after injections. In vivo microdialysis studies showed that basal extracellular levels of dopamine (DA) and its metabolites, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid, were significantly increased in the striatum of the GDNF-treated rats. In addition, both potassium- (100 mM, K+) and d-amphetamine (250 microM)-induced DA overflow were augmented in the striatum and nucleus accumbens of the aged rats injected with GDNF. Whole-tissue levels of DA and DA metabolites, as measured by high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrochemical detection, in the nucleus accumbens and substantia nigra were also elevated after GDNF administration. These results indicate that a single intranigral injection of GDNF is capable of augmenting locomotor behavior and DAergic function in the aged rat striatum and nucleus accumbens. This is the first report to demonstrate that a single intranigral injection of GDNF can improve the functional capacity of DAergic neurons of aged F344 rats.
We have shown recently that intracisternal administration of endothelin-(ET)1 and ET-3 evokes increases in gastric motor function and arterial blood pressure. The aim of our study was to investigate whether the dorsal vagal complex (DVC) is a medullary site of action for the gastric motor and cardiovascular effects of ET-1 and to identify the ET receptor subtype through which these effects are mediated. ET-1 (0.1-40 pmol/site) and ET-3 (1 and 100 pmol/site) were microinjected into the DVC of alpha-chloralose anesthetized rats, while monitoring intragastric pressure, contractile activity of greater curvature longitudinal and pyloric circular smooth muscle, arterial blood pressure and heart rate. ET-1, at doses of 0.1 to 40 pmol, increased intragastric pressure and, at doses of 10 and 40 pmol, increased pyloric contractile activity and arterial blood pressure. The increases in gastric motor function, but not the hypertension, induced by ET-1 (10 pmol) in the DVC were completely abolished by bilateral vagotomy. Spinal cord transection prevented increases in arterial blood pressure evoked by ET-1 (40 pmol). Because only the highest dose of ET-3 (100 pmol), microinjected into the DVC, increased intragastric pressure and pyloric contractile activity and no consistent changes in cardiovascular functions were noted, we hypothesized that the gastric motor and hypertensive responses to endothelins in the DVC are mediated via ET(A) receptors. This was supported by the observation that a selective ET(A) receptor antagonist, cyclo(-D-Trp-D-Asp-Pro-D-Val-Leu) (BQ-123; 400 pmol), microinjected into the DVC 15 min before ET-1 (10 pmol) or ET-3 (100 pmol), completely blocked the gastric motor and cardiovascular responses to endothelins. We conclude that endothelins act in the brainstem at the level of the DVC to increase intragastric pressure and gastric contractile activity via a vagally mediated pathway and that both the gastric motor and hypertensive effects of endothelins in the DVC are mediated through ET(A) receptors.
The year 1996 marked the centennial of the advent of the roentgen ray in the United States. The compelling value of this novel scientific discovery by Professor Wilhelm Roentgen of Wrzberg, Germany, to image the previously arcane depths of the living human body was astounding and recognized as a major advance. This report details the work of some key personnel and developments in the science of warfare that confirmed the great promise of the X-ray in the diagnostic armamentarium of military surgeons (a leading proponent being Professor Nicholas Senn, the founder of the Association of Military Surgeons of the United States) in this last American conflict of the 19th century.
Using mice genetically deficient in the complement (C)-system component C5, this study explored a potential novel role of the C-system in Ca(2+)-mediated control of glutamate AMPA receptor functions. We found that Ca2+ preincubation of frozen brain tissue sections enhances AMPA binding capacity more dynamically in C5 deficient (C5-) than congenic C5 sufficient (C5+) mice. The Ca(2+)-mediated response was mostly localized to the CA3 and CA1 subdivisions of the pyramidal layers of the hippocampal formation. In C5- mice, kainic acid (KA) excitotoxicity that models hippocampal neurodegeneration abolished the Ca(2+)-mediated induction of hippocampal AMPA binding. The changes in AMPA binding preceded temporally and overlapped anatomically the appearance of apoptotic features in the same hippocampal neuron layers. C5- mice showed greater hippocampal neurodegeneration then C5+ mice. NMDA binding controlled for specificity of glutamate-mediated changes and found no C5 genotypic influences. The study gives further credence to the role of the C-system in modifying the intensity and outcome during response to conditions leading to hippocampal neurodegeneration.
Conventionally, assessment of the neurotoxicity of environmental pollutants relies on high-dosage treatment and nonspecific end points. In the present study, the early temporal and regional alterations in the mRNAs of neurotrophins were investigated following subtoxic doses of methylmercury (MeHg) in adult Sprague-Dawley rats using in situ hybridization histochemistry and phosphoimaging evaluation. Decreases in brain-derived neurotrophic (BDNF) mRNA labeling intensities were seen in the dentate gyrus (DG; 44% of controls), and in the CA1 (72% of controls) and CA3c (70% of controls) cell layers of hippocampus after 8 mg MeHg/kg (ip) at 4 h, and at 1 h only in the DG. The decrease in BDNF mRNA expression in the DG was dose-dependent. At 3 d, regional levels had recovered. No significant changes could be detected in mRNA levels of the BDNF high-affinity receptor trkB or neurotrophin-3 mRNA at either 1 h, 4 h, or 3 d. Cresyl violet staining and GFAP immunohistochemistry did not reveal any major neuropathology in hippocampus at 2 wk. Thus, MeHg causes specific downregulation of BDNF mRNA, unlike many other perturbations of central nervous system homeostasis that have been shown to lead to upregulation of this mRNA.
Investigation of phototransduction in invertebrate photoreceptors has revealed many physiological and biochemical features of fundamental biological importance. Nonetheless, no complete picture of phototransduction has yet emerged. In most known cases, invertebrate phototransduction involves polyphosphoinositide and cyclic GMP (cGMP) intracellular biochemical signaling pathways leading to opening of plasma membrane ion channels. Excitation is Ca(2+)-dependent, as are adaptive feedback processes that regulate sensitivity to light. Transduction takes place in specialized subcellular regions, rich in microvilli and closely apposed to submicrovillar membrane systems. Thus, excitation is a highly localized process. This article focuses on the intracellular biochemical signaling pathways and the ion channels involved in invertebrate phototransduction. The coupling of signaling cascades with channel activation is not understood for any invertebrate species. Although photoreceptors have features that are common to most or all known invertebrate species, each species exhibits unique characteristics. Comparative electrophysiological, biochemical, morphological, and molecular biological approaches to studying phototransduction in these species lead to fundamental insights into cellular signaling. Several current controversies and proposed phototransduction models are evaluated.
The D2-like dopamine receptors couple to a variety of signal transduction pathways, including inhibition of adenylate cyclase, mitogenesis, and activation of potassium channels. Although these effects are mediated via pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins, G(i/o), it is likely that some of these effects are influenced by the release of G protein betagamma subunits. Type II adenylate cyclase (ACII) is highly regulated by multiple biochemical stimuli, including protein kinase C, forskolin, G protein alpha subunits, and G protein betagamma subunits. The ability of betagamma subunits to activate this enzyme in the presence of activated alpha(s) has been particularly well characterized. Although stimulation by betagamma subunits has been described as conditional on the presence of activated alpha(s), betagamma subunits also potentiate ACII activity after activation of protein kinase C. We created stable cell lines expressing ACII and the D2L receptor, the D3 receptor, or the D4.4 receptor. Activation of D2L or D4.4 receptors, but not D3 receptors, potentiated beta-adrenergic receptor/Gs-stimulated activity of ACII, as measured by the intracellular accumulation of cAMP. Similarly, stimulation of D2L or D4.4 receptors potentiated phorbol ester-stimulated ACII activity in the absence of activated alpha(s), whereas stimulation of D3 receptors did not. The effect of D2-like receptor stimulation was blocked by pretreatment with pertussis toxin and by inhibition of protein kinase C. We propose that activation of both D2L and D4.4 dopamine receptors potentiated phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate-stimulated ACII activity through the release of betagamma subunits from pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins. In contrast, the lack of D3 receptor-mediated effects suggests that stimulation of D3 receptors does not result in an appreciable release of betagamma subunits.
The automated interference pattern analysis for limb muscles was modified to take into account the unique features of the needle EMG of the diaphragm. The modification was successful in recording more accurately the number of small and large segments and the activity levels with inspiratory effort. &quot;Clouds&quot; were generated in ten healthy subjects. The techniques may prove useful in electrophysiological investigations.
Prognostic factors in oligodendrogliomas are not well defined, even considering the labeling index of proliferation markers. As in other neuroepithelial tumors, the difficulty in calculating cell loss may contribute to this uncertainty. Proliferation markers Ki-67/MIB.1 and PCNA, mitoses, apoptotic nuclei, p53 and bcl-2 expression were investigated in 98 oligodendrogliomas. Apoptosis was assessed by the aspect of nuclei, by in situ end-labeling (ISEL) technique and by c-Jun immunohistochemical demonstration. The Bcl-2 also was immunohistochemically studied for its anti-apoptotic role. Mitotic index (MI), labeling index (LI) for MIB.1 and PCNA and apoptotic index (AI) were calculated and compared among themselves and with histology and survival. It was found that AI correlated with MI (p = 0.001) and was significantly higher in anaplastic than in classic oligodendrogliomas (p = 0.001). Apoptosis occurred only slightly more frequently in cases with high LIs for proliferation markers (MIB.1 and PCNA) (p = non-significant) and it was definitely higher in p53-positive cases (p = 0.008). It did not correlate with bcl-2 which was poorly expressed in oligodendrogliomas, with the exception of cells with astrocytic features. Apoptotic index correlated very weakly with survival (p = 0.05); therefore, it cannot be considered a highly reliable prognostic factor in oligodendrogliomas.
The binding of [35S]GTP gamma S was characterised with autoradiography in rat brain. The binding was saturable, but the rate of dissociation was very slow. Analysis of binding isotherms revealed one class of binding sites with a Kd of 0.8 microM. The specific binding was 98%. Different guanine nucleotides were all able to compete with [35S]GTP gamma S binding. However, no displacement was seen by the ATP-analogue App[NH]p, indicating that [35S]GTP gamma S does not bind to ATP-sites. Autoradiograms showed a highly homogenous distribution of [35S]GTP gamma S binding, in grey as well as in white matter. However, the pattern changed dramatically in the presence of GTP, which, unlike the non-hydrolysable GTP-analogues Gpp[NH]p and GTP gamma S, did not displace [35S]GTP gamma S binding throughout the brain. In white matter areas the binding was potently displaced, while in many grey matter areas, e.g., the striatum, the binding was seen to increase. This GTP-induced increase in [35S]GTP gamma S binding was strongly Mg(2+)-dependent, with an optimum at 10 mM. This, together with the finding that the regional effects of GTP correspond well to previously reported distribution of low Km GTPase, suggest that the levels of binding of [35S]GTP gamma S in the presence of GTP may reflect functional G-protein activity.

The extracellular fluid of two cortical regions was investigated in eight patients who underwent surgery for subarachnoid hemorrhage within 7-96 h after the rupture of an arterial aneurysm. Microdialysis samples, collected from the cortex of the ipsilateral gyrus rectus and temporal lobe for 52-127 h, were analyzed with respect to amino acids and the glial fibrillary acidic protein. In agreement with a previous study, an inverse relation was observed between total amino acid concentration and the level of consciousness. We also found that the concentration of glial fibrillary acidic protein was higher close to the bleeding site. Furthermore, we observed specific changes in the concentration of the protein and certain amino acids which coincided with clinical events such as increased intracranial pressure, vasospasm, ischemia and infarction. Finally, the concentrations of taurine may corroborate its function as an osmoequivalent.

The clinical presentation of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is variable and overlaps with that of other motor neuron diseases such as spinobulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA; Kennedy disease). With the identification of disease-specific mutations such as the CAG repeat expansion in the androgen receptor in SBMA, an accurate molecular diagnosis can be made in some patients with motor neuron disease. To determine the extent of misdiagnosis of ALS we screened 147 male ALS patients and 100 unrelated male patients from 100 familial ALS (FALS) kindreds for the presence of the SBMA mutation using polymerase chain reaction methods. We show that ALS was clinically misdiagnosed in 2% of sporadic cases and in two of the 100 FALS kindreds. This study underscores the difficulty in distinguishing SBMA from ALS clinically, particularly in patients who lack the classic signs of each disease.
The significance of functional maps for cortical plasticity was investigated by imaging of intrinsic optical signals together with single-unit recording in kittens. After even a brief period of monocular deprivation during the height of the critical period, only isolated patches of visual cortex continued to respond strongly to the closed eye. These deprived-eye patches were located on the pinwheel center singularities of the orientation map and consisted of neurons that were poorly selective for stimulus orientation. Neurons in regions surrounding the deprived-eye patches responded only weakly to the deprived eye but were well tuned for the same stimulus orientation that optimally excited them when presented to the open, nondeprived eye. The coincidence of deprived-eye patches with pinwheel center singularities, and the selective loss of orientation tuning within the deprived-eye patches, indicate that the orientation and ocular dominance maps are functionally linked and provide compelling evidence that pinwheel center singularities are important for cortical plasticity.
Early cortical progenitor cells of the ventricular zone (VZ) differ from later progenitor cells of the subventricular zone (SVZ) in cell-type generation and their level of epidermal growth factor receptors (EGFRs). To determine whether differences in their behavior are causally related to EGFR number/density, we introduced extra EGFRs into VZ cells with a retrovirus in vivo and in vitro. This results in premature expression of traits characteristic of late SVZ progenitor cells, including migration patterns, differentiation into astrocytes, and proliferation of multipotential cells to form spheres. The choice between proliferation and differentiation depends on ligand concentration and progenitor cell age and may reflect different thresholds of stimulation. The level of EGFRs expressed by progenitor cells in the cortex may therefore contribute to the timing of their maturation and choice of response to pleiotropic environmental signals.

A nerve biopsy from a patient with type Ia hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy and diabetes mellitus showed hypertrophic changes of atypical appearance. The onion bulbs were composed of a central core of Schwann cells, with or without associated axons, embedded in concentrically arrayed layers of collagen fibrils. These were surrounded either by highly attenuated Schwann cell processes or by fibroblasts. The biopsy showed a severe loss of myelinated axons. It is suggested that it is necessary for the supernumerary Schwann cells of the onion bulbs to be stabilized by associated unmyelinated axons. If these are lost, the Schwann cells atrophy and disappear.
Left hand use in left hemispace has been shown to reduce left neglect. Right hand use can theoretically increase neglect by right spatial cueing and left hemisphere activation. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of right hand use and right hemisphere activation in left neglect by dissociating hemisphere activation from the hemispace in which the motor response is made. Twelve neglect patients performed line bisection by two means: with their right hand and with a lamp mounted centrally on the forehead ('miner's lamp'). Lamp use induces left and right hemisphere activation without hemispace involvement. Bisection with the lamp and the hand were done with right, left and neutral cues. No difference was found in bisection performance between lamp and right hand use, and no interaction between lamp/hand use and cueing. This indicates that right hand use per se does not influence neglect in line bisection. It is suggested that the apparent lack of right hemisphere activation with lamp use is due to the widespread right-sided lesion of the typical neglect patient.
We report evidence of isolated conceptual knowledge in the right hemisphere of a woman with chronic anarchic hand sign after ischemic infarction of the central four-fifths of the corpus callosum. Limited visual information was available to the right hemisphere, access to medial temporal structures subserving memory was disrupted and disconnection from left hemisphere language structures was complete. Still, the right hemisphere could build mental representations of objects via tactile input and use them in cross-modal matching. These representations were not accessed consistently in auditory comprehension or naming tasks. This functional specificity and its pathoanatomical correlates demonstrate that the study of anarchic hand sign can illuminate not just motor control issues but may inform our understanding of the representation and lateralization of conceptual knowledge as well.
Repeated ingestion of phencyclidine by humans induces enduring schizophrenic symptomatology, particularly cognitive dysfunction. In the presently described series of experiments, the neurochemical and cognitive consequences of subchronic phencyclidine administration in the rat were explored. Repeated phencyclidine exposure led to a selective reduction in basal and stress-evoked dopamine utilization in the prefrontal cortex. In addition, rats previously subchronically-treated with phencyclidine were impaired on performance of a spatial working memory task in a delay-dependent manner. Importantly, these dopaminergic and cognitive deficits were observed after withdrawal from phencyclidine, and as such, the neurochemical and behavioral effects were due to drug-induced neurobiological changes rather than direct drug effects. These biochemical and behavioral data show that repeated phencyclidine administration induces prefrontal cortical cognitive deficits in rats, as in humans, and offer a biochemical perspective of the neural substrate underlying this cognitive impairment: inhibition of mesocortical dopamine neurons. Thus, these data may have relevance to psychiatric disorders involving prefrontal cortical dopaminergic hypoactivity and cognitive dysfunction, as has been hypothesized in schizophrenia.
The systemic intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of the adenosine A2A agonist CGS 21680 was found to dose-dependently antagonize spontaneous and amphetamine-induced (1 mg/kg i.p.) motor activity with similar ED50 values (about 0.2 mg/kg). The ratios between the ED50 values for induction of catalepsy and for antagonizing amphetamine-induced motor activity for CGS 21680, haloperidol, and clozapine were 12, 2, and &gt; 30, respectively. Furthermore, CGS 21680 was comparably much stronger than haloperidol or clozapine at antagonizing the motor activity induced by phencyclidine (2 mg/kg subcutaneously) than motor activity induced by amphetamine (1 mg/kg i.p.). In conclusion, the present results show a clear &quot;atypical&quot; antipsychotic profile of the adenosine A2A agonist CGS 21680 in animal models.
To examine visual activity-dependent regulation of the central noradrenergic (NAergic) system, we carried out in vitro autoradiography for alpha2-, beta-adrenergic and NMDA, non-NMDA glutamatergic receptors together with immunohistochemical analysis for dopamine beta-hydroxylase in the major central visual structures, including the lateral geniculate nucleus, superior colliculus (SC), and visual cortex of pigmented rats, that had received monocular enucleation. Beta-adrenergic receptor (beta-AR) binding in the SC contralateral to the enucleated eye was significantly decreased (82%, P &lt; 0.01) following monocular deprivation started at P12 and continued for 2 or 11 weeks. No significant change in beta-AR binding was found in other structures examined. The number of varicosities in NAergic fibers was significantly increased following longer enucleation, i.e. for 11 weeks, in the contralateral SC (197%, P &lt;0.001), whereas that in the ipsilateral SC was reduced (75%, P &lt;0.001). Changes in alpha2-adrenergic, NMDA, and non-NMDA glutamatergic receptor binding were small in these animals. Changes in neither beta-AR binding nor innervation pattern of NAergic fibers were found in one-year-old rats that had received a comparable period of monocular enucleation. Furthermore, neither unilateral ablation of the visual cortex to reduce a different set of major afferents nor neonatal enucleation, which induced anatomical reorganization of the afferents, was found to be effective. These findings suggest that beta-AR binding and innervation pattern of NAergic fibers in the SC are modified only when massive imbalance of retinal afferent activity is imposed during a limited period in early postnatal life (i.e. the sensitive period).
An excitatory amino acid, most probably L-glutamate, acts as a neurotransmitter at the receptor cell--afferent fibre synapses in the ampullary electroreceptor organs of the freshwater catfish Ictalurus nebulosus. In the present study, we have used an electrophysiological approach to investigate the presence of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors at this level. N-Methyl-D-aspartate, dissolved in an Mg(2+)-containing (normal) solution, had no effect on afferent activity, not even at 5 mM. However, addition of 5 mM N-methyl-D-aspartate to an Mg(2+)-free solution evoked an enduring increase in firing rate. The application of N-methyl-D-aspartate combined with electrical sine wave stimulation produced a firing increase in the primary afferents, even in the presence of Mg2+ (1.5 mM). Glycine (0.01-0.001 mM) significantly potentiated the N-methyl-D-aspartate responses. Addition of antagonists of the actions of N-methyl-D-aspartate, 7-chlorokynurenic acid, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid and ketamine in concentrations of 0.5-2.0 mM led to a decrease in resting and stimulus-evoked activity. 7-Chlorokynurenic acid also blocked the responses to application of N-methyl-D-aspartate. The glycine agonist D-serine (0.01 mM) prevented the 7-chlorokynurenic inhibitory effect. These results suggest the involvement of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in mediating the actions of L-glutamate at the afferent synapses of the electroreceptor organs of the catfish.
Substance P is an important neuropeptide neurotransmitter in the central, autonomic and enteric nervous systems. In sympathetic ganglia, substance P is thought to play a role in modulating synaptic transmission. Release of substance P by neuronal stimulation or direct application of substance P to ganglionic neurons increases neuronal excitability. An amphibian substance P receptor complementary DNA has been cloned and characterized from bullfrog, Rana catesbeiana, sympathetic ganglion complementary DNA libraries. The deduced primary structure contains features indicative of a seven transmembrane domain G-protein-coupled receptor. The deduced protein sequence shows 69% identity to previously cloned mammalian substance P receptors. In situ hybridization analysis performed on bullfrog sympathetic ganglia using digoxigenin-labelled complementary RNA probe demonstrated that approximately 75% of the principal neurons displayed reaction product above background levels. Radioligand binding studies were performed on stably transfected cells with [(125)I]Tyr-1-substance P as the ligand. Substance P had an IC50 of 16 nM and the agonist potency profile was substance P&gt;neurokinin A &gt; neurokinin B. The order of potency for three tachykinins to increase intracellular calcium when applied to a stably transfected clonal cell line was substance P&gt;neurokinin A &gt; neurokinin B. This order of agonist potency also held for inhibition of the M-type potassium current in intact bullfrog sympathetic neurons. The non-peptide substance P antagonists CP-96345 and RP-67580 at concentrations that block mammalian substance P receptors had little or no effect on the responses to substance P at the bullfrog receptor. Overall, these results demonstrate that the cloned sequence has the features consistent with and characteristic of a substance P receptor. The results are discussed with reference to the established pharmacology of the bullfrog substance P receptor and known structure activity relationships of mammalian tachykinin receptors.
Calmodulin and de-phosphorylated B-50/growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43) have been shown to bind in vitro in a molecular complex, but evidence for an in situ association in the nervous system does not exist. Previously, we have reported that, in the model of the regenerating rat sciatic nerve, the B-50/GAP-43 immunoreactivity is increased and concentrated at the axolemma of unmyelinated axons located proximal to the site of injury and axon outgrowth. To explore a putative function of B-50/GAP-43, namely, the capacity of binding calmodulin to the plasma membrane, we examined the ultrastructural distribution of calmodulin in the proximal unmyelinated axon shafts of this model, using double immunolabelling and detection by fluorescent or gold probes conjugated to second antibodies. Immunofluorescence showed that seven days post-sciatic nerve crush the calmodulin immunoreactivity, similar to B-50/GAP-43 immunoreactivity, was intense in unmyelinated axon shafts located proximal to the site of injury of the regenerating nerve. Ultrastructurally, calmodulin was located at the axolemma of these regenerating unmyelinated axon shafts and inside the axoplasm, where it was associated with vesicles and microtubules. The plasma membrane labelling (approximately 69%) was significantly higher than the axoplasmic labelling. Over 60% of the plasma membrane-associated calmodulin co-localized with B-50/GAP-43 in a non-random distribution. Since normally calmodulin is largely present in the cytoplasm, these data suggest that calmodulin has been concentrated at the plasma membrane of unmyelinated axons, most probably by B-50/GAP-43. If the concentrating effect is due to B-50/GAP-43, then there is a possibility that these proteins may be present as a molecular complex in situ. The physiological significance could be that this association regulates the local availability of both B-50/GAP-43 and calmodulin for other interactions.
This study examined the effects of nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3 and neurotrophin-4/5 on substance P levels in dorsal root ganglia of the quail shortly after ganglia formation (stage 26, embryonic day 4.5), during the middle of development (stage 33, embryonic day 7.5) and during late development (stage 44, embryonic day 14). It has already been shown that nerve growth factor increases levels of substance P during the middle and late stages of development, and that messenger RNA for the neurotrophin receptors, trkA, trkB and trkC is present at all of these stages. Dorsal root ganglia were isolated, rinsed with defined medium to dilute endogenous neurotrophins and exposed to one of the neurotrophins for either 4 or 20 h. Substance P levels were quantitated using enzyme immunoassay. None of the neurotrophins had any effect on substance P levels in dorsal root ganglia obtained at stage 26 after either a 4 or 20 h exposure time. Nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3 and neurotrophin-4/5 all significantly increased levels of substance P after either a 4 h or 20 h incubation in ganglia obtained at stages 33 and 44. The effects of nerve growth factor and neurotrophin-3 were specific: increases in substance P were completely blocked by simultaneous exposure to antibodies against either nerve growth factor or neurotrophin-3. The absence of any effect of neurotrophins on substance P expression during early development was unexpected, since dorsal root ganglia exhibit substantial levels of substance P and receptors for the neurotrophins are present and are apparently functional. It was also surprising that brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3 and neurotrophin-4/5 induced increases in substance P levels during the middle and late stages of development, since substance P was thought to be exclusively localized to small TrkA neurons in dorsal root ganglia. However, immunocytochemical examination of dorsal root ganglia at stages 33 and 44 revealed substance P-like immunoreactivity in larger neurons as well as in small neurons. The results of this study have shown that different cellular responses to neurotrophins, such as effects on survival and/or peptide expression, may be acquired with differing temporal patterns not strictly related to expression of their receptors. Further, the regulation of neuropeptide synthesis in dorsal root ganglia is not due to any one neurotrophic factor. and the factors that regulate expression during early development are still unknown.
Neuropeptide expression in primary sensory neurons is highly plastic in response to peripheral nerve axotomy. While neuropeptide changes following complete sciatic nerve injury have been extensively studied, much less is known about the effects of partial sciatic nerve injuries on neuropeptide plasticity. Galanin. a possible endogenous analgesic peptide, was up-regulated in primary sensory neurons following complete sciatic nerve injury. We investigated the effects of partial sciatic nerve injuries on galanin expression in primary sensory neurons, and compared this effect with that after complete sciatic nerve injury. Complete transection, partial transection and chronic constriction injury were made, respectively, on the sciatic nerves of three groups of rats at high thigh level. Animals were allowed to survive for four and 14 days before being killed. L4 and L5 dorsal root ganglia, L4 5 spinal cord and lower brainstem were processed for galanin immunocytochemical staining. After all three types of sciatic nerve injuries, galanin-immunoreactive neurons were significantly increased in the ipsilateral dorsal root ganglia, and galanin-immunoreactive axonal fibres were dramatically increased in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn and the gracile nuclei, compared to the contralateral side. However, in partial injury models, the percentages of galanin-immunoreactive dorsal root ganglion neurons were significantly higher than in complete nerve transection. Size frequency distribution analysis detected that more medium- and large-size galanin-immunoreactive dorsal root ganglion neurons were present after partial nerve transection and constriction injury than after complete nerve transection. Using a combined approach of retrograde tracing of flurorescent dyes and galanin immunostaining, we found that a partial transection increased the proportions of galanin-immunoreactive neurons among both axotomized and non-axotomized neurons. Galanin-immunoreactive axonal fibres were not only detected in the superficial laminae, but also in the deeper laminae of the dorsal horn of partial injury animals. Furthermore, more galanin-immunoreactive axonal fibres were observed in the ipsilateral gracile nuclei of partially injured rats than in completely injured rats. We conclude that partial sciatic nerve injuries induced greater galanin up-regulation in medium- and large-size dorsal root ganglion neurons than complete sciatic nerve injury. Galanin expression in primary sensory neurons seems to be differentially regulated following partial and complete sciatic nerve injuries.
Activated neutrophils are thought to be involved in tissue injury through the release of various inflammatory mediators. To understand the role of neutrophils in spinal cord injury, the effects of nitrogen mustard-induced leukocyte depletion and the administration of an anti-P-selectin monoclonal antibody on motor disturbances observed following spinal cord compression were examined in rats. Spinal cord injury was induced by applying a 20-g weight for 20 min at the level of the 12th thoracic vertebra, resulting in motor disturbances of the hindlimbs 24 h postcompression. Motor disturbances, evaluated using Tarlov's index, an inclined-plane test and climbing ability, were markedly attenuated in rats with nitrogen mustard-induced leukocytopenia. Administration of the anti-P-selectin monoclonal antibody, by which adhesion of activated neutrophils to endothelial cells may be inhibited, also attenuated motor disturbances. Histological examination revealed that intramedullary hemorrhages observed 24 h after compression at the 12th thoracic vertebra of the spinal cord were significantly attenuated in leukocytopenic animals and those which received the anti-P-selectin monoclonal antibody. The accumulation of neutrophils at the site of compression, as evaluated by measuring the tissue myeloperoxidase activity, significantly increased with time following the compression, peaking at 3 h postcompression. Spinal cord myeloperoxidase activity did not increase in sham-operated animals. Leukocyte depletion and administration of the anti-P-selectin monoclonal antibody both reduced the accumulation of neutrophils in the damaged spinal cord segment 3 h postcompression. These observations strongly suggest that activated neutrophils play an important role in compression-induced thoracic spinal cord injury and that a P-selectin-mediated interaction between activated neutrophils and endothelial cells may be a critical step in endothelial cell injury leading to spinal cord injury.
Centrally-mediated responses to plasma hyperosmolality include compensatory drinking and pituitary secretion of vasopressin and oxytocin in both adult and neonatal rats. However, the anorexia that is produced by plasma hyperosmolality in adult rats is not evident in neonates, perhaps due to functional immaturity of osmoresponsive hindbrain circuits. To examine this possibility, the present study compared treatment-induced brain expression of the immediate-early gene product c-Fos as a marker of neural activation in adult and two-day-old rats after subcutaneous injection of 2 M NaCl (0.1 ml/10 g body weight). This treatment produced marked hypernatremia in adult and two-day-old rats without altering plasma volume. Several brain regions (including components of the lamina terminalis, the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei of the hypothalamus, and the area postrema) were activated to express c-Fos similarly in adult and two-day-old rats after 2 M NaCl injection, consistent with previous reports implicating a subset of these regions in osmotically-stimulated drinking and neurohypophyseal secretion. In contrast, other areas of the brain that were activated to express c-Fos in adult rats after 2 M NaCl injection were not activated in neonates: these areas included the central nucleus of the amygdala, the parabrachial nucleus and catecholamine cell groups within the caudal medulla. This study demonstrates that certain brain regions that are osmoresponsive in adult rats (as defined by induced c-Fos expression) are not osmoresponsive in two-day-old rats. When considered in the context of known differences between the osmoregulatory capacities of adult and neonatal rats, our results are consistent with the idea that osmoresponsive forebrain centres are primarily involved in osmotically-stimulated compensatory drinking and neurohypophyseal secretion, whereas osmoresponsive regions of the hindbrain are important for concomitant inhibition of feeding and gastric emptying.
The presence of estrogen receptor protein and estrogen receptor messenger RNA was revealed in peripheral ganglionic neurons of the rat. The pelvic parasympathetic autonomic ganglion and lumbosacral dorsal root sensory ganglia were examined for estrogen receptor-containing neurons because they have known projections to the uterus and uterine cervix. The vagal nodose ganglia were studied for estrogen receptor-containing neurons because they are suspected sources of influence on the uterus. Immunohistochemistry. in situ hybridization histochemistry and retrograde tracing were utilized. Immunoreactivity for estrogen receptors was evident in the nuclei of a subpopulation of neurons in the pelvic ganglia, sixth lumbar and first sacral dorsal root ganglia and nodose ganglia. Some estrogen receptor-positive neurons also contained the retrograde tracer FluoroGold that previously had been injected into the uterus and uterine cervix. Estrogen receptor messenger RNA was also evident in a subpopulation of ganglionic neurons. These data suggest that a certain population of neurons in autonomic and sensory ganglia are capable of synthesizing estrogen receptors and these receptors can serve as binding sites for estrogen. Thus, certain aspects of the structure, function and neurochemistry of some autonomic and sensory neurons may be influenced by the sex steroid estrogen.
Recent studies demonstrate calcium ion influx at the tips of hair cell stereocilia during mechano-transduction. These ions must be either pumped from the cytosol into the extracellular space or endoplasmic envelope, or else sequestered by binding to specific proteins. A plasma membrane calcium pump (ATPase-type) was analysed in whole-mounts of rat organ of Corti using a monoclonal antibody to a large cytoplasmic loop of this protein. The reactivity was particularly high on the tips of longer stereocilia and was found along the shafts. Inner hair cell stereocilia had much less reactivity than outer hair cells. The reactivity lined the plasma membrane of inner hair cell bodies while a higher reactivity appeared in the cytoplasm of outer hair cells. Supporting cells were unreactive. Ultrastructural examination confirmed the plasma membrane calcium pump location on stereocilia and along the endolymph surface of receptor cells. Reaction product lined the plasma membrane of stereocilia as intense puncta. More reactive puncta occurred near the distal ends of stereocilia and the number decreased toward the ciliary base. The endolymph plasma membrane over the cuticular notch was especially reactive. The finding of more intense pump reactivity at the tips of stereocilia than the base is consistent with the hypothesis that during transduction, calcium ions enter stereocilia, distally, and the ATPase plasma membrane calcium pump rapidly extrudes these ions to the extracellular space.
Glial cells play an important role in the removal and metabolism of synaptically released glutamate in the central nervous system (CNS). It is not clear how glutamate is handled at peripheral glutamate synapses, which are not associated with glia. Glutamate is a likely transmitter in the synapse between the hair cells and afferent dendrites of the vestibular end organ. Immunocytochemistry was performed to investigate the distribution at this site of the high affinity glutamate transporter GLAST and glutamate metabolizing enzyme glutamine synthetase. Confocal microscopy revealed that GLAST and glutamine synthetase were co-localized in supporting cells apposed to the immunonegative hair cells. Postembedding immunoelectron microscopy revealed that GLAST was heterogeneously distributed along the plasma membranes of the supporting cells, with higher concentrations basally (at the level of the afferent synapses) than apically. Both immunoreactivities were also present in non-neuronal cells in the vestibular ganglion. The present findings suggest that glutamate released at the afferent synapse of vestibular hair cells may be taken up by adjacent supporting cells and converted into glutamine. Thus, at this peripheral synapse, the supporting cells may carry out functions similar to those of glial cells in the CNS.
GABA-containing synaptic terminals in the cat superior colliculus include two varieties of presynaptic dendrite and at least one type of axon terminal with flattened vesicles. These anatomically distinct synaptic profiles probably also mediate different types of inhibition. Whether they are associated with different types of GABA receptor is unknown and one objective of the present paper. We used the antibody mAb 62-361 directed against the beta2,beta3 subunits of the GABA(A) receptor complex to determine whether the distribution of this receptor subunit is specific to one or more types of GABA-containing synapse. At the light microscope level, beta2,beta3 immunoreactivity was densely distributed within the neuropil of the zonal and superficial gray layers, and more lightly within the optic, intermediate, and deep gray layers. No cell bodies were labelled by the antibody in the zonal and superficial gray layers, but numerous cells contained internalized cytoplasmic immunoreactivity in the optic, intermediate gray, and deeper layers. At the ultrastructural level, synaptic sites opposite axon terminals that contained flattened synaptic vesicles (F profiles) were often beta2,beta3 immunoreactive, while postsynaptic sites opposite presynaptic dendrites (PSD profiles) were never immunoreactive. The label at F profiles usually filled the synaptic cleft and coated the postsynaptic plasma membrane. Some membrane-associated label was also found at non-synaptic sites. We conclude that this receptor subunit is selectively associated with flattened vesicle axon terminals and not with presynaptic dendrites, a result which supports evidence that those terminal types mediate different types of inhibition.
Neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease are composed of hyperphosphorylated forms of the microtubule-associated protein tau. Based on biochemical criteria, several enzymes have emerged as potential tau protein kinases, including the extracellularly regulated kinases 1, 2 and 3. In situ hybridization was used to map the messenger RNA distribution of extracellularly regulated kinase 1, 2 and 3 in the adult rat brain and their response to excitotoxic hippocampal lesions was examined. Extracellularly regulated kinase 1 messenger RNA was uniformly expressed by glia, but was also present in the dentate gyrus and some other neuronal populations. Extracellularly regulated kinase 2 was exclusively neuronal and concentrated within the cortical laminae and the CA subfields of the hippocampal formation. Extracellularly regulated kinase 3 messenger RNA expression was similar to extracellularly regulated kinase 2 and was also present in neurons but the level of expression was lower. Extracellularly regulated kinases 2 and 3 messenger RNA expression was lost following excitotoxic injury, further supporting a neuronal localization. Extracellularly regulated kinase 1 messenger RNA expression appeared unaltered, suggesting a non-neuronal localization and lack of responsiveness to lesion at the level of transcription. By contrast, messenger RNA of sgk, a recently described serine/threonine kinase, was up-regulated by glial cells following excitotoxic injury. Based on their messenger RNA distribution, cellular localization and response to lesion, it is clear that each kinase may function differently in various signaling pathways. Extracellularly regulated kinase 2, however, is the only kinase with the proper messenger RNA distribution to contribute to neurofibrillary tangle formation in Alzheimer's disease.
Two types of tegmental pedunculopontine nucleus neurons have been reported previously based on their electrophysiological characteristics: type I neurons were characterized by low-threshold Ca spikes and type II neurons displayed a transient outward current. This report describes the membrane properties, synaptic inputs, morphologies and axonal projections of two subgroups of type II neurons examined in an in vitro slice preparation. Type II neurons were divided into two groups based on their spike durations: short-duration neurons with an action potential duration of 0.7-1.5 ms and long-duration neurons with an action potential duration of 1.6- 2.9 ms. Choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry combined with biocytin labeling indicated that 56% of short-duration neurons and 61% of long-duration neurons were immunopositive for choline acetyltransferase. Short-duration neurons had a high input resistance and the capacity to discharge with high frequency. By contrast, long-duration neurons had a low input resistance and low firing frequency and upon current injection displayed an accommodation (spike-frequency adaptation) before reaching a steady firing frequency. Microstimulation of the substantia nigra pars compacta evoked antidromic responses in both short-duration neurons (n=5/14, 36%) and long-duration neurons (n=20/39. 51%). Stimulations of the subthalamic nucleus and the substantia nigra pars reticulata induced in these neurons excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, respectively. Short-duration neurons were dispersed equally throughout the extent of the tegmental pedunculopontine nucleus area, while long-duration neurons were located more in the rostral tegmental pedunculopontine nucleus. Short-duration neurons were small with two to four thin primary dendrites. Long-duration neurons were medium to large with three to six thick primary dendrites. Cell size was positively correlated with spike duration and axonal conduction velocity, but negatively with input resistance and spontaneous firing frequency. Both groups of neurons had ascending (toward thalamus, pretectal areas and tectum) and descending (toward pontomedullary reticular formation) axons in addition to nigropetal axons. Ascending axons were observed in 75% (6/8) of short-duration neurons and in 45% (15/33) of long-duration neurons, while nigropetal axons were observed in 50% (4/8) of short-duration neurons and in 76% (25/33) of long-duration neurons. These results suggest that the tegmental pedunculopontine nucleus cholinergic projection system is composed of heterogeneous populations of neurons in terms of electrophysiological and morphological characteristics as well as their distribution patterns in the nucleus.
GABA-sensitive ambiguus motoneurons were investigated by microiontophoretic application of GABAergic drugs including bicuculline and muscimol in alpha-chloralose- and urethane-anaesthetized rats. Ambiguus motoneurons were activated by recurrent laryngeal nerve stimulation through a small cuff electrode and identified as laryngeal motoneurons when they met the conventional criteria for antidromic activation. GABA(A) antagonist, bicuculline, and its agonist, muscimol, were iontophoretized on ambiguus motoneurons through a three-multibarrel electrode glued to the recording microelectrode. One-hundred and nineteen out of 155 neurons sampled from the loose formation and its vicinity were found to be respiratory neurons, most of which were inspiratory neurons. A small proportion (32 neurons) was classified as laryngeal motoneurons according to the criteria. A majority of laryngeal motoneurons was found to be GABA sensitive. Namely, application of GABA and its antagonist and agonist affected the antidromic spikes in a dose-dependent manner; GABA and muscimol usually decreased the amplitude and slowed the slope in the spike, whereas bicuculline, reversed these inhibitory effects. The dose-dependent relationships were limited exclusively to the measurements analysed in the negative-going phase but not in the positive-going phase in the antidromic spike. GABA and muscimol decreased but bicuculline increased the ratios to control in these measurements. The effects of distributions of the histograms shifting towards the opposite direction were statistically significant. The line of evidence suggests strongly that a majority of laryngeal motoneurons located in the nucleus ambiguus presumably possesses GABA(A) receptors on their postsynaptic membrane. These GABA-sensitive laryngeal motoneurons may receive inputs either from inhibitory interneurons subserving the reciprocal inhibition in the reflexive integration or from inhibitory respiratory interneurons which control the synchronized glottic movements during vocalization and respiration.
The arborization pattern and postsynaptic targets of corticofugal axons in basal forebrain areas have been studied by the combination of anatomical tract-tracing and pre- and postembedding immunocytochemistry. The anterograde neuronal tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin was iontophoretically delivered into different neocortical (frontal, parietal, occipital), allocortical (piriform) and mesocortical (insular, prefrontal) areas in rats. To identify the transmitter phenotype in pre- or postsynaptic elements, the tracer staining was combined with immunolabeling for either glutamate or GABA, or with immunolabeling for choline acetyltransferase or parvalbumin. Tracer injections into medial and ventral prefrontal areas gave rise to dense terminal arborizations in extended basal forebrain areas, particularly in the horizontal limb of the diagonal band and the region ventral to it. Terminals were also found to a lesser extent in the ventral part of the substantia innominata and in ventral pallidal areas adjoining ventral striatal territories. Similarly, labeled fibers from the piriform and insular cortices were found to reach lateral and ventral parts of the substantia innominata, where terminal varicosities were evident. In contrast, descending fibers from neocortical areas were smooth, devoid of terminal varicosities, and restricted to the myelinated fascicles of the internal capsule en route to more caudal targets. Ultrastructural studies obtained indicated that corticofugal axon terminals in the basal forebrain areas form synaptic contact primarily with dendritic spines or small dendritic branches (89%); the remaining axon terminals established synapses with dendritic shafts. All tracer labeled axon terminals were immunonegative for GABA, and in the cases investigated, were found to contain glutamate immunoreactivity. In material stained for the anterograde tracer and choline acetyltransferase, a total of 63 Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin varicosities closely associated with cholinergic profiles were selected for electron microscopic analysis. From this material, 37 varicosities were identified as establishing asymmetric synaptic contacts with neurons that were immunonegative for choline acetyltransferase, including spines and small dendrites (87%) or dendritic shafts (13%). Unequivocal evidence for synaptic interactions between tracer labeled terminals and cholinergic profiles could not be obtained in the remaining cases. From material stained for the anterograde tracer and parvalbumin, 40% of the labeled terminals investigated were found to establish synapses with parvalbumin-positive elements; these contacts were on dendritic shafts and were of the asymmetrical type. The present data suggest that corticofugal axons innervate forebrain neurons that are primarily inhibitory and non-cholinergic; local forebrain axonal arborizations of these cells may represent a mechanism by which prefrontal cortical areas control basal forebrain cholinergic neurons outside the traditional boundaries of pallidal areas.
To investigate the influence of cerebral hypoperfusion on learning behaviours, we developed a novel rat cerebral hypoperfusion model, in which the bilateral internal carotid arteries were permanently ligated to reduce the cerebral blood flow, and examined its behavioural and histopathological consequences in comparison to those occurring after bilateral common carotid ligation. In the Morris water maze task, rats with common carotid ligation exhibited a learning deficit, whereas rats with internal carotid ligation exhibited normal learning. Both models exhibited significant learning impairments in the eight-arm radial maze task, although the impairment was less severe in internal carotid-ligated rats than in common carotid-ligated rats. The cerebral blood flow of rats with common carotid ligation was reduced significantly both two and 10 days after ligation, and was still below normal three months after ligation. A milder, but significant reduction in the cerebral blood flow was observed in internal carotid-ligated rats. Shrinkage of the optic nerves and a circadian activity rhythm desynchronized to the light/dark cycle were exhibited by the rats with common carotid ligation, whereas these parameters remained unaffected in the rats with internal carotid ligation, suggesting that permanent ligation of common carotid arteries but not internal carotid arteries impairs visual functions. The main pathological changes observed in the brain following common carotid ligation were rarefaction and gliosis of the white matter and neuronal loss in the hippocampal CA1 region. On the other hand, the rats with internal carotid ligation had no significant brain damage. Chronic treatment with idebenone (1.5 and 15 mg/kg/day), a cerebral energy metabolism enhancer, over a three-month period, commencing five days after ligation, ameliorated the impairment of water maze learning in rats with common carotid ligation. The treatment also significantly improved the learning impairment in the radial maze task of internal carotid-ligated rats. Idebenone had no effect on the histopathological changes that followed cerebral hypoperfusion. It is concluded that cerebral hypoperfusion induced by permanent internal carotid ligation impairs the working memory without causing pathological damage to the brain tissues and the visual system, and the learning impairment can be ameliorated by a cerebral energy metabolism enhancer. These findings have the clinical implication that a reduction in blood flow may be an important factor that causes or exacerbates cognitive decline in dementias.
Gel retardation electrophoresis revealed that binding of a radiolabelled double-stranded oligonucleotide probe for the nuclear transcription factor activator protein-1 was markedly potentiated in the CA1 and CA3 subfields and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus of the gerbils with transient forebrain ischemia for 5 min, which is known to induce delayed death of pyramidal neurons exclusively in the CA1 subfield. The potentiation was transient in the vulnerable CA1 subfield, but persistent up to 18 h in the resistant CA3 subfield and dentate gyrus. However, no significant alteration was detected in endogenous levels of cyclic AMP response element binding protein phosphorylated at serine133 in these three different hippocampal structures 3 h after the reperfusion. On the other hand, hypothermia during ischemia which is known to protect the CA1 subfield against ischemic damages, led to a prolonged elevation of the activator protein-1 binding up to 9 h after the reperfusion in this vulnerable subfield at least in part through expression of c-Fos protein. Moreover, activator protein-1 binding was significantly elevated in the CA1 subfield up to 12 h after forebrain ischemia for 2 min which is shown not to induce marked damages to the vulnerable subfield. These results suggest that prolonged elevation of DNA binding activity of activator protein-1 may be responsible for molecular mechanisms underlying the unique vulnerability and/or resistance of particular subfields to a transient ischemic insult in the gerbil hippocampus.
Changes of total tissue water, Ca, Na and K contents were monitored in whole transverse hippocampal slices of the guinea-pig during the first 2 h of in vitro incubation. A brief, 75% increase in tissue Ca was noted during the initial 15 min of maintenance, in contrast to a permanent increase of sodium and water contents, coupled to simultaneous decrease of potassium level. The rate of tissue Na, K and water changes comprised a rapid phase at the first 10-20 min, parallel with the increase of the tissue Ca content, and a slow phase during the rest of the incubation period. Development of specific morphological alterations, representative of ischemic/hypoxic lesions and a translocation of calcium from cytoplasm to mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum during slice maintenance, was also detected by electron microscopy. A two-step mechanism might explain the development of a new steady-state total calcium content of slices. in which the cellular Ca2+ uptake at the beginning of incubation, likely triggered by hypoxic/ ischemic trauma of slice preparation, is followed by a balanced Ca2+ influx, extrusion and sequestration (predominantly into mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum) during maintenance.
The influence of maternal corticosterone during lactation on the development of the hippocampal corticosteroid receptor system, hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis activity and spatial learning/retention performance was investigated in the rat during postnatal days 11 to 30. We increased the plasma levels of corticosterone by adding the hormone (200 microg/ml) to the drinking water of the dams. When compared to controls corticosterone-nursed offspring displayed: i) higher number of hippocampal type I and type II corticosteroid receptors at 30 days of life, but no changes at 11 and 16 days; ii) higher plasma levels of corticosterone in the basal condition and after 15 min of maternal separation at 11 but not at 16 days: iii) lower adrenal weights at 11 and 16 days, but which were no longer present at the age of 30 days; iv) no difference in performance in the place learning version of the Morris water task and T aquatic maze at 16 days. The present results, together with our previous findings showing that 90-day-old corticosterone-nursed rats have lower basal and restraint stress corticosterone levels and improved learning performance, indicate that the effects of maternal treatment appears only after weaning, thereby suggesting that increased corticosteroid receptors may be responsible, at least partially, for the endocrine and learning modifications induced by pre-weaning corticosterone exposure. The role played by maternal circulating corticosterone during the period of lactation in shaping the characteristics of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis and brain of the offspring is outlined.
A model of in vitro traumatic injury with dissociated rat hippocampal neurons was studied to explore the mechanism of cell death. The neurotoxicity induced by traumatic injury to the cell culture can be transferred to a naive uninjured culture by media exchange. This toxicity is attenuated by dimethylsulfoxide or superoxide dismutase, suggesting that this toxicity is mediated by a free radical generation. Ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists had no effect. This toxicity was effectively blocked by the pretreatment of the naive uninjured recipient cultures with cycloheximide or with actinomycin D. The DNA fragmentation could be illustrated with in situ nick translation in the cells which seem to have lost their cytoplasm. The nuclear morphology of neurons labeled by a neurofilament-specific antibody, SMI-31, demonstrated chromatin condensation and nucleosome formation. Traumatic injury induces release of an unknown toxin into the extracellular space. These observations suggest that a traumatized neuronal culture can propagate cell death of naive uninjured cells by releasing a neurotoxin that causes apoptosis.
There is some controversy in the literature concerning whether chronic alcohol consumption damages the cerebral cortex. While decreased neuronal density in specific cortical regions is well described in chronic alcoholics, a recent study by Badsberg Jensen and Pakkenberg using unbiased stereological methods questions whether neurodegeneration occurs. In order to assess selective neurodegeneration in the cerebral cortex of chronic alcoholics, regional volumes and unbiased estimates of regional neuronal number (including neuronal identification with calcium-binding proteins) were calculated for 14 chronic alcoholics and 21 controls. Cases were carefully screened to exclude any interfering pathologies. Lifetime and maximum daily alcohol consumption was determined, and homogeneous groups were identified (four chronic alcoholics with Wernicke's encephalopathy and Korsakoff's psychosis, four chronic alcoholics with Wernicke's encephalopathy alone, six chronic alcoholics without Wernicke's encephalopathy or Korsakoff's psychosis, and 21 controls). Brain volume analysis revealed that discrete regions were significantly smaller in the chronic alcoholics compared to controls. As previously shown, white matter regions (particularly in the frontal lobe) were the most significantly reduced in volume. Alcoholics with Wernicke's encephalopathy (either alone or in combination with Korsakoff's psychosis) had significantly smaller white matter volumes than controls or alcoholics without these complications. Medial temporal lobe regions and the thalamus were also reduced in volume. Regression analyses revealed that the volume of both the white matter and thalamus negatively correlated with alcohol consumption. Consistent with the interpretation of previous neuronal density studies, selective neuronal loss was found in the superior frontal association cortex of chronic alcoholics, while no loss occurred from the motor cortex. The number of parvalbumin-, calbindin- and calretinin-immunoreactive neurons was found to be unaltered in chronic alcoholics, suggesting that the neurodegeneration is confined to the non-GABAergic pyramidal neurons. As neurodegeneration was observed in all alcoholic groups, damage to the frontal association cortex is not restricted to alcoholics with the amnesia of Korsakoff's psychosis. These results are consistent with the notion that chronic alcohol consumption is associated with selective neuronal vulnerability. The selective frontal neurodegeneration and the frontal focus of white matter atrophy are supported by neuropsychological, regional blood flow, and magnetic resonance imaging studies of frontal lobe dysfunction in chronic alcoholics and may correlate with abnormalities in working memory.
An antisense oligonucleotide probe was used to examine the expression of gene encoding the obligatory NMDAR1 subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in the hippocampus and adjacent cortical areas (entorhinal and perirhinal cortices) of seven Alzheimer patients and in the same brain regions of seven control individuals. Both groups were matched according to age, sex, cause of death, post mortem delay, and tissue storage time. Densitometric analysis of in situ hybridization autoradiograms revealed a 34% (P&lt;0.05) decrease in NMDAR1 messenger RNA levels in layer III of the entorhinal cortex in Alzheimer brains. Similar deficits. although statistically not significant, were observed in layers II and IV-VI of the entorhinal cortex, and in granule cells of the dentate gyrus. Reduced levels of NMDAR1 messenger RNA were also found in layers II-VI of the perirhinal cortex (41 53% decrease, P&lt;0.02). There were no changes in NMDAR1 messenger RNA expression in the CA1, hilus, or subiculum. Both Alzheimer and control group show substantial intersubject variation in levels of NMDAR1 messenger RNA. The analysis of emulsion-dipped tissue revealed a trend toward a decrease in the number of silver grains overlying individual neurons in the CA1, entorhinal cortex, and granule cell layer of some Alzheimer patients. No significant relationship was detected between the levels of NMDAR1 messenger RNA and post mortem delay, tissue storage, age of the subjects, or mini mental state exam score either in control or Alzheimer individuals. In contrast, a strong inverse correlation between NMDAR1 expression and disease duration was found. These data suggest that reduction in expression of the NMDAR1 gene observed in certain regions of Alzheimer hippocampus and adjacent cortical regions is specific for the disease itself. We postulate that reduced transcript levels may reflect either regional cell loss or anomalies in glutamatergic input to the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex in Alzheimer's disease. When followed by changes at the receptor subunit protein level, altered expression of the NMDAR1 gene in Alzheimer brain may contribute, through the formation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors with different properties, to the previously reported modified N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor ligand binding, abnormal vulnerability of select neuronal populations to excitotoxic insult, and may also be involved in learning and memory deficits.
The implantation of fetal nigral tissue into the striatum of patients with Parkinson's disease is a promising approach to treatment which may produce clinical benefit partly by influencing drug responsiveness. The purpose of the present study was to determine the pharmacological mechanisms which drug response changes by measuring to what extent sensitization produced by repeated apomorphine treatment was attenuated by tissue implantation in rats with nigrostriatal lesions. Prior to implantation of nigral cell suspensions, the daily administration of apomorphine to rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions produced a progressive increase in the magnitude and duration of rotational behaviour. After implantation, apomorphine-induced rotational effects were reduced to levels observed upon the initial exposure to drug and did not increase following repeated treatment. Attenuated responses to selective D1 and D2 agonists were also observed after implantation. In vehicle-implanted rats, the initial response to apomorphine was attenuated but then increased following repeated apomorphine administration. No attenuation in responses to selective D1 and D2 agonists was observed in this group. Cell suspensions prepared from fresh and cyropreserved tissue produced similar behavioural effects, even though the volume of transplanted striatum exhibiting tyrosine hydroxylase activity was greater with fresh tissue. The duration of rotational behaviour induced by apomorphine was not affected by cell implantation. These findings suggest that the expression of sensitization in an animal model of parkinsonism may disappear after a period without drug treatment. Implantation of nigral tissue may produce beneficial results in parkinsonism by limiting the development of dopamine agonist-induced sensitization.
Electrophysiological techniques and computational methods were used to study the effect of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors fluvoxamine, paroxetine and sertraline on the basal activity of dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area. Acute injection of fluvoxamine, paroxetine and sertraline (20-1280 microg/ kg, i.v.) caused a dose-dependent inhibition of some ventral tegmental area DA neurons but it did not affect the basal firing rate of other DA cells. A Fast-Fourier-Transformation based analysis of the basal activity of 32 ventral tegmental area DA neurons showed a positive correlation between the value of a functional operator (psi) equivalent to the density-power-spectrum of the signals and the degree of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor-induced inhibition of ventral tegmental area DA cells. All ventral tegmental area DA neurons sampled were subdivided into two subclasses: (A) neurons with no changes in their basal firing rate and (B) neurons showing an approximately linear inhibitory effect in response to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. The neurons belonging to subclass A showed a more regular behavior of the interspike interval functions corresponding to lower values detected by the functional operator psi, whereas the neurons belonging to subclass B showed a less regular behavior of interspike interval functions corresponding to higher psi values detected by the same functional operator. Fluvoxamine, paroxetine and sertraline also caused a dose-dependent increase of the percentage of spikes occurring in bursts in neurons belonging to subclass A (low values of psi), whereas the mean basal firing rate of these cells was not affected. It is suggested that this difference in density-power-spectrum could reflect the asymmetry of serotonergic input to the ventral tegmental area DA neurons, and the differential effects of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors on these neurons might depend on the characteristics of their basal firing mode.
Movements of the head and eyes are known to be intimately related. Eye position has also been shown to be closely related to the electromyographic activity of dorsal neck muscles; however, extraocular muscle proprioception has not generally been considered to play a part in the control of such movements. We have previously shown that, in the pigeon, imposed movements of one eye modify the vestibular responses of several dorsal neck muscles in ways that are dependent on stimulus parameters such as the amplitude and velocity of imposed eye movement. The present study examines more closely the interactions between imposed eye movements and different muscle pairs. The three neck muscle pairs studied each responded to afferent signals from the extraocular muscles in discrete and specific ways which appeared to be correlated with their different actions. Complementary effects of imposed eye movements in the horizontal plane were seen for both the complexus and splenius muscle pairs, with imposed eye movements in one direction producing the largest inhibition of the ipsilateral muscle's vestibular response and imposed eye movements in the opposite direction the largest inhibition of the contralateral muscle's vestibular response. During roll tilt oscillation (ear-up/ear-down) in the frontal plane, similar complementary effects of imposed eye movement were seen in the complexus muscle pair, but the splenius muscle pair showed little tuning, with similar inhibition for imposed eye movement directed either upwards or downwards. In contrast to these complementary effects, the biventer cervicis muscle pair showed no vestibular modulation during vestibular stimulation in the horizontal plane and their spontaneous activity was not altered by imposed eye movement. During roll-tilt oscillation (ear-up/ear-down) in the frontal plane imposed eye movement directed vertically upwards increased both muscles' vestibular responses and imposed eye movement directed vertically downwards inhibited both muscles' vestibular responses. Section of the ophthalmic branch of the trigeminal nerve (deafferenting the eye muscles) abolished the effects of imposed eye movement on the neck muscle pairs. In conjunction with further control experiments these results provide compelling evidence that proprioceptive signals from the extraocular muscles reach the neck muscles and provide them with a functionally significant signal. We have previously shown that signals from the extraocular muscles appear to be involved in the control of the vestibulo-ocular reflex. It follows from the experiments reported here that proprioceptive signals from the extraocular muscles are also likely to be involved in the control of gaze.
Interaction of cutaneous and small-diameter, primarily fatigue-induced, muscle afferent inputs on fusimotor neurons has been studied in decerebrate cats. Spike discharges of fusimotor neurons to medial gastrocnemius were recorded from filaments dissected free from this muscle nerve. Non-noxious mechanical stimuli (10 Hz, 2 mm vibration) were applied to the skin area on the lateral side of the heel, innervated by sural nerve, during long-lasting (250 s) fatiguing contraction of lateral gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, elicited by electrical stimulation (40 Hz, 1.3 x motor threshold) of the muscle nerves. In 15 units (58%) the pattern of responses to muscle contraction and/or fatigue (initial transient, and late long-lasting increase in firing rate, respectively) was preserved in the presence of skin vibration which, by itself, provoked either a slight increase or no changes in fusimotor discharge rate. Pattern of the response to skin vibration prevailed in the presence of muscle contraction and fatigue only if the vibration by itself induced marked increase in fusimotor discharge rate (three units). In the remaining eight units the responses to both stimuli applied simultaneously were dissimilar in pattern to the response to either stimulus applied alone: the initial, tension-related, increase in firing rate was prolonged, while the late, fatigue-induced one was attenuated and its post-contraction part almost abolished. Possible mechanisms and functional role of interaction between cutaneous and muscle afferent inflows are discussed.
The electromyograms were recorded in healthy human subjects by surface electrodes from the mm. biceps brachii (caput longum et. brevis), brachioradialis, and triceps brachii (caput longum) during slow transition movements in elbow joint against a weak extending torque. The test movements (flexion transitions between two steady-states) were fulfilled under visual control through combining on a monitor screen a signal from a joint angle sensor with a corresponding command generated by a computer. Movement velocities ranged between 5 and 80 degrees/s, subjects were asked to move forearm without activation of elbow extensors. Surface electromyograms were full-wave rectified, filtered and averaged within sets of 10 identical tests. Amplitudes of dynamic and steady-state components of the electromyograms were determined in dependence on a final value of joint angle, slow and fast movements were compared. An exponential-like increase of dynamic component was observed in electromyograms recorded from m. biceps brachii, the component had been increased with movement velocity and with load increment. In many experiments a statistically significant decrease of static component could be noticed within middle range of joint angles (40-60 degrees) followed by a well expressed increment for larger movements. This pattern of the static component in electromyograms could vary in different experiments even in the same subjects. A steady discharge in m. brachioradialis at ramp phase has usually been recorded only under a notable load. Variable and quite often unpredictable character of the static components of the electromyograms recorded from elbow flexors in the transition movements makes it difficult to use the equilibrium point hypothesis to describe the central processes of movement. It has been assumed that during active muscle shortening the dynamic components in arriving efferent activity should play a predominant role. A simple scheme could be proposed for transition to a steady-state after shortening. Decrease of the efferent inflow can evoke internal lengthening of the contractile elements in muscle and, as a result, hysteresis increase in the muscle contraction efficiency. Effectiveness in maintenance of the steady position seems to also be enhanced due to muscle thixotropy and friction processes in the joint. Hysteresis after-effects in elbow flexors were demonstrated as a difference in steady-state levels of electromyograms with oppositely directed approaches to the same joint position.
Cholecystokinin exerts a potent antiepileptic action in mammalian auditory system and undergoes seizure-mediated up-regulation. The present study investigated cholecystokinin messenger RNA expression in the reciprocally-connected auditory thalamus and cortex in the rat. Immunofluorescence in situ hybridization was performed using a 24-base cholecystokinin-messenger RNA oligonucleotide probe. Corticothalamic projection neurons were identified by means of the retrograde fluorescent tracer rhodamine latex microspheres injected into the medial geniculate body. In our experiments, cholecystokinin messenger RNA transcripts were found in about 80% of neurons located within the reciprocally-connected regions of the medial geniculate body and the auditory cortices. These observations provide evidence of cholecystokinin production in the reciprocally-connected regions of the auditory thalamus and cortex, the structures which jointly create the thalamo-corticothalamic circuit which has been implicated in seizure genesis.
The cholecystokinin receptors expressed by vagal afferent neurons mediate the effect of cholecystokinin in inhibiting food intake and gastric emptying. We have determined the relative abundance of cholecystokininA, gastrin-cholecystokininB and gastrin-cholecystokininC receptor populations in the rat vagus by autoradiography using [125I]Bolton Hunter-cholecystokinin-8, [125I]Bolton Hunter-heptadecapeptide gastrin and [125I]Leu(15)2-17Glycine-extended heptadecapeptide gastrin, together with the selective antagonists devazepide and L-740093. The results indicate approximately three-fold higher abundance of cholecystokininA compared with gastrin-cholecystokininB receptors, and no significant representation of gastrin-cholecystokininC receptors. Topical capsaicin applied to the vagal nerve trunk abolished the accumulation of sites binding both [125I]Bolton Hunter-labelled cholecystokinin-8 and heptadecapeptide gastrin indicating that both cholecystokininA and gastrin-cholecystokininB receptor populations were present on afferent fibres. The molecular identity of the receptors expressed by rat and human nodose ganglia was examined using the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Products of the predicted size for the cholecystokininA and gastrin-cholecystokininB receptors were identified. The human and rat cholecystokininA receptor products were cloned and the sequences were found to be 99% homologous to those published for receptors expressed by rat pancreas and human gall bladder. We conclude that cholecystokininA and gastrin-colecystokininB receptors are synthesized by nodose ganglion cells, and that the receptor proteins are transported to the periphery along afferent fibres. While there is a clear role for vagal cholecystokininA receptors, the function of vagal afferent gastrin-cholecystokininB receptors remains to be determined.
The release of endogenous ATP, measured by the luciferin-luciferase assay, and the release of [3H]acetylcholine from the isolated superior cervical ganglion of the rat loaded with [3H]choline were studied simultaneously. Electrical field stimulation enhanced the release of endogenous ATP and acetylcholine in a [Ca2+]o-dependent manner. The Na+ channel blocker, tetrodotoxin (1 microM) inhibited the stimulation-evoked release of endogenous ATP and of [3H]acetylcholine, but did not change the resting release. The release of ATP was dependent on the frequency of stimulation between 2 and 10 Hz. when the number of shocks was kept constant (360 shocks), while acetylcholine was not released in a frequency-dependent fashion. Ten days after cutting of the preganglionic nerve of the superior cervical ganglion the stimulation-evoked release of acetylcholine and ATP was abolished and the uptake of [3H]choline was significantly reduced but not inhibited. Hexamethonium, (100 microM) a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, significantly reduced the release of both acetylcholine and ATP, indicating a positive feedback modulation of ACh and ATP release. 8-Cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (10 nM), the selective A1-adenosine receptor antagonist exhibited similar effect on the release of ATP and acetylcholine: both of them were augmented, showing that the stimulation-evoked release of ATP and acetylcholine are under the inhibitory control of A1-adenosine receptors. When the temperature was reduced to 7 degrees C to inhibit carrier-mediated processes, the resting and stimulated release of acetylcholine was not changed. Conversely, the release of ATP in response to stimulation was reduced by 79.9 +/- 5.6%, and the basal release was also almost completely blocked. Carbamylcholine by itself was able to release ATP, but not acetylcholine, in a hexamethonium-inhibitable manner, even from ganglia whose preganglionic nerve had been cut 10 days prior to experiments, suggesting that ATP release can occur in response to nicotinic receptor stimulation of postsynaptic cells. The breakdown of ATP or AMP by superior cervical ganglion was measured by high performance liquid chromatography combined with UV detection. ATP and AMP, added to the tissues, were readily decomposed: the Km (apparent Michaelis constant) and Vmax (apparent maximal velocity) were 475 +/- 24 microM and 3.50 +/- 0.18 nmol/min per mg for ectoATPase and 1550 +/- 120 microM and 14.5 +/- 0.9 nmol/min per mg tissue for 5'-nucleotidase. In addition, by using electron microscopic enzyme histochemistry, the presence of ectoATPase was also shown in the superior cervical ganglion. It is concluded that endogenous ATP and acetylcholine are released simultaneously in response to stimulation of preganglionic nerve terminals in the superior cervical ganglion in a [Ca2+]o-dependent, tetrodotoxin-sensitive manner and is metabolized by ectoenzymes present in the tissue. The dissociation of the release of ATP and acetylcholine at different stimulation frequencies and temperatures shows that the release-ratio of acetylcholine and ATP can vary upon the condition of stimulation: this can reflect either the different composition of synaptic vesicles in the preganglionic nerve terminals or a significant contribution of non-exocytotic, carrier-mediated type of release of ATP to the bulk release.
Olfactory receptor neurons undergo a continuous turnover in adult mammals. It is largely unknown how their axons invade the olfactory bulb and induce synaptic re-organization in glomeruli. Here, the cytochemical localization of lysosomal acid phosphatase has been studied in olfactory bulbs of adult rats and mice. The enzyme has been identified by specific substrate, inhibitors and absence in lysosomal acid phosphatase-knockout mice. Lysosomal acid phosphatase is located in primary and secondary lysosomes, which are unevenly distributed in the olfactory nerve layer and among olfactory glomeruli. In consecutive sections of glomeruli, the intensity of lysosomal acid phosphatase immunoreactivity co-varied with that of growth-associated phosphoprotein. Electron microscopically, differential lysosomal acid phosphatase staining in glomeruli corresponded to different proportions of labelled and unlabelled axons. Quantification revealed that lysosomal acid phosphatase labelling was strongest in non-synaptic profiles of terminal axons, while it was weak in or even missing from most synaptic profiles. Hence, growing olfactory axons apparently carry more lysosomal acid phosphatase than those which have established synaptic contacts. Following olfactory deafferentation both lysosomal acid phosphatase activity and growth-associated phosphoprotein-43 are lost from glomeruli, suggesting that both proteins are expressed in olfactory sensory axons during growth, while lysosomal acid phosphatase is apparently not a marker of anterograde terminal degeneration.
The presence of subgroups in vomeronasal sensory neurons has been known in various animals. To elucidate possible functional subdivisions in the guinea-pig accessory olfactory bulb, the combined studies with GTP-binding protein immunohistochemistry, electrophysiological and optical recordings were carried out. Gi2 alpha and Go alpha proteins were immunohistochemically localized, respectively, in the anterior and posterior regions of the vomeronasal nerve and glomerular layers, indicating that the guinea-pig accessory olfactory bulb receives at least two different inputs. This suggests that an anatomical boundary exists in these two layers. A mapping study of field potentials in sagittal slice preparations demonstrated that stimulation of the anterior vomeronasal nerve layer elicited field potentials with weak oscillatory responses exclusively in the anterior region of the external plexiform layer, whereas shocks to the posterior vomeronasal nerve layer provoked distinct oscillatory responses within the posterior one. The damping factors of oscillations in the anterior and posterior regions were 0.064+/-0.028 and 0.025+/-0.014, respectively. These electrophysiological results suggest that the accessory olfactory bulb consists of two functionally different subdivisions. Real-time optical imaging showed that anterior vomeronasal nerve layer shocks produced neural activity which spread horizontally from anterior to posterior only within the anterior region of the external plexiform and mitral cell layers, whereas shocks to the posterior vomeronasal nerve layer evoked periodic neural activity which spread horizontally from posterior to anterior only within the posterior region. Furthermore, the most posterior extent of the optical response evoked in the anterior region immediately adjoined the most anterior extent of that evoked in the posterior region. The maximal distance of signal propagation in the granule cell layer corresponded to that in the overlying external plexiform and mitral cell layers, indicating that the granule cell layer also has a similar boundary. Thus, these optical imaging studies not only demonstrated a precise boundary in each layer of the accessory olfactory bulb, which was positioned right beneath the boundary defined by GTP-binding protein immunohistochemistry, but also confirmed the observations from electrophysiological mapping that evoked field potentials are independently distributed in each of two subdivisions. The presence of the functional subdivision in each layer leads us to conclude that the accessory olfactory bulb in the guinea-pig is distinctly segregated into the anterior and posterior subdivisions, and to suggest that there are at least two different input output pathways in the vomeronasal system.
GABA is known to function as a neurotransmitter in the mature nervous system, and in immature neurons it has been linked to neurotrophic actions. While most GABA is generated by glutamate decarboxylase (GAD), an alternative synthetic pathway is known to originate from putrescine, which is converted via gamma-aminobutyraldehyde in an aldehyde-dehydrogenase-requiring step to GABA. In a search for the role of two aldehyde dehydrogenases expressed in segregated compartments along the dorsoventral axis of the developing retina, we assayed dorsal and ventral retina fractions of the mouse for GABA by high performance liquid chromatography. We found GABA to be present in the embryonic retina, long before expression of GAD, and ventral GABA levels exceeded dorsal levels by more than three-fold. Postnatally, when GAD became detectable, overall GABA levels increased, and the ventrodorsal concentration difference disappeared. Our observations indicate that prior to the formation of synapses the embryonic retina contains a ventrodorsal GABA gradient generated by an alternate synthetic pathway.
Retinoic acid treatment of NT-era2/cl.D1 (NT2) cells, a human teratocarcinoma cell line, yields 95% pure cultures of terminally differentiated neuronal cells. Concomitant with their terminal differentiation into neurons, NT2 cells are induced by retinoic acid to express neuronal N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels, which are fully functional. We determined the effects of retinoic acid-induced differentiation of NT2 cells on the levels of N-methyl-D-aspartate, delta opioid and mu opioid receptor messenger RNAs. RNA levels were measured using quantitative solution hybridization assays. The riboprobes were complementary to major portions of the coding regions of the N-methyl-D-aspartate, delta opioid and mu opioid receptor complementary DNAs. After four weeks of exposure to 10 microM retinoic acid, followed by four weeks of treatment with mitotic inhibitors (1 microM of cytosine arabinoside, 10 microM of fluorodeoxyuridine and 10 microM of uridine) the levels of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor messenger RNA in differentiated NT2-N cells increased 10-fold, delta opioid receptor messenger RNA increased three-fold, and mu opioid receptor messenger RNA increased four-fold. Northern blot analysis revealed two transcripts for the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor messenger RNA (4.2 and 4.4 kb) and two transcripts for delta opioid receptor messenger RNA (7.0 and 11.0 kb). To determine whether the increases in messenger RNAs were accompanied by an increased synthesis of the respective proteins, we examined the immunoperoxidase localization of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor and delta opioid receptor antisera. N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptor-like immunoreactivity was seen within the cell bodies as well as on the processes of the retinoic acid-differentiated cells. Although delta opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity was detected within the soma of isolated cells prior to retinoic acid treatment, the apparent number of these labelled cells and their ramified processes were markedly enhanced following retinoic acid differentiation. These results demonstrate parallels between the inducible expression of the N-methyl-D-aspartate and opioid receptor messenger RNAs and proteins during the acquisition of the fully differentiated neuronal phenotype in cultured NT2 cells. Retinoic acid-differentiated NT2 cells express increased levels for the N-methyl-D-aspartate, delta opioid and mu opioid receptor messenger RNAs, providing the opportunity to study the interactions among these receptor systems in human terminally differentiated neuronal cells in culture.
Taurine has been shown to be essential for neuronal development and survival in the central nervous system. The release of preloaded [3H]taurine was studied in hippocampal slices from seven-day-, three-month- and 18-22-month-old mice in cell-damaging conditions. The slices were superfused in hypoxic, hypoglycemic and ischemic conditions and exposed to free radicals and oxidative stress. The release of taurine was greatly enhanced in the above conditions in all age groups, except in oxidative stress. The release was large in ischemia, particularly in the hippocampus of aged mice. Potassium stimulation was still able to release taurine in cell-damaging conditions in immature mice, whereas in adult and aged animals the release was so substantial that this additional stimulus failed to work. Taurine release was partially Ca2+-dependent in all cases. The massive release of the inhibitory amino acid taurine in ischemic conditions could act neuroprotectively, counteracting in several ways the effects of simultaneous release of excitatory amino acids. This protection could be of great importance in developing brain tissue, while also having an effect in aged brains.
Brain acetylcholine release and memory performance were investigated in young (three- to six-months) and old (20- to 24-months) rats. Acetylcholine release was measured in vivo in the cortex and hippocampus of freely-moving animals, under basal conditions and in the presence of the following muscarinic antagonists: scopolamine, (+/-)-5,11-dihydro-11-[[(2-[2-[(dipropylamino) methyl]-1-piperidinyl]ethyl) amino] carbonyl]-6H-pyrido(2,3-b)(1,4)-benzodiazepine-6-one (AFDX 384) and pirenzepine. The amount of acetylcholine released from the cortex and hippocampus of old rats was significantly reduced. In the presence of scopolamine and AFDX 384 but not of pirenzepine, the acetylcholine release was significantly higher in the old than the young rats, suggesting that changes in presynaptic M2/M4 muscarinic receptor function occur with ageing in the two brain regions. Cognitive capacities were evaluated using two different behavioural tasks: object recognition and passive avoidance response. Old rats were unable to discriminate between familiar and novel objects and had impaired performance in the passive avoidance test. AFDX 384 restored the performance in both tests. Furthermore, in young rats AFDX 384 reversed the impairment of both object recognition and passive avoidance response induced by scopolamine. The effect of AFDX 384 on acetylcholine release and behaviour in the old rats offers further support to a relationship between the age-related cholinergic hypofunction and cognitive impairment and indicates the blockade of presynaptic muscarinic receptors as a possible selective target for therapeutic strategies aimed at improving age-associated memory deficits.
Stimulation of basal forebrain neurons elicits regional cerebral blood flow increases which are reportedly mediated by acetylcholine and nitric oxide. However, the modality of interaction between these two mediators remains unclear. Particularly, little is known about the source, i.e. endothelial, glial and/or neuronal, of the potent gaseous vasodilator nitric oxide. In the present study, we examined, by double immunocytochemical labelling of nitric oxide synthase and choline acteyltransferase at the light and electron microscopic level, the existence of morphological relationships between cortical nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons and cholinergic cells or nerve fibres. Using anterograde tract tracing and selective basal forebrain lesions, we further investigated the origin of the cholinergic input to cortical nitric oxide synthase neurons. The results confirm that cortical nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons are often associated with the local microvascular bed, show that intracortical neurons immunostained for nitric oxide synthase and choline acetyltransferase belong to two distinct neuronal populations and, further, that a subset of nitric oxide synthase-containing cell bodies and their proximal dendrites receive a cholinergic input which originates primarily from basalocortical projections. Altogether, these findings suggest that cholinergic basal forebrain neurons could increase cortical blood flow partly via a local nitric oxide relay neuron whereby the freely diffusing gas would be the direct smooth muscle vasodilator agent. It is concluded that this interaction might contribute to the complex relationships between the basal forebrain and the cortical microcirculation, interactions which result in fine regulation of cortical perfusion.
Quantitative high resolution in vitro 1H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy was employed to study the metabolic effects of 3-nitropropionic acid associated with aging from perchloric acid extracts of rat striata. Systemic injection of 3-nitropropionic acid in rats at a dose of 10 mg/kg/day for seven consecutive days significantly impaired energy metabolism in rats one, four and eight months of age, as evidenced by a marked elevation of succinate and lactate levels. However, a significant decrease in N-acetyl-L-aspartate level, a neuronal marker, was observed in four- and eight-month-old rats but not in one-month-old rats. This would indicate that rats at four to eight months are more susceptible to 3-nitropropionic acid than those at one month. A significant decrease in GABA level was observed in four-month-old 3-nitropropionic acid-treated rats, which is consistent with the literature that GABAergic neurons are particularly vulnerable to 3-nitropropionic acid treatment. In addition, glutamine and glutamate levels were markedly decreased at four and eight months in 3-nitropropionic acid-treated rats. Since glutamine is synthesized predominantly in glia, the observation above suggests that 3-nitropropionic acid intoxication may involve perturbation of energy metabolism, glial injury and consequent neuronal damage. Astrocytes which are essential in the metabolism of glutamate and glutamine were used to further assess 3-nitropropionic acid-induced toxicity. Glial proliferation, mitochondrial metabolism and glutamine synthetase activity were all reduced by 3-nitropropionic acid treatment with a concomitant increase, in a dose-dependent manner, of lactate levels, suggesting that 3-nitropropionic acid is also detrimental to astrocytes in vivo and thus may affect metabolic interaction between neurons and glia. These results not only imply that 3-nitropropionic acid blocks energy metabolism prior to exerting neurotoxic damage but also demonstrate that the degree of energy depletion determines the detrimental effects of 3-nitropropionic acid. In the present study, we also demonstrate that glutamate and glutamine levels as well as astrocytic functions may play pivotal roles in 3-nitropropionic acid-induced striatal lesions.
Interleukin-2 is an immunoregulatory cytokine with several recently established CNS activities. Central effects of interleukin-2 include growth promotion for neuronal and glial cells as well as modulatory influences on neurotransmission and hormone release. However, little is known about the consequences in the CNS of chronically elevated levels of interleukin-2. Alterations in the interleukin-2/interleukin-2 receptor system are not only associated with CNS trauma, inflammation and certain neuropathologies; elevated interleukin-2 concentrations are especially induced during the therapeutic use of interleukin-2 in cancer treatments. In the present study, intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) interleukin-2 infusions (5 15 U/h) were performed in Sprague Dawley rats for up to 14 days. Interleukin-2-treated animals showed significantly increased plasma levels of corticosterone indicating an hyperfunctioning of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis that lasted over the 14 day infusion period. Moreover, the performance of interleukin-2-treated animals in the Morris swim maze task was transiently impaired. Quantitative receptor autoradiographic analyses revealed changes in the binding levels of cholinergic M1 and M2 as well as dopaminergic D1 and D2 receptors in selected brain areas in which interleukin-2 was shown to modulate neurotransmission and which are enriched with interleukin-2 receptor expression. Decreased receptor binding levels were observed in the frontoparietal cortex (M2, D1, D2), hippocampal CA1 region (M1, M2) and the nucleus accumbens (D2). Histological and immunohistochemical examination of the brains of interleukin-2-treated animals revealed multiple alterations. Interleukin-2 treatment resulted in an intracranial accumulation of non-neural, MHC class II-positive cells as well as T and B lymphocytes within the infused brain hemisphere. Cellular infiltrates were associated with angiogenesis and the deposition of extracellular matrix material, such as fibronectin. Adjacent brain regions that were partly invaded and dislodged by the cellular masses were characterized by reactive astrogliosis, microglial activation, endothelial upregulation of adhesion molecules, myelin damage and neuronal loss. Together the data suggest that persistently elevated central levels of interleukin-2 can interfere with several CNS functions and may lead to nervous tissue injury. These findings could be relevant to CNS pathologies characterized by abnormal interleukin-2 production and to central responses to interleukin-2 treatments.
Cutaneous sensory innervation was studied in transgenic mice overexpressing insulin-like growth factor II using a keratin promoter. The skin area of these animals is enlarged providing increased target for sensory neurons. L4 dorsal root ganglion cell counts revealed that the total number of sensory neurons was the same in transgenics as control animals. Levels of nerve growth factor per unit weight of skin were also unchanged. The cutaneous nerves of the hindlimb were immunostained with the pan-neuronal marker PGP 9.5 in transgenic and control mice at postnatal day 0 and 21. The innervation in transgenic mice was markedly reduced, particularly in superficial dermis and epidermis and in some areas innervation was completely absent. The effect was greatest in distal skin regions and increased with age. Since insulin-like growth factor II has been reported to be a sensory neurotrophic factor, its effect on neurite outgrowth was tested on embryonic day 14 and 18 mouse lumbar dorsal root ganglion explants in culture. Under these conditions insulin-like growth factor II (5-100 ng/ml) did not have strong growth promoting activity and at embryonic day 18, in the presence of 5-10 ng/ml nerve growth factor, neurite outgrowth was suppressed by insulin-like growth factor II. The results show that increased skin target and availability of nerve growth factor per se do not alter the number of innervating sensory neurons. However, reduced sensory terminal arborization and skin hypoinnervation does occur in the presence of excess insulin-like growth factor-II. It is possible that insulin-like growth factor-II inhibits terminal axon growth directly via receptors on sensory neurons or peripheral glia.
Form deprivation myopia in chickens is a widely accepted model to study visually-regulated postnatal ocular growth. Recently we showed that basic fibroblast growth factor-2 provides a &quot;stop&quot; signal for the growing eye. To understand further its action, we have localized basic fibroblast growth factor-2 and its low- and high-affinity receptors in the chicken eye, and determined the localization of basic fibroblast growth factor receptors in the inner plexiform layer with respect to that of neurotransmitter systems known to play a role in form-deprivation myopia. By immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization, two complementary methods, we found that nearly all cells in the retina, and scleral chondrocytes, contain basic fibroblast growth factor-2 protein and messenger RNA as well as high-affinity basic fibroblast growth factor receptor protein and messenger RNA. Immunocytochemical localization of basic fibroblast growth factor-2 binding sites (a high resolution alternative to autoradiography), combined with N-glycanase and heparitinase treatment or heparin competition, revealed additional binding sites in specific synaptic layers of the inner plexiform layer and low-affinity binding sites in the choroid and optic fibre layer. Some binding sites in the synaptic layers were found to co-stratify with neurites of dopamine-, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide- or enkephalin-containing amacrine cells, suggesting that basic fibroblast growth factor-2 could modulate synaptic transmission to or from these cells. Form deprivation did not affect the levels of basic fibroblast growth factor receptor-1 messenger RNA in retina/retinal pigment epithelium/choroid (Northern blotting), but it abolished the decrease in amount of extractable basic fibroblast growth factor normally observed in the dark (Western blotting). The results are discussed with respect to previous findings on basic fibroblast growth factor-2 and basic fibroblast growth factor receptor-1 localization in the avian and other vertebrate eyes, and their relevance to form-deprivation myopia. The widespread distribution of basic fibroblast growth factor-2 and its receptor makes it impossible to predict which cells might mediate the action of basic fibroblast growth factor-2 in form-deprivation myopia. However, the alteration in amounts of extractable retinal basic fibroblast growth factor-2 in form-deprived, dark-adapted retinas, in which basic fibroblast growth factor-2 probably serves as a &quot;stop&quot; signal for ocular growth, is consistent with a role for basic fibroblast growth factor-2 in the regulation of ocular growth.
This study shows that in adult rat spinal motoneurons brain-derived neurotrophic factor exerts a neuroprotective effect which extends several weeks beyond the duration of treatment. In addition, brain-derived neurotrophic factor strongly enhances regeneration of avulsed motor axons across the border between the central and peripheral nervous systems. Treatment with brain-derived neurotrophic factor is known to rescue adult rat spinal motoneurons from retrograde cell death induced by ventral root avulsion. The present experiments were designed to test whether this survival effect remains over an extended period of time following cessation of treatment and, also, whether brain-derived neurotrophic factor promotes regeneration of avulsed motor axons. After avulsion of a spinal ventral root, four weeks of treatment with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (10 microg/day) or vehicle was initiated. By using different retrograde tracers to obtain pre- and postoperative labelling of avulsed and regenerating motoneurons, respectively, the number of surviving motoneurons as well as the extent of motor axonal regeneration could be analysed. The expression of nitric oxide synthase in the lesioned motoneurons was also studied. In the vehicle-treated rats, only 10% of the avulsed motoneurons remained at 12 weeks postoperatively, 20-40% of which displayed nitric oxide synthase activity. Treatment with brain-derived neurotrophic factor during the initial four postoperative weeks resulted in 45% motoneuron survival and a complete blockage of nitric oxide synthase expression at 12 weeks postoperatively. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor also induced abundant regeneration of the avulsed motor axons, which formed extensive fibre bundles along the surface of the spinal cord and adjacent ventral roots. The long-term effect by brain-derived neurotrophic factor seemed to be even stronger on motor axonal regeneration than on motoneuron survival. The present results indicate a therapeutic potential for brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the early treatment of traumatic injuries to spinal nerves and roots.
Caffeine, the most widely consumed of all psychostimulant drugs, exerts its action by antagonizing adenosine receptors. To study the arousing properties of caffeine, we injected rats intraperitoneally with vehicle, caffeine (7.5, 15 or 30mg/kg), the selective adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, SCH 58261 (3.75 mg/kg) or the selective adenosine A1 receptor selective antagonist DPCPX (7.5 mg/kg). In a behavioural test it was found that administration of caffeine and SCH 58261 significantly increased locomotion and rearing, whereas DPCPX did not alter locomotion and reduced rearing. After the behavioural session the rats were killed, their brains were cut at several levels along a rostrocaudal axis and in situ hybridization against NGFI-A messenger RNA and NGFI-B messenger RNA was performed. A reduction of NGFI-A messenger RNA was found in several subregions of both caudate putamen and nucleus accumbens in caffeine-treated animals. Similarly, animals that had received SCH 58261 showed significant decreases of NGFI-A messenger RNA in the rostral part of caudate putamen and in the shell part of nucleus accumbens. By contrast, DPCPX treatment caused an increase in the expression of NGFI-A messenger RNA and a smaller increase in NGFI-B messenger RNA in the lateral parts of caudate putamen. In addition, it was found that caffeine, but not SCH 58261 or DPCPX, elevated the expression of NGFI-A and NGFI-B messenger RNA in the cerebral cortex, especially in its parietal part. Thus, these results provide evidence that endogenous adenosine, via adenosine A2A receptors, causes a tonic activation of striatopallidal neurons. By blocking this adenosine effect, caffeine causes behavioural activation.
The present study examined the influence of a long-term treatment with glucocorticoid on local cerebral blood flow of the hippocampus in rats, estimated with the hydrogen clearance method. Either a cholesterol (100 mg, as a control) or corticosterone (100 mg) bead was implanted subcutaneously in rats for a period of three months, beginning at 12 weeks of age. The effects of the treatments on the local circulation of the hippocampus were evaluated three to four months after the termination of the treatments. Hippocampal cerebral blood flow in corticosterone-treated rats was significantly lower (P&lt;0.05) than that in control rats, and fluctuated over a day in lower amplitude than the controls. Severe histological damage was observed in the CA1 and CA3 cell fields of the hippocampus in corticosterone-treated rats. These neuropathological changes were characterized by soma shrinkage and condensation, or nuclear pyknosis, as reported previously. We concluded that a long-term glucocorticoid exposure resulted in an impairment of the hippocampal functions, accompanied by neuronal damage similar to that found in aged hippocampus. The present results support the hypothesis that glucocorticoids accelerate age-related changes in the brain.
Cloning and sequencing of the peripheral myelin protein-22 cDNA and genomic DNA from newly found Trembler mice revealed an in-frame deletion including exon IV which codes for the second (TM2) and a part of third (TM3) transmembrane domain of peripheral myelin protein-22. This mutation was distinct from those in both other allelic Trembler and Trembler-J mice, which carry point mutations within the putative transmembrane spanning regions of peripheral myelin protein-22. Inheritance was autosomal dominant. The affected mice revealed an abnormal gait, which appeared at 15-20 days of age, followed by motor and sensory ataxia, which remained throughout life. Most of the affected mice could survive more than one year. One of the most notable pathological phenotypes was a giant vacuolar formation in the sciatic nerve of homozygotes. They vary in size within the cytoplasm of Schwann cells, which failed to assemble myelin at any ages studied. Heterozygotes showed normal myelination during the early postnatal stages, followed by a segmental demyelination at an advanced stage. Vacuolar formation was not so frequent as in the homozygotes. These results suggest that the missing of transmembrane spanning region (TM2 and TM3) of peripheral myelin protein-22 may disturb a dual biological function of peripheral myelin protein-22, leading to a dysmyelination of axons and to a vacuolar formation within the cytoplasm of the Schwann cells. The latter phenotype is discussed in conjunction with the disruption of an intracellular transport system and subsequent cell death.
Astrocytes, microglia and endothelial cells display very specific phenotypic characteristics in the intact adult CNS, which appear quite versatile when grown in culture without neurons. Indirect evidence from in vitro co-culture studies and analysis of the effects of specific neuronal removal in vivo, does accordingly favour a role of neurons for the phenotypic repression of these cells in the intact brain. In order to provide more direct evidence for such neuronal influence, we attempted to induce, in the rat brain, a reversal of the post-lesional activation of astrocytes, microglia and endothelial cells by transplantation of fetal neurons purified by immunopanning. Host microglial cells which have been activated by the lesion process, penetrated the neuronal graft during the few days after the transplantation. Reactive astrocytes began to appear in the lesioned parenchyma and gathered around the transplant. Thereafter they first sent their processes in the direction of the neuronal graft, before they migrated into the graft a few days later. At this time, which was at the end of the first week post-transplantation, the host endothelial cells sprouted &quot;streamers&quot; of basal lamina within the graft forming small capillaries. During the second week post-transplantation, numerous astrocytes and microglial cells, both displaying a reactive hypertrophied morphology, were observed throughout the grafts. Finally, by the end of the first month, the activated cells differentiated towards a quiescent, resting morphology. At this time the grafts contained a vascular network with morphological characteristics comparable to those observed in the intact brain parenchyma. The results indicate that the interaction of activated astroglia and microglia and endothelial cells with neurons causes the cells to re-differentiate and regain phenotypic features characteristic of intact brain parenchyma, strongly suggesting that neurons play an essential role in the phenotypic restriction of glial and endothelial cells in the adult central nervous system.
Grafts of embryonic striatal primordia are able to elicit behavioural recovery in rats which have received an excitotoxic lesion to the striatum, and it is believed that the P zones or striatal-like tissue within the transplants play a crucial role in these functional effects. We performed this study to compare the effects of different donor stage of embryonic tissue on both the morphology (see accompanying paper) and function of striatal transplants. Both the medial and lateral ganglionic eminence was dissected from rat embryos of either 10 mm, 15 mm, 19 mm, or 23 mm crown-rump length, and implanted as a cell suspension into adult rats which had received an ibotenic acid lesion 10 days prior to transplantation. After four months the animals were tested on the &quot;staircase task&quot; of skilled forelimb use. At 10-14 months rats from the groups which had received grafts from 10 mm or 15 mm donor embryos were taken for positron emission tomography scanning in a small diameter positron emission tomography scanner, using ligands to the dopamine D1 and D2 receptors, [11C]SCH 23390 and [11C]raclopride, respectively. A lesion-alone group was also scanned with the same ligands for comparison. Animals which had received transplants from the 10 mm donors showed a significant recovery with their contralateral paw on the &quot;staircase test&quot;. No other groups showed recovery on this task. Similarly, the animals with grafts from the youngest donors showed a significant increase in D1 and D2 receptor binding when compared to the lesion-alone group. No increase in signal was observed with either ligand in the group which had received grafts from 15 mm donors. Success in paw reaching showed a strong correlation to both the positron emission tomography signal obtained and the P zone volume of the grafts. These results suggest that striatal grafts from younger donors (10 mm CRL) give greater behavioural recovery than grafts prepared from older embryos. This recovery is due to both the increased proportion of striatal-like tissue within the grafts and an increase in functional D1 and D2 dopamine receptors measured by positron emission tomography, i.e. a more extensive integration of the graft with the host brain.
The effects of the stage of donor embryos on the survival of grafts from different neuronal cell types have been well documented. Indeed, this parameter has been shown to be highly important in the survival and function of transplants of various tissues of the CNS. However this question has not been addressed in grafts of embryonic striatal tissue transplanted into animal models of Huntington's disease. In this study, rats which had received a unilateral ibotenic acid lesion in the dorsal striatum received grafts from a standard dissection of embryonic striatal primordium taken from donors of embryonic stage either E14, E16, E17 or E19 days. Three months after transplantation six rats from each group were killed for analysis of graft survival and morphology. The remaining animals in each group were killed between 10 and 14 months after grafting. Graft morphology was detected using a range of markers including: acetylcholinesterase and Cresyl Violet, the 32,000 mol. wt dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein (DARPP-32), tyrosine hydroxylase and striatally-enriched phosphatase. All the grafts from different donor stages survived well at both time-points and Cresyl Violet staining indicated neuronal cell types spread throughout the grafts. The transplants were seen to have a characteristic &quot;patchy&quot; appearance with areas of dense AChE activity and DARPP-32 immunopositivity interspersed with areas of much lighter expression. These areas also co-localized consistently with striatally-enriched phosphatase and tyrosine hydroxylase expression, indicating that they comprised the striatal-like compartment of the graft (the so called P zones, containing cells of the mature striatum), and receiving specific afferent input from the host dopaminergic system. There was no significant difference in total graft volume, when comparing individual groups at both time-points from grafting. However, when comparing the volume of the P zones, the striatal primordium from the youngest donor stages (E14 and E16) produced grafts with a significantly higher proportion of striatal-like tissue. Therefore, in order to increase the proportion of striatal tissue within these grafts, tissue from younger embryonic donors should be used. This has important implications in the application of this model towards clinical trials in Huntington's disease.
The present paper reports a nanosecond time-resolved fluorescence derived from the cortex and the area of the periaqueductal gray including the nucleus raphe dorsalis (PAG-nRD) in unanaesthetized freely moving rats. The measurements were acquired through a single optic fibre transmitting a subnanosecond nitrogen laser pulse (337 nm, 15 Hz) and collecting the brain fluorescence occurring at 460 nm which might depend on mitochondrial NADH (reduced form of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide). The fluorometric method was combined with polygraphic recordings, and this procedure allowed us to define, for the first time, variations of the 460 nm signal occurring throughout the sleep-wake cycle. In the PAG-nRD, the signal exhibited moderate heterogeneous variation in amplitude during slow-wave as compared to the waking state. Constant increases were observed during paradoxical sleep as compared to the waking state. For this state of sleep the magnitude of the variations depended on the optic fibre location. In the cortex and during either slow-wave sleep or paradoxical sleep, the signal presented moderate increases which were significant during paradoxical sleep. The magnitude of the redox variations observed either in the PAG-nRD or in the cortex might be ascribed to the oxidative energy balance which is related to sleep states.
Spontaneous postsynaptic currents were investigated in neurons of the caudal portion of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus using the patch-clamp technique to study the effect of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor activation on synaptic transmission. In voltage-clamped neurons, bath application of nicotine (1-30 microM) elicited a concentration-dependent increase in the frequency of the spontaneous synaptic currents. The effect was also observed with application of the nicotinic receptor agonists epibatidine (10 nM) and cytisine (10 microM). Mecamylamine (20 microM) and curare (50 microM), two nicotinic receptor antagonists, both decreased the effect of 3 microM nicotine on the frequency of the spontaneous postsynaptic currents. This effect of 3 microM nicotine was also blocked by 20 microM bicuculline, a competitive antagonist of the GABA(A) receptor; in contrast, it was not affected by 1 mM kynurenic acid, an antagonist of the ionotropic glutamate receptor. In the presence of 1 microM tetrodotoxin, 3 microM nicotine was unable to affect the synaptic activity. Our findings suggest the existence of nicotinic receptors on GABAergic axons projecting to the vagal motoneurons. Because the effect is completely abolished by 1 microM tetrodotoxin, the nicotinic receptors are not localized on the presynaptic nerve terminal and their action on the GABA release requires the propagation of an action potential from their location to the synaptic terminal. This effect of nicotinic receptor activation on spontaneous GABA release in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus may have an important role in the regulation of gastrointestinal motility.
Taking into account our previous results on dopamine and nitric oxide effects on neonatal inhibitory learning and memory in rats, the mutual interactions of the two molecules were studied in this experimental paradigm. Both increased dopamine content and nitric oxide bioavailability in the brain after application of dopamine and L-arginine as substrate for nitric oxide synthase solutions into lateral cerebral ventricles improved learning and 24 h memory. Joint application of dopamine and L-arginine yielded still more improvement. Learning and memory processing were dose dependently enhanced by D1 receptor agonists as well, whereas D1 receptor antagonists had an opposite and also dose-dependent effect. Dopamine or D1 receptor agonists administered together with nitro-L-arginine, a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor that impaired learning and memory due to a decreased nitric oxide availability, antagonized the effect of nitro-L-arginine, as did L-arginine. D1 receptor antagonists impaired both learning and memory, and L-arginine rendered learning values normal. The dopamine and D1 receptor-agonist effect on 24 h memory was concentration dependent, and their higher concentrations substantially increased the retention indexes. The intimate mechanisms of these interactions are to be identified in further experiments.
Effects of L-arginine in the nervous system are often attributed to nitric oxide. Using whole-cell patch pipettes to record membrane currents in voltage-clamp from dopamine neurons in the rat midbrain slice, the present studies found that L-arginine potentiates GABA-dependent membrane currents via a nitric oxide-independent mechanism. L-Arginine (0.3-10 mM) increased the peak amplitude, half-width duration and time constant of decay of GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents in a concentration-dependent manner. In the presence of CGP 35348 (300 microM), a GABA(B) receptor antagonist, L-arginine also prolonged the duration of inhibitory postsynaptic currents mediated by GABA(A) receptors, but their amplitudes were reduced. L-Arginine (10 mM) also evoked 17+/-3 pA of outward current (at -60 mV) which was significantly increased in the presence of exogenous GABA (100 microM). Pressure-ejection of GABA from micropipettes produced outward currents mediated by GABA(B) receptors (recorded in bicuculline) or GABA(A) receptors (recorded in CGP 35348); both types of receptor-mediated currents were increased by L-arginine (10 mM). In contrast, outward currents evoked by baclofen, a GABA(B) receptor agonist, were not potentiated by L-arginine. The GABA transport inhibitors NO 711 (1 microM) and nipecotic acid (1 mM) significantly increased the half-width duration and time-constant of decay of GABA(B)-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents, thus mimicking effects of L-arginine. However, nitric oxide donors failed to mimic effects of L-arginine on GABA(B) inhibitory postsynaptic currents, and inhibitors of nitric oxide synthesis failed to selectively block the action of L-arginine. These findings suggest that L-arginine potentiates GABA synaptic transmission by a nitric oxide-independent mechanism. Similarities between effects of L-arginine, NO 711 and nipecotic acid suggest that L-arginine inhibits a GABA transporter.
GABAergic interneurons sculpt the activity of principal cells and are themselves governed by GABAergic inputs. To determine directly some of the sources and mechanisms of this GABAergic innervation, we have used dual intracellular recordings with biocytin-filled microelectrodes and investigated synaptic interactions between pairs of interneurons in area CA1 of the adult rat hippocampus. Of four synaptically-coupled interneuron-to-interneuron cell pairs, three presynaptic cells were identified as basket cells, preferentially innervating somata and proximal dendrites of pyramidal cells, but one differing from the other two in the laminar distribution of its dendritic and axonal fields. The fourth presynaptic interneuron was located at the border between strata lacunosum moleculare and radiatum, with axon ramifying within stratum radiatum. Action potentials evoked in all four presynaptic interneurons were found to elicit fast hyperpolarizing inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (mean amplitude 0.35 +/- 0.10 mV at a membrane potential of -59 +/- 2.8 mV) in other simultaneously recorded interneurons (n=4). In addition, three of the presynaptic interneurons were also shown to produce similar postsynaptic responses in subsequently recorded pyramidal cells (n=4). Electron microscopic evaluation revealed one of the presynaptic basket cells to form 12 synaptic junctions with the perisomatic domain (seven somatic synapses and five synapses onto proximal dendritic shafts) of the postsynaptic interneuron in addition to innervating the same compartments of randomly-selected local pyramidal cells (50% somatic and 50% proximal dendritic synapses, n=12). In addition, light microscopic analysis also indicated autaptic self-innervation in basket (12 of 12) and bistratified cells (six of six). Electron microscopic investigation of one basket cell confirmed six autaptic junctions made by five of its boutons. Together, these data demonstrate that several distinct types of interneuron have divergent output to both principal cells and local interneurons of the same (basket cells) or different type. The fast synaptic effects, probably mediated by GABA in both postsynaptic interneurons and principal cells are similar. These additional sources of GABA identified here in the input to GABAergic cells could contribute to the differential temporal patterning of distinct GABAergic synaptic networks.
We used hippocampal synaptosomes to study the effect of NO originating from NO donors and from the activation of the NO synthase on the Ca2+-dependent release of glutamate due to 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) depolarization. We distinguished between the effects of NO on the exocytotic and on the carrier-mediated release of glutamate, which we found to be related to an increase in cGMP content and to a reduction of the ATP/ADP ratio, respectively. The NO donor hydroxylamine, at concentrations &lt; or = 0.3 mM, inhibited the Ca2+-dependent glutamate release evoked by 4-AP, and addition of the NO donor, NOC-7, had a similar effect, which was reversed by the NO scavenger, carboxy-PTIO. Increasing the activity of NO synthase by addition of L-arginine also led to a decrease in the Ca2+-dependent release of glutamate induced by 4-AP, and this effect was reversed by inhibiting NO synthase with NG-nitro-L-arginine. This depression of the exocytotic release of glutamate was accompanied by an increase in cGMP levels due to the stimulation of soluble guanylyl cyclase by NO, produced either by the NO donors (hydroxylamine &lt;0.3 mM) or by the endogenous NO synthase, but no significant decrease in ATP/ADP ratio was observed. However, at concentrations &gt; or = 0.3 mM, hydroxylamine drastically increased the basal release and completely inhibited the Ca2+-dependent release of glutamate (IC50 = 168 microM). At these higher levels of NO, cGMP levels dropped to about 40% of the maximal values obtained at lower concentrations, and the ATP/ADP ratio decreased to about 50% (at 0.3 mM hydroxylamine). The large increase in the basal release could be partially inhibited by L-trans-2,4-PDC, previously loaded into the synaptosomes, suggesting that the nonexocytotic basal release occurred by reversal of the glutamate carrier. Therefore, the increase in cGMP induced by NO stimulation of the guanylyl cyclase decreases the exocytotic release of glutamate, but higher NO levels reduce the ATP/ADP ratio by inhibiting mitochondrial function, which therefore causes the massive release of cytosolic glutamate through the glutamate carrier.
Factors which may determine trematode-snail interactions were assessed in the present study. Compatibility was examined using a bacterial clearance assay to detect the modulatory effects of both compatible and incompatible trematode infections on the activity of haemocytes from Lymnaea stagnalis, during the early stages of infection. Exposure to and injection with Trichobilharzia ocellata, a compatible trematode, or the incompatible Schistosoma mansoni, resulted in modulation of haemocyte activity. However, T. ocellata activated haemocytes 1.5 h post-infection (p.i.) and then suppressed activity 24-72 h p.i. whereas with S. mansoni no suppression, only activation of haemocytes was observed throughout the test period (1.5-72 h p.i.). In previous studies, modulation of the haemocyte clearance activity by T. ocellata was found to be mediated by 2 E-S fractions, an activating fraction and a suppressing one. Investigations to assess whether the lack of suppression of haemocyte activity, observed in the S. mansoni-L. stagnalis incompatible trematode-snail interaction studied, was due to either the absence or ineffectiveness of the suppressing E-S fraction, were performed on a second incompatible combination, T. ocellata-Planorbis corneus. Using this combination it was revealed that only the activating E-S fraction had modulatory effects on P. corneus haemocytes, indicating that the suppressing E-S fraction, which actively interferes with the clearance activity of haemocytes from L. stagnalis, appears to act in a host-specific manner. In conclusion, the suppressing E-S fraction determines, at least in part, compatibility in the trematode-snail association studied. This is also probably likely in other trematode-snail combinations.

The present study demonstrates that the putative antiaddictive agent ibogaine produces more robust behavioral effects in female than in male rats and that these behavioral differences correlate with higher levels of ibogaine in the brain and plasma of female rats. There were no differences in basal locomotor activity between the sexes, and the response of rats to ibogaine differed between the sexes even in the absence of morphine. Five h after receiving ibogaine (40 mg/kg, i.p.). antagonism of morphine-induced locomotor activity was evident in female but not in male rats. Either 19 h after administration of ibogaine (10-60 mg/kg, i.p.), or one h after administration of noribogaine (5-40 mg/kg, i.p.), a suspected metabolite, antagonism of morphine was significantly greater in female than in male rats. Brain and plasma levels of ibogaine (1 h) and noribogaine (5 h), measured by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, were greater in females as compared with males receiving the same dose of ibogaine. Levels of both ibogaine and noribogaine were substantially lower at 19 h than at earlier times after ibogaine administration, contrary to a previous study in humans. For both sexes, subcutaneous administration of ibogaine (40 mg/kg, i.p., 19 h) produced greater antagonism of morphine-induced locomotor activity than did a comparable intraperitoneal injection, consistent with previous studies from this laboratory demonstrating that the former route of administration produces higher levels of ibogaine in the brain. These data show that there are sex differences in the effects of ibogaine and that this may be due to decreased bioavailability of ibogaine in males as compared to females.
An accurate determination of non-specific binding is required for the analysis of in vitro and in vivo receptor binding data. For some radioligands the non-specific binding is of the same magnitude as the specific binding. Furthermore, in vitro measurements have shown that the non-specific binding can be different in different brain regions. If this is the case in a PET study for determining Bmax and Kd, a correction for the non-specific binding has to be applied. The aim of the present communication is to present a means for determining corrected Bmax and Kd with Scatchard analysis using in vitro binding studies. The influence of non-specific binding on the free and specifically bound radioligand is expressed with the aid of a correction factor, which can be calculated from measurable quantities. Introduction of the corrected free and specifically bound radioligand should give binding parameters closer to reality than previously obtained results.
The piriform cortex (PCx) is a phylogenetically old brain structure which presents characteristics of a content-addressable memory. Taking into account its particular anatomo-functional organization, we hypothesized that this cortex could behave rather as an assembly of different functional units than as a functionally homogeneous structure. This hypothesis was tested by using both anatomical and functional approaches. Immunohistological and tracing experiments demonstrated that both the connections of the PCx with the higher nervous centres, and its monoaminergic and cholinergic modulatory afferents exhibited a heterogeneous distribution. Then, optical monitoring of its neuronal activity with a voltage-sensitive dye pointed out that the PCx is a functionally heterogeneous structure. Electrical stimulations of the olfactory bulb showed that the inhibitory processes which control the cortical responsiveness were not identical in all the PCx area. Two different functional areas at least could be distinguished: in the ventromedial PCx, the afferent activity is privileged since the level of inhibition of disynaptic activation remained large during repetitive stimuli. Contrarily, in the posterior PCx, the disynaptic activity remained unchanged in response to successive stimulations and the responses of neighbouring sites were statistically more synchronized than in its anterior part. Moreover, a late depolarization wave was significantly larger in the posterior PCx. These data are in good agreement with the results provided by computational models of the PCx. In the future, theoretical and experimental investigations of this cortex will be useful for understanding olfactory information processing and as a model of brain functioning at the neocortical level as well.
1. Recent experimental evidence has shown that nitric oxide (NO) plays an important role in the expression of penile erection and yawning and that this molecule has to be added to the list of the best known neurotransmitters and neuropeptides involved in this symptomatology. 2. This was first suggested by the ability of NO synthase inhibitors injected in the lateral ventricles (i.c.v.) or in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) to prevent these behavioral responses induced by dopamine agonists, oxytocin and NMDA. The inhibitory effect of NO synthase inhibitors was not observed when these compounds were injected concomitantly with L-arginine, the precursor of NO. Most important, this hypothalamic nucleus is one of the richest brain areas of NO synthase and also the brain site where dopamine, NMDA and oxytocin act to induce penile erection and yawning by activating central NO synthase containing oxytocinergic neurons. 3. NO synthase inhibitors given i.c.v. but not in the PVN prevent also penile erection and yawning induced by ACTH and serotonin1c agonists, which induce these responses by acting with mechanisms unrelated to oxytocinergic transmission. 4. Dopamine agonists, NMDA and oxytocin increase NO production in the PVN at doses that induce penile erection and yawning, as determined by measuring the concentration of NO2- and NO3- in the dialyzate obtained with a vertical probe implanted in the PVN by in vivo microdialysis. 5. NO donors, such as nitroglycerin, sodium nitroprusside and hydroxylamine, induce penile erection and yawning indistinguishable from those induced by oxytocin, dopamine agonists or NMDA when injected in the PVN. The NO donor response was prevented by the i.c.v. injection of the oxytocin receptor antagonist d(CH2)5-Tyr(Me)-Orn8-vasotocin, indicating that these compounds also induce penile erection and yawning by activating oxytocinergic transmission. 6. Finally, guanylate cyclase inhibitors (i.e. methylene blue and LY 83583) and hemoglobin injected in the PVN do not prevent drug-induced penile erection and yawning, nor 8-Br-cGMP injected in the PVN induces these behavioral responses suggesting that the mechanism by means of which endogenous or NO donor-derived NO facilitates oxytocinergic transmission to induce penile erection and yawning is not related to the activation of guanylate cyclase. Furthermore, since hemoglobin, in spite of its ability to prevent drug-induced NO production in the PVN, does not prevent penile erection and yawning, it is likely that NO acts as an intracellular rather than an intercellular modulator in the PVN neurons in which is formed to facilitate the expression of these behavioral responses.
Experiments were conducted to elucidate the role of the cholinergic neurotransmitter system in arousal and the orienting of attention to peripheral targets. Rhesus monkeys and humans fixated a visual stimulus and responded to the onset of visual targets presented randomly in two visual field locations. The target was preceded by a valid cue (cue and target at the same location), an invalid cue (cue and target to opposite locations), a double cue (cues to both spatial locations, target to one), or, the cue was omitted (no-cue, target to either location). Reaction times (RTs) to the onset of the target were recorded. For monkeys, systemic injections of nicotine (0.003-0.012 mg/kg) or atropine (0.001-0.01 mg/kg), but not saline control injections, reduced mean RTs for all trials, indicating general behavioral stimulation. In addition, nicotine significantly reduced RTs for invalid trials but had little additional effect on those for valid, double, or no-cue trials. Virtually identical effects were observed for human chronic tobacco smokers in performing the same task following cigarette smoking. Injections of atropine in monkeys had no effect on RTs for valid or invalid trials but significantly slowed RTs in double-cue trials that did not require the orienting of attention. These results suggest that in both species, the nicotinic cholinergic system may play a role in automatic sensory orienting. In addition, the muscarinic system may play a role in alerting to visual stimuli in monkeys.
Experiments were conducted to elucidate the role of the noradrenergic neurotransmitter system in arousal and the orienting of attention. Rhesus monkeys were trained to perform a peripherally cued, covert orienting task for juice reward, and their manual reaction times (RTs) to visual stimuli were measured. The effects of parenteral injections of the alpha-2 adrenergic agonists clonidine and guanfacine, and normal saline were compared on the covert task. We assessed 1) overall error rates, 2) the difference in RTs between validly and invalidly cued trials (validity effect), 3) the difference in RTs between neutral and no-cue trials (alerting effect), 4) target location (visual field), and 5) cue-target interval. Changes in noradrenaline levels produced by clonidine (and to a lesser extent guanfacine) significantly decreased the alerting effect, and lowered RTs to stimuli in the left visual field, but did not change the validity effect, suggesting that noradrenaline is involved in maintaining non-spatial, sensory readiness to external cues but not in the shifting of the attentional focus.
We investigated if activation of the muscarinic or nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) subtype 2 receptors would have additive or synergistic effects on the suppression of thalamocortically generated rhythmic neocortical high-voltage spindles (HVSs) in aged rats. The 5-HT2 receptor antagonist, ketanserin, at a moderate dose (5 mg/kg) prevented the ability of a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor agonist, (oxotremorine 0.1 mg/kg), and a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist (nicotine 0.1 mg/kg), to decrease HVSs. At a higher dose (20 mg/kg), ketanserin completely blocked the decrease in HVSs produced by moderate doses of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor agonists (pilocarpine 1 mg/kg and oxotremorine 0.1 mg/kg), and by a high dose of nicotine (0.3 mg/kg), though not that produced by high doses of pilocarpine (3 mg/kg) and oxotremorine (0.9 mg/kg). The ability of a 5-HT2 receptor agonist, (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI) (0.1-1.0 mg/kg), to suppress HVSs was non-significantly modulated by the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, mecamylamine (1-15 mg/kg), and the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, scopolamine (0.03-0.3 mg/kg). The effects of the drugs on behavioral activity could be separated from their effects on HVSs. The results suggest that activation of the muscarinic or nicotinic acetylcholine receptors plus 5-HT2 receptors has additive effects in the suppression of thalamocortical oscillations in aged rats.


Fifty-two supraoptic nucleus neurons in rat slice preparations were studied using whole cell patch-clamp technique. The mean passive and active membrane properties were measured as follows: resting membrane potential, 59 +/- 8 mV; input resistance, 535 +/- 129 M omega; time constant, 32 +/- 9 ms; amplitude of the action potentials, 99 +/- 11 mV; overshoot, 37 +/- 13 mV (n = 39). Most of these neurons showed a prominent slow after-hyperpolarization potential or current in response to depolarizing pulse. In votage-clamp condition, it was found that virtually all supraoptic neurons (n = 13) were invaded by spontaneous synaptic inputs. Pharmacological experiments showed that the excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were mediated by non-NMDA glutamate receptors, whereas inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) by GABAA receptors.
The striatal cellular coexpression patterns for the D(1A) and D2 dopamine (DA) receptor subtypes and the ionotropic excitatory amino acid (EAA) subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA-R1) and the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) (GluR1 and GluR2/3) receptor subunits were examined morphologically. Their coincidence was assessed by visualization of mRNA transcripts, localization of encoded receptor proteins, and binding analysis using concurrently paired methods of fluorescence detection. The findings indicated that 1) mRNA transcripts for both receptor systems were detected in the medium-sized neuron population, and the distribution of receptor message closely reflected protein and binding patterns, with the exception of the GluR1 subunit; 2) both DA receptor mRNA transcripts were coexpressed with each ionotropic EAA receptor subunit examined and with each other, and NMDA and AMPA receptor subunits also showed coincident expression; 3) D(1A) DA receptor protein was detected in neurons which coexpressed EAA subunit proteins; and 4) GluR2/3 and NMDA-R1 subunit proteins were coexpressed in medium-sized neurons which also demonstrated D2 DA receptor binding sites. These findings suggest morphological receptor &quot;promiscuity&quot; since the coexpression patterns between DA and EAA receptors were found in all permutations. The results provide a spatial framework for physiological findings describing functional interactions between the two DA receptor types and between specific DA and EAA receptors in the striatum.
Calcium enters the cytoplasm mainly via voltage-activated calcium channels (VACC), and this represents a key step in the regulation of a variety of cellular processes. Advances in the fields of molecular biology, pharmacology and electrophysiology have led to the identification of several types of VACC (referred to as T-, N-, L-, P/Q- and R-types). In addition to possessing distinctive structural and functional characteristics, many of these types of calcium channels exhibit differential sensitivities to pharmacological agents. In recent years a large number of toxins, mainly small peptides, have been purified from the venom of predatory marine cone snails and spiders. Many of these toxins have specific actions on ion channels and neurotransmitter receptors, and the toxins have been used as powerful tools in neuroscience research. Some of them (omega-conotoxins, omega-agatoxins) specifically recognize and block certain types of VACC. They have common structural backbones and some been synthesized with identical potency as the natural ones. Natural, synthetic and labeled calcium channel toxins have contributed to the understanding of the diversity of the neuronal calcium channels and their function. In particular, the toxins have been useful in the study of the role of different types of calcium channels on the process of neurotransmitter release. Neuronal calcium channel toxins may develop into powerful tools for diagnosis and treatment of neurological diseases.

Research into the biological bases of human intelligence differences is surveyed. Work on brain event-related potentials (ERPs) suggests that people with high IQ test scores: (1) show faster responses in some test conditions; (2) have ERP waveforms that can be distinguished from those of people with lower IQs; and (3) might have less variability in their ERPs. People with higher psychometric intelligence have, on average, larger brains, and possibly faster neural conduction speed. A few small functional brain-scanning studies suggest that, in healthy individuals, people who are of higher IQ have lower cerebral metabolic rates during mentally active conditions. This has led to the speculation that brighter people have more efficient brains. Despite some well-replicated findings in the search for the 'biology of human intelligence' there is a dearth of explanatory accounts to link cognitive performance differences with variance in brain mechanisms.
We examined the 2D surface formed by 3D eye positions of normal subjects to determine whether the shape and thickness changed in tasks that differed in saccadic directions: random, horizontal, vertical, radial, clockwise and counter-clockwise. Eye positions during the random task did not lie precisely on Listing's plane but on a surface with a small twist. This twist was present before, during, and after saccades. The degree of twist changed with the task; becoming less twisted for horizontal tasks and more twisted in the vertical tasks. The surface thickness changed with the task becoming thicker for multidirectional tasks. This greater thickness may occur because surfaces obtained in multidirectional tasks are the composite of surfaces with slightly different shapes.
The ethanol-like discriminative stimulus properties of a novel NMDA glycine receptor antagonist, L-701,324 ((7-chloro-4-hydroxy-3-(3-phenoxy)phenyl-2-(1H)-quinolone), a polyamine receptor antagonist, eliprodil, and a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801 (dizocilpine), were examined in rats trained to discriminate ethanol from vehicle in a two-lever discrimination procedure. In rats trained to discriminate ethanol from vehicle, L-701,324 and MK-801 substituted for ethanol in a dose-dependent fashion with a complete substitution noted following administration of 7.5 mg/kg L-701,324 and 0.2 mg/kg MK-801, respectively. Full substitution for ethanol was achieved with no alteration in the rate of responding. In contrast, administration of eliprodil (in doses up to 5 mg/kg) showed only a partial, but not dose-dependent, substitution for ethanol. These findings indicate that a reduction of NMDA receptor activity, produced either via a blockade of non-competitive NMDA recognition sites or of NMDA/glycine-sensitive regulatory sites, had discriminative stimulus properties that are similar to those produced by ethanol. Furthermore, the observation that the NMDA/glycine receptor antagonist, L-701,324, was a more effective substitute for ethanol than was the polyamine antagonist, eliprodil, suggests that several NMDA receptor subunits, and thus not only NMDAR2B receptor subunits, are of importance for the discriminative stimulus effects of ethanol.
The distribution of preprodynorphin messenger RNA-containing perikarya in the central nervous system of the rat was determined with in situ hybridization histochemistry using a 35S-labelled complementary RNA probe. All of the regions of the central nervous system reported by other investigators to contain perikarya that synthesize prodynorphin-derived peptides, except the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, the accessory trigeminal nucleus, and the ventral nucleus of the trapezoid body, also contained perikarya that synthesize preprodynorphin messenger RNA. However, the olfactory bulb, the anterior olfactory nucleus, the islands of Calleja, the CA1-CA3 fields of the hippocampus, the septohippocampal nucleus, the diagonal band of Broca, the basal and cortical amygdaloid nuclei, the entopeduncular nucleus, the subthalamic nucleus, the superior colliculus, the Edinger-Westphal nucleus, the dentate nucleus, the raphes linearis and pontis, the dorsal cochlear nucleus, the medial vestibular nucleus, the inferior olive, and the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve also contained preprodynorphin messenger RNA-synthesizing perikarya. These observations suggest that prodynorphin-derived peptides have a much more pervasive role in central nervous system function than previously suspected. However, before the physiological significance of these observations can be judged, it will be necessary to determine whether all of the novel sites of preprodynorphin messenger RNA synthesis are sites of prohormone synthesis and conventional processing.
Presenilin-1 (PS-1) and amyloid precursor protein (APP) have been linked to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. While APP accumulation is well documented in several models of brain injury, the role of PS-1 levels in neurodegeneration, if any, remains to be elucidated. The current studies examined PS-1 and APP expression in brain following thiamine deficiency (TD), a nutritional model associated with impaired oxidation and selective neurodegeneration. TD did not alter PS-1 immunoreactivity in any region of rodent brain before or after cell loss. In contrast, APP immunoreactivity accumulated in swollen neurites within, or around lesions in rats, or in abnormal clusters in mice. Thus, alterations in APP but not PS-1 levels are involved in TD-induced neurodegeneration.
Endothelin-1 (ET-1) was unilaterally applied onto the surface of the dorsal frontoparietal cortex of the rat. Cortical blood flow measurements using laser-Doppler flowmetry demonstrated dose-dependent reductions of frontoparietal cortical blood flow. Histological analysis demonstrated dose-related lesions and the time course was followed using MRI. The lesions appear to be associated with a large penumbra area indicated by morphological characteristics. Thus, cortical surface exposure to ET-1 may produce graded lesions of the frontoparietal cortex related to local ischemia.
In the rat, the rhinal cortices consist of the perirhinal, postrhinal and entorhinal cortices. The perirhinal and postrhinal cortices, which serve as major input sources to the entorhinal cortex, receive functionally different types of information. In this study we looked at the projections from the perirhinal and postrhinal cortices to the different parts of the entorhinal cortices using an anterograde tracing technique. Our results show that the perirhinal cortex preferentially projects to the lateral entorhinal cortex, whereas the postrhinal cortex mainly sends fibers to the medial entorhinal cortex. Since the lateral and medial entorhinal cortices are differentially connected with the hippocampus, we suggest that functionally different types of information are processed in parallel in the hippocampal memory system.
We investigated the effects of auditory attention on brain activity using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Subjects listened to three word lists, three times each, and were instructed to count the number of times they heard a target word during two of these presentations. For the third, they listened to the words without counting. All subjects showed significant areas of activation in auditory cortex during the listening conditions compared to rest. There was significantly more activation and a larger area of activation, particularly in association cortex, in the left temporal lobe during counting of targets compared to the no-target conditions, with a similar trend in the right hemisphere. These results provide evidence of an attention-related enhancement of both activation magnitude and extent in auditory cortex.
The co-localization of GABA with AMPA receptor subunits GluR1 or GluR2/3 was analysed in the striate cortex of adult rats by post-embedding immunocytochemistry in semithin sections. Adjacent 1 micron semithin sections of four brains were alternately incubated with specific antibodies against GABA and the GluR1 and GluR2/3 subunits. The post-embedding immunocytochemistry showed that 38% of GABAergic neurons contained the GluR1 subunit and 10% contained the GluR2/3 subunits. Previous work has shown GluR1 immunoreactivity in non-pyramidal neurons and GluR2/3 immunoreactivity in pyramidal neurons. However, this study is the first to demonstrate that there are GABAergic neurons co-localized with GluR2/3 AMPA subunits. Additionally, this study provides quantitative estimations of the laminar distribution of GABAergic and non-GABAergic cells containing the AMPA GluR1 and GluR2/3 subunits.
Using differential display PCR, we identified a cDNA whose expression is altered in several brain regions in rats self-administering cocaine. The cDNA sequence corresponds to bases 13687-13723 of the rat NADH dehydrogenase subunit 6 gene. Northern analysis indicated a 26% decrease in nucleus accumbens, a 305% increase in the ventral midbrain and no changes in the caudate putamen mRNA levels; changes were also noted in the hypothalamus and cerebellum. This is the first demonstration of an effect of cocaine self-administration on mitochondrial gene expression and suggests that regional metabolic changes elicited by cocaine may be relevant to and involved in its reinforcing properties.
Neuronal destruction in the amygdala, hypothalamus and cerebellum provokes a diminution in anxiety and neophobia. In transgenic mice that express the human bcl-2 gene under the control of neuron specific enolase promotor (Hu-bcl-2), BCL-2 overexpression reduces the naturally occurring neuronal death, producing an increase of the number of neurons and brain size. Since BCL-2 over-expression has been observed in different parts of the brain and especially in the amygdaloid nuclei, the hypothalamus and the cerebellum, we studied the fear-related behavior of these transgenic mice. Hu-bcl-2 transgenic mice showed a decrease in anxiety and neophobia, indicating that, for this particular behavior, supernumerary neurons elicit the same modification as that observed after neuronal destruction.
Familial frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a complex disorder with lack of distinctive histopathological markers found in other types of dementia. Most of the linkage reports from FTD families map the disease loci to chromosome 17q21-22. However, FTD is genetically heterogeneous, as linkage also has been reported to chromosome 3. In the present study, we investigated the genetics of a Swedish family with an early-onset type of rapidly progressive FTD, associated with muscular rigidity and akinetic movements. Neuropathological features such as severe frontal lobe degeneration, spongy changes, and gliosis were present in affected family members. We here report probable linkage to chromosome 17q12-21 with a maximum two-point lod score of 2.76 at theta = 0 for marker D17S806, and a peak multipoint lod score of 2.86 for the same marker. Linkage to chromosome 3 was excluded, as two-point lod scores of -2.79, and -2.27 at theta = 0.01 for markers D3S1603 and D3S1552, respectively, were obtained. Sequencing of the translated exons of a strong candidate gene in the linked region of chromosome 17, the tau gene, failed to identify any mutations segregating with the disease.
Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) is a candidate gene extensively explored in several association studies of bipolar disorder (BD). However, because of conflicting results of independent studies and low statistical power of individual studies to detect small differences between cases and controls, reliable conclusions are difficult to formulate. A method to obtain more reliable conclusions about the involvement of the TH locus in the etiology of BD is meta-analysis. We undertook a meta-analysis of studies that investigated the association between BD and TH genetic markers. The studies were identified by means of computerized searches of several databases, and the scanning of review articles and the reference lists of the primary articles identified. More than 60 publications were reviewed, and 9 relevant articles were included in this meta-analysis, with an overall sample of 1,069 subjects (547 cases and 522 normal controls). The overall odds ratio (and confidence interval) based on combining the results of the studies was 1.02 (0.68-1.54). Test of the null hypothesis that the mean log odds ratio equals zero (chi2 = 0.11; 5 df; P &gt; 0.05) indicated that there was no overall association between bipolar disorder and tyrosine hydroxylase.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) is a well known inflammatory mediator and algesic substance. It has been hypothesized that 5-HT can have a direct action on peripheral sensory axons, but there has been no anatomical demonstration of 5-HT receptors on peripheral primary afferent processes. The present study shows that 32% of unmyelinated axons at the dermal-epidermal junction are immunohistochemically stained with antibodies directed against the 5-HT2A receptor providing anatomical evidence that 5-HT can have a direct effect on sensory fibers in the skin. Furthermore, encapsulated nerve endings in Pacinian corpuscles also contain reaction product following immunostaining for 5-HT2A receptors, indicating that large myelinated axons can be activated by endogenous serotonin. These data suggest that peripherally acting 5-HT2A antagonists may be effective in reducing pain of peripheral origin.
Using immunohistochemical technique, we investigated the regionally different roles of muscarinic receptors in the induction of HSP-70 by NMDA receptor antagonists. The administration of memantine and phencyclidine induced HSP-70 in the retrosplenial cortex of rat brain. Pretreatment with the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine (0.1-1 mg/kg) blocked induction of HSP-70 in layer III of the retrosplenial cortex. However, induction of HSP-70 in layer V was augmented by scopolamine. These results suggest a regional difference in the mechanism of neurotoxicity induced by NMDA receptor antagonists.
Insulin may have direct effects on axons through its actions on insulin receptors or through cross occupancy of insulin-like growth factor-1 receptors. We tested the hypothesis that insulin itself influences conduction of myelinated fibers independent of hyperglycemia in experimental diabetes. Low dose intermittent (0.2 units thrice weekly) Toronto (regular) insulin was injected at the sciatic notch and knee near the left sciatic nerve of rats rendered diabetic with citrate buffered streptozotocin or nondiabetic rats given citrate only. Identical volumes of normal saline were injected near the contralateral right sciatic nerve. The diabetic rats developed hyperglycemia, elevated glycosylated hemoglobin levels and had slowing of right (saline treated) sciatic tibial motor and caudal sensory conduction velocity. In contrast, local insulin treatment on the left side prevented conduction slowing, unilaterally increasing conduction velocity. In nondiabetic rats, conduction velocities were slightly higher on the insulin treated side, but the influence of insulin was less robust than in diabetics. The insulin treated sural branches of the sciatic nerves in diabetics had a higher percentage of small (&lt; or = 9.0 microm diameter) myelinated fibers than the saline treated nerves. Local insulin has a trophic influence on myelinated fibers that is prominent in diabetic nerves and is independent of hyperglycemia.
Unilateral injury to the forelimb-representation area of the sensorimotor cortex (FL-SMC) in adult rats results in use-dependent proliferation of dendritic processes, followed by partial pruning, of layer V pyramidal neurons of the contralateral homotopic cortex. In development, 'exuberant' growth of neurons is often followed by pruning, a process that has been associated with a glutamatergic-NMDA receptor mechanism. A related mechanism may play a role in injury-related pruning of dendrites in adults. The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK801, administered throughout the pruning phase to adult animals with FL-SMC lesions, prevents dendritic pruning and disrupts behavioral recovery. Ethanol (ETOH) also acts as an NMDA receptor antagonist. It has been shown to reduce NMDA-active ion currents, inhibit NMDA-evoked electrophysiological responses, and decrease glutamate-binding in the hippocampus and cortex. ETOH also affects neuromorphology in the developing and adult cerebellum, hippocampus, and cortex. Ethanol's involvement with NMDA receptor function and its influence on dendritic morphology led us to examine its effect on dendritic pruning and behavioral recovery following unilateral FL-SMC lesions. Lesioned animals were exposed to moderate doses of ethanol in a liquid diet only during the period of dendritic pruning. As with MK801, ETOH prevented pruning and reinstated chronic behavioral asymmetries.
Calpain proteases influence intracellular signaling pathways and regulate cytoskeleton organization, but the neuronal and pathological roles of individual isoenzymes are unknown. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), the activated form of calpain I is significantly increased while the fate of calpain II has been more difficult to address. Here, calpain II antibodies raised to different sequences within a cryptic region around the active site, which becomes exposed during protease activation, were shown immunohistochemically to bind extensively to neurofibrillary tangles (NFT), neuritic plaques, and neuropil threads in brains from individuals with AD. Additional 'pre-tangle' granular structures in neurons were also intensely immunostained, indicating calpain II mobilization at very early stages of NFT formation. Total levels of calpain II remained constant in the prefrontal cortex of AD patients but were increased 8-fold in purified NFT relative to levels of calpain I. These results implicate activated calpain II in neurofibrillary degeneration, provide further evidence for the involvement of the calpain system in AD pathogenesis, and imply that neuronal calcium homeostasis is altered in AD.
Ras-GRF/CDC25(Mm), mSos, and C3G have been identified as guanine nucleotide-releasing factors for Ras family proteins. We investigated in this study the guanine nucleotide-releasing activities of Ras-GRF, mSos, and C3G toward R-Ras, which shows high sequence similarity to Ras. Ras-GRF markedly stimulated the dissociation of GDP from R-Ras, and C3G also promoted the release of R-Ras-bound GDP. Under the same conditions, mSos little affected the reaction. When Ras-GRF and R-Ras were coexpressed in COS7 cells, the remarkable accumulation of the active GTP-bound form of R-Ras was observed. C3G also increased active R-Ras in COS7 cells, while mSos did not give any effect. These results indicated that Ras-GRF and C3G could activate R-Ras. Furthermore, the activation of R-Ras by Ras-GRF was enhanced when cells were treated with ionomycin, which is known to increase the intracellular calcium concentration. The examination of tissue distribution of R-Ras, Ras-GRF, and mSos by the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction revealed that Ras-GRF was expressed only in brain and testis, whereas R-Ras, C3G, and mSos were expressed rather ubiquitously. These findings raise the possibility that R-Ras is activated by Ras-GRF in brain and testis, and by C3G in other tissues, respectively.
We examined the effects of cyclosporin A (CsA) and glucocorticoid (GC; hydrocortisone sodium succinate) in a mouse model of experimental parkisonism. GC or CsA was administered 30 or 60 min, respectively, prior to intracerebroventricular injection of 6-hydroxydopamine, followed by injection of a similar dose of each drug 3 h later. CsA reduced the extent of depletion of striatal concentrations of dopamine (DA) and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) associated with dopaminergic neuronal degeneration. GC reduced the extent of homovanillic acid (HVA) depletion in the same region. A combination treatment with CsA and GC did not produce a further enhancement of the recovery of striatal concentrations of monoamines observed with CsA only. Our findings demonstrated the beneficial effects of initial CsA treatment in experimental models of parkinsonism and further support the usefulness of CsA in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Kainic acid (KA) lesions of the rat hilus model hippocampal sclerosis and temporal lobe epilepsy. Unilateral hilar cell loss denervates the associational afferents normally projecting to the inner molecular layer (IML) granule cell dendrites, followed by ipsilateral mossy fiber (MF) sprouting. Hilar neurons also project through the hippocampal commissure to the contralateral IML. This study compared densities of IML MF sprouting following unilateral versus bilateral low dose KA lesions, using Neo-Timm stain 30 days later. Unilateral KA (0.4 microg) caused only dense ipsilateral MF sprouting. Bilateral lesions with lower doses of KA (0.1 with 0.2 or 0.3 microg) induced dense bilateral MF sprouting. However, the same low doses of KA injected unilaterally did not induce significant sprouting ipsilaterally or contralaterally. These data show that denervations of both associational and commissural afferents to the same IML dendritic zones of granule cells induce non-linear, additive bilateral MF neoinnervations.
The present study examined the effects of 0.1% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) on nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) from mouse muscle and Torpedo californica electrocytes. Receptors were expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes and studied with voltage-clamp. When applied simultaneously with acetylcholine, DMSO did not inhibit current amplitude of either receptor. Preincubation with DMSO for 1 min reduced current amplitude by approximately 50% from oocytes expressing electrocyte receptor. Preincubation did not affect the muscle receptor. With electric organ membranes, 0.1% DMSO did not block either [alpha-(125)I]bungarotoxin binding to the nAChR agonist site or [3H]phencyclidine binding to its high affinity site on resting or desensitized receptor. These data suggest that DMSO might be affecting the electrocyte receptor through a second messenger system.
The perception of sound is based on signal processing by a bank of frequency-selective auditory filters, the so-called critical bands. Here we investigate how the internal frequency organization of the main auditory midbrain station, the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC), might contribute to the generation of the critical-band behaviour of its neurons. We find a unique spatial arrangement of the frequency distribution in the ICC that correlates with psychophysical critical-band characteristics. Systematic frequency discontinuities along the main tonotopic axis, in combination with a smooth frequency gradient orthogonal to the main tonotopic organization of cat ICC, reflect a layering of the frequency organization paralleling its anatomical laminae. This layered frequency organization is characterized by constant frequency ratios of corresponding locations on neighbouring laminae and may provide a spatial framework for the generation of critical bands and for signal processing within and across frequency bands for the analysis of sound.
RBI-257 (1-[4-iodobenzyl]-4-[N-(3-isopropoxy-2-pyridinyl)-N-methyl]-aminopiperid ine), the p-iodobenzyl analog of U-101,958 (1-benzyl-4-[N-(3-isopropoxy-2-pyridinyl)-N-methyl]-aminopiperidine) had a lower dissociation constant (Ki = 0.3 vs. 2.7 nM) and higher selectivity than U-101,958 at dopamine D4 receptors, over dopamine D2 and D3 receptors in transfected cell membranes and D2-like sites in rat forebrain. Dopamine D4 receptor affinity of iodo-isomers of RBI-257 ranked: para &gt; meta &gt; ortho. RBI-257 had much lower affinity at D1 and D5 dopamine receptors in transfected cells, as well as dopamine D1-like receptors, alpha1, alpha2 or beta(1,2) adrenoceptors, sigma(1,2) receptors and 5-HT1A or 5-HT2A receptors, and transporters for dopamine, norepinephrine or serotonin in rat forebrain tissue. RBI-257 may be a useful probe or radioligand for brain dopamine D4 receptors.
Desipramine, imipramine, clomipramine, (-)-propranolol, (-)-alprenolol, (+/-)-pentazocine and risperidone caused a concentration-dependent inhibition of 6 nM [3H]DTG (1,3-di-o-tolylguanidine)-defined sigma (sigma) binding with Ki values of about 0.5-2.5 microM in well-washed homogenates obtained from rat cerebral cortex. The saturation studies revealed that the inhibition by desipramine (1-4 microM), (-)-propranolol (1 microM) and (-)-alprenolol (3 microM) resulted from a reduction of the Bmax value without alteration of the Kd of [3H]DTG binding to the cortex or hippocampus. In contrast, imipramine, (+/-)-pentazocine, clomipramine and risperidone competitively attenuated the cortical or hippocampal [3H]DTG binding. These findings demonstrate the uncompetitive inhibition of [3H]DTG binding by neuroactive drugs, thereby providing further support for the possible multiple regulation of cerebral sigma receptors.
The selective, brain penetrant, 5-HT(1B/D) (formerly 5-HT(1D beta/alpha)) receptor agonist SKF-99101H (3-(2-dimethylaminoethyl)-4-chloro-5-propoxyindole hemifumarate) (30 mg/kg i.p.) causes a dose related fall in rectal temperature in guinea pigs which previous studies have shown to be blocked by the non-selective 5-HT(1B/D) receptor antagonist GR-127935 (N-[4-methoxy-3-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl) phenyl]-2'-methyl-4'-(5-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl) [1,1'biphenyl]-4-carboxamide oxalate). The present study shows that the hypothermic response to SKF-99101H is dose-dependently blocked by SB-224289G (1'-methyl-5-(2'-methyl-4'-[(5-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)bipheny l-4-yl]carbonyl)-2,3,6,7-tetrahydrospiro[furo[2,3-f]indole-3,4'-pi peridone] hemioxalate) (0.3-10.0 mg/kg p.o.) (ED50 3.62 mg/kg), which is the first compound to be described which is more than 60 fold selective for the 5-HT1B receptor over the 5-HT1D receptor. SB-216641A (N-[3-(2-dimethylamino) ethoxy-4-methoxy-phenyl] 2'-methyl-4'-(5-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)-(1,1'-biphenyl)-4-car boxamide hydrochloride) (0.6-20.0 mg/kg i.p.), which is somewhat less selective (30 fold) for the 5-HT1B receptor over the 5-HT1D receptor had a similar effect (ED50 4.43 mg/kg). The brain penetrant 5-HT1D selective receptor antagonist, BRL-15572 (4-(3-chlorophenyl)-alpha-(diphenylmethyl)-1-piperazineethanol+ ++ dihydrochloride) (0.3-100.0 mg/kg i.p.) was inactive. When administered alone neither BRL-15572 (0.1-10 mg/kg i.p.) nor SB-224289G (2.2-22 mg/kg p.o.) had an effect on body temperature. These data demonstrate that 5-HT1B (formerly 5-HT(1D beta)) and not 5-HT1D (formerly 5-HT(1D alpha)) receptors mediate the hypothermic response to SKF-99101H (30 mg/kg i.p.) in guinea pigs. The compounds described are useful pharmacological tools for distinguishing responses to 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptors.
Botulinum neurotoxin F (BoNTx F) is a zinc-dependent endopeptidase that causes proteolytic cleavage of the vesicle protein VAMP (vesicle-associated membrane protein). VAMP is an important component of the molecular machinery regulating docking and fusion of secretory vesicles with the target membrane. We have investigated presence of VAMP protein in cultured rat anterior pituitary cells. Confocal laser microscopy revealed presence of VAMP-like immunoreactivity in secretory granules of GH-containing cultured rat anterior pituitary cells. Using BoNTx F, we have investigated whether VAMP is involved in growth hormone (GH) secretion. Treatment of streptolysin-O permeabilized GH-secreting cells with BoNTx F (2.0 and 20 nM) significantly inhibited Ca(2+)-induced GH release. The results show that the secretory granules of rat anterior pituitary cell contain VAMP protein and suggest that VAMP is of importance in regulating Ca(2+)-mediated GH secretion.
The two agonist-binding domains of the electric organ nicotinic acetylcholine receptor are located at the alphagamma and alphadelta subunit interfaces. alpha-Conotoxins GI and MI are competitive antagonists of this receptor and, like d-tubocurarine, bind to the alphagamma site with much higher affinity than to the alphadelta site. In the present study, alpha-conotoxin SIA also displayed strong affinity for the alphagamma site but no measurable affinity for the alphadelta site, thus showing even greater site-selectivity. In contrast, alpha-conotoxin SI does not distinguish between the two agonist sites, although its sequence differs from that of GI at only three positions: GI, ECCNPACGRHYSC; SI, ICCNPACGPKYSC. Analogues of SI and GI modified at these three positions were studied to identify the determinants of GI's alphagamma selectivity. Substituting arginine for proline at position 9 produced peptides which displayed &quot;GI-like&quot; selectivity for the alphagamma site. Conversely, substituting proline for arginine at position 9 resulted in &quot;SI-like&quot; nonselective inhibitors. An SI analogue having alanine in place of proline 9 did not distinguish between the two agonist sites and displayed about the same affinity as SI, indicating the importance of the arginyl cation. Interchanging the residues at position 1 or at position 10 influenced the affinity for the receptor but did not measurably change peptide selectivity. Therefore, of the three sequence differences in SI and GI, the variation at position 9, proline and arginine, respectively, is sufficient to account for GI's selective high-affinity binding to the alphagamma site on the electric organ acetylcholine receptor.
Although neurotrophins have traditionally been regarded as neuronal survival factors, recent work has suggested a role for these factors in synaptic plasticity. In particular, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) rapidly enhances synaptic transmission in hippocampal neurons through trkB receptor stimulation and postsynaptic phosphorylation mechanisms. Activation of trkB also modulates hippocampal long-term potentiation, in which postsynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors play a key role. However, the final common pathway through which BDNF increases postsynaptic responsiveness is unknown. We now report that BDNF, within 5 min of exposure, elicits a dose-dependent increase in phosphorylation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1. This acute effect occurred in hippocampal synaptoneurosomes, which contain pre- and postsynaptic elements, and in isolated hippocampal postsynaptic densities. Nerve growth factor, in contrast, caused no enhancement of phosphorylation. These results suggest a potential mechanism for trophin-induced potentiation of synaptic transmission.
The anteroventral periventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (AVPV) is a sexually dimorphic nucleus in the preoptic region that appears to be a nodal point in forebrain circuits, mediating hormonal feedback on gonadotropin secretion. The results of anterograde transport experiments indicate that the AVPV sends ascending projections to the ventral part of the lateral septal nucleus, the parastrial nucleus, and the region adjacent to the vascular organ of the lamina terminalis (OVLT) that contains a subpopulation of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH)-containing neurons. The majority of projections from the AVPV pass caudally through the periventricular zone of the hypothalamus and form dense terminal fields in the periventricular nuclei, parvicellular parts of the paraventricular nucleus, and in the arcuate nucleus. Inputs to medial zone nuclei are more limited, with substantial projections to only the medial preoptic and dorsomedial nuclei. The AVPV sends few projections to the caudal brainstem, but terminals were observed reliably in the periaqueductal gray and medial part of the nucleus of the solitary tract. Anterograde double-labeling experiments demonstrate terminals derived from neurons in the AVPV in close apposition to GnRH-containing neurons in the preoptic region, and to dopaminergic neurons in the arcuate nucleus. Thus, the organization of projections from the AVPV in female rats suggests that neurons in this nucleus may influence the secretion of luteinizing hormone and prolactin through direct projections to GnRH neurons and tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neurons.
In the present study, we investigated whether a dorsal thalamic region comparable to the motor part of the mammalian ventral tier (the ventral anterior nucleus, the ventral lateral nucleus, and the oral ventroposterolateral nucleus) exists in pigeon. With this aim, we reinvestigated the projections of the pigeon dorsal pallidum to the dorsal thalamus by using 1) injections of the anterogradely transported form of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA; 10,000 molecular weight) in the pigeon dorsal pallidum (paleostriatum primitivum) and 2) injections of the retrogradely transported form of BDA (3,000 molecular weight) in the pigeon dorsal thalamus. Our results indicate that the dorsal pallidum in pigeons projects to three areas of the dorsal thalamus: the dorsointermediate posterior nucleus, the ventrointermediate area, and the nucleus subrotundus. Only the projection to the dorsointermediate posterior nucleus was described previously (Karten and Dubbeldam [1973] J. Comp. Neurol. 148:61-90; Kitt and Brauth [1982] Neuroscience 6:1551-1566). To investigate whether any of the dorsal thalamic nuclei receiving pallidal input project to a motor cortical field, injections of the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold were placed into the rostral Wulst. This is an avian cortical field that appears to contain a region comparable to mammalian primary somatomotor cortex (Karten [1971] Anat. Rec. 169:353; Wild [1992] J. Comp. Neurol. 287:1-18). Our results indicate that neurons in the rostral ventrointermediate area, but not in the nucleus subrotundus, the dorsointermediate posterior nucleus, or the intermediate or caudal parts of the ventrointermediate area, project to the rostral Wulst. In addition to the input from the dorsal pallidum, the avian ventrointermediate area also receives input from the lateral substantia nigra and the lateral and internal cerebellar nuclei (present results). Our results suggest the existence in birds of a pallidothalamocortical loop similar to the pallidoventral tier-motor cortex loop of mammals and suggest that the avian ventrointermediate area is comparable to the motor part of the mammalian ventral tier in both location and connections. If this is confirmed by physiological experiments, then it would indicate that basal ganglia control of movement mediated by a pallidothalamocortical loop may have evolved with the stem reptiles.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) plays a role in the response to acute brain injury, the mechanisms as yet remain unknown. In the present study, alterations in the immunohistochemical localisation of apoE in rat cortex were examined at 30 min, 2 h or 4 h following production of an acute subdural haematoma. Levels of apoE were determined in cortex by immunoblotting at 30 min and 4 h post-haematoma. Extensive areas of ischaemic cell damage were observed in the cortex underlying the haematoma with minimal damage observed in shams. In sham animals, apoE immunoreactivity was confined to astrocytes and their processes. Following the haematoma induction, apoE immunoreactivity was dramatically altered. At 30 min post-haematoma, intense apoE staining was observed in clusters of neuronal perikarya and the neuropil throughout the cortical layers underlying the haematoma and this persisted at 2 h and 4 h post-haematoma. Additionally, at 4 h post-haematoma marked apoE staining of discrete foci within the neuropil closely associated with capillaries was consistently observed in the ipsilateral cortex. Immunoblotting indicated there were no significant alterations in the cortical levels of apoE at 30 min post-haematoma but, at 4 h post-haematoma, there was a significant elevation (27%, P &lt; 0.001) in the levels of apoE in cortex underlying the haematoma compared to control levels. The results indicate that following acute subdural haematoma, a rapid cellular redistribution of apoE occurs and precedes a significant elevation in the levels of apoE. These alterations in apoE may occur, at least initially, as part of the brain's protective response to injury.
Morphine and anandamide stimulate the release of nitric oxide (NO) in diverse tissues. The present study examines the consequences of this action on neurotransmitter release in ganglia from two invertebrates: ventral chain ganglia from the leech Hirudo medicinalis and the pedal ganglion from the mussel Mytilus edulis. In these ganglia, preloaded serotonin (5-HT) and dopamine (DA) can be released by 50 mM KCl. Anandamide, an endogenous cannabinoid substance, suppresses the potassium-stimulated release of [3H]DA (80%), but not 5-HT, in a concentration-dependent manner, from the neural tissues of both. The effect of anandamide can be antagonized by pre-exposing the neural tissues of both animals to SR 141716A, a potent cannabinoid receptor antagonist. Prior treatment of the ganglia with N-omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, significantly diminishes the inhibitory effect of anandamide. Morphine also inhibits [3H]DA release in a naloxone- and L-NAME-sensitive manner. Anandamide and morphine act through separate mechanisms since the respective antagonists show no cross-reactivity. The NO donor, SNAP, depressed the potassium-stimulated release of preloaded [3H]DA, but not 5-HT, in the neural tissues of both animals. D-Ala2-Met5 enkephalinamide (DAMA) also inhibited the potassium-stimulated release of [3H]DA in a naloxone-sensitive process. However, the effect of DAMA was seen in the presence of L-NAME (10(-4) M), indicating that the opioid peptide inhibition of the presynaptic release of DA is not coupled to NO. We postulate that cannabinoids and their endogenous effectors play a prominent role in the regulation of catecholamine release in invertebrates via NO release as is the case for opiate alkaloids.
Sympathetic nerve activity is maintained after high spinal injury through circuits that remain in question. We evaluated patterns of c-fos gene induction as a monitor of spinal neurons responding to high spinal cord transection in the rat. Rats were anesthetized with isofluorane. Lower cervical or upper thoracic spinal segments were exposed, immersed in warm mineral oil and transected. Spinal cords were exposed but not transected in anesthetized controls. After 2.5 h, spinalized and control rats were perfused for immunocytochemistry. Cervical and thoracolumbar spinal segments and dorsal root ganglia were sectioned coronally. Tissues were incubated in primary, polyclonal antisera raised in rabbit or sheep against a peptide sequence unique to the N-terminal domain of Fos, and processed immunocytochemically. Neurons were induced to express Fos-like immunoreactivity (FLI), bilaterally, in the spinal gray, but not in primary sensory ganglia. Spinal cord transection induced neurons to express FLI in thoracic laminae I, IIo (outer substantia gelatinosa), Vre (lateral reticulated division), VII (lamina intermedia) and X, and the intermediolateral cell column. Lamina VIII was also labeled in spinal-injured but not in control animals. Immunolabeled nuclei were prominent in lumbar segments and were concentrated in the medial third of laminae I and IIo, and in laminae VII and X. Few cells were labeled in upper cervical or sacral segments. FLI was sparse in the spinal gray of controls and expressed mainly within the dorsal root entry zone of upper thoracic segments. Patterns of c-fos gene expression were site-specific and correlated with laminae that respond predominantly to noxious stimulation and that contain sympathetic interneurons. Laminae that are responsive to non-noxious stimuli and activated by walking, IIi, nucleus proprius, medial V and layer VI were not induced to express FLI. We conclude that neurons in specific spinal laminae that process high threshold afferents and that harbor neurons with sympathetic nerve-related activity are activated selectively by spinal cord transections. We hypothesize that peripheral afferents processed by spinal-sympathetic circuit neurons may regulate sympathetic discharge in the absence of supraspinal drive.
Quantitative autoradiography was used to characterize and localize [3H]cGMP binding sites in the rat brain. [3H]cGMP binding was found to be pH-sensitive (with two optima at 7.4 and 5.0) and Mg2+-dependent. At pH 7.4, the binding was dependent on inclusion of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor IBMX. In contrast, at pH 5.0, IBMX had little effect on binding. The binding of [3H]cGMP was reversible and saturable with a Kd of 22 nM at pH 7.4 and 36 nM at pH 5.0. Bmax values were 172 fmol/mg at pH 7.4 and 462 fmol/mg at pH 5.0. [3H]cGMP binding was inhibited by cGMP and its analogues, with cGMP and cAMP being the most potent at pH 7.4 and cGMP and 8-Br-cGMP being the most potent at pH 5.0. Using an extracellular pH 7.4 buffer, the selective cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG) inhibitor Rp-8pCPT-cGMPS had very little effect on [3H]cGMP binding. In contrast, with a cytosolic pH 5.0 buffer, Rp-8pCPT-cGMPS displaced binding in the cerebellum. This indicates that PKG is localized in the cerebellum, and that the binding to PKG is favored under cytosolic conditions. Autoradiographic localization of [3H]cGMP binding sites revealed a heterogeneous distribution with the highest densities in the substantia nigra and interpeduncular nucleus. High densities were also observed in the basal ganglia, the medial habenular nucleus, the frontoparietal cortex, the lateral amygdaloid nucleus and the subiculum. It is concluded that the nature of [3H]cGMP binding is complex, with one site probably being related to cytosolic PKG mainly found in the cerebellum, and one site probably representing cGMP-stimulated phosphodiesterase mainly located in the forebrain.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) and other neurotrophins are proteins involved in neuronal survival and differentiation. Much experimental evidence is now drawing attention into a role of neurotrophins in activity-dependent synaptic plasticity processes. We now show that slices from rats chronically deprived of NGF, by intraventricular injection of alpha D11 hybridoma cells, which produce monoclonal antibodies against NGF, display a reduced probability of induction of long-term depression at the mossy fibre-CA3 synapse.
Kainic acid-induced status epilepticus results in delayed degeneration of CA3 hippocampal neurons in the mature but not immature rat hippocampus. In adult rats, the putative opioid precursor, preproenkephalin (PPE) mRNA increases in the dentate gyrus (DG), a region resistant to damage, following continuous limbic seizures. To explore why the immature brain is resistant to seizure-induced damage, the regional distribution of PPE mRNA expression and 45Ca2+ accumulation were compared in postnatal day 14 (P14) pup, and adult hippocampus at 5-6 h after kainate-induced status epilepticus. Inverted patterns of PPE expression and Ca2+ uptake were observed at the two ages. In P14 pups, PPE mRNA expression increased in DG and escalated in CA3, regions where 45Ca2+ accumulations were absent. In adult rats, PPE mRNA expression increased only in DG; 45Ca2+ labeling was predominant in CA3a,c and absent in DG. Pronounced increases in enkephalin neuropeptide synthesis in immature CA3 neurons may reduce glutamate release presynaptically and also prevent voltage-gated Ca2+ uptake into these neurons despite recurrent seizure activity. Opioid-mediated inhibition may provide an explanation for the resistance of the immature CA3 region to seizure-induced damage.
High voltage activated (HVA) and low voltage activated (LVA) calcium currents were recorded in acutely dissociated CA1 hippocampal pyramidal neurons of the rat during the first three postnatal weeks as well as in adults. Measured in whole cell voltage clamp the amplitude of the HVA calcium current increased steadily and reached adult values after 20 postnatal days (P20). Using the perforated patch configuration with amphotericin B the amplitude of the HVA component was more than five times smaller, but the time course of development was the same. The LVA component also increased with age but reached adult values already around P13. The amplitude and developmental pattern of this component were not different when measured with the perforated patch technique. The results indicate a different role for intracellular modulators on these calcium currents, but exclude them as important factors in the developmental pattern. The fast development of the LVA component could lead to calcium dependent action potentials (and calcium spikes) in immature cells. The complex developmental pattern of the relative amplitude of the two currents will either lead to specific variations in the intracellular calcium homeostasis or will have to be accompanied by an adequate developmental pattern of buffering and extrusion mechanisms.
Our previous work demonstrated that neonatal (on postnatal day 7, PD7) excitotoxic damage of the ventral hippocampus (VH) results in delayed emergence of behaviors related to dopaminergic (DA) transmission. In this study, the developmental effects of VH lesions induced at two other ages were investigated in the rat. Ibotenic acid or artificial cerebrospinal fluid was infused into the VH of 3- (PD3) or 14- (PD14)-day-old rat pups. Amphetamine-induced (1.5 mg/kg, i.p.) locomotor activity was assessed in the sham and lesioned rats prior to (PD35) and after puberty (PD56 and PD86). Apomorphine-induced (0.75 mg/kg s.c.) stereotypic behaviors were measured on PD56. Similar VH lesions resulted in different profiles of behavioral abnormalities depending upon the age at which they were induced. The PD3 lesioned rats displayed hyperlocomotion to amphetamine only after puberty, while the PD14 lesioned rats manifest hyperlocomotion as early as 3 weeks after surgery (at PD35). Moreover, the PD3 lesioned rats tended to show more stereotypic behaviors in response to apomorphine than the sham-operated controls, while the PD14 rats had a profoundly diminished stereotypic response. The behavioral changes in the PD3 lesioned rats are reminiscent of those previously described in animals lesioned at PD7. In contrast, the deficits in the PD14 lesioned animals resemble those seen before in rats lesioned in adulthood. These results indicate that the pattern of impairments associated with the excitotoxic VH lesion varies with age at lesion, i.e. a similar pattern seems to be associated with lesions up to PD7, but not by PD14. To the extent that the neonatal VH lesion in the rat models certain phenomenological aspects of schizophrenia, including the temporal pattern of symptom onset, these results provide evidence that the model requires an early defect in limbic cortical development.
Ca2+-sensitive adenylyl cyclases are key integrators of Ca2+ and cAMP signaling. To selectively probe dynamic changes in [Ca2+]i at the plasma membrane where adenylyl cyclases reside, a full-length, Ca2+-inhibitable type VI adenylyl cyclase/aequorin chimera has been constructed by a two-stage polymerase chain reaction method. The expressed adenylyl cyclase/aequorin chimera was appropriately localized to the plasma membrane, as judged by biochemical fractionation and functional analysis. The chimera retained full adenylyl cyclase activity and sensitivity to inhibition by physiological [Ca2+]i elevation. The aequorin portion of the chimeric construct was also capable of measuring changes in [Ca2+] both in vitro and in vivo. When the plasma membrane-tagged aequorin and cytosolic aequorin were compared in their measurement of [Ca2+]i, they showed contrasting sensitivities depending on whether the [Ca2+]i originated from internal stores or capacitative entry. This is the first full-length enzyme-aequorin chimera that retains the full biological properties of both aequorin and a Ca2+-sensitive adenylyl cyclase. This novel chimeric Ca2+ sensor provides the unique ability to directly report the dynamics of [Ca2+]i that regulates this Ca2+-sensitive enzyme under a variety of physiological conditions. Since this chimera is localized to the plasma membrane, it can also be used to assess local changes in [Ca2+]i at the plasma membrane as distinct from global changes in [Ca2+]i within the cytosol.
5-(4-Chlorophenyl)-3-(1-(4-chlorobenzyl)piperidin-4-yl)pyrazole (3) was identified from screening of the Merck sample collection as a human dopamine D4 (hD4) receptor ligand with moderate affinity (61 nM) and 4-fold selectivity over human D2 (hD2) receptors. Four separate parts of the molecule have been examined systematically to explore structure-activity relationships with respect to hD4 affinity and selectivity over other dopamine receptors. It was found that the 4-chlorophenyl group attached to the pyrazole is optimal, as is the 4-substituted piperidine. The lipophilic group on the basic nitrogen is more amenable to change, with the optimal group found to be a phenethyl. The aromatic heterocyle can be altered to a number of different groups, with isoxazoles and pyrimidines showing improved affinities. This heterocycle can also be advantageously alkylated, improving the selectivity of the compounds over D2 receptors. It is hypothesized that the conformation around the bond joining the aromatic heterocycle to the piperidine is important for D4 affinity, based on crystal structures of isoxazoles (29 and 30) and on a conformationally constrained compound (28). Putting all the favorable changes together led to the discovery that 5-(4-chlorophenyl)-4-methyl-3-(1-(2-phenylethyl)piperidin-4-yl)iso xazole (36) is a nanomolar antagonist at human dopamine D4 receptors with &gt; 500-fold selectivity over hD2 and &gt; 200-fold selectivity over hD3. Compound 36 is an antagonist of hD4 receptors with good oral bioavailability of 38%, a half life of 2 h, and brain levels 10-fold higher than plasma levels.
The B104 neuroblastoma cell line was investigated for use as an assay for predicting the patterning of primary neurons. B104 cells were grown on four uniform substrates with the result that the cells preferred, in descending order, poly-D-lysine (PDL), phenyltrichlorosilane (PTCS), coverslip glass, and silicon dioxide coated coverslips. B104 cells were then grown on micropatterned PDL grids on silicon dioxide coated substrates with excellent patterning. Compliance of somata to the pattern, defined as the percentage of cell bodies in a grid field located on the grid pattern, was 86% after 8 h. Neurites were not as compliant, since only 10% of background areas were free of neurites and connected cells. Compliance at longer time periods was greatly reduced. With the addition of the differentiating agent dibutyrylcyclicAMP (DBcAMP), the compliance of somata was maintained at high levels for up to 72 h. Also, the compliance of neurites greatly increased (70%) and showed positive improvement with longer pattern path lengths, contrary to B104 cells without DBcAMP. At longer times neurite compliance was reduced (12% at 28 h and 44% at 72 h). Although there are differences in substrate preferences, the B104 system with DBcAMP appears to be a useful tool in the investigation of the technology of patterned substrates.
An important experimental challenge in research with squirrel monkeys (Saimiri scureus) is the development of a reliable closed intravenous system for long term drug self-administration studies and the collection of multiple timed blood samples. A surgical procedure using a vascular access port (VAP) system was developed to provide easy access for venous samples or drug infusions. Daily experiments in chaired monkeys were simple and reliable for durations of up to 6 h. The quantitative performance of the VAP system was evaluated by the number of days until port failure for self-administration studies and the number of days during which blood samples could be collected beyond an initial time of 91 days. The mean best performance for VAP system functional time for self-administration studies was 437 +/- 73 and the mean worst performance was 281 +/- 79. The mean best performance for blood withdrawal functional time was 362 +/- 81 and the mean worst performance was 332 +/- 85. The qualitative performance of the VAP system is described including complications that developed during the procedure; corresponding suggestions for corrective actions are discussed. Enhancements to increase port performance are also recommended.
It has been suggested that during repetitive neural stimulation adenosine accumulates at the neuromuscular junction and the resulting negative feedback action of adenosine is the major basis for tetanic fade (decline in action of adenosine during repetitive stimulation) This hypothesis was examined at the rat neuromuscular junction by examining the effects of blocking adenosine A1-receptors. Intracellular recording techniques were used to monitor end-plate potentials and miniature end-plate potentials. The data suggest that while adenosine serves a role in depressing transmitter release, adenosine accumulation during brief periods of stimulation is minimal and adenosine is not the cause for tetanic fade.
Global anterograde amnesia is described in three patients with brain injuries that occurred in one case at birth, in another by age 4, and in the third at age 9. Magnetic resonance techniques revealed bilateral hippocampal pathology in all three cases. Remarkably, despite their pronounced amnesia for the episodes of everyday life, all three patients attended mainstream schools and attained levels of speech and language competence, literacy, and factual knowledge that are within the low average to average range. The findings provide support for the view that the episodic and semantic components of cognitive memory are partly dissociable, with only the episodic component being fully dependent on the hippocampus.
To determine the relationship of pretreatment hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal cortical (HPA) axis measures in major depressives to the occurrence of relapse following discontinuation of successful treatment, we compared pretreatment demographic, clinical, and HPA axis measures in 35 patients with DSM-III-R primary major depression divided into two groups. One group (n = 26) required continuing treatment to hold their symptoms in abeyance, and the other group (n = 9) had been successfully tapered off medication, remained in remission, and had been medication-free for at least 1 month. The major features that differentiated the 26 patients who required continuing medication to abate their symptoms from the 9 patients who were successfully discontinued from treatment were trends toward a longer duration of episode prior to initial study and increased baseline corticotropin (ACTH) 1-39, and significantly higher baseline cortisol and cortisol response to ACTH 1-24, in the former group. These results suggest that measures of HPA axis hyperactivity, along with longer duration of the index depressive episode, may predict the need for continuing medication for patients to remain in remission.
In zebrafish there are two populations of motoneurons, primary and secondary, that are temporally separate in their development. To determine if midline cells play a role in the specification of these neurons, we analyzed both secondary and primary motoneurons in mutants lacking floor plate, notochord, or both floor plate and notochord. Our data show that the specification of secondary motoneurons, those most similar to motoneurons in birds and mammals, depends on the presence of either a differentiated floor plate or notochord. In the absence of both of these structures, secondary motoneurons fail to form. In contrast, primary motoneurons, early developing motoneurons found in fish and amphibians, can develop in the absence of both floor plate and notochord. A spatial correspondence is found between secondary motoneurons and sonic hedgehog-expressing floor plate and notochord. In contrast, primary motoneuronal specification depends on the presence of sonic hedgehog in gastrula axial mesoderm, the tissue that will give rise to the notochord. These results suggest that both primary and secondary motoneurons are specified by signals from midline tissues, but at very different stages of embryonic development.
Mutational analyses have shown that the genes no tail (ntl, Brachyury homolog), floating head (flh, a Not homeobox gene), and cyclops (cyc) play direct and essential roles in the development of midline structures in the zebrafish. In both ntl and flh mutants a notochord does not develop, and in cyc mutants the floor plate is nearly entirely missing. We made double mutants to learn how these genes might interact. Midline development is disrupted to a greater extent in cyc;flh double mutants than in either cyc or flh single mutants; their effects appear additive. Both the notochord and floor plate are completely lacking, and other phenotypic disturbances suggest that midline signaling functions are severely reduced. On the other hand, trunk midline defects in flh;ntl double mutants are not additive, but are most often similar to those in ntl single mutants. This finding reveals that loss of ntl function can suppress phenotypic defects due to mutation at flh, and we interpret it to mean that the wild-type allele of ntl (ntl+) functions upstream to flh in a regulatory hierarchy. Loss of function of ntl also strongly suppresses the floor plate deficiency in cyc mutants, for we found trunk floor plate to be present in cyc;ntl double mutants. From these findings we propose that ntl+ plays an early role in cell fate choice at the dorsal midline, mediated by the Ntl protein acting to antagonize floor plate development as well as to promote notochord development.
