The cannabinoid system is known to interact with a variety of neuromodulators in the central nervous system and impacts diverse behaviors. Previous studies have demonstrated that limbic norepinephrine is a critical determinant in the behavioral expression of cannabinoid-induced aversion. The present study was carried out to define the adrenergic receptor subtype involved in mediating cannabinoid-induced behavioral responses. An acute microinjection of the 1-adrenergic receptor blocker, betaxolol, directly into the nucleus accumbens (Acb), was able to prevent WIN 55,212-2-induced aversion, but not lithium-induced aversion, as measured in a place conditioning paradigm. These results suggest that noradrenergic transmission in the Acb is important for cannabinoid-induced aversion and that beta-adrenergic antagonists may be effective in counteracting negative side effects of cannabinoid-based agents.
It was demonstrated in our previous studies of the frog retinotectal transmission that retinotectal synaptic potentials are enhanced by a factor of 1.5 due to the tonic presynaptic nicotinic potentiation, caused by the ambient level of the acetylcholine in the frog tectum. Furthermore, the results of those studies have indicated that the mechanism of the nicotinic potentiation is only partially exploited, because the application of the cholinergic agonist had increased the retinotectal transmission more than 2 times above the level of the tonic potentiation. The purpose of the present study was to explore this additional potentiation. We have shown that: (1) Bursts of 4-10 action potentials of a frog retina ganglion cell gave rise to an increase (phasic potentiation) of the retinotectal transmission 1.4-2.2 times, depending on the burst strength, that lasted tens of seconds. (2) This increase has been mediated through the presynaptic nicotinic acetylcholine receptors activated by the endogenous acetylcholine released into the tectum during relatively strong bursts of the retina ganglion cell. (3) Two types of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are co-localized in the presynaptic terminals of the individual retinotectal input to the tectum layer F--high-affinity (tonic) and low-affinity (phasic) nicotinic receptors.
In this event-related fMRI study, we sought to investigate the influence of negative affect on the processing of two kinds of cognitive interference: Stroop-interference and oddball interference. For our purpose, we adopted an oddball variant of the Stroop task in which Stroop-interference and oddball interference conditions were created by presenting incongruent and rarely occurring word meanings, respectively. Immediately preceding the target stimuli, we presented pictures of the International Affective Picture System which were either emotionally negative and arousing or emotionally neutral, providing two affective conditions under which the cognitive task was administered. Both the behavioral and the neuroimaging data exhibited an interaction effect between emotional and cognitive condition. First, the emotion induction selectively impaired behavioral performance on interference trials while behavioral measures on non-interference trials were roughly identical in both emotional conditions. Second, in the negative emotional condition there was incremental interference-related activation in control-related regions (fronto-parietal cortices). Taken together, findings suggest that negative affect specifically disturbs the neural control processes that in a neutral affective state allow to select task-relevant information and to shield its processing from task-irrelevant distraction. Accordingly, agents in a negative affective state have to exert enhanced control efforts to resolve cognitive interference. Additional connectivity analyses revealed that a negative coupling between lateral PFC on the one hand and amygdala and OFC on the other is related to enhanced interference resolution which can be tentatively interpreted as evidence that emotional regulation is an integrated part of an agent's efforts to preserve cognitive performance in affective situations.
The activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3) is expressed by various types of cellular insults. It has been suggested to serve diverse functions in both cellular survival and death signal cascades, but the exact role of ATF3 in brain ischemia is little known so far. Thus, the authors examined the expression pattern of ATF3 following middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and reperfusion injury. At 1-2 days after MCAO and reperfusion injury, numerous number of ATF3-immunoreacitive (-ir) nuclei was observed in the ipsilateral peri-infarct cortex, but declined rapidly at 3 days. Almost all ATF3-ir nuclei were co-localized with NeuN-ir neurons. Neither GFAP- nor OX42-ir neuroglia were co-localized with ATF3. Double labeling of Fluoro-Jade B with ATF3 showed that ATF3-ir nuclei mismatched with Fluoro-Jade B-ir neurons. To further examine the role of ATF3 in ischemic peri-infarct regions, double immunofluorescent labeling of ATF3/caspase 3, ATF3/Bcl-xl, and ATF3/HSP27 was conducted. Semiquantitive estimation showed that about 15% of ATF3-ir neurons also expressed caspase 3. However, about only 0.4% and 2.6% of ATF3-ir neurons were double-stained with Bcl-xl and Hsp27, respectively. Consequently, it would be suggested that ATF3 seem to play an important role in caspase-dependent neuronal apoptotic signal transduction pathways caused by focal cerebral ischemia and reperfusion injury.
It is well known that the adult brain is capable of profound plasticity. Much of our understanding of the mechanisms underlying injury-induced changes in the brain is based on animal models. The development of sophisticated noninvasive neuroimaging techniques over the past decade provides a unique opportunity to examine brain plasticity in humans. In this article, the authors examine the consequences of nerve injury and surgical repair on peripheral nerve degeneration and regeneration and review classic animal literature that laid the foundation of injury-induced plasticity research. They relate these concepts to recent findings of functional and structural changes in the human brain following peripheral nerve injury. They then present a working theoretical model that links behavioral outcomes of nerve injury with functional and structural brain plasticity and personality.
The importance of neuroscience in education is becoming widely recognized by both neuroscientists and educators. However, to date, there has been little effective collaboration between the two groups, resulting in the spread of ideas in education poorly based on neuroscience. For their part, educators are often too busy to develop sufficient scientific literacy, and neuroscientists are put off collaborations with risk of overinterpretation of their work. We designed and led a successful 6-month collaborative project between educators and neuroscientists. The project consisted of a series of seminars on topics chosen by both parties such as the neuroscience of attention, learning, and memory and aimed to create a dialog between the two. Here, we report that all teachers found the seminars relevant to their practice and that the majority felt the information was presented in an accessible manner. Such was the success of the project that teachers felt there were direct changes in their classroom practice as a consequence and that the course should be more widely available. We suggest that this format of co-constructed dialog allows for lucrative collaborations between neuroscientists and educators and may be a step to bridging the waters that separate these intrinsically linked disciplines.
The recent discovery of microRNAs (miRNAs) has caused the traditional central dogma of molecular biology to be rewritten. miRNAs are small, noncoding pieces of ribonucleic acid that exert control over gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. They appear to play important roles in the normal development and functioning of the nervous system and in disease states. To understand future diagnostic and therapeutic advances arising from the study of miRNAs, it is crucial that neurosurgeons understand what miRNAs are, how they function, and the role they play in diseases of the nervous system. This article serves as a basic introduction to miRNAs and their ever-expanding role in the neurological sciences.
During the 1930s, white matter tracts began to assume relevance for neurosurgery, especially after Cajal's work. In many reviews of white matter neurobiology, the seminal contributions of Josef Klingler (1888-1963) and their neurological applications have been overlooked. In 1934 at the University of Basel under Eugen Ludwig, Klingler developed a new method of dissection based on a freezing technique for brain tissue that eloquently revealed the white matter tracts. Klingler worked with anatomists, surgeons, and other scientists, and his models and dissections of white matter tracts remain arguably the most elegant ever created. He stressed 3-dimensional anatomic relationships and laid the foundation for defining mesial temporal, limbic, insular, and thalamic fiber and functional relationships and contributed to the potential of stereotactic neurosurgery. Around 1947, Klingler was part of a Swiss-German group that independently performed the first stereotactic thalamotomies, basing their targeting and logic on Klingler's white matter studies, describing various applications of stereotaxy and showing Klingler's work integrated into a craniocerebral topographic system for targeting with external localization of eloquent brain structures and stimulation of deep thalamic nuclei. Klingler's work has received renewed interest because it is applicable for correlating the results of the fiber-mapping paradigms from diffusion tensor imaging to actual anatomic evidence. Although others have described white matter tracts, none have had as much practical impact on neuroscience as Klinger's work. More importantly, Josef Klingler was an encouraging mentor, influencing neurosurgeons, neuroscientists, and brain imaging for more than three quarters of a century.
In idiopathic Parkinson's disease, clinical symptoms do not emerge until consistent neurodegeneration has occurred. The late appearance of symptoms implies the existence of a relatively long preclinical period during which several disease-induced neurochemical changes take place to mask the existence of the disease and delay its clinical manifestations. The aim of this study was to examine the neurochemical, neurophysiological, and behavioral changes induced by the loss of nigrostriatal innervation in the En1+/-;En2-/- mouse, in the 10months following degeneration, compared to En2 null mutant mice. Behavioral analysis (Pole-test, Beam-walking test, and Inverted grid test) and field potential recordings in the striatum indicated that loss of ~70% of nigrostriatal neurons produced no significant functional effects until 8months of age, when En1+/-;En2-/- animals started to show frank motor deficits and electrophysiological alterations in corticostriatal plasticity. Similarly, alterations in dopamine homeostasis, dopamine turnover, and dopamine innervation were observed in aged animals compared to young En1+/-;En2-/- mice. These data suggests that in En1+/-;En2-/- mice nigrostriatal degeneration in the substantia nigra is functionally compensated.
The increasing use of mobile phones by children raise issues about the effects of electromagnetic fields (EMF) on the immature Central Nervous System (CNS). In the present study, we quantified cell stress and glial responses in the brain of developing rats one day after a single exposure of 2h to a GSM 1,800MHz signal at a brain average Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) in the range of 1.7 to 2.5W/kg. Young rats, exposed to EMF on postnatal days (P) 5 (n=6), 15 (n=5) or 35 (n=6), were compared to pseudo-exposed littermate rats (n=6 at all ages). We used western blotting to detect heat shock proteins (HSPs) and cytoskeleton- or neurotransmission-related proteins in the developing astroglia. The GSM signal had no significant effect on the abundance of HSP60, HSC70 or HSP90, of serine racemase, glutamate transporters including GLT1 and GLAST, or of glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) in either total or soluble tissue extracts. Imunohistochemical detection of CD68 antigen in brain sections from pseudo-exposed and exposed animals did not reveal any differences in the morphology or distribution of microglial cells. These results provide no evidence for acute cell stress or glial reactions indicative of early neural cell damage, in developing brains exposed to 1,800MHz signals in the range of SAR used in our study.
Intranasal exposure to cadmium has been related to olfactory dysfunction in humans and to nasal epithelial damage and altered odorant-guided behavior in rodent models. The pathophysiology underlying these deficits has not been fully elucidated. Here we use optical imaging techniques to visualize odorant-evoked neurotransmitter release from the olfactory nerve into the brain's olfactory bulbs in vivo in mice. Intranasal cadmium chloride instillations reduced this sensory activity by up to 91% in a dose-dependent manner. In the olfactory bulbs, afferents from the olfactory epithelium could be quantified by their expression of a genetically encoded fluorescent marker for olfactory marker protein. At the highest dose tested, cadmium exposure reduced the density of these projections by 20%. In a behavioral psychophysical task, mice were trained to sample from an odor port and make a response when they detected an odorant against a background of room air. After intranasal cadmium exposure, mice were unable to detect the target odor. These experiments serve as proof of concept for a new approach to the study of the neural effects of inhaled toxicants. The use of in vivo functional imaging of the neuronal populations exposed to the toxicant permits the direct observation of primary pathophysiology. In this study optical imaging revealed significant reductions in odorant-evoked release from the olfactory nerve at a cadmium chloride dose two orders of magnitude less than that required to induce morphological changes in the nerve in the same animals, demonstrating that it is a more sensitive technique for assessing the consequences of intranasal neurotoxicant exposure. This approach is potentially useful in exploring the effects of any putative neurotoxicant that can be delivered intranasally.

GABA and glutamate are both affected by stress and are involved in nociception. Thus, we determined whether stress-induced enhancement of inflammatory hyperalgesia is mediated by an imbalance between glutamate and GABA neurotransmission. Male rats were subjected daily to 10 to 20 minutes per day of either forced swimming (FS) or sham swimming for 3 consecutive days; nonconditioned rats served as controls. Some rats were treated i.p. with ketamine (5 mg/kg), diazepam (2 mg/kg), flumazenil (0.1 mg/kg), or vehicle (0.9% NaCl), 30 to 60 minutes before each conditioning session or nociception assessment. Pain behavior, spinal nociceptive neuronal activation and GABA and glutamate release were respectively evaluated by the formalin test, the expression of c-Fos and in vivo microdialysis of superficial laminae of the lumbar spinal cord, 48 hours after the last conditioning session. Nitric oxide metabolites (NO(x)) were determined as markers of post-synaptic NMDA receptor activation. FS stress enhanced formalin-induced hyperalgesia, increased pain-elicited c-Fos expression, decreased basal and delayed pain-induced GABA release, and increased basal and induced glutamate release. Hyperalgesia and c-Fos overexpression were blocked only by prestress treatment with diazepam and post-stress treatment with ketamine, whereas changes in GABA and glutamate release were reversed by prestress treatment with diazepam. Diazepam effects were blocked by flumazenil. NO(x) increased in lumbar spinal cord of FS rats by a mechanism antagonized by ketamine. Thus, stress-induced hyperalgesia is initiated by a decreased and delayed GABA release and GABA-A receptor activation, whereas it is maintained by increased glutamate release and NMDA glutamate receptor activation at the spinal level.


Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP)-mediated activation of its G protein-coupled receptor PAC1 results in activation of the two G proteins Gs and Gq to alter second messenger generation and gene transcription in the nervous system, important for homeostatic responses to stress and injury. Heterologous expression of the three major splice variants of the rat PAC1 receptor, PAC1hop, null and hip, in neural NG108-15 cells conferred PACAP-mediated intracellular cAMP generation, while elevation of [Ca(2+)](i) occurred only in PAC1hop-, and to a lesser extent in PAC1null-expressing cells. Induction of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and stanniocalcin 1 (STC1), two genes potentially involved in PACAP's homeostatic responses, was examined as a function of the expressed PAC1 variant. VIP induction was greatest in PAC1hop-expressing cells, suggesting that a maximal transcriptional response requires combinatorial signaling through both cAMP and Ca(2+). STC1 induction was similar for all three receptor splice variants and was mimicked by the adenylate cyclase activator forskolin, indicating that cAMP elevation is sufficient to induce STC1. The degree of activation of two different second messenger pathways appears to determine the transcriptional response, suggesting that cellular responses to stressors are fine-tuned through differential receptor isoform expression. Signaling to the VIP gene proceeded through cAMP and protein kinase A (PKA) in these cells, independently of the MAP kinase ERK1/2. STC1 gene induction by PACAP was dependent on cAMP and ERK1/2, independently of PKA. Differential gene induction via different cAMP dependent signaling pathways potentially provides further targets for the design of treatments for stress-associated disorders.
Spatial attention is a key factor in the exploration and processing of the surrounding environment, and plays a role in linking magnitudes such as space, time, and numbers. The present work evaluates whether shifting the coordinates of spatial attention through rotational head movements may affect the ability to estimate the duration of different time intervals. A computer-based implicit timing task was employed, in which participants were asked to concentrate and report verbally on colour changes of sequential stimuli displayed on a computer screen; subsequently, they were required to reproduce the temporal duration (ranging between 5 and 80 sec.) of the perceived stimuli using the computer keyboard. There was statistically significant overestimation of the 80-sec. intervals exclusively on the rightward rotation head posture, whereas head posture did not affect timing performances on shorter intervals. These findings support the hypothesis that the coordinates of spatial attention influence the ability to process time, consistent with the existence of common cortical metrics of space and time in healthy humans.
-Arrestin2 (ARRB2) is a component of the G-protein-coupled receptor complex and is involved in -opioid and dopamine D(2) receptor signaling, two central processes in methadone signal transduction. We analyzed 238 patients in methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) and identified a haplotype block (rs34230287, rs3786047, rs1045280 and rs2036657) spanning almost the entire ARRB2 locus. Although none of these single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) leads to a change in amino-acid sequence, we found that for all the SNPs analyzed, with exception of rs34230287, homozygosity for the variant allele confers a nonresponding phenotype (n=73; rs1045280C and rs2036657G: OR=3.1, 95% CI=1.5-6.3, P=0.004; rs3786047A: OR=2.5, 95% CI=1.2-5.1, P=0.02) also illustrated by a 12-fold shorter period of negative urine screening (P=0.01). The ARRB2 genotype may thus contribute to the interindividual variability in the response to MMT and help to predict response to treatment.
Attenuation of drug reward has been the major focus of medication development in the addiction area to date. With the growth of research in the area of cognitive neuroscience, the importance of executive function and inhibitory cognitive control in addictive disorders is becoming increasingly apparent. An emerging strategy in the pharmacotherapy of addictions and other psychiatric disorders involves the use of medications that improve cognitive function. In particular, agents that facilitate inhibitory and attentional control, improve abstraction, planning and mental flexibility could be beneficial in the treatment of substance use disorders. Because there are multiple neurotransmitter systems involved in the regulation of cognitive function, agents from a number of drug classes have been tested. In particular, agents acting through the cholinergic, adrenergic and glutamatergic systems have shown potential for improving cognitive function in a number of psychiatric and neurologic disorders, but most of these agents have not been tested in the treatment of individuals with substance use disorders. This manuscript provides a review of clinical data supporting the use of the major classes of cognitive enhancing agents in substance use disorders. Agents that have shown promise in cognitive enhancement in other disorders, and have a theoretical or mechanistic rationale for application to substance use disorders are also highlighted.
The investigation of novel drug targets for treating cognitive impairments associated with neurological and psychiatric disorders remains a primary focus of study in central nervous system (CNS) research. Many promising new therapies are progressing through preclinical and clinical development, and offer the potential of improved treatment options for neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) as well as other disorders that have not been particularly well treated to date like the cognitive impairments associated with schizophrenia (CIAS). Among targets under investigation, cholinergic receptors have received much attention with several nicotinic agonists (7 and 42) actively in clinical trials for the treatment of AD, CIAS and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Both glutamatergic and serotonergic (5-HT) agonists and antagonists have profound effects on neurotransmission and improve cognitive function in preclinical experiments with animals; some of these compounds are now in proof-of-concept studies in humans. Several histamine H3 receptor antagonists are in clinical development not only for cognitive enhancement, but also for the treatment of narcolepsy and cognitive deficits due to sleep deprivation because of their expression in brain sleep centers. Compounds that dampen inhibitory tone (e.g., GABA(A) 5 inverse agonists) or elevate excitatory tone (e.g., glycine transporter inhibitors) offer novel approaches for treating diseases such as schizophrenia, AD and Down syndrome. In addition to cell surface receptors, intracellular drug targets such as the phosphodiesterases (PDEs) are known to impact signaling pathways that affect long-term memory formation and working memory. Overall, there is a genuine need to treat cognitive deficits associated with many neuropsychiatric conditions as well as an increasingly aging population.
It is now possible to reevaluate the cholinergic hypothesis of age-related cognitive dysfunction based on a synthesis of new evidence from cholinergic stimulation studies and cognitive models. We propose that a change of functional circuitry that can be observed through a combination of pharmacologic challenge and functional neuroimaging is associated with age-related changes in cholinergic system functioning. Psychopharmacological manipulations using cholinergic agonists and antagonists have been consistent in replicating patterns of aging seen in functional imaging studies. In addition, studies of anticholinesterase drugs in patients with Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment show support for the proposal that cholinergic compensation causes alterations in task-related brain activity. Thus, the cholinergic hypothesis of age-related cognitive dysfunction deserves further consideration as new methodologies for evaluating its validity are increasingly being used. Future directions for testing hypotheses generated from this model are presented.
Given the success of cue exposure (extinction) therapy combined with a cognitive enhancer for reducing anxiety, it is anticipated that this approach will prove more efficacious than exposure therapy alone in preventing relapse in individuals with substance use disorders. Several factors may undermine the efficacy of exposure therapy for substance use disorders, but we suspect that neurocognitive impairments associated with chronic drug use are an important contributing factor. Numerous insights on these issues are gained from research using animal models of addiction. In this review, the relationship between brain sites whose learning, memory and executive functions are impaired by chronic drug use and brain sites that are important for effective drug cue extinction learning is explored first. This is followed by an overview of animal research showing improved treatment outcome for drug addiction (e.g. alcohol, amphetamine, cocaine, heroin) when explicit extinction training is conducted in combination with acute dosing of a cognitive-enhancing drug. The mechanism by which cognitive enhancers are thought to exert their benefits is by facilitating consolidation of drug cue extinction memory after activation of glutamatergic receptors. Based on the encouraging work in animals, factors that may be important for the treatment of drug addiction are considered.
The impact of five phenolic acids (ferulic, coumaric, caffeic, syringic, and p-hydroxybenzoic acids) on fungal growth and type B trichothecene production by four strains of Fusarium graminearum was investigated. All five phenolic acids inhibited growth but the degree of inhibition varied between strains. Our results suggested that the more lipophilic phenolic acids are, the higher is the effect they have on growth. Toxin accumulation in phenolic acid-supplemented liquid glucose, yeast extract, and peptone cultures was enhanced in the presence of ferulic and coumaric acids but was reduced in the presence of p-hydroxybenzoic acid. This modulation was shown to correlate with a regulation of TRI5 transcription. In this study, addition of phenolic acids with greater antioxidant properties resulted in a higher toxin accumulation, indicating that the modulation of toxin accumulation may be linked to the antioxidant properties of the phenolic acids. These data suggest that, in planta, different compositions in phenolic acids of kernels from various cultivars may reflect different degrees of sensitivity to &quot;mycotoxinogenesis.&quot;
Recent advances in neuroscience have revealed a greater, in-depth understanding of the complexities associated with memory. Contemporary theories hold that an integral relationship between memory formation, stabilization and consolidation revolve around plasticity of neuronal networks. The associated requisite receptors -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and cellular mechanisms surrounding plasticity (posed to incite molecular functionality), also display strong correlations in the pathogenesis of dementias. When the brain is in a diseased state as a result of malignant neurotransmission (i.e. in Alzheimer's disease; AD), the homeostatic balance required for normal neuronal processes is disrupted, which leads to degeneration of neural circuitry. Present efforts to find new treatments aimed at reversing or halting neurodegeneration are immense, with increasing attention being placed on investigating various herbal medicines. A wide variety of herbal plants (i.e. Panax ginseng, Polygala tenuifolia, Acorus gramineus and Huperzia serrata, examined here within), extracts and compounds have, to date, already presented advantageous results when tested against known pathogenic markers related to AD-associated dementia. The efficaciousness of herbal medicines appears to be a modulatory effect on neurotrophins, kinases and their substrates that, in turn, initiate or take part in intracellular cascades related to memory processes.
Stereo &quot;3D&quot; depth perception requires the visual system to extract binocular disparities between the two eyes' images. Several current models of this process, based on the known physiology of primary visual cortex (V1), do this by computing a piecewise-frontoparallel local cross-correlation between the left and right eye's images. The size of the &quot;window&quot; within which detectors examine the local cross-correlation corresponds to the receptive field size of V1 neurons. This basic model has successfully captured many aspects of human depth perception. In particular, it accounts for the low human stereoresolution for sinusoidal depth corrugations, suggesting that the limit on stereoresolution may be set in primary visual cortex. An important feature of the model, reflecting a key property of V1 neurons, is that the initial disparity encoding is performed by detectors tuned to locally uniform patches of disparity. Such detectors respond better to square-wave depth corrugations, since these are locally flat, than to sinusoidal corrugations which are slanted almost everywhere. Consequently, for any given window size, current models predict better performance for square-wave disparity corrugations than for sine-wave corrugations at high amplitudes. We have recently shown that this prediction is not borne out: humans perform no better with square-wave than with sine-wave corrugations, even at high amplitudes. The failure of this prediction raised the question of whether stereoresolution may actually be set at later stages of cortical processing, perhaps involving neurons tuned to disparity slant or curvature. Here we extend the local cross-correlation model to include existing physiological and psychophysical evidence indicating that larger disparities are detected by neurons with larger receptive fields (a size/disparity correlation). We show that this simple modification succeeds in reconciling the model with human results, confirming that stereoresolution for disparity gratings may indeed be limited by the size of receptive fields in primary visual cortex.
A complete theory of cognitive architecture (i.e., the basic processes and modes of composition that together constitute cognitive behaviour) must explain the systematicity property--why our cognitive capacities are organized into particular groups of capacities, rather than some other, arbitrary collection. The classical account supposes: (1) syntactically compositional representations; and (2) processes that are sensitive to--compatible with--their structure. Classical compositionality, however, does not explain why these two components must be compatible; they are only compatible by the ad hoc assumption (convention) of employing the same mode of (concatenative) compositionality (e.g., prefix/postfix, where a relation symbol is always prepended/appended to the symbols for the related entities). Architectures employing mixed modes do not support systematicity. Recently, we proposed an alternative explanation without ad hoc assumptions, using category theory. Here, we extend our explanation to domains that are quasi-systematic (e.g., aspects of most languages), where the domain includes some but not all possible combinations of constituents. The central category-theoretic construct is an adjunction involving pullbacks, where the primary focus is on the relationship between processes modelled as functors, rather than the representations. A functor is a structure-preserving map (or construction, for our purposes). An adjunction guarantees that the only pairings of functors are the systematic ones. Thus, (quasi-)systematicity is a necessary consequence of a categorial cognitive architecture whose basic processes are functors that participate in adjunctions.
Differentiating cells interact with their extracellular environment over time. Chondrocytes embed themselves in a proteoglycan (PG)-rich matrix, then undergo a developmental transition, termed &quot;maturation,&quot; when they express ihh to induce bone in the overlying tissue, the perichondrium. Here, we ask whether PGs regulate interactions between chondrocytes and perichondrium, using zebrafish mutants to reveal that cartilage PGs inhibit chondrocyte maturation, which ultimately dictates the timing of perichondral bone development. In a mutagenesis screen, we isolated a class of mutants with decreased cartilage matrix and increased perichondral bone. Positional cloning identified lesions in two genes, fam20b and xylosyltransferase1 (xylt1), both of which encode PG synthesis enzymes. Mutants failed to produce wild-type levels of chondroitin sulfate PGs, which are normally abundant in cartilage matrix, and initiated perichondral bone formation earlier than their wild-type siblings. Primary chondrocyte defects might induce the bone phenotype secondarily, because mutant chondrocytes precociously initiated maturation, showing increased and early expression of such markers as runx2b, collagen type 10a1, and ihh co-orthologs, and ihha mutation suppressed early perichondral bone in PG mutants. Ultrastructural analyses demonstrated aberrant matrix organization and also early cellular features of chondrocyte hypertrophy in mutants. Refining previous in vitro reports, which demonstrated that fam20b and xylt1 were involved in PG synthesis, our in vivo analyses reveal that these genes function in cartilage matrix production and ultimately regulate the timing of skeletal development.


Major depressive disorder (MDD), a pathology characterized by mood and neurovegetative disturbances, depends on a multi-factorial contribution of individual predisposition (e.g., diminished serotonergic transmission) and environmental factors (e.g., neonatal abuse or neglect). Despite its female-biased prevalence, MDD basic research has mainly focused on male rodents. Most of present models of depression are also devalued due to the fact that they typically address only one of the aforementioned pathogenetic factors. In this paper we first describe the basic principles behind mouse model development and evaluation and then articulate that current models of depression are intrinsically devalued due to poor construct and/or external validity. We then report a first attempt to overcome this limitation through the design of a mouse model in which the genetic and the environmental components of early risk factors for depression are mimicked together. Environmental stress is mimicked through the supplementation of corticosterone in the maternal drinking water while biological predisposition is mimicked through maternal access to an L-tryptophan (the serotonin precursor) deficient diet during the first week of lactation. CD1 dams and their offspring exposed to the L-tryptophan deficient diet (T) and to corticosterone (80mg/l; C) were compared to animal facility reared (AFR) subjects. T and C mice served as intermediate reference groups. Adolescent TC offspring, compared to AFR mice, showed decreased time spent floating in the forced-swim test and increased time spent in the open sectors of an elevated 0-maze. Adult TC offspring showed reduced preference for novelty, decreased breakpoints in the progressive ratio operant procedure and major alterations in central BDNF levels and altered HPA regulation. The route of administration and the possibility to control the independent variables predisposing to depressive-like symptoms disclose novel avenues towards the development of animal models with increased external and construct validity. Furthermore, the observation that, compared to adult subjects, adolescent mice display an opposite profile suggests that peri-pubertal developmental processes may interact with neonatal predispositions to calibrate the adult abnormal phenotype.
The early environment is crucial for brain and behavior development. In particular, social experiences involving the mother and the peers are critical in shaping the adult individual. Though animal models of psychiatric disorders have widely investigated the relevance of the mother-offspring interaction, the peer interaction has so far been rarely studied. The communal nest (CN) is an innovative experimental strategy that favors a more comprehensive investigation of the long-term effects of both components. CN is a rearing condition employed by up to 90% of mouse females in naturalistic settings and consists of a single nest where two or more mothers keep their pups together and share care-giving. In a CN, the developing pup is exposed to high levels of both maternal care and interaction with peers. At adulthood, these mice display relevant changes in bran function and behavior, including high levels of neural plasticity markers, such as BDNF, and elaborate adult social competences. Overall, on the one hand, CN is an experimental approach complementary to the ones currently used that allows to investigate how the early environment determines developmental trajectories. On the other, it may represent a strategy to improve the study of animal models of psychiatric disorders characterized by social dysfunction, such as major depression, autism and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Indeed, the more elaborate social competences shown by these mice at adulthood may allow to better characterize deficits in the social domain induced by genetic and/or environmental manipulations.
The contributions of genetic risk factors to susceptibility for brain disorders are often so closely intertwined with environmental factors that studying genes in isolation cannot provide the full picture of pathogenesis. With recent advances in our understanding of psychiatric genetics and environmental modifiers we are now in a position to develop more accurate animal models of psychiatric disorders which exemplify the complex interaction of genes and environment. Here, we consider some of the insights that have emerged from studying the relationship between defined genetic alterations and environmental factors in rodent models. A key issue in such animal models is the optimization of construct validity, at both genetic and environmental levels. Standard housing of laboratory mice and rats generally includes ad libitum food access and limited opportunity for physical exercise, leading to metabolic dysfunction under control conditions, and thus reducing validity of animal models with respect to clinical populations. A related issue, of specific relevance to neuroscientists, is that most standard-housed rodents have limited opportunity for sensory and cognitive stimulation, which in turn provides reduced incentive for complex motor activity. Decades of research using environmental enrichment has demonstrated beneficial effects on brain and behavior in both wild-type and genetically modified rodent models, relative to standard-housed littermate controls. One interpretation of such studies is that environmentally enriched animals more closely approximate average human levels of cognitive and sensorimotor stimulation, whereas the standard housing currently used in most laboratories models a more sedentary state of reduced mental and physical activity and abnormal stress levels. The use of such standard housing as a single environmental variable may limit the capacity for preclinical models to translate into successful clinical trials. Therefore, there is a need to optimize 'environmental construct validity' in animal models, while maintaining comparability between laboratories, so as to ensure optimal scientific and medical outcomes. Utilizing more sophisticated models to elucidate the relative contributions of genetic and environmental factors will allow for improved construct, face and predictive validity, thus facilitating the identification of novel therapeutic targets.
Zebrafish (Danio rerio) are becoming increasingly popular in neurobehavioral research. Here, we summarize recent data on behavioral responses of adult zebrafish to a wide spectrum of putative anxiolytic and anxiogenic agents. Using the novel tank test as a sensitive and efficient behavioral assay, zebrafish anxiety-like behavior can be bi-directionally modulated by drugs affecting the gamma-aminobutyric acid, monoaminergic, cholinergic, glutamatergic and opioidergic systems. Complementing human and rodent data, zebrafish drug-evoked phenotypes obtained in this test support this species as a useful model for neurobehavioral and psychopharmacological research.
Identifying the genetic and neurobiological mechanisms underlying certain behavioural traits is an important strategy to understand the aetiology of various psychiatric disorders and to find potential new treatment possibilities. It has proven a great challenge to develop paradigms that allow translational research for behavioural phenotypes that are relevant for disorders across the psychiatric spectrum. Recently, there has been increasing attention for studies that implement rodent behavioural paradigms in the home cage to assess the association between genetic backgrounds and behavioural traits. The application of interspecies genetics to unravel these traits has revealed novel insights in the genetic mechanisms that are encoding phenotypes relevant to biological processes underlying psychiatric disorders. By means of two examples, namely the stress-induced hyperthermia paradigm and the home cage environment, this review aims to show that by using individual genetic variations with phenotypes obtained from mice and across categories of neuropsychiatric disorders, novel insights in the neurobiological trajectory of psychiatric disorders can be obtained.
The selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) Prozac (fluoxetine) is widely prescribed for the treatment of depression and anxiety-related disorders. While extensive research has established that fluoxetine is safe for adults, safety is not guaranteed for (unborn) children and adolescents. Some clinical studies have reported adverse outcomes, such as premature birth, neonatal cardiovascular abnormalities, and pulmonary hypertension in children whose mothers used SSRIs during pregnancy. In addition, several reports show that adolescent fluoxetine treatment increases risk for suicidal behavior. Despite these studies, fluoxetine is not contraindicated in the treatment of depressed pregnant women and adolescents. Longitudinal research in humans is limited because of ethical reasons and time constraints, and to overcome these limitations, rodents are used to increase insight in the age-dependent effects of fluoxetine exposure. It has been established that neonatal and adolescent fluoxetine exposure leads to paradoxical anxiety- and depression-like features in later life of rats and mice, although in some studies adolescent fluoxetine exposure was without effects. These age-dependent outcomes of fluoxetine may be explained by serotonin's neurotrophic effects, which may vary according to the developmental stage of the brain due to epigenetic modifications. Here we review the existing evidence for the age-dependent effects of fluoxetine in humans and rodents, address the gaps in our current knowledge and propose directions for future research. Given the overlap between human and rodent findings, rodents provide heuristic value in further research on the age-dependent effects of SSRIs.
The biological mechanisms of human social behavior are complex. Animal models may facilitate the understanding of these mechanisms and may help one to develop treatment strategies for abnormal human social behavior, a core symptom in numerous clinical conditions. The zebrafish is perhaps the most social vertebrate among commonly used laboratory species. Given its practical features and the numerous genetic tools developed for it, it should be a promising tool. Zebrafish shoal, i.e. from a tight multimember groups, but the ontogenesis of this behavior has not been described. Analyzing the development of shoaling is a step towards discovering the mechanisms of this behavior. Here we study age-dependent changes of shoaling in zebrafish from day 7 post fertilization to over 5months of age by measuring the distance between all pairs of fish in freely swimming groups of ten subjects. Our longitudinal (repeated measure within subject) and cross sectional (non-repeated measure between subject) analyses both demonstrated a significant increase of shoaling with age (decreased distance between shoal members). Given the sophisticated genetic and developmental biology methods already available for zebrafish, we argue that our behavioral results open a new avenue towards the understanding of the development of vertebrate social behavior and of its mechanisms and abnormalities.
The main objective of the present study was to classify doctoral programs with Quality Mention in Psychology based on their scientific productivity. For this purpose, articles in the Web of Science published by professors teaching in these doctoral programs were analyzed. In addition, we analyzed scientific journals in which these professors tend to publish more papers and the evolution in the number of papers published until 2009. Results showed that the most productive doctoral program was the Neurosciences program at the University of Oviedo. This program showed a ratio of 40 articles--published in journals included in Journal Citation Reports--by each professor. In contrast, other programs did not reach a ratio of 10 articles per professor. Regarding journals, results showed that 9 out of the 20 most popular journals are Hispanic and a gradual increase in the number of published papers was also observed. Lastly, results and implications for quality assessment are discussed.

The 22q13.3 deletion syndrome is characterized by a significant delay in language development, mental retardation, hypotonia, and autistic features. Cumulative evidence has shown that haploinsufficiency of the SHANK3 gene is a major cause of the neurological symptoms of the 22q13.3 deletion syndrome. Shank3, a multidomain protein containing the SH3 and PDZ domains, is thought to play an important role in the formation and function of synapses in the developing brain. In this study, we analyzed the SHANK3 gene in 128 autistic patients with manifestations similar to those seen in the 22q13.3 deletion syndrome. The results showed a 6-amino acid deletion upstream of the SH3 domain, a missense variant (arginine to histidine at amino acid position 656) in the PDZ domain, and the insertion or deletion of a repeated 10-bp GC sequence located 9-bp downstream from the 3' end of exon 11. None of these variants was found in 228 controls.

In this article the psychodynamic link between loneliness and sadism is examined on basis of a case report of the sadistic and cannibalistic serial killer Jeffery Dahmer. Envy, shame/rage mechanism, a disturbed oral-sadistic development, castration fear and severe feelings of inferiority, the conviction of being unlovable and unacceptable, need to diminish tension, powerful and sadistic fantasies as a consequence of inadequate and frustrated parenting, and reality distortion appear to be involved in sadistic etiology.


A cohort of 136 Swedish spouse pairs rated themselves and each other with the Temperament and Character Inventory. The data allowed assessment of the reliability of ratings by knowledgeable informants compared to self-rating for this personality test. The reliability of the informant rating was in the expected range, with an average correlation of .58. Agreement was slightly higher for the Temperament dimensions than for the Character dimensions. Additionally, the design allowed evaluation of the similarity between husbands and wives across the seven dimensions measured by the TCI. Correlations between spouses in self-reports were very low for Temperament, with only Harm Avoidance having a statistically significant correlation (.22, p &lt; .05). On the other hand, all three Character dimensions were significantly correlated. These results support the conceptualization of Temperament and Character as separate components of personality. The results are consistent with previous reports on the personality of spouse pairs.
Words have been shown to influence many cognitive tasks, including category learning. Most demonstrations of these effects have focused on instances in which words facilitate performance. One possibility is that words augment representations, predicting an across the-board benefit of words during category learning. We propose that words shift attention to dimensions that have been historically predictive in similar contexts. Under this account, there should be cases in which words are detrimental to performance. The results from two experiments show that words impair learning of object categories under some conditions. Experiment 1 shows that words hurt performance when learning to categorize by texture. Experiment 2 shows that words also hurt when learning to categorize by brightness, leading to selectively attending to shape when both shape and hue could be used to correctly categorize stimuli. We suggest that both the positive and negative effects of words have developmental origins in the history of word usage while learning categories. [corrected]
Testosterone concentrations fluctuate rapidly in response to competitive and aggressive interactions, suggesting that changes in testosterone rather than baseline differences shape ongoing and/or future competitive and aggressive behaviors. Although recent experiments in animal models provide compelling empirical support for this idea, studies in humans have focused largely on how competitive interactions drive changes in testosterone concentrations and not how these changes influence subsequent behavior. In this paper, we provide a review of the literature on testosterone and human aggression with a main focus on the role of testosterone dynamics in modulating reactive aggression. We also speculate on one putative neural mechanism through which testosterone may bias human aggressive behavior. Finally, we conclude by highlighting important questions that should be addressed in future research.
The prevalence of major depression has increased in recent decades; however, the underlying causes of this phenomenon remain unspecified. One environmental change that has coincided with elevated rates of depression is increased exposure to artificial light at night. Shift workers and others chronically exposed to light at night are at increased risk of mood disorders, suggesting that nighttime illumination may influence brain mechanisms mediating affect. We tested the hypothesis that exposure to dim light at night may impact affective responses and alter morphology of hippocampal neurons. Ovariectomized adult female Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) were housed for 8 weeks in either a light/dark cycle (LD) or a light/dim light cycle (DM), and then behavior was assayed. DM-hamsters displayed more depression-like responses in the forced swim and the sucrose anhedonia tests compared with LD-hamsters. Conversely, in the elevated plus maze DM-hamsters reduced anxiety-like behaviors. Brains from the same animals were processed using the Golgi-Cox method and hippocampal neurons within CA1, CA3, and the dentate gyrus were analyzed for morphological characteristics. In CA1, DM-hamsters significantly reduced dendritic spine density on both apical and basilar dendrites, an effect which was not mediated by baseline cortisol, as concentrations were equivalent between groups. These results demonstrate dim light at night is sufficient to reduce synaptic spine connections to CA1. Importantly, the present results suggest that night-time low level illumination, comparable to levels that are pervasive in North America and Europe, may contribute to the increasing prevalence of mood disorders.


The role of personal responsibility in decision-making and its influence on the outcome evaluation process have been investigated relatively rarely in cognitive neuroscience. The present event-related brain potential (ERP) study manipulated the subjective sense of responsibility by modifying outcome controllability in a gambling task. Participants reported a higher sense of responsibility and produced a larger fERN when they were told that the game was 'controllable' compared with when they were told that the game was 'uncontrollable.' In addition, fERN amplitude was correlated with individual self-reports of personal responsibility over the outcomes. These results indicate that self-attribution of responsibility associated with different degrees of controllability affects the outcome evaluation process and fERN amplitude.
We address the degree to which resting EEG bandpower is associated with cognitive performance in 73 healthy older adults (aged 56-70). Relative theta (4-6.5 Hz) power was significantly correlated with immediate and delayed verbal recall, attention, and executive function measures. Relative delta and alpha power and peak alpha frequency did not correlate with any cognitive measures. These data indicate that high resting theta power in healthy older adults is associated with better cognitive function and may be a marker of healthy neurocognitive aging. Comparison of these with previous findings suggests that two forms of theta-frequency oscillations may exist; one indicative of healthy neurocognitive function and the other, EEG/alpha slowing linked to (future) substantial cognitive decline. Future EEG investigations of cognitive aging or decline should analyze both relative theta power and degree of EEG/alpha slowing so as not to confound these.
Low socioeconomic status (SES) has been associated with higher levels of allostatic load (AL). Posited mechanisms for this association include stress, personality, psychosocial variables, coping, social networks, and health behaviors. This study examines whether these variables explain the SES-AL relationship in a population-based sample of 208 51- to 69-year-old White, Black, and Hispanic adults in the Chicago Health, Aging, and Social Relations Study. AL was based on nine markers of physiological dysregulation. SES was inversely associated with a composite measure of AL; hostility and poor sleep quality helped to explain the association between AL and SES. Factor analyses revealed four AL components corresponding to the bodily systems of interest. SES was significantly associated with two AL components, suggesting that the effects of SES on physiological dysregulation are specific to certain systems in a middle to early old-age population.
Humans must often focus attention onto relevant sensory signals in the presence of simultaneous irrelevant signals. This type of attention has been explored in vision with the N2pc component, and the present study sought to find an analogous auditory effect. In Experiment 1, two 750-ms sounds were presented simultaneously, one from each of two lateral speakers. On each trial, participants indicated whether one of the two sounds was a pre-defined target. We found that targets elicited an N2ac component: a negativity in the N2 latency range at anterior contralateral electrodes. We also observed a later and more posterior contralateral positivity. Experiment 2 replicated these effects and demonstrated that they arose from competition between attended and unattended tones rather than reflecting lateralized effects of attention for individual tones. The N2ac component may provide a useful tool for studying selective attention within auditory scenes.
The discovery of a hitherto unpublished dissertational thesis in the archive of a publishing house has lead to a lost publication by Ernst August Dlle. In this manuscript, the author reports on the stimulation of a cerebral libido area in the dog, long before Olds and Milner published their work on the discovery of the rewarding area. The reasons for the suppression of this early publication by Dlle are investigated and are ascribed to an effort to use his neurobiologic research for secret mental manipulation experiments of the CIA at the beginning of the Cold War.
Any technique that conserves classroom instructional time without sacrificing the amount learned is of great educational value. This research compared a laboratory analogue of the clicker technique to analogues of other classroom pedagogical methods that all involve repeated testing during teaching. The clicker analogue mimics the classroom practice of dropping material that is understood by the majority of the class, as revealed by testing with clicker questions, from further lecture. A fact learning and retrieval paradigm was used, in which college students learned facts about unfamiliar countries. Compressing instruction time based on group-level performance produced as much learning as no compression and as compression based on individual-level performance. Results suggest that the clicker technique is an efficient and cost-effective method of conserving instructional time without loss of amount learned.



The early influences on Robert Edwards approach to the scientific research that led to human IVF are described. His interest as a graduate student in the genetics of early mammalian development stimulated him later to investigate whether the origins of human genetic diseases such as Down, Klinefelter and Turner syndromes might be explained by events during egg maturation. This clinical problem provided the most powerful stimulus to achieve both oocyte maturation and fertilization in vitro in humans. Indeed,preimplantation genetic diagnosis was his main goal until he met Patrick Steptoe in 1968. A re-evaluation of his meeting with Steptoe suggests that initially Steptoes laparoscopic skill was of interest for its potential to solve the sperm capacitation problem. Steptoesimpact on Edwards was twofold. First, Steptoes long-held interest in infertility raised this application of IVF higher in Edwardspriorities. Second, Steptoe offered a long-term partnership, in which oocyte collection without in-vitro maturation was a possibility.The professional criticism generated by their work together encouraged Edwards to pursue a deliberate programme of public education about the issues raised and to challenge and develop professional bioethical thought and discourse about reproduction.
Excessive nerve growth factor (NGF) production by the ovary, achieved via a transgenic approach, results in arrested antral follicle growth, reduced ovulatory capacity, and a predisposition to cyst formation in response to mildly elevated LH levels. Two salient features in these mutant mice (termed 17NF) are an elevated production of 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP(4)), testosterone, and estradiol (E(2)) in response to gonadotropins, and an increased frequency of granulosa cell (GC) apoptosis. In this study, we show that the increase in steroidal response is associated with enhanced expression of Cyp17a1, Hsd17b, and Cyp19a1, which encode the enzymes catalyzing the synthesis of 17-OHP(4), testosterone, and E(2) respectively. Using a proteomic approach, we identified stathmin (STMN1), as a protein that is overproduced in 17NF ovaries. In its phosphorylated state, STMN1 mediates a cell death signal initiated by tumor necrosis factor  (TNF). STMN1 is expressed in GCs and excessive NGF increases its abundance as well as that of its forms phosphorylated at serine (Ser) 16, 25, and 38. TNF synthesis is also increased in 17NF ovaries, and this change is abolished by blocking neurotrophic tyrosine kinase receptors. Inhibiting TNF actions in vivo by administering a soluble TNF receptor prevented the increase in total and phosphorylated STMN1 production, as well as GC apoptosis in NGF-overproducing ovaries. These results indicate that an excess of NGF in the ovary promotes steroidogenesis by enhancing the expression of enzyme genes involved in 17-OHP(4), testosterone, and E(2) synthesis, and causes GC apoptosis by activating a TNF/ STMN1-mediated cell death pathway.

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is caused by the failure of neuromuscular transmission mediated by autoantibodies against acetylcholine receptors (AChR) and muscle-specific receptor tyrosine kinase (MuSK). These seropositivity rates in AChR positive and MuSK positive MG in Japan are 80-85% and 5-10%, respectively. The incidence of late-onset MG has been increasing all over the world. A nationwide epidemiological survey in Japan also revealed that the rates of late-onset MG (onset after 50 years) had increased from 20% in 1987 to 42% in 2006. In 2010, a guideline for standard treatments in late-onset MG was published from Japanese Scoiety of Neurological Therapeutics. Based on individual experiences and the limited evidence, epidemiological characteristics of MG onset age, clinical features, and the standard treatment for late-onset patients are included in it. In this guideline summary, the ocular form was more frequent in late-onset compared to early-onset group, the indication of thymectomy in late-onset MG is less than that of early-onset MG and the combination of corticosteroids and immunosuppressive agents are recommended in order to reduce doses of corticosteroids in late-onset MG.
Synapsin II is a synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoprotein that has been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Studies have demonstrated reductions in synapsin II mRNA and protein in medial prefrontal cortical post-mortem samples from patients with schizophrenia, genetic associations between synapsin II and schizophrenia, and synapsin II protein regulation by dopamine receptor activation. Collectively, this research indicates a relationship between synapsin II dysregulation and schizophrenia; however, it remains unknown whether perturbations in synapsin II play a role in the pathophysiology of this disease. The aim of this project was to evaluate animals with selective knock-down of synapsin II in the medial prefrontal cortex. After continuous infusion of synapsin II antisense sequences, animals were examined for the presence of schizophrenic-like behavioral phenotypes and assessed on the response to clinically relevant antipsychotic drugs. Our results indicate that rats with selective reductions in medial prefrontal cortical synapsin II demonstrate deficits in sensorimotor gating (prepulse inhibition), reduced social behavior, and hyperlocomotion, which are corrected by the atypical antipsychotic drug olanzapine. Additionally, synapsin II knock-down disrupts serial search efficiency. These behavioral changes are accompanied by reductions in vesicular neurotransmitter transporter protein concentrations for glutamate (VGLUT1 and VGLUT2) and GABA (VGAT), without affecting dopamine (VMAT2). These results implicate a causal role for decreased synapsin II in the medial prefrontal cortex in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and the mechanisms of aberrant prefrontal cortical circuitry, and suggest that synapsin II may potentially serve as a novel therapeutic target for this disorder.
Evidence from epidemiology suggests that the incidence of cancer is reduced in those with schizophrenia. Clues that could explain this finding have recently emerged from neuroscience--genes that were previously thought only to be involved in cell cycle regulation have additional functions in post-mitotic neurons related to neuronal migration and synaptic plasticity. This brief communication provides a concise summary of this evidence. We propose that this convergence between epidemiology and neuroscience will provide a more tractable search space for candidate genes, and provide clues for etiopathogenesis of schizophrenia.
New findings are rapidly revealing an increasingly detailed image of neural- and molecular-level dysfunction in schizophrenia, distributed throughout interconnected cortico-striato-pallido-thalamic circuitry. Some disturbances appear to reflect failures of early brain maturation, that become codified into dysfunctional circuit properties, resulting in a substantial loss of, or failure to develop, both cells and/or appropriate connectivity across widely dispersed brain regions. These circuit disturbances are variable across individuals with schizophrenia, perhaps reflecting the interaction of multiple different risk genes and epigenetic events. Given these complex and variable hard-wired circuit disturbances, it is worth considering how new and emerging findings can be integrated into actionable treatment models. This paper suggests that future efforts towards developing more effective therapeutic approaches for the schizophrenias should diverge from prevailing models in genetics and molecular neuroscience, and focus instead on a more practical three-part treatment strategy: 1) systematic rehabilitative psychotherapies designed to engage healthy neural systems to compensate for and replace dysfunctional higher circuit elements, used in concert with 2) medications that specifically target cognitive mechanisms engaged by these rehabilitative psychotherapies, and 3) antipsychotic medications that target nodal or convergent circuit points within the limbic-motor interface, to constrain the scope and severity of psychotic exacerbations and thereby facilitate engagement in cognitive rehabilitation. The use of targeted cognitive rehabilitative psychotherapy plus synergistic medication has both common sense and time-tested efficacy with numerous other neuropsychiatric disorders.
Auditory verbal hallucinations (AVH) is a common and stressful symptom of schizophrenia. Disrupted connectivity between frontal and temporo-parietal language areas, giving rise to the misattribution of inner speech, is speculated to underlie this phenomenon. Disrupted connectivity should be reflected in the microstructure of the arcuate fasciculi (AF); the main connection between frontal and temporo-parietal language areas. In this study we compared microstructural properties of the AF and three other fiber tracts (cortical spinal tract, cingulum and uncinate fasciculus), between 44 schizophrenia patients with chronic severe hallucinations and 42 control subjects using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and magnetic transfer imaging (MTI). The DTI scans were used to compute fractional anisotropy (FA) and to reconstruct the fiber bundles of interest, while the MTI scans were used to compute magnetic transfer ratio (MTR) values. The patient group showed a general decrease in FA for all bundles. In the arcuate fasciculus this decreased FA was coupled to a significant increase in MTR values. A correlation was found between mean MTR values in both arcuate fasciculi and the severity of positive symptoms. The combination of decreased FA and increased MTR values observed in the arcuate fasciculi in patients suggests increased free water concentrations, probably caused by degraded integrity of the axons or the supportive glia cells. This suggests that disintegrated fiber integrity in the connection between frontal and temporo-parietal language areas in the schizophrenia patients is associated with their liability for auditory verbal hallucinations.
The period immediately preceding the onset of overt psychosis is characterized by a range of symptoms and behaviors including emerging attenuated psychosis, spontaneous movement abnormalities, and a broad decline in role and social functioning. Recent evidence suggests that basal ganglia dysfunction, which is implicated in the development of psychotic symptomatology, may manifest in the form of both movement abnormalities and deficits in processes integral to psychosocial functioning. However, little is known about the relationship between abnormal movement function and the observed psychosocial deficits. In the present study, 40 clinical high-risk participants meeting criteria for a prodromal syndrome were assessed for movement abnormalities and global role and social functioning at baseline. Role and social functioning were then followed up after a one-year period. At baseline, the severity of spontaneous movement abnormalities was associated with poor role functioning. Further, when controlling for baseline functioning, movement abnormalities predicted changes in social functioning one-year later, with a trend in the same direction for role functioning. Exploratory analyses also indicated that elevated baseline movement abnormalities distinguished those at-risk participants who eventually converted to psychosis and that this was also the case for poorer baseline global role functioning (at the trend level). Taken together, the results suggest that movement abnormalities are closely associated with deficits in psychosocial functioning. Elucidating the link between these phenomena may serve to refine etiological models of frontal-subcortical circuit dysfunction and inform understanding of functioning and outcome of these affected youth.


Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an irreversible and progressive neurodegenerative disorder with no known cure or clear understanding of the mechanisms involved in the disease process. Amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles and neuronal loss, though characteristic of AD, are late stage markers whose impact on the most devastating aspect of AD, namely memory loss and cognitive deficits, are still unclear. Recent studies demonstrate that structural and functional breakdown of synapses may be the underlying factor in AD-linked cognitive decline. One common element that presents with several features of AD is disrupted neuronal calcium signaling. Increased intracellular calcium levels are functionally linked to presenilin mutations, ApoE4 expression, amyloid plaques, tau tangles and synaptic dysfunction. In this review, we discuss the role of AD-linked calcium signaling alterations in neurons and how this may be linked to synaptic dysfunctions at both early and late stages of the disease.
Glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors are mainly expressed in central nervous system and play critical roles in neural signal transduction. It has been demonstrated that glutamate and GABA receptors are also found in pancreatic islets. Interestingly, almost all of glutamate and GABA receptor subunits are present in islets. Here, we summarize current progresses of these receptors in islets, focusing on there expressions, physiological implications, interactions, as well as a novel approach to investigate roles of the receptors in islets slice. All these investigations will potentially supply new understanding of working mechanism of these receptors in islet and also shed a new insight for neuroscientific research.
Suicide rate in depression is higher than that in general population, therefore, it is a major topic how to prevent the suicide in depression in clinic. In this paper, we review the risk factors in depression with suicidal behaviors and also the latest progress in neuroimaging, neuroendocrinology and molecular genetics, which may reveal the potential neurobiological mechanism of suicide in depression, and thus help the prevention of suicidality and further research.




Glineau originally described narcolepsy as a disease with an organic cause. However, the disorder had undeniable emotional triggers and psychiatric-like expressions, and soon a psychiatric etiology of narcolepsy became a seriously considered option. In fact, the psychiatric view dominated scientific thinking for a long time, not necessarily to the benefit of patients. When hypocretin (orexin) defects were proven to be the cause of narcolepsy Glineau's original disease model was shown to be right. However, the psychiatric symptoms of the disease were not forgotten afterwards, but gained a different significance: as psychiatric expressions of a brain disease. These symptoms, such as anxiety and eating disorders, can be highly debilitating and warrant clinical attention. Here, we describe the role of psychiatry in the history of narcolepsy, showing their evolving association.
The risk of sudden unexpected death is considered to be notably higher in patients with epilepsy with respect to the general population. Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) is probably caused by the peri-ictal concurrence of a number of different predisposing and precipitating factors. Among these, the presence of a seizure before the fatal event is the only feature that seems to be constantly present. Different mechanisms, namely cardiac arrhythmias, respiratory dysfunctions, dysregulation of systemic or cerebral circulation have been suggested as potential physiopathological mechanisms. Moreover, clinical data seem to suggest that SUDEP could occur preferentially during sleep. In order to assess a possible relationship between sleep and SUDEP, we have analyzed studies in which sufficient information about the circumstances of deaths was available. Our analysis confirms that the relationship between sleep and SUDEP is not given by chance as the percentage of possible sleep-related SUDEP is higher than 40% in the majority of studies. We will discuss the possible longstanding and precipitating mechanisms involved in the interaction between sleep and epilepsy likely to favour SUDEP occurrence. In this perspective, possible preventive measures will be hypothesized.

The therapeutic use of progesterone following traumatic brain injury has recently entered phase III clinical trials as a means of neuroprotection. Although it has been hypothesized that progesterone protects against calcium overload following excitotoxic shock, the exact mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of progesterone have yet to be determined. We found that therapeutic concentrations of progesterone to be neuroprotective against depolarization-induced excitotoxicity in cultured striatal neurons. Through use of calcium imaging, electrophysiology and the measurement of changes in activity-dependent gene expression, progesterone was found to block calcium entry through voltage-gated calcium channels, leading to alterations in the signaling of the activity-dependent transcription factors NFAT and CREB. The effects of progesterone were highly specific to this steroid hormone, although they did not appear to be receptor mediated. In addition, progesterone did not inhibit AMPA or NMDA receptor signaling. This analysis regarding the effect of progesterone on calcium signaling provides both a putative mechanism by which progesterone acts as a neuroprotectant, as well as affords a greater appreciation for its potential far-reaching effects on cellular function.

Stem cell-based approaches hold much promise as potential novel treatments to restore function after stroke. Studies in animal models have shown that stem cell transplantation can improve function by replacing neurons or by trophic actions, modulation of inflammation, promotion of angiogenesis, remyelination and axonal plasticity, and neuroprotection. Endogenous neural stem cells are also potential therapeutic targets because they produce new neurons after stroke. Clinical trials are ongoing but there is currently no proven stem cell-based therapy for stroke. Preclinical studies and clinical research will be needed to optimize the therapeutic benefit and minimize the risks of stem cells in stroke.





Cortical and striatal regions of the brain contain high levels of the cannabinoid-1 (CB1) receptor, the central neuronal mediator of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity evoked by endocannabinoids. The expression levels of parvalbumin, a calcium-binding protein found in fast-spiking interneurons of both regions, may be controlled in part by synaptic activity during critical periods of development. However, there is currently no evidence that CB1 receptor expression affects parvalbumin levels in either cortical or striatal interneurons. To assess this possibility, we examined parvalbumin immunoreactivity in the dorsolateral striatum, primary motor cortex (M1), and prefrontal cortex (PFC) of CB1 knockout and wild-type C57/BL6 mice. Quantitative densitometry showed a significant decrease in parvalbumin immunoreactivity within individual neurons in each of these regions of CB1 knockout mice relative to controls. A significantly lower density (number of cells per unit area) of parvalbumin-labeled neurons was observed in the striatum, but not the cortical regions of CB1 knockout mice. These findings suggest that CB1 receptor deletion may elicit a compensatory mechanism for network homeostasis affecting parvalbumin-containing cortical and striatal interneurons.
Curcumin (Curcuma Longa Linn), the active component of turmeric, has been shown to be effective in ameliorating several stress and drug-induced disorders in rats and humans. However, it is unclear whether short term curcumin administration can prevent the abnormal oro-facial movements (AOFM) which develop following blockade of dopamine D2 receptors by antagonist such as Haloperidol. The objective of this study is to determine whether short term treatment with curcumin along with Haloperidol can prevent the development of AOFM in rats. Male Sprague Dawley rats were administered curcumin at 200 mg/kg, and Haloperidol at 2 mg/kg daily for 2 weeks, and AOFMs and locomotor activity were assessed at baseline, day 7 and day 14. By day 14, rats receiving concurrent curcumin administration had a significant reduction in the incidence of Haloperidol-induced AOFMs, but no change on the Haloperidol-induced hypolocomotion. There was no spiked increase in locomotor activity in absence of challenge with dopamine D2 receptor agonist. The exact mechanism by which curcumin attenuates AOFMs remains unknown, therefore, we performed a proteomic analysis of the striatal samples obtained from control and curcumin treated groups. A number of proteins were altered by curcumin, among them an antiapoptotic protein, Bcl-XL, was significantly upregulated. These results suggest that curcumin may be a promising treatment to prevent the development of AOFMs and further suggest some therapeutic value in the treatment of movement disorders.
This in vitro study investigates and compares the effects of NK3 receptor ligands on the firing rate of rat and guinea pig midbrain dopamine neurons. The findings are discussed in the light of choosing suitable animal models for investigating pharmacological properties of NK3 receptor antagonists, which have been proposed to possess therapeutic activity in neuropsychiatric diseases like e.g. schizophrenia. In vitro midbrain slice preparations of both species were used to record (extracellularly) the firing rates of dopamine neurons located in the substantia nigra (SN) and ventral tegmental area (VTA). Furthermore, the effect of the D2 receptor agonist quinpirole on guinea pig SN and VTA dopamine neurons was investigated. The efficacy of quinpirole in inhibiting guinea pig dopamine neuron firing activity was much less as compared to that of rat dopamine neurons, suggesting a lower dopamine D2 autoreceptor density on the guinea pig neurons. The NK3 receptor agonist senktide induced in subpopulations of rat SN (55%) and VTA (79%) and guinea pig SN (50%) and VTA (21%) dopamine neurons an increase in firing rate. In responsive neurons this effect was concentration-dependent with EC values of 3-5 nM (for both species). The selective NK3 receptor antagonist osanetant (100 nM) was able to partly block the senktide-induced increase in firing rates of dopamine neurons and shifted the concentration-response relation curves for senktide to the right (pA values were ~7.5). The fractional block of the senktide responses by osanetant appeared to be larger in guinea pig dopamine neurons, indicating that osanetant is a more potent blocker of NK3 receptor-mediated responses with noncompetitive properties in the guinea pig.
Bacterial Artificial Chromosomes (BACs) had been minimal components of various genome-sequencing projects, constituting perfect analytical basis for functional genomics. Here we describe an enhancer screening strategy in which BAC clones that cover any genomic segments of interest are modified to harbor a reporter cassette by transposon tagging, then processed to carry selected combinations of gene regulatory modules by homologous recombination mediated systematic deletions. Such engineered BAC-reporter constructs in bacterial cells are ready for efficient transgenesis in mice to evaluate activities of gene regulatory modules intact or absent in the constructs. By utilizing the strategy, we could speedily identify a critical genomic fragment for spatio-temporally regulated expression of a mouse cadherin gene whose structure is extraordinarily huge and intricate. This BAC-based methodology would hence provide a novel screening platform for gene transcriptional machineries that dynamically fluctuate during development, pathogenesis and/or evolution.
Many believe that the ability to understand the actions of others is made possible by mirror neurons and a network of brain areas known as the action-observation network (AON). Despite nearly two decades of research into mirror neurons and the AON, however, there is little evidence that they enable the inference of the intention of observed actions. Instead, theories of action selection during action execution indicate that a ventral pathway, linking middle temporal gyrus with the anterior inferior frontal gyrus, might encode these abstract features during action observation. Here I propose that action understanding requires more than merely the AON, and might be achieved through interactions between a ventral pathway and the dorsal AON.
Axons have evolved to acquire myelination, enabling denser packing and speedier transmission. Although myelin is considered a passive insulator, recent reports suggest a more dynamic role. Axons, in turn, are endowed with neurotransmitter release and uptake systems along their trunks. Based on these observations, I argue that there may exist a new type of chemical synapse between axon and myelin, one that supports activity-dependent communication between the two. This raises intriguing possibilities of dynamic fine-tuning of the myelin sheath even in adulthood, efficient recruitment of resources for myelin maintenance and bi-directional signaling, whereby the axon informs its myelinating cell of its metabolic needs proportionally to the electrical traffic it is transmitting. This would also have implications for de- and dysmyelinating diseases should this axo-myelinic synapse become dysfunctional.
Cerebral ischemia is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality, reflecting the extraordinary sensitivity of the brain to a brief loss of blood flow. A significant goal has been to identify pathways of neuronal injury that are selectively activated after stroke and may be amenable to drug therapy. An important advance was made nearly 25 years ago when Ca(2+) overload was implicated as a critical link between glutamate excitotoxicity and ischemic neurodegeneration. However, early hope for effective therapies faded as glutamate-targeted trials repeatedly failed to demonstrate efficacy in humans. In a review in 2000 in this journal, we described new evidence linking a related cation, zinc (Zn(2+)), to neuronal injury, emphasizing sources and mechanisms of Zn(2+) toxicity. The current review highlights progress over the last decade, emphasizing mechanisms through which Zn(2+) ions (from multiple sources) participate together with Ca(2+) in different stages of cascades of ischemic injury.
Avoiding danger and finding food, which are life-sustaining activities that are regulated by emotion, reward and energy balance, require proper wakefulness. The orexin system controls sleep and wakefulness through interactions with systems that regulate emotion, reward and energy homeostasis. Recent findings have brought about the possibility of novel therapies targeting the orexin system for sleep disorders, including insomnia and narcolepsy-cataplexy, as well as other pathological conditions such as obesity and drug addiction [1]. In this review, we will discuss the current understanding of the integrative physiology and clinical perspectives of the orexin system. We will briefly review signaling through orexin A and B receptors and discuss the role of orexins in the pathophysiology of narcolepsy. We will also examine connections between orexin neurons and other brain areas involved in feeding behavior, reward and emotion. Finally, we will consider the therapeutic potential of drugs that target orexin receptors.

Whereas thousands of new neurons are generated daily during adult life, only a fraction of them survive and become part of neural circuits; the rest die, and their corpses are presumably cleared by resident phagocytes. How the dying neurons are removed and how such clearance influences neurogenesis are not well understood. Here, we identify an unexpected phagocytic role for the doublecortin (DCX)-positive neuronal progenitor cells during adult neurogenesis. Our in vivo and ex vivo studies demonstrate that DCX(+) cells comprise a significant phagocytic population within the neurogenic zones. Intracellular engulfment protein ELMO1, which promotes Rac activation downstream of phagocytic receptors, was required for phagocytosis by DCX(+) cells. Disruption of engulfment in vivo genetically (in Elmo1-null mice) or pharmacologically (in wild-type mice) led to reduced uptake by DCX(+) cells, accumulation of apoptotic nuclei in the neurogenic niches and impaired neurogenesis. Collectively, these findings indicate a paradigm wherein DCX(+) neuronal precursors also serve as phagocytes, and that their phagocytic activity critically contributes to neurogenesis in the adult brain.
It is still not clear whether brain hemodynamics plays a role in the functional and structural alterations in schizophrenia, since prior imaging studies showed conflicting findings. In this study we non-invasively explored cerebral and cerebellar lobe perfusion in the largest population of participants with schizophrenia thus far studied with perfusion-weighted imaging (PWI). Forty-seven participants affected by schizophrenia and 29 normal controls were recruited. PWI images were acquired following the intravenous injection of a paramagnetic contrast agent. Regional cerebral blood volume (CBV), blood flow (rCBF), and mean transit time (MTT) were obtained with the block-Circulant Singular Value Decomposition (cSVD) for frontal, temporal, parietal, occipital, and cerebellar lobes, bilaterally. Perfusion parameters were separately obtained for both gray and white matter in each lobe. Subjects with schizophrenia showed no significant differences in perfusion parameters when compared with controls. Interestingly, inverse correlations between age at onset and occipital, frontal and cerebellar MTT and between length of illness and frontal CBV were found. Preserved cerebral and cerebellar perfusion in our chronic population may in part be due to the effects of antipsychotic treatment which may have normalized blood volume and flow. Hypoperfusion in relation to chronicity, particularly in the frontal lobe, has been observed in accordance with earlier studies using positron emission tomography.
Individuals with major depressive disorder (MDD) demonstrate deficits in multiple social cognitive domains; however, systematic investigations of empathic responding have not been performed. Twenty patients with MDD completed two measures of empathy, the Interpersonal Reactivity Index (IRI: Davis, 1980, 1983) and the Toronto Empathy Questionnaire (TEQ: Spreng et al., 2009). Relative to matched controls, patients with MDD reported significantly reduced levels of empathy measured broadly on the TEQ and specifically in cognitive ('Perspective Taking') and affective ('Empathic Concern') domains captured by the IRI. A higher illness burden (i.e., greater number of past depressive episodes) was associated with greater reductions in perspective taking ability. This study provides early evidence of impaired empathic abilities in patients with MDD that may worsen with illness progression. Alternatively, reductions in perspective taking ability may contribute to a more severe course of illness in this population. Further longitudinal work is needed to characterize the relation between social cognitive performance and social functioning in this population.
A preliminary within-subjects MRI study of seven patients with a diagnosis of bipolar I disorder revealed that, compared to remission, depression was associated with gray matter density increases in subgenual prefrontal cortex, parahippocampal gyrus, and inferior temporal gyri. Decreases were observed in superior and inferior frontal gyri and anterior cingulate.
Both physiological and behavioral studies provide evidence to suggest that deficits in frontal cortical control circuits may contribute to the risk for developing alcohol dependence. Event-related potential (ERP) and eye blink responses to startle and short delay prepulse-plus-startle stimuli, and psychiatric diagnoses were investigated in young adult (age 18-30 years) men (n=135) and women (n=205) Mexican Americans. Women displayed a significant increase in the amplitude of the eye blink response to both the startle and pre-pulse-plus-startle stimuli. None of the psychiatric diagnoses were associated with differences in eye blink responses. ERP responses to the startle and prepulse-plus startle stimuli included a negative polarity wave at approximately 400 ms that was of the highest amplitude in the frontal leads (N4S). Women were found to have significantly higher amplitude N4S responses than men. Participants with alcohol dependence demonstrated significantly less inhibition and more facilitation of the N4S component by the pre-pulse stimuli. This finding was not associated with a diagnosis of: any other drug dependence disorder (including nicotine), anxiety or affective disorder, or conduct/antisocial personality disorder. The present study suggests that gender and a lifetime diagnosis of alcohol dependence may selectively contribute to this frontal late wave electrophysiological response to prepulse-plus-startle stimuli.
There is growing evidence that disordered eating is associated with facial expression recognition and emotion processing problems. In this study, we investigated the question of whether anorexia and obesity occur on a continuum of attention bias towards negative facial expressions in comparison with healthy individuals of normal weight. Thirty-three patients with restrictive anorexia nervosa (AN-R), 30 patients with obesity (OB) and 63 healthy age and social-economic status matched controls were recruited. Our results indicated that AN-R patients were more attentive to angry faces and had difficulties in being attentive to positive expressions, whilst OB patients had problems in looking for or being attentive to negative expressions independently of self-reported depression and anxiety. Our findings did not support the idea that AN-R and OB occur on a continuum. We found that AN-R was associated with a reduced capacity in positive facial expression processing, whereas OB was associated with a reduced capacity in negative facial expressions processing. The social relevance of our findings and a possible explanation based upon neuroscience are discussed.
Theory of Mind (ToM) abilities are known to be impaired in schizophrenia and data from functional brain imaging studies showed that ToM deficit is correlated to prefrontal cortex (PFC) dysfunction. Moreover, several lines of evidence suggest a critical role for dopaminergic-serotoninergic interactions at the PFC level. In this view, we aimed to analyse the specific effect of the -1019C/G functional polymorphism of the serotonin 1A receptor (5-HT1A-R), involved in both serotonin and dopamine transmission regulation. A total of 118 clinically stabilised schizophrenia patients was assessed with a neuropsychological battery, including evaluation of IQ, verbal memory, attention and executive function and a ToM task; they also underwent 5-HT1A-R genotyping. We observed a significant effect of the 5-HT1A-R genotype on ToM performances, with the CC genotype performing significantly better. The finding suggests an effect of the 5-HT1A-R polymorphism on ToM cognitive performance in schizophrenia patients, probably through complex interactions between dopaminergic and serotoninergic systems, involved in mentalising.



This protocol has been designed to generate neural precursor cells (NPCs) from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) using a physiological oxygen (O(2)) level of 3% (previously termed hypoxia) and chemically defined conditions. The first stage involves suspension culture of hESC colonies at 3% O(2), where they acquire a neuroepithelial identity over a period of 2 weeks. This timescale is comparable to that observed at 20% O(2), but survival is enhanced. Sequential application of retinoic acid and purmorphamine (PM), from day 14 to day 28, directs differentiation toward spinal motor neurons. Alternatively, addition of fibroblast growth factor-8 and PM generates midbrain dopaminergic neurons. OLIG2 (encoding oligodendrocyte lineage transcription factor 2) induction in motor neuron precursors is twofold greater than that at 20% O(2), whereas EN1 (encoding engrailed homeobox 1) expression is enhanced fivefold. NPCs (at 3% O(2)) can be differentiated into all three neural lineages, and such cultures can be maintained long term in the absence of neurotrophins. The ability to generate defined cell types at 3% O(2) should represent a significant advancement for in vitro disease modeling and potentially for cell-based therapies.
Human behavior displays hierarchical structure: simple actions cohere into subtask sequences, which work together to accomplish overall task goals. Although the neural substrates of such hierarchy have been the target of increasing research, they remain poorly understood. We propose that the computations supporting hierarchical behavior may relate to those in hierarchical reinforcement learning (HRL), a machine-learning framework that extends reinforcement-learning mechanisms into hierarchical domains. To test this, we leveraged a distinctive prediction arising from HRL. In ordinary reinforcement learning, reward prediction errors are computed when there is an unanticipated change in the prospects for accomplishing overall task goals. HRL entails that prediction errors should also occur in relation to task subgoals. In three neuroimaging studies we observed neural responses consistent with such subgoal-related reward prediction errors, within structures previously implicated in reinforcement learning. The results reported support the relevance of HRL to the neural processes underlying hierarchical behavior.
Neural encoding of sensory signals involves both linear and nonlinear processes. Determining which nonlinear operations are implemented by neural systems is crucial to understanding sensory processing. Here, we ask if demodulation, the process used to decode AM radio signals, describes how Y cells in the cat LGN nonlinearly encode the visual scene. In response to visual AM signals acrossa wide range of carrier frequencies, Y cells were found to transmit a demodulated signal, with the firing rate of single-units fluctuating at the envelope frequency but not the carrier frequency. A comparison of temporal frequency tuning properties between LGN Y cells and neurons in two primary cortical areas suggests that Y cells initiate a distinct pathway that carries a demodulated representation of the visual scene to cortex. The nonlinear signal processing carried out by the Y cell pathway simplifies the neural representation of complex visual features and allows high spatiotemporal frequencies to drive cortical responses.
Native glutamate receptor ion channels are tetrameric assemblies containing two or more different subunits. NMDA receptors are obligate heteromers formed by coassembly of two or three divergent gene families. While some AMPA and kainate receptors can form functional homomeric ion channels, the KA1 and KA2 subunits are obligate heteromers whichfunction only in combination with GluR5-7. The mechanisms controlling glutamate receptor assembly involve an initial step in which the amino terminal domains (ATD) assemble as dimers. Here, we establish by sedimentation velocity that the ATDs of GluR6 and KA2 coassemble as a heterodimer of K(d) 11nM, 32,000-fold lower than the K(d) for homodimer formation by KA2; we solve crystal structures for the GluR6/KA2 ATD heterodimer and heterotetramer assemblies. Using these structures as a guide, we perform a mutant cycle analysis to probe the energetics of assembly and show that high-affinity ATD interactions are required for biosynthesis of functional heteromeric receptors.
Inhibitory interneurons across diverse brain regions commonly exhibit spontaneous spiking activity, even in the absence of external stimuli. It is not well understood how stimulus-evoked inhibition can be distinguished from background inhibition arising from spontaneous firing. We found that noradrenaline simultaneously reduced spontaneous inhibitory inputs and enhanced evoked inhibitory currents recorded from principal neurons of the mouse dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN). Together, these effects produced a large increase in signal-to-noise ratio for stimulus-evoked inhibition. Surprisingly, the opposing effects on background and evoked currents could both be attributed to noradrenergic silencing of spontaneous spiking in glycinergic interneurons. During spontaneous firing, glycine release was decreased due to strong short-term depression. Elimination of background spiking relieved inhibitory synapses from depression and thereby enhanced stimulus-evoked inhibition. Our findings illustrate a simple yet powerful neuromodulatory mechanism to shift the balance between background and stimulus-evoked signals.
It is a long-standing question how developing motor and sensory neuron projections cooperatively forma common principal grid of peripheral nerve pathways relaying behavioral outputs and somatosensory inputs. Here, we explored this issue through targeted cell lineage and gene manipulation in mouse, combined with invitro live axon imaging. In the absence of motor projections, dorsal (epaxial) and ventral (hypaxial) sensory projections form in a randomized manner, while removal of EphA3/4 receptor tyrosine kinases expressed by epaxial motor axons triggers selective failure to form epaxial sensory projections. EphA3/4 act non-cell-autonomously by inducing sensory axons to track along preformed epaxial motor projections. This involves cognate ephrin-A proteins on sensory axons but is independent from EphA3/4 signaling in motor axons proper. Assembly of peripheral nerve pathways thus involves motor axon subtype-specific signals that couple sensory projections to discrete motor pathways.
A hallmark of mammalian neural circuit development is the refinement of initially imprecise connections by competitive activity-dependent processes. In the developing visual system retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons from the two eyes undergo activity-dependent competition for territory in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN). The direct contributions of synaptic transmission to this process, however, remain unclear. We used a genetic approach to reduce glutamate release selectively from ipsilateral-projecting RGCs and found that their release-deficient axons failed to exclude competing axons from the ipsilateral eye territory in the dLGN. Nevertheless, the release-deficient axons consolidated and maintained their normal amount of dLGN territory, even in the face of fully active competing axons. These results show that during visual circuit refinement glutamatergic transmission plays a direct role in excluding competing axons from inappropriate target regions, but they argue that consolidation and maintenance of axonal territory are largely insensitive to alterations in synaptic activity levels.
The thalamus is classically viewed as passively relaying information to the cortex. However, there is growing evidence that the thalamus actively regulates information transmission to the cortex and between cortical areas using a variety of mechanisms, including the modulation of response magnitude, firing mode, and synchrony of neurons according to behavioral demands. We discuss how the visual thalamus contributes to attention, awareness, and visually guided actions, to present a general role for the thalamus in perception and cognition.
The appearance of discontinuous network events and their transformation into continuous oscillatory activity are fundamental milestones in cortical circuit development. In this issue, Brockmann etal. demonstrate a protracted development of activity patterns in the prefrontal cortex in neonatal rats and a possible role for hippocampal theta bursts in the maturation of PFC connectivity.
Delta opioid receptor (DOR) activation protects the adult mammalian brain during oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD), but it is not known whether neonatal spinal motor circuits are also protected. Also, it is unclear whether the timing of spinal DOR activation relative to spinal OGD is important for neuroprotection. Thus, a split-bath in vitro neonatal rat brainstem/spinal cord preparation was used to record spontaneous respiratory motor output from cervical (C4-C5) and thoracic (T5-T6) ventral spinal roots while exposing only the spinal cord to OGD solution (0 mM glucose, bubbled with 95% N(2)/5% CO(2)) or DOR agonist drugs (DADLE, DPDPE). Spinal OGD solution application caused respiratory motor output frequency and amplitude to decrease until all activity was abolished (i.e. end-point times) after 25.91.4 min (cervical) and 25.21.4 min (thoracic). Spinal DOR activation via DPDPE (1.0 M) prior-to and during spinal OGD increased cervical and thoracic end-point times to 35-48 min. Spinal DADLE or DPDPE (1.0 M) application 15 min following spinal OGD onset increased cervical and thoracic end-point times to 36-45 min. Brief spinal DPDPE (1.0 M) application for 10 min at 25 min before spinal OGD onset increased cervical and thoracic end-point times to 41-46 min. Overall, the selective DOR agonist, DPDPE, was more effective at increasing end-point times than DADLE. Naltrindole (DOR antagonist; 10 M) pretreatment blocked DPDPE-dependent increase in end-point times, suggesting that DOR activation was required. Spinal naloxone (1.0 M) application before and during spinal OGD also increased end-point times to 31-33 min, but end-point times were not altered by Mu opioid receptor (MOR) activation or DOR activation/MOR blockade, indicating that there are complex interactions between OGD and opioid signaling pathways. These data suggest DOR activation before, during, and after spinal OGD protects central motor networks and may provide neuroprotection during unpredictable perinatal ischemic events.
Sepsis induces multiple organ dysfunction syndrome including septic encephalopathy (SE), which results in cognitive impairment. However, an effective treatment for SE remains unknown. We determined the role of interleukin-1 (IL-1) in long-term potentiation (LTP) deficiency after SE. At first, endotoxin level in the blood was increased at 24 h after cecum ligation and puncture (CLP) (i.e. SE model). Second, the expression of IL-1 and its receptor in the hippocampus was determined by immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting. The number of Iba1-positive cells and their expression of IL-1 were enhanced by CLP with disruption of the blood brain barrier. Also, Iba1, IL-1, and occludin protein expressions were consistent with immunohistochemical results. Third, we used an electrophysiological technique and observed the LTP deficiency, a hallmark of learning and memory, in the slices of hippocampus after CLP. Since type 1 interleukin-1 receptors (IL-1R1s) on neuronal cells were increased in the hippocampus, we utilized IL-1R1 antagonist. Pre-incubation with IL-1R1 antagonist for 30 min before recording of field excitatory post-synaptic potentials (fEPSPs) in the hippocampus canceled LTP deficiency after CLP. These results suggest the novel importance of IL-1 in synaptic plasticity deficiency associated with sepsis-induced brain inflammation. In a mouse model of SE, IL-1R1 inhibition is important in protecting synaptic function of the hippocampus after induction of SE.
Lewis (LEW) and Fischer 344 (F344) rats differ in their response to drugs and are frequently used as an experimental model to study vulnerability to drug addiction. We have previously reported that significant differences in hippocampal synaptic plasticity exist between LEW and F344 rats after non-contingent chronic cocaine administration. However, given the several biochemical differences between contingent and non-contingent administration of drugs, we have studied here the possible genetic differences in synaptic plasticity after contingent cocaine self-administration. LEW and F344 animals self-administered cocaine (1 mg/kg i.v.) or saline under a fixed ratio 1 schedule of reinforcement for 20 days. After self-administration, electrophysiological experiments were carried out in which hippocampal slices were tetanized with three high frequency pulses in order to induce long-term potentiation (LTP). After a 20 min period of LTP stabilization, a train of low frequency stimulation (LFS; 900 pulses, 1 Hz) was applied to induce depotentiation of LTP. Data showed no differences between cocaine self-administered LEW or F344 rats in the induction of saturated-LTP compared to saline animals. LEW saline self-administered rats showed normal LTP depotentiation whereas cocaine self-administration impaired depotentiation in this rat strain. In the F344 strain, depotentiation of saturated-LTP was impaired both in saline and cocaine self-administered rats. The present results corroborate previous findings showing differences in basal hippocampal synaptic plasticity between LEW and F344 rats. These differences seem to modulate cocaine effects in a manner independent of contingency of drug administration.
Visual cortical areas in the two hemispheres interact via the corpus callosum, but the precise role of the callosal pathway in visual processing remains controversial. Here we have investigated the function of transcallosal projections in human primary visual cortex (V1). Visual evoked potentials (VEPs) triggered by grating stimuli of different contrasts were recorded before and after functional inactivation of the occipital cortex of one hemisphere via off-line low-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS; 0.5 Hz stimulation for 20 min). VEPs were recorded in V1 before (T0), immediately after (T1) and 45' following the completion of rTMS (T2). We found that low-frequency rTMS had an inhibitory effect on VEPs amplitudes at all contrasts in the treated side. Remarkably, reduction of VEP amplitudes in the inhibited hemisphere at T1 was accompanied by an increase in VEP amplitudes in the contralateral side only at mid-high contrasts (50-90%). This disinhibitory effect was observed with both central and hemifield stimulation. No changes in VEP amplitudes were observed when rTMS was applied to a cortical site more anterior with respect to V1. These data provide the first evidence that a mechanism of transcallosal inhibition dampens neural responses at high contrasts in human visual cortex.
Although nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-B) is essential for neuron survival and its activation may protect neuron against oxidative-stresses or ischemia-induced neurodegeneration, NF-B activation can contribute to inflammatory reaction and apoptotic cell death after brain injury and stroke. However, there are little data concerning the specific pattern of NF-B phosphorylations in neuronal damage/survival induced by status epilepticus (SE). In the present study, NF-B phosphorylation showed the cellular specific pattern in responses to SE. p52-S865, p52-Ser869, p65-Ser276, p65-Ser311, p65-Ser468, and p65-Ser529 NF-B phosphorylation was significantly decreased in the CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cells vulnerable to SE, although neuronal specific nuclear antigen immunoreactivity was strongly detected. In contrast, p65-Ser536 NF-B phosphorylation was enhanced in these neurons accompanied by TUNEL- and Fluoro-Jade B 244signals. These findings serve as the first comprehensive description of the cellular specific distribution of NF-B phosphorylation in response to pilocarpine-induced SE in the rat hippocampus, and suggest that enhancement in p65-Ser536 NF-B phosphorylation may be closely relevant to neuronal vulnerability to SE, while others may be involved in neuronal survival.
Minocycline has been shown to inhibit microglia reactivity, and to decrease the severity and progression of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, an animal model of multiple sclerosis. It remained to be examined whether minocycline was also able to promote remyelination. In the present study, myelinating aggregating brain cell cultures were used as a model to study the effects of minocycline on microglial reactivity, demyelination, and remyelination. Cultures were treated simultaneously with two inflammatory agents, interferon- (IFN-) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS), which caused an inflammatory response accompanied by demyelination. The inflammatory response was characterized by microglial reactivity, upregulation of inflammatory cytokines and iNOS, and increased phophorylation of P38 and P44/42 mitogen activated protein (MAP) kinases. Minocycline inhibited microglial reactivity, and attenuated the increased phophorylation of P38 and P44/42 MAP kinases. Demyelination, determined by a decrease in myelin basic protein (MBP) content and immunoreactivity 48 h after the treatment with the inflammatory agents, was not prevented by minocycline. However, 1 week after demyelination was assessed, the MBP content was restored in presence of minocycline, indicating that remyelination was promoted. Concomitantly, in cultures treated with minocycline, the markers of oligodendrocyte precursors cells (OPCs) and immature oligodendrocytes NG2 and O4, respectively, were decreased compared to cultures treated with the inflammatory agents only. These results suggest that minocycline attenuates microglial reactivity and favors remyelination by enhancing the differentiation of OPCs and immature oligodendrocytes.
Our previous study suggests that &quot;the neuropeptidergic system&quot; might promote a diversity of the mechanisms that regulate signal transmission in the hippocampus. Cholecystokinin (CCK) is the mostly expressed neuropeptide gene in the hippocampus. Here, we investigated whether CCK regulates immediate-early genes (Egr1/zif268 and Fos), critical indicators of cortical neuronal activity. We showed that CCK increased Egr1/zif268 promoter activity in a neuronal cell line, which is transfected with CCK(B) receptor. Unexpectedly, in living hippocampal slices, CCK significantly suppressed cAMP-induced expression of Egr1/zif268 and Fos through CCK(B) receptor activation. This suppression was involved in activating GABA(B) and cannabinoid 1 receptors. In addition to transient CCK modulation of action potentials on hippocampal principal neurons, we suggest that release of endogenous CCK might indirectly produce the suppression of cAMP-dependent gene expression in the hippocampus.
Using intracellular recordings, we investigated the effects of high frequency stimulation (HFS) of the primary vestibular afferents on the evoked excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) and intrinsic excitability (IE) of type-A and type-B neurons of the medial vestibular nucleus (MVN), in male rat brainstem slices. HFS induces long-term potentiation (LTP) of both EPSP and IE, which may occur in combination or separately. Synaptic LTP is characterized by an increase in the amplitude, slope and decay time constant of EPSP and IE-LTP through enhancements of spontaneous and evoked neuron firing and of input resistance (Rin). Moreover, IE-LTP is associated with a decrease in action potential afterhyperpolarization (AHP) amplitude and an increase in interspike slope steepness (ISS). The more frequent effects of HFS are EPSP-LTP in type-B neurons and IE-LTP in type-A neurons. In addition, the development of EPSP-LTP is fast in type-B neurons but slow in type-A, whereas IE-LTP develops slowly in both types. We have demonstrated that activation of N-methyl-d aspartate receptors (NMDARs) is only required for EPSP-LTP induction, whereas metabotropic glutamate receptors type-1 (mGluR1) are necessary for IE-LTP induction as well as the full development and maintenance of EPSP-LTP. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that brief and intense activation of vestibular afferent input to the MVN neurons may provoke synaptic LTP and/or IE-LTP that, induced in combination or separately, may assure the different selectivity of the MVN neuron response enhancement to the afferent signals.

Hippocampally-driven oscillatory activity at theta frequency is found in the diencephalon, but an understanding of the fundamental role of theta in the hippocampo-diencephalic circuit remains elusive. An important strategy in determining how activity modifies oscillatory properties of hippocampo-diencephalic circuitry comprises investigations of anterior thalamic responses to their main inputs: the descending dorsal fornix and the ascending mammillothalamic tract. Here, we show that the amplitude of thalamic theta spectral power selectively increases after plasticity-inducing stimulation of the dorsal fornix, but not of the mammillothalamic tract in urethane-anaesthetized young male rats. Furthermore, we show that low-frequency stimulation (LFS) significantly augments the fornix-driven theta ratio (theta over delta power, T-ratio), in parallel with depressing thalamic synaptic responses. However, the mammillothalamic synaptic response after LFS did not correlate with the slow band of theta oscillation (low T-ratio), but did correlate positively with the fast band of theta oscillation (high T-ratio). Our data demonstrate that the descending direct fornix projection is a pathway that modulates theta rhythm in the hippocampo-diencephalic circuit, resulting in dynamic augmentation of thalamic neuronal responsiveness. These findings suggest that hippocampal theta differentially affects synaptic integration in the different structures with which the hippocampus is reciprocally connected.

The authors present an unusual case of a healthy young male who developed a spontaneous subdural haematoma. Headache was followed by blurring of vision and left upper limb symptoms. The diagnosis was made from a CT scan. Symptoms resolved with surgical decompression. The authors explore the risk factors and pathophysiology implicated in this condition. The authors demonstrate that apparently 'healthy' pursuits can have significant consequences, but the physician must also exclude serious underlying risk factors for bleeding, which the authors discuss.
The huntingtin (htt) mutation causes a polyglutamine expansion in the N-terminal region of protein. Mutant N-htt proteolytic fragments aggregate and cause cell death in Huntington's disease (HD). The normal huntingtin also can be cleaved by calpain and produce N-terminal htt fragments following ischemic injury, but the fate of cleaved fragment in dead neurons in the brain are unclear. To determine the localization of huntingtin following proteolysis, we examined htt expression after transient ischemic injury. Huntingtin immunoreactivity in mixed cultures of neuronal and astrocytes-derived clonal cells showed alteration of immunoreactivity from neurons into astrocytes. In the brain, both focal and global ischemia induced reactive astrocytes that were co-immunoreactive for huntingtin with elevated GFAP expression. The immunoreactive huntingtin was 55kDa calpain-cleaved N-terminal fragment, which appeared initially in the process, and extended into the cytoplasm of astrocytes. The results showed, after ischemic injury, huntingtin accumulated in astrocytes indicating that astrocytes may play a role in uptake of cleaved N-htt fragments.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) induces neuronal long-term potentiation or depression. Although brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its cognate tyrosine receptor kinase B (TrkB) contribute to the effects of rTMS, their precise role and underlying mechanism remain poorly understood. Here we show that daily 5 Hz rTMS for 5 d improves BDNF-TrkB signaling in rats by increasing the affinity of BDNF for TrkB, which results in higher tyrosine-phosphorylated TrkB, increased recruitment of PLC-1 and shc/N-shc to TrkB, and heightened downstream ERK2 and PI-3K activities in prefrontal cortex and in lymphocytes. The elevated BDNF-TrkB signaling is accompanied by an increased association between the activated TrkB and NMDA receptor (NMDAR). In normal human subjects, 5 d rTMS to motor cortex decreased resting motor threshold, which correlates with heightened BDNF-TrkB signaling and intensified TrkB-NMDAR association in lymphocytes. These findings suggest that rTMS to cortex facilitates BDNF-TrkB-NMDAR functioning in both cortex and lymphocytes.
We study a form of short-term synaptic plasticity that was originally described as a graded potentiating effect of holding potential on spike-mediated synaptic transmission (Shimahara and Tauc, 1975). This form of plasticity has recently generated considerable interest, as it has become apparent that it is present in the mammalian brain (Clark and Husser, 2006; Marder, 2006). It has been suggested that it adds a previously unappreciated analog component to spike-mediated synaptic transmission (Alle and Geiger, 2006, 2008). A limitation of most previous research in this area is that effects of holding potential have been studied in relative isolation. Presynaptic neurons are stimulated at low frequencies so that a second form of plasticity (homosynaptic facilitation) is not induced. Under physiological conditions, however, both forms of plasticity are likely to be coinduced. In this report, we study the two types of plasticity together in an experimentally advantageous preparation (the mollusk Aplysia californica). Somewhat surprisingly, we find that effects of holding potential can be relatively modest when presynaptic neurons are activated at low frequencies. Interestingly, however, changes in membrane potential are highly effective when homosynaptic facilitation is induced. In this situation, PSPs facilitate at an increased rate. To summarize, our research suggests a novel view of the effect of holding potential on synaptic transmission. We propose that, under physiological conditions, it modifies the dynamics of homosynaptic facilitation.
Variability of evoked single-trial responses despite constant input or task is a feature of large-scale brain signals recorded by fMRI. Initial evidence signified relevance of fMRI signal variability for perception and behavior. Yet the underlying intrinsic neuronal sources have not been previously substantiated. Here, we address this issue using simultaneous EEG-fMRI and real-time classification of ongoing alpha-rhythm states triggering visual stimulation in human subjects. We investigated whether spontaneous neuronal oscillations-as reflected in the posterior alpha rhythm-account for variability of evoked fMRI responses. Based on previous work, we specifically hypothesized linear superposition of fMRI activity related to fluctuations of ongoing alpha rhythm and a visually evoked fMRI response. We observed that spontaneous alpha-rhythm power fluctuations largely explain evoked fMRI response variance in extrastriate, thalamic, and cerebellar areas. For extrastriate areas, we confirmed the linear superposition hypothesis. We hence linked evoked fMRI response variability to an intrinsic rhythm's power fluctuations. These findings contribute to our conceptual understanding of how brain rhythms can account for trial-by-trial variability in stimulus processing.
Neural basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors are crucial in regulating the differentiation and neuronal subtype specification of neurons. Precisely how these transcription factors direct such processes is largely unknown due to the lack of bona fide targets in vivo. Genetic evidence suggests that bHLH factors have shared targets in their common differentiation role, but unique targets with respect to their distinct roles in neuronal subtype specification. However, whether neuronal subtype-specific targets exist remains an unsolved question. To address this question, we focused on Atoh1 (Math1), a bHLH transcription factor that specifies distinct neuronal subtypes of the proprioceptive pathway in mammals including the dI1 (dorsal interneuron 1) population of the developing spinal cord. We identified transcripts unique to the Atoh1-derived lineage using microarray analyses of specific bHLH-sorted populations from mouse. Chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing experiments followed by enhancer reporter analyses identified five direct neuronal subtype-specific targets of Atoh1 in vivo along with their Atoh1-responsive enhancers. These targets, Klf7, Rab15, Rassf4, Selm, and Smad7, have diverse functions that range from transcription factors to regulators of endocytosis and signaling pathways. Only Rab15 and Selm are expressed across several different Atoh1-specified neuronal subtypes including external granule cells (external granule cell layer) in the developing cerebellum, hair cells of the inner ear, and Merkel cells. Our work establishes on a molecular level that neuronal differentiation bHLH transcription factors have distinct lineage-specific targets.
Cerebellar Purkinje cells have one of the most elaborate dendritic trees in the mammalian CNS, receiving excitatory synaptic input from a single climbing fiber (CF) and from 200,000 parallel fibers. The dendritic Ca(2+) signals triggered by activation of these inputs are crucial for the induction of synaptic plasticity at both of these synaptic connections. We have investigated Ca(2+) signaling in Purkinje cell dendrites in vivo by combining targeted somatic or dendritic patch-clamp recording with simultaneous two-photon microscopy. Both spontaneous and sensory-evoked CF inputs triggered widespread Ca(2+) signals throughout the dendritic tree that were detectable even in individual spines of the most distal spiny branchlets receiving parallel fiber input. The amplitude of these Ca(2+) signals depended on dendritic location and could be modulated by membrane potential, reflecting modulation of dendritic spikes triggered by the CF input. Furthermore, the variability of CF-triggered Ca(2+) signals was regulated by GABAergic synaptic input. These results indicate that dendritic Ca(2+) signals triggered by sensory-evoked CF input can act as associative signals for synaptic plasticity in Purkinje cells in vivo and may differentially modulate plasticity at parallel fiber synapses depending on the location of synapses, firing state of the Purkinje cell, and ongoing GABAergic synaptic input.
The budding yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, is a powerful model system for defining fundamental mechanisms of many important cellular processes, including those with direct relevance to human disease. Because of its short generation time and well-characterized genome, a major experimental advantage of the yeast model system is the ability to perform genetic screens to identify genes and pathways that are involved in a given process. Over the last thirty years such genetic screens have been used to elucidate the cell cycle, secretory pathway, and many more highly conserved aspects of eukaryotic cell biology (1-5). In the last few years, several genomewide libraries of yeast strains and plasmids have been generated (6-10). These collections now allow for the systematic interrogation of gene function using gain- and loss-of-function approaches (11-16). Here we provide a detailed protocol for the use of a high-throughput yeast transformation protocol with a liquid handling robot to perform a plasmid overexpression screen, using an arrayed library of 5,500 yeast plasmids. We have been using these screens to identify genetic modifiers of toxicity associated with the accumulation of aggregation-prone human neurodegenerative disease proteins. The methods presented here are readily adaptable to the study of other cellular phenotypes of interest.
Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is a debilitating illness that affects many people. It has been marred by controversy, from initial scepticism in the medical community about the existence of the condition itself to continuing disagreements--mainly between some patient advocacy groups on one side, and researchers and physicians on the other--about the name for the illness, its aetiology, its pathophysiology and the effectiveness of the few currently available treatments. The role of the CNS in the disease is central in many of these discussions. Nature Reviews Neuroscience asked four scientists involved in CFS research about their views on the condition, its causes and the future of research aimed at improving our understanding of this chronic illness.
Understanding taste processing in the nervous system is a fundamental challenge of modern neuroscience. Recent research on the neural bases of taste coding in invertebrates and vertebrates allows discussion of whether labelled-line or across-fibre pattern encoding applies to taste perception. While the former posits that each gustatory receptor responds to one stimulus or a very limited range of stimuli and sends a direct 'line' to the central nervous system to communicate taste information, the latter postulates that each gustatory receptor responds to a wider range of stimuli so that the entire population of taste-responsive neurons participates in the taste code. Tastes are represented in the brain of the fruitfly and of the rat by spatial patterns of neural activity containing both distinct and overlapping regions, which are in accord with both labelled-line and across-fibre pattern processing of taste, respectively. In both animal models, taste representations seem to relate to the hedonic value of the tastant (e.g. palatable versus non-palatable). Thus, although the labelled-line hypothesis can account for peripheral taste processing, central processing remains either unknown or differs from a pure labelled-line coding. The essential task for a neuroscience of taste is, therefore, to determine the connectivity of taste-processing circuits in central nervous systems. Such connectivity may determine coding strategies that differ significantly from both the labelled-line and the across-fibre pattern models.
The complexity of nervous systems alters the evolvability of behaviour. Complex nervous systems are phylogenetically constrained; nevertheless particular species-specific behaviours have repeatedly evolved, suggesting a predisposition towards those behaviours. Independently evolved behaviours in animals that share a common neural architecture are generally produced by homologous neural structures, homologous neural pathways and even in the case of some invertebrates, homologous identified neurons. Such parallel evolution has been documented in the chromatic sensitivity of visual systems, motor behaviours and complex social behaviours such as pair-bonding. The appearance of homoplasious behaviours produced by homologous neural substrates suggests that there might be features of these nervous systems that favoured the repeated evolution of particular behaviours. Neuromodulation may be one such feature because it allows anatomically defined neural circuitry to be re-purposed. The developmental, genetic and physiological mechanisms that contribute to nervous system complexity may also bias the evolution of behaviour, thereby affecting the evolvability of species-specific behaviour.
Development and evolution of animal behaviour and morphology are frequently addressed independently, as reflected in the dichotomy of disciplines dedicated to their study distinguishing object of study (morphology versus behaviour) and perspective (ultimate versus proximate). Although traits are known to develop and evolve semi-independently, they are matched together in development and evolution to produce a unique functional phenotype. Here I highlight similarities shared by both traits, such as the decisive role played by the environment for their ontogeny. Considering the widespread developmental and functional entanglement between both traits, many cases of adaptive evolution are better understood when proximate and ultimate explanations are integrated. A field integrating these perspectives is evolutionary developmental biology (evo-devo), which studies the developmental basis of phenotypic diversity. Ultimate aspects in evo-devo studies--which have mostly focused on morphological traits--could become more apparent when behaviour, 'the integrator of form and function', is integrated into the same framework of analysis. Integrating a trait such as behaviour at a different level in the biological hierarchy will help to better understand not only how behavioural diversity is produced, but also how levels are connected to produce functional phenotypes and how these evolve. A possible framework to accommodate and compare form and function at different levels of the biological hierarchy is outlined. At the end, some methodological issues are discussed.
Hypoxic preconditioning reprogrammes the brain's response to subsequent H/I (hypoxia-ischaemia) injury by enhancing neuroprotective mechanisms. Given that astrocytes normally support neuronal survival and function, the purpose of the present study was to test the hypothesis that a hypoxic preconditioning stimulus would activate an adaptive astrocytic response. We analysed several functional parameters 24 h after exposing rat pups to 3 h of systemic hypoxia (8% O2). Hypoxia increased neocortical astrocyte maturation as evidenced by the loss of GFAP (glial fibrillary acidic protein)-positive cells with radial morphologies and the acquisition of multipolar GFAP-positive cells. Interestingly, many of these astrocytes had nuclear S100B. Accompanying their differentiation, there was increased expression of GFAP, GS (glutamine synthetase), EAAT-1 (excitatory amino acid transporter-1; also known as GLAST), MCT-1 (monocarboxylate transporter-1) and ceruloplasmin. A subsequent H/I insult did not result in any further astrocyte activation. Some responses were cell autonomous, as levels of GS and MCT-1 increased subsequent to hypoxia in cultured forebrain astrocytes. In contrast, the expression of GFAP, GLAST and ceruloplasmin remained unaltered. Additional experiments utilized astrocytes exposed to exogenous dbcAMP (dibutyryl-cAMP), which mimicked several aspects of the preconditioning response, to determine whether activated astrocytes could protect neurons from subsequent excitotoxic injury. dbcAMP treatment increased GS and glutamate transporter expression and function, and as hypothesized, protected neurons from glutamate excitotoxicity. Taken altogether, these results indicate that a preconditioning stimulus causes the precocious differentiation of astrocytes and increases the acquisition of multiple astrocytic functions that will contribute to the neuroprotection conferred by a sublethal preconditioning stress.



Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder leading to dementia. Neuritic plaque formation is one of the pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. The central component of neuritic plaques is a small filamentous protein called amyloid  protein (A)(1), which is derived from sequential proteolytic cleavage of the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) by -secretase and -secretase. The amyloid hypothesis entails that A-containing plaques as the underlying toxic mechanism in AD pathology(2). The postmortem analysis of the presence of neuritic plaque confirms the diagnosis of AD. To further our understanding of A neurobiology in AD pathogenesis, various mouse strains expressing AD-related mutations in the human APP genes were generated. Depending on the severity of the disease, these mice will develop neuritic plaques at different ages. These mice serve as invaluable tools for studying the pathogenesis and drug development that could affect the APP processing pathway and neuritic plaque formation. In this protocol, we employ an immunohistochemical method for specific detection of neuritic plaques in AD model mice. We will specifically discuss the preparation from extracting the half brain, paraformaldehyde fixation, cryosectioning, and two methods to detect neurotic plaques in AD transgenic mice: immunohistochemical detection using the ABC and DAB method and fluorescent detection using thiofalvin S staining method.
A fundamental goal to both basic and clinical neuroscience is to better understand the identities, molecular makeup, and patterns of connectivity that are characteristic to neurons in both normal and diseased brain. Towards this, a great deal of effort has been placed on building high-resolution neuroanatomical maps(1-3). With the expansion of molecular genetics and advances in light microscopy has come the ability to query not only neuronal morphologies, but also the molecular and cellular makeup of individual neurons and their associated networks(4). Major advances in the ability to mark and manipulate neurons through transgenic and gene targeting technologies in the rodent now allow investigators to 'program' neuronal subsets at will(5-6). Arguably, one of the most influential contributions to contemporary neuroscience has been the discovery and cloning of genes encoding fluorescent proteins (FPs) in marine invertebrates(7-8), alongside their subsequent engineering to yield an ever-expanding toolbox of vital reporters(9). Exploiting cell type-specific promoter activity to drive targeted FP expression in discrete neuronal populations now affords neuroanatomical investigation with genetic precision. Engineering FP expression in neurons has vastly improved our understanding of brain structure and function. However, imaging individual neurons and their associated networks in deep brain tissues, or in three dimensions, has remained a challenge. Due to high lipid content, nervous tissue is rather opaque and exhibits auto fluorescence. These inherent biophysical properties make it difficult to visualize and image fluorescently labelled neurons at high resolution using standard epifluorescent or confocal microscopy beyond depths of tens of microns. To circumvent this challenge investigators often employ serial thin-section imaging and reconstruction methods(10), or 2-photon laser scanning microscopy(11). Current drawbacks to these approaches are the associated labor-intensive tissue preparation, or cost-prohibitive instrumentation respectively. Here, we present a relatively rapid and simple method to visualize fluorescently labelled cells in fixed semi-thick mouse brain slices by optical clearing and imaging. In the attached protocol we describe the methods of: 1) fixing brain tissue in situ via intracardial perfusion, 2) dissection and removal of whole brain, 3) stationary brain embedding in agarose, 4) precision semi-thick slice preparation using new vibratome instrumentation, 5) clearing brain tissue through a glycerol gradient, and 6) mounting on glass slides for light microscopy and z-stack reconstruction (Figure 1). For preparing brain slices we implemented a relatively new piece of instrumentation called the 'Compresstome' VF-200 (http://www.precisionary.com/products_vf200.html). This instrument is a semi-automated microtome equipped with a motorized advance and blade vibration system with features similar in function to other vibratomes. Unlike other vibratomes, the tissue to be sliced is mounted in an agarose plug within a stainless steel cylinder. The tissue is extruded at desired thicknesses from the cylinder, and cut by the forward advancing vibrating blade. The agarose plug/cylinder system allows for reproducible tissue mounting, alignment, and precision cutting. In our hands, the 'Compresstome' yields high quality tissue slices for electrophysiology, immunohistochemistry, and direct fixed-tissue mounting and imaging. Combined with optical clearing, here we demonstrate the preparation of semi-thick fixed brain slices for high-resolution fluorescent imaging.
BDNF regulates components of cognitive processes and has been implicated in psychiatric disorders. Here we report that genetic overexpression of the BDNF mature isoform (BDNF-tg) in female mice impaired working memory functions while sparing components of fear conditioning. BDNF-tg mice also displayed reduced breeding efficiency, higher anxiety-like scores, high self-grooming, impaired prepulse inhibition, and higher susceptibility to seizures when placed in a new empty cage, as compared with wild-type (WT) littermate controls. Control measures of general health, locomotor activity, motor coordination, depression-related behaviors, and sociability did not differ between genotypes. The present findings, indicating detrimental effects of life-long increased BDNF in mice, may inform human studies evaluating the role of BDNF functional genetic variations on cognitive abilities and vulnerability to psychiatric disorders.

Proper subcellular localization of focal adhesion kinase (FAK) is crucial for many cellular processes. It remains, however, unclear how FAK activity is regulated at subcellular compartments. To visualize the FAK activity at different membrane microdomains, we develop a fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET)-based FAK biosensor, and target it into or outside of detergent-resistant membrane (DRM) regions at the plasma membrane. Here we show that, on cell adhesion to extracellular matrix proteins or stimulation by platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), the FRET responses of DRM-targeting FAK biosensor are stronger than that at non-DRM regions, suggesting that FAK activation can occur at DRM microdomains. Further experiments reveal that the PDGF-induced FAK activation is mediated and maintained by Src activity, whereas FAK activation on cell adhesion is independent of, and in fact essential for the Src activation. Therefore, FAK is activated at membrane microdomains with distinct activation mechanisms in response to different physiological stimuli.

Cytosolic Ca(2+) signals encoded by repetitive Ca(2+) releases rely on two processes to refill Ca(2+) stores: Ca(2+) reuptake from the cytosol and activation of a Ca(2+) influx via store-operated Ca(2+) entry (SOCE). However, SOCE activation is a slow process. It is delayed by &gt;30 s after store depletion because stromal interaction molecule 1 (STIM1), the Ca(2+) sensor of the intracellular stores, must form clusters and migrate to the membrane before being able to open Orai1, the plasma membrane Ca(2+) channel. In this paper, we identify a new protein, STIM1L, that colocalizes with Orai1 Ca(2+) channels and interacts with actin to form permanent clusters. This property allowed the immediate activation of SOCE, a characteristic required for generating repetitive Ca(2+) signals with frequencies within seconds such as those frequently observed in excitable cells. STIM1L was expressed in several mammalian tissues, suggesting that many cell types rely on this Ca(2+) sensor for their Ca(2+) homeostasis and intracellular signaling.
Adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a major energy sensor that maintains cellular energy homeostasis. Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by the expansion of CAG repeats in the huntingtin (Htt) gene. In this paper, we report that activation of the 1 isoform of AMPK (AMPK-1) occurred in striatal neurons of humans and mice with HD. Overactivation of AMPK in the striatum caused brain atrophy, facilitated neuronal loss, and increased formation of Htt aggregates in a transgenic mouse model (R6/2) of HD. Such nuclear accumulation of AMPK-1 was activity dependent. Prevention of nuclear translocation or inactivation of AMPK-1 ameliorated cell death and down-regulation of Bcl2 caused by mutant Htt (mHtt). Conversely, enhanced expression of Bcl2 protected striatal cells from the toxicity evoked by mHtt and AMPK overactivation. These data demonstrate that aberrant activation of AMPK-1 in the nuclei of striatal cells represents a new toxic pathway induced by mHtt.
The transcription factor E2F1 is upregulated when cerebellar granular neurons (CGNs) undergo apoptosis under potassium deprivation. In this study, we examined the effects of E2F1 upregulation on the survival and death of CGNs isolated from C57 mice and Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. Plasmid- and adenovirus-mediated expression of E2F1 dose-dependently induced apoptosis in mouse CGNs but unexpectedly failed to induce apoptosis in rat CGNs. Caspase 3, a marker for neuronal apoptosis, was significantly activated by ectopic E2F1 expression in mouse CGNs but not in rat CGNs. Furthermore, overexpression of E2F1 significantly promoted apoptotic progression in mouse CGNs following potassium deprivation but attenuated apoptosis in rat CGNs, whereas E2F1 lacking DNA binding ability (E2F1-M132) lost its pro-apoptotic role in mouse CGNs and anti-apoptotic role in rat CGNs. Together, our results demonstrated that upregulation of E2F1 by potassium deprivation promotes apoptosis in C57 mouse CGNs but antagonizes apoptosis in SD rat CGNs, suggesting opposing roles for E2F1 in regulating CGN fate.
Bart Hoebel has forged a view of an integrated neural network that mediates both natural rewards and drug use. He pioneered the use of microdialysis, and also effectively used electrical stimulation, lesions, microinjections, and immunohistochemistry. He found that feeding, stimulant drug administration, and electrical stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus (LH) all increased dopamine (DA) release in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). However, whereas DA in the NAc enhanced motivation, DA in the LH inhibited motivated behaviors. The Hull lab has pursued some of those ideas. We have suggested that serotonin (5-HT) in the perifornical LH inhibits sexual behavior by inhibiting orexin/hypocretin neurons (OX/HCRT), which would otherwise excite neurons in the mesocorticolimbic DA tract. We have shown that DA release in the medial preoptic area (MPOA) is very important for male sexual behavior, and that testosterone, glutamate, nitric oxide (NO) and previous sexual experience promote MPOA DA release and mating. Future research should follow Bart Hoebel's emphasis on neural systems and interactions among brain areas and neurotransmitters.
By the 1990s a convergence of evidence had accumulated to suggest that neurons within the lateral hypothalamus (LH) play important roles in the stimulation of feeding behavior. However, there was little direct evidence demonstrating that neurotransmitters in the LH could, like electrical stimulation, elicit feeding in satiated animals. The present paper is a brief review in honor of Bartley Hoebel's scientific contributions, emphasizing the evidence from my lab that the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate and the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the LH mediate feeding stimulation and feeding inhibition respectively. Specifically, we summarize evidence that LH injection of glutamate, or agonists of its N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA receptors, elicits feeding in satiated rats, that NMDA receptor antagonists block the eating elicited by NMDA and, more importantly, that NMDA blockade suppresses natural feeding and can reduce body weight. Conversely, GABA(A) agonists injected into the LH suppress feeding and can also reduce body weight, while GABA(A) receptor antagonists actually elicit eating when injected into the LH of satiated rats. It is suggested that natural feeding may reflect the moment-to-moment balance in the activity of glutamate and GABA within the LH.
The substantial health risk posed by obesity and compulsive drug use has compelled a serious research effort to identify the neurobiological substrates that underlie the development these pathological conditions. Despite substantial progress, an understanding of the neurochemical systems that mediate the motivational aspects of drug-seeking and craving remains incomplete. Important work from the laboratory of Bart Hoebel has provided key information on neurochemical systems that interact with dopamine (DA) as potentially important components in both the development of addiction and the expression of compulsive behaviors such as binge eating. One such modulatory system appears to be cholinergic pathways that interact with DA systems at all levels of the reward circuit. Cholinergic cells in the pons project to DA-rich cell body regions in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and substantial nigra (SN) where they modulate the activity of dopaminergic neurons and reward processing. The DA terminal region of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) contains a small but particularly important group of cholinergic interneurons, which have extensive dendritic arbors that make synapses with a vast majority of NAc neurons and afferents. Together with acetylcholine (ACh) input onto DA cell bodies, cholinergic systems could serve a vital role in gating information flow concerning the motivational value of stimuli through the mesolimbic system. In this report we highlight evidence that CNS cholinergic systems play a pivotal role in behaviors that are motivated by both natural and drug rewards. We argue that the search for underlying neurochemical substrates of compulsive behaviors, as well as attempts to identify potential pharmacotherapeutic targets to combat them, must include a consideration of central cholinergic systems.
We have investigated in vitro effects of anticancer therapy with the histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACi) 4-phenylbutyrate (4-PB) combined with receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (RTKi) gefitinib or vandetanib on the survival of glioblastoma (U343MGa) and medulloblastoma (D324Med) cells. In comparison with individual effects of these drugs, combined treatment with gefitinib/4-PB or vandetanib/4-PB resulted in enhanced cell killing and reduced clonogenic survival in both cell lines. Our results suggest that combined treatment using HDACi and RTKi may beneficially affect the outcome of cancer therapy.
5-Hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) was recently described as a stable modification in mammalian DNA. 5hmC is formed by the enzymatic oxidation of 5-methylcytosine (5meC). Overwhelming evidence supports the notion that 5meC has a negative effect on transcription; however, only recently has the effect that 5hmC has on transcription begun to be studied. Using model substrates including the CMV(IE) promoter and a generic gene body we have directly assessed the effect that 5hmC, both at the promoter and in the gene body, has on in vitro gene transcription. We show that the presence of the 5hmC modifications strongly represses transcription. We also demonstrate that the inhibition of transcriptional activity is primarily due to the presence of 5hmC in the promoter and that 5hmC in the gene body has a minimal effect on transcription. Thus, we propose that the presence of 5hmC in promoter prevents the binding of essential transcription factors or recruits factors that repress transcription.
Sleep remains one of the least understood phenomena in biology--even its role in synaptic plasticity remains debatable. Since sleep was recognized to be regulated genetically, intense research has launched on two fronts: the development of model organisms for deciphering the molecular mechanisms of sleep and attempts to identify genetic underpinnings of human sleep disorders. In this Review, we describe how unbiased, high-throughput screens in model organisms are uncovering sleep regulatory mechanisms and how pathways, such as the circadian clock network and specific neurotransmitter signals, have conserved effects on sleep from Drosophila to humans. At the same time, genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have uncovered 14 loci increasing susceptibility to sleep disorders, such as narcolepsy and restless leg syndrome. To conclude, we discuss how these different strategies will be critical to unambiguously defining the function of sleep.
Signal peptide peptidase (SPP) is an atypical aspartic protease that hydrolyzes peptide bonds within the transmembrane domain of substrates and is implicated in several biological and pathological functions. Here, we analyzed the structure of human SPP by electron microscopy and reconstructed the three-dimensional structure at a resolution of 22 . Enzymatically active SPP forms a slender, bullet-shaped homotetramer with dimensions of 85  85  130 . The SPP complex has four concaves on the rhombus-like sides, connected to a large chamber inside the molecule. Intriguingly, the N-terminal region of SPP is sufficient for the tetrameric assembly. Moreover, overexpression of the N-terminal region inhibited the formation of the endogenous SPP tetramer and the proteolytic activity within cells. These data suggest that the homotetramer is the functional unit of SPP and that its N-terminal region, which works as the structural scaffold, has a novel modulatory function for the intramembrane-cleaving activity of SPP.
Precise localization of axonal ion channels is crucial for proper electrical and chemical functions of axons. In myelinated axons, Kv1 (Shaker) voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels are clustered in the juxtaparanodal regions flanking the node of Ranvier. The clustering can be disrupted by deletion of various proteins in mice, including contactin-associated protein-like 2 (Caspr2) and transient axonal glycoprotein-1 (TAG-1), a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored cell adhesion molecule. However, the mechanism and function of Kv1 juxtaparanodal clustering remain unclear. Here, using a new myelin coculture of hippocampal neurons and oligodendrocytes, we report that tyrosine phosphorylation plays a critical role in TAG-1-mediated clustering of axonal Kv1.2 channels. In the coculture, myelin specifically ensheathed axons but not dendrites of hippocampal neurons and clustered endogenous axonal Kv1.2 into internodes. The trans-homophilic interaction of TAG-1 was sufficient to position Kv1.2 clusters on axonal membranes in a neuron/HEK293 coculture. Mutating a tyrosine residue (Tyr) in the Kv1.2 C terminus or blocking tyrosine phosphorylation disrupted myelin- and TAG-1-mediated clustering of axonal Kv1.2. Furthermore, Kv1.2 voltage dependence and activation threshold were reduced by TAG-1 coexpression. This effect was eliminated by the Tyr mutation or by cholesterol depletion. Taken together, our studies suggest that myelin regulates both trafficking and activity of Kv1 channels along hippocampal axons through TAG-1.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS), the most common form of hereditary mental retardation, is caused by a loss-of-function mutation of the Fmr1 gene, which encodes fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). FMRP affects dendritic protein synthesis, thereby causing synaptic abnormalities. Here, we used a quantitative proteomics approach in an FXS mouse model to reveal changes in levels of hippocampal synapse proteins. Sixteen independent pools of Fmr1 knock-out mice and wild type mice were analyzed using two sets of 8-plex iTRAQ experiments. Of 205 proteins quantified with at least three distinct peptides in both iTRAQ series, the abundance of 23 proteins differed between Fmr1 knock-out and wild type synapses with a false discovery rate (q-value) &lt;5%. Significant differences were confirmed by quantitative immunoblotting. A group of proteins that are known to be involved in cell differentiation and neurite outgrowth was regulated; they included Basp1 and Gap43, known PKC substrates, and Cend1. Basp1 and Gap43 are predominantly expressed in growth cones and presynaptic terminals. In line with this, ultrastructural analysis in developing hippocampal FXS synapses revealed smaller active zones with corresponding postsynaptic densities and smaller pools of clustered vesicles, indicative of immature presynaptic maturation. A second group of proteins involved in synaptic vesicle release was up-regulated in the FXS mouse model. In accordance, paired-pulse and short-term facilitation were significantly affected in these hippocampal synapses. Together, the altered regulation of presynaptically expressed proteins, immature synaptic ultrastructure, and compromised short-term plasticity points to presynaptic changes underlying glutamatergic transmission in FXS at this stage of development.
We have investigated the effect of protein kinase Mzeta (PKM) inhibition in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) upon the retention of a nonspatial learned active avoidance response and conditioned taste-aversion (CTA) acquisition in rats. ZIP (10 nmol/L) injected into the BLA 24 h after training impaired retention of a learned avoidance-jumping response assessed 7 d later when compared with control groups injected with scrambled-ZIP. Nevertheless, a retraining session applied 24 h later indicated no differences between the groups. Additionally, a similar ZIP injection into the BLA during the conditioned stimulus-unconditioned stimulus (CS-US) interval attenuated CTA acquisition. These findings support the BLA PKM role in various forms of memory.
How the brain constructs a coherent representation of the environment from noisy visual input remains poorly understood. Here, we explored whether awareness of the stimulus plays a role in the integration of local features into a representation of global shape. Participants were primed with a shape defined either by position or orientation cues, and performed a shape-discrimination task on a subsequently presented probe shape. Crucially, the probe could either be defined by the same or different cues as the prime, which allowed us to distinguish the effect of priming by local features and global shape. We found a robust priming benefit for visible primes, with response times being faster when the probe and prime were the same shape, regardless of the defining cue. However, rendering the prime invisible uncovered a dissociation: position-defined primes produced behavioural benefit only for probes of the same cue type. Surprisingly, orientation-defined primes afforded an enhancement only for probes of the opposite cue. In further experiments, we showed that the effect of priming was confined to retinotopic coordinates and that there was no priming effect by invisible orientation cues in an orientation-discrimination task. This explains the absence of priming by the same cue in our shape-discrimination task. In summary, our findings show that while in the absence of awareness orientation signals can recruit retinotopic circuits (e.g. intrinsic lateral connections), conscious processing is necessary to interpret local features as global shape.
The aim of the authors in this study was to assess the prevalence of postpartum depression and evaluate the association of affective temperaments with emotional disorders in a sample of 92 pregnant women consecutively admitted for delivery between March and December 2009. In the first few days postpartum, women completed the Suicidal History Self-rating Screening Scale, the Beck Hopelessness Scale, the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale, the Temperament Evaluation of the Memphis, Pisa, Paris and San Diego Autoquestionnaire, and the Gotland Male Depression Scale. Fifty percent of the women reported an Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale score of 9 or higher, and 23% a score of 13 or higher. Women with a dysphoric-dysregulated temperament had higher mean scores on the Beck Hopelessness Scale (p &lt; 0.05), the Gotland Male Depression Scale (p &lt; 0.001), the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (p &lt; 0.001), and the Suicidal History Self-Rating Screening Scale (p &lt; 0.01) than other women after adjusting for covariates. Multiple logistic regression analysis with the temperament groups as the dependent variable indicated that only the Gotland Male Depression Scale was significantly associated with temperament when controlling for the presence of other variables. Women with a dysphoric-dysregulated temperament were 1.23 times as likely to have higher depressive symptom scores. Future studies should evaluate the effectiveness of psychiatric screening programs in the postpartum period as well as factors associated with depression and suicidality during the same period.
Previous studies have shown that female preferences for male pheromones depend on the female's reproductive condition and the dominance status of the male. However, it is unknown which olfactory system detects the odors that result in a preference for a dominant male. Therefore, in the present study, we asked whether dominant versus subordinate male urinary odors differentially activate the main and accessory olfactory systems in female (C57Bl/6j) mice by monitoring the induction of the immediate early gene, c-fos. A more robust induction of Fos was observed in female mice which had direct nasal contact with dominant male urinary odors in four specific segments of the accessory olfactory system, i.e., the posteroventral part of the medial amygdala, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the medial part of the preoptic nucleus and the ventrolateral part of the ventromedial hypothalamus, compared to females that were exposed to subordinate male urine. This greater activation of the accessory olfactory pathway by dominant male urine suggests that there are differences in the nonvolatile components of dominant versus subordinate male urine that are detected by the vomeronasal organ. By contrast, subordinate male urinary odors induced a greater activation in the piriform cortex which is part of the main olfactory system, suggesting that female mice discriminate between dominant and subordinate male urine using their main olfactory system as well.

Contour detection is a crucial component of visual processing; however, performance on contour detection tasks can vary depending on the context of the visual scene. S. C. Dakin and N. J. Baruch (2009) showed that detection of a contour in an array of distracting elements depends on the orientation of flanking elements. Here, using a line of five collinear Gabor elements (&quot;target contour&quot;) in a field of distractor Gabor elements, we systematically measured the effects of eccentricity, spacing, and spatial frequency on contour detection performance in three different contexts: randomly oriented distractors (control condition), flanking distractors (on either side of the collinear Gabors) aligned approximately parallel to the target contour, and flanking distractors aligned approximately orthogonal to the target contour. In the control condition, contour detection performance was best for larger Gabors (2 cpd) spaced farther apart (1.2). Parallel flankers reduced performance for intermediate and large spacings and sizes compared to the control condition, while orthogonal flankers increased performance for the smallest spacing and size compared to the control condition. The results are fit by a model in which collinear facilitation, which is size-dependent but can persist for several degrees of visual angle, competes with orientation-dependent suppression from the flanking context when elements are separated by less than a degree of visual angle.

A major impediment to novel drug development has been the paucity of animal models that accurately reflect symptoms of affective disorders. In animal models, prolonged social stress has proven to be useful in understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying affective-like disorders. When considering experimental approaches for studying depression, social defeat stress, in particular, has been shown to have excellent etiological, predictive, discriminative and face validity. Described here is a protocol whereby C57BL/6J mice that are repeatedly subjected to bouts of social defeat by a larger and aggressive CD-1 mouse results in the development of a clear depressive-like syndrome, characterized by enduring deficits in social interactions. Specifically, the protocol consists of three important stages, beginning with the selection of aggressive CD-1 mice, followed by agonistic social confrontations between the CD-1 and C57BL/6J mice, and concluding with the confirmation of social avoidance in subordinate C57BL/6J mice. The automated detection of social avoidance allows a marked increase in throughput, reproducibility and quantitative analysis. This protocol is highly adaptable, but in its most common form it requires 3-4 weeks for completion.
The enantioselective binding of the (SSS)- isomer of an yttrium(III) tetraazatriphenylene complex to 'drug-site II' of human serum albumin (HSA) was detected by the intensity differences of its STD (1)H NMR spectrum relative to the (RRR)- isomer, by the effect of the competitive binder to that site, N-dansyl sarcosine, upon the STD spectrum of each isomer, in the presence of HSA and by 3D docking simulations.
Nowadays there are at present no efficient therapies for spinal cord injury (SCI), and new approaches have to be proposed. Recently, a new regenerative medicine strategy has been suggested using smart biomaterials able to carry and deliver cells and/or drugs in the damaged spinal cord. Among the wide field of emerging materials, research has been focused on hydrogels, three-dimensional polymeric networks able to swell and absorb a large amount of water. The present paper intends to give an overview of a wide range of natural, synthetic, and composite hydrogels with particular efforts for the ones studied in the last five years. Here, different hydrogel applications are underlined, together with their different nature, in order to have a clearer view of what is happening in one of the most sparkling fields of regenerative medicine.
Telcagepant (MK-0974) is a novel calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist currently undergoing clinical trials for migraine (http://www.merck.com/research/pipeline/home.html). MK-0974 is currently being studied in phase III clinical trials.
Liposomes, or vesicles, have been studied extensively both as models of biological membranes and as drug delivery vehicles. Typically it is assumed that all liposomes within the same preparation are identical. Here by employing pairs of fluorescently labeled lipids we demonstrated an up to 10-fold variation in the relative lipid composition of individual liposomes with diameters between 50 nm and 15 m. Since the physicochemical properties of liposomes are directly linked to their composition, a direct consequence of compositional inhomogeneities is a polydispersity in the properties of the individual liposomes in an ensemble.
The well established anatomy of the cerebellar cortex has led to suggestions that cerebellar molecular layer interneurons laterally inhibit Purkinje cells. In support of the anatomical predictions, on-beam excitation and off-beam inhibition of Purkinje cells have been shown to occur when the surface of the cerebellum is electrically excited. Patchy excitation of Purkinje cells with flanking inhibition of sagittally oriented Purkinje cells have also been demonstrated following peripheral stimulation in vivo. To extend these observations, we mapped the functional connectivity between granule cells, molecular layer interneurons, and Purkinje cells in rats. Patches of granule cells were asynchronously activated by photostimulation to mimic their excitation by a mossy fiber as it occurs in vivo. We found with remarkable consistency that, in the sagittal orientation, granule cells elicit a stereotypic set of responses. Granule cells immediately underneath a Purkinje cell provide pure excitation. Granule cells positioned 340-400 m laterally provided pure inhibition, consistent with the lateral inhibition proposed earlier. The net effect of exciting granule cells in between these two extremes was to provide a systematic change in the response of Purkinje cells, from net excitation to net inhibition moving laterally from the Purkinje cell. In contrast to the sagittal orientation, in the coronal orientation the organization of Purkinje cell responses with granule cell activation was remarkably different. Independent of the location of granule cells, within the 480 m lateral distance examined, molecular layer interneurons reduced the strength of granule cell inputs to Purkinje cells to a comparable extent.
Perceptual stability requires the integration of information across eye movements. We first tested the hypothesis that motion signals are integrated by neurons whose receptive fields (RFs) do not move with the eye but stay fixed in the world. Specifically, we measured the RF properties of neurons in the middle temporal area (MT) of macaques (Macaca mulatta) during the slow phase of optokinetic nystagmus. Using a novel method to estimate RF locations for both spikes and local field potentials, we found that the location on the retina that changed spike rates or local field potentials did not change with eye position; RFs moved with the eye. Second, we tested the hypothesis that neurons link information across eye positions by remapping the retinal location of their RFs to future locations. To test this, we compared RF locations during leftward and rightward slow phases of optokinetic nystagmus. We found no evidence for remapping during slow eye movements; the RF location was not affected by eye-movement direction. Together, our results show that RFs of MT neurons and the aggregate activity reflected in local field potentials are yoked to the eye during slow eye movements. This implies that individual MT neurons do not integrate sensory information from a single position in the world across eye movements. Future research will have to determine whether such integration, and the construction of perceptual stability, takes place in the form of a distributed population code in eye-centered visual cortex or is deferred to downstream areas.
The gene for the atypical NOTCH ligand delta-like homologue 1 (Dlk1) encodes membrane-bound and secreted isoforms that function in several developmental processes in vitro and in vivo. Dlk1, a member of a cluster of imprinted genes, is expressed from the paternally inherited chromosome. Here we show that mice that are deficient in Dlk1 have defects in postnatal neurogenesis in the subventricular zone: a developmental continuum that results in depletion of mature neurons in the olfactory bulb. We show that DLK1 is secreted by niche astrocytes, whereas its membrane-bound isoform is present in neural stem cells (NSCs) and is required for the inductive effect of secreted DLK1 on self-renewal. Notably, we find that there is a requirement for Dlk1 to be expressed from both maternally and paternally inherited chromosomes. Selective absence of Dlk1 imprinting in both NSCs and niche astrocytes is associated with postnatal acquisition of DNA methylation at the germ-line-derived imprinting control region. The results emphasize molecular relationships between NSCs and the niche astrocyte cells of the microenvironment, identifying a signalling system encoded by a single gene that functions coordinately in both cell types. The modulation of genomic imprinting in a stem-cell environment adds a new level of epigenetic regulation to the establishment and maintenance of the niche, raising wider questions about the adaptability, function and evolution of imprinting in specific developmental contexts.

MicroRNA-146a (miRNA-146a) is an inducible, 22 nucleotide, small RNA over-expressed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. Up-regulated miRNA-146a targets several inflammation-related and membrane-associated messenger RNAs (mRNAs), including those encoding complement factor-H (CFH) and the interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1), resulting in significant decreases in their expression (p&lt;0.05, ANOVA). In this study we assayed miRNA-146a, CFH, IRAK-1 and tetraspanin-12 (TSPAN12), abundances in primary human neuronal-glial (HNG) co-cultures, in human astroglial (HAG) and microglial (HMG) cells stressed with A42 peptide and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF). The results indicate a consistent inverse relationship between miRNA-146a and CFH, IRAK-1 and TSPAN12 expression levels, and indicate that HNG, HAG and HMG cell types each respond differently to A42-peptide+TNF-triggered stress. While the strongest miRNA-146a-IRAK-1 response was found in HAG cells, the largest miRNA-146a-TSPAN12 response was found in HNG cells, and the most significant miRNA-146a-CFH changes were found in HMG cells, the 'resident scavenging macrophages' of the brain.
In electroencephalography (EEG) study, gamma oscillations were reported to participate in pain processing; theta oscillations were also involved in pain processing. Moreover, theta always modulated gamma activity by phase-amplitude coupling in event-related oscillations. Whether theta modulate gamma by phase-amplitude coupling in pain processing is of interest. In the present study, using EEG of rats after laser nociceptive stimulation, we investigated gamma activity and phase-amplitude coupling between theta and gamma. It was found that induced gamma power increased starting 200 ms after nociceptive stimulation onset. Moreover, significant coupling between theta phase and gamma amplitude was found over frontal and parietal region after nociceptive stimulation. Our results for the first time suggest that coupling between theta and gamma is involved in nociception processing.


We report an association of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for the VSNL1 gene (visinin-like 1) with schizophrenia and frontal cortical function in a sample of patients with Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorder-IV (DSM-IV) diagnoses of schizophrenia, compared with healthy controls. Moreover, VSNL1 SNPs were associated with performance in the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, a measure for the assessment of frontal cortical function. The VSNL1 gene product, Visinin-like-protein-1 (VILIP-1), is a member of the neuronal EF-hand Ca(2+)-sensor protein family. Previously, VILIP-1 mRNA and protein expression were shown to be altered in animal models and in schizophrenia patients. VILIP-1 influences cytosolic cyclic adenosine mono phosphate (cAMP) levels, cell migration, exocytotic processes and differentiation in the periphery. This raises the question, whether, similar to other potential schizophrenia susceptibility genes such as Disc1, PDE4B and Akt, VSNL1 may affect cAMP signaling and neurite outgrowth in neurons. In dissociated rat hippocampal neurons, VILIP-1 small interfering RNA knockdown decreased cAMP levels and reduced dendrite branching, compared with control-transfected cells. In contrast, VILIP-1 overexpression had the opposite effect. Similar results have been obtained in the human dopaminergic neuronal cell line SH-SY5Y, where the effect on neurite branching and length was attenuated by the adenylyl cyclase inhibitor 2',5'-dideoxyadenosine and the protein kinase A inhibitor KT5720. These results show that the association of VSNL1 SNPs with the disease and cognitive impairments, together with previously observed pathological changes in VILIP-1 protein expression, possibly occurring during brain development, may contribute to the morphological and functional deficits observed in schizophrenia.

The emerging awareness of the contribution of epigenetic processes to genome function in health and disease is underpinned by decades of research in model systems. In particular, many principles of the epigenetic control of genome function have been uncovered by studies of genomic imprinting. The phenomenon of genomic imprinting, which results in some genes being expressed in a parental--origin-specific manner, is essential for normal mammalian growth and development and exemplifies the regulatory influences of DNA methylation, chromatin structure and non-coding RNA. Setting seminal discoveries in this field alongside recent progress and remaining questions shows how the study of imprinting continues to enhance our understanding of the epigenetic control of genome function in other contexts.
The GABA(A) channels are present in all neurons and are located both at synapses and outside of synapses where they generate phasic and tonic currents, respectively. The GABA(A) channel is a pentameric GABA-gated chloride channel. The channel subunits are grouped into 8 families (1-6, 1-3, 1-3, , , ,  and ). Two alphas, two betas and one 3(rd) subunit form the functional channel. By combining studies of sub-type specific GABA-activated single-channel molecules with studies including all populations of GABA(A) channels in the neuron it becomes possible to understand the basic mechanism of neuronal inhibition and how it is modulated by pharmacological agents. We use the patch-clamp technique to study the functional properties of the GABA(A) channels in alive neurons in hippocampal brain slices and record the single-channel and whole-cell currents. We further examine how the channels are affected by different GABA concentrations, other drugs and intra and extracellular factors. For detailed theoretical and practical description of the patch-clamp method please see The Single-Channel Recordings edited by B Sakman and E Neher.
Receptive fields in primary visual cortex (V1) are categorized as simple or complex, depending on their spatial selectivity to stimulus contrast polarity. We studied the dependence of this classification on visual context by comparing, in the same cell, the synaptic responses to three classical receptive field mapping protocols: sparse noise, ternary dense noise and flashed Gabor noise. Intracellular recordings revealed that the relative weights of simple-like and complex-like receptive field components were scaled so as to make the same receptive field more simple-like with dense noise stimulation and more complex-like with sparse or Gabor noise stimulations. However, once these context-dependent receptive fields were convolved with the corresponding stimulus, the balance between simple-like and complex-like contributions to the synaptic responses appeared to be invariant across input statistics. This normalization of the linear/nonlinear input ratio suggests a previously unknown form of homeostatic control of V1 functional properties, optimizing the network nonlinearities to the statistical structure of the visual input.
Neuronal responses during sensory processing are influenced by both the organization of intracortical connections and the statistical features of sensory stimuli. How these intrinsic and extrinsic factors govern the activity of excitatory and inhibitory populations is unclear. Using two-photon calcium imaging in vivo and intracellular recordings in vitro, we investigated the dependencies between synaptic connectivity, feature selectivity and network activity in pyramidal cells and fast-spiking parvalbumin-expressing (PV) interneurons in mouse visual cortex. In pyramidal cell populations, patterns of neuronal correlations were largely stimulus-dependent, indicating that their responses were not strongly dominated by functionally biased recurrent connectivity. By contrast, visual stimulation only weakly modified co-activation patterns of fast-spiking PV cells, consistent with the observation that these broadly tuned interneurons received very dense and strong synaptic input from nearby pyramidal cells with diverse feature selectivities. Therefore, feedforward and recurrent network influences determine the activity of excitatory and inhibitory ensembles in fundamentally different ways.



We describe the discovery and optimization of a novel series of benzofuran EP(1) antagonists, leading to the identification of 26d, a novel nonacidic EP(1) antagonist which demonstrated efficacy in preclinical models of chronic inflammatory pain.



The stigmoid body (STB) is a cytoplasmic inclusion containing huntingtin-associated protein 1 (HAP1), and HAP1/STB formation is induced by transfection of the HAP1 gene into cultured cells. In the present study, we examined the intracellular colocalization of HAP1/STBs with steroid hormone receptors (SHRs), including the androgen receptor (AR), estrogen receptor, glucocorticoid receptor (GR), and mineralocorticoid receptor, in COS-7 cells cotransfected with HAP1 and each receptor. We found that C-terminal ligand-binding domains of all SHRs had potential for colocalization with HAP1/STBs, whereas only AR and GR were clearly colocalized with HAP1/STBs when each full-length SHR was coexpressed with HAP1. In addition, it appeared that HAP1/STBs did not disrupt GR and AR functions because the receptors on HAP1/STBs maintained nuclear translocation activity in response to their specific ligands. When the cells were treated with a proteasome inhibitor, GR and AR localized outside HAP1/STBs translocated into the nucleus, whereas the receptors colocalized with HAP1/STBs persisted in their colocalization even after treatment with their ligands. Therefore, HAP1/STBs may be involved in cytoplasmic modifications of the nuclear translocation of GR and AR in a ubiquitin-proteasome system.
It has been shown that acupuncture at acupoints GB34 and LR3 inhibits the degeneration of nigrostriatal neurons in a 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse model of Parkinson's disease. The degeneration of spinal cord was reported to be induced in the MPTP-treated pre-symptomatic mouse. In this study, the gene expression profile changes following acupuncture at the acupoints were investigated in the cervical spinal cord of an MPTP-induced parkinsonism model using a whole transcript array (Affymetrix GeneChip mouse gene 1.0 ST array). It was shown that 8 of the probes up-regulated in MPTP, as compared to the control, were down-regulated after acupuncture at the acupoints. Of these 8 probes, 6 probes (4 annotated genes in 6 probes: Ctla2a, EG383229, Ppbp and Ube2l6) were exclusively down-regulated by acupuncture at the specific acupoints except for 2 probes as these 2 probes were commonly down-regulated by acupuncture at both the acupoints and the non-acupoints. In addition, 11 of the probes down-regulated in MPTP, as compared to the control, were up-regulated by acupuncture at the acupoints. Of these 11 probes, 10 probes (5 annotated genes in 10 probes: EG665033, ENSMUSG00000055323, Obox6, Pbp2 and Tmem150) were exclusively up-regulated by acupuncture at the specific acupoints except for the Fut11 because the Fut11 was commonly up-regulated by acupuncture at both the acupoints and the non-acupoints. The expression levels of the representative genes in the microarray were validated by real-time RT-PCR. These data suggest that the expression of these exclusively regulated 16 probes (9 genes) may be, at least in part, affected by acupuncture at the acupoints in the cervical spinal cord which can be damaged by MPTP intoxication.
Liver receptor homolog (LRH-1) is an orphan nuclear receptor (NR5A2) that regulates cholesterol homeostasis and cell plasticity in endodermal-derived tissues. Estrogen increases LRH-1 expression conveying cell protection and proliferation. Independently, estrogen also protects isolated human islets against cytokine-induced apoptosis. Herein, we demonstrate that LRH-1 is expressed in islets, including -cells, and that transcript levels are modulated by 17-estradiol through the estrogen receptor (ER) but not ER signaling pathway. Repression of LRH-1 by siRNA abrogated the protective effect conveyed by estrogen on rat islets against cytokines. Adenoviral-mediated overexpression of LRH-1 in human islets did not alter proliferation but conferred protection against cytokines and streptozotocin-induced apoptosis. Expression levels of the cell cycle genes cyclin D1 and cyclin E1 as well as the antiapoptotic gene bcl-xl were unaltered in LRH-1 expressing islets. In contrast, the steroidogenic enzymes CYP11A1 and CYP11B1 involved in glucocorticoid biosynthesis were both stimulated in transduced islets. In parallel, graded overexpression of LRH-1 dose-dependently impaired glucose-induced insulin secretion. Our results demonstrate the crucial role of the estrogen target gene nr5a2 in protecting human islets against-stressed-induced apoptosis. We postulate that this effect is mediated through increased glucocorticoid production that blunts the pro-inflammatory response of islets.
Recent studies have implicated an N-terminal caspase-6 cleavage product of mutant huntingtin (htt) as an important mediator of toxicity in Huntington's disease (HD). To directly assess the consequences of such fragments on neurologic function, we produced transgenic mice that express a caspase-6 length N-terminal fragment of mutant htt (N586) with both normal (23Q) and disease (82Q) length glutamine repeats. In contrast to mice expressing N586-23Q, mice expressing N586-82Q accumulate large cytoplasmic inclusion bodies that can be visualized with antibodies to epitopes throughout the N586 protein. However, biochemical analyses of aggregated mutant huntingtin in these mice demonstrated that the inclusion bodies are composed largely of a much smaller htt fragment (terminating before residue 115), with lesser amounts of full-length N586-82Q fragments. Mice expressing the N586-82Q fragment show symptoms typical of previously generated mice expressing mutant huntingtin fragments, including failure to maintain weight, small brain weight and reductions in specific mRNAs in the striatum. Uniquely, these N586-82Q mice develop a progressive movement disorder that includes dramatic deficits in motor performance on the rotarod and ataxia. Our findings suggest that caspase-6-derived fragments of mutant htt are capable of inducing novel HD-related phenotypes, but these fragments are not terminal cleavage products as they are subject to further proteolysis. In this scenario, mutant htt fragments derived from caspase 6, or possibly other proteases, could mediate HD pathogenesis via a 'hit and run' type of mechanism in which caspase-6, or other larger N-terminal fragments, mediate a neurotoxic process before being cleaved to a smaller fragment that accumulates pathologically.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are known to be primarily activated by extracellular protons. Recently, we characterized a novel nonproton ligand (2-guanidine-4-methylquinazoline, GMQ), which activates the ASIC3 channel subtype at neutral pH. Using an interactive computational-experimental approach, here we extend our investigation to delineate the architecture of the GMQ-sensing domain in the ASIC3 channels. We first established a GMQ binding mode and revealed that residues Glu-423, Glu-79, Leu-77, Arg-376, Gln-271, and Gln-269 play key roles in forming the GMQ-sensing domain. We then verified the GMQ binding mode using ab initio calculation and mutagenesis and demonstrated the critical role of the above GMQ-binding residues in the interplay among GMQ, proton, and Ca(2+) in regulating the function of ASIC3. Additionally, we showed that the same residues involved in coordinating GMQ responses are also critical for activation of the ASIC3(E79C) mutant by thiol-reactive compound DTNB. Thus, a range of complementary techniques provide independent evidence for the structural details of the GMQ-sensing domain at atomic level, laying the foundation for further investigations of endogenous nonproton ligands and gating mechanisms of the ASIC3 channels.
This study examined whether ethyl pyruvate (EP) promotes the survival of nigrostriatal dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse model of Parkinson's disease. MPTP induced degeneration of nigrostriatal DA neurons and glial activation as visualized by tyrosine hydroxylase, macrophage Ag complex-1, and/or glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity. Western blotting and immunohistochemistry showed activation of microglial NADPH oxidase and astroglial myeloperoxidase (MPO) and subsequent reactive oxygen species/reactive nitrogen species production and oxidative DNA damage in the MPTP-treated substantia nigra. Treatment with EP prevented degeneration of nigrostriatal DA neurons, increased striatal dopamine levels, and improved motor function. This neuroprotection afforded by EP was associated with the suppression of astroglial MPO expression, NADPH oxidase-, and/or inducible NO synthase-derived reactive oxygen species/reactive nitrogen species production by activated microglia. Interestingly, EP was found to protect DA neurons from 1-methyl-4-phenyl-pyridinium neurotoxicity in cocultures of mesencephalic neurons and microglia but not in neuron-enriched mesencephalic cultures devoid of microglia. The present findings show that EP may inhibit glial-mediated oxidative stress, suggesting that EP may have therapeutic value in the treatment of aspects of Parkinson's disease related to glia-derived oxidative damage.

B cell activating factor (BAFF) is critical for B cell survival, a function that is mediated by BAFF receptor, (BAFF-R). The role of BAFF (or BAFF-R) in the multiple sclerosis model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), was examined using BAFF-R-deficient mice. BAFF-R deficiency resulted in paradoxically increased severity of EAE induced by myelin-oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) peptide 35-55. Inflammatory foci in BAFF-R-deficient mice comprised increased numbers of activated macrophages expressing BAFF and correlated with increased BAFF secretion. Thus, BAFF-R may be important in EAE pathogenesis, possibly by influencing macrophage function through a mechanism that involves modulation of BAFF expression.
Immune-neural interactions dictate both lesion formation and repair in multiple sclerosis (MS). MS pathogenesis is mediated by the interplay of invading immune cells, neurons, glia, and endogenous stores of neural stem/progenitor cells (NPCs). However, the signals important in this cross-talk are not well defined. We utilized a co-culture method and flow cytometric analysis capable of detecting outcomes for both cell types. Here we describe the effects of NPCs on three different CD4+ subtypes (Th1, Th2, and Th17) and vice versa. Utilizing lpr (Fas receptor-deficient) and gld (Fas ligand-deficient) NPC lines, we further define the role of Fas in this neuroimmune cross-talk. We show that only the Th1 subtype is capable of inducing NPC cell death, and this is independent of Fas activation. Conversely, NPCs specifically kill pro-inflammatory Th1 and Th17 cells in a contact-dependent manner without affecting Th2 survival. Further investigation into these effects revealed that FasL expressed by NPCs mediates Th17 apoptosis. Additionally NPC/T-cell cross-talk modulates FasL expression in both cell types, while Fas receptor levels remains static. These findings illuminate the direct neuropathogenic effects of T-cells, as well as help define the immunomodulatory capacity of NPCs. We have elucidated novel interactions that may be critical in MS pathogenesis.
Radiation effectively treats brain tumors and other pathologies but dose and treatment plans are limited by normal tissue injury, a major cause of morbidity in survivors. Clinically significant normal tissue injury can occur even with therapies that target pathological tissue and limit out-of-target irradiation. Elucidating the mechanisms underlying normal tissue injury is facilitated by studying the effects of focal irradiation and comparing irradiated and un-irradiated tissue in experimental animals. Young adult rats were irradiated using the Leksell Gamma Knife with a 10 Gy maximum dose directed at the left hippocampus and shaped to minimize irradiation contralaterally. At least 95% of targeted hippocampus received 3 Gy, while all points in the contralateral hippocampus received &lt;0.3 Gy. Neuronal and microglial markers of damage were assessed in the targeted and contralateral hemispheres of Gamma Knife-treated rats and compared to non-irradiated controls. Acute cell death and sustained changes in neurogenesis and in microglia occurred in the dentate gyrus of the targeted, but not the contralateral, hippocampus, providing experimental evidence that focal irradiation at doses received by peri-target regions during targeted radiation therapy produces robust normal tissue responses. Additional studies using this approach will facilitate assessment of in vivo dose responses and the cellular and molecular mechanisms of radiation-induced brain injury.
Anatomical standardization (also called spatial normalization) of positron emission tomography (PET) small animal brain images is required to make statistical comparisons across individuals. Frequently, PET images are co-registered to an individual MR or CT image of the same subject in order to transform the functional images to an anatomical space. In the present work, we evaluate the normalization of synthetic PET (synPET) images to a synthetic PET template. To provide absolute error in terms of pixel misregistration, we created a synthetic PET image from the individual MR image through segmentation of the brain into gray and white matter which produced functional and anatomical images in the same space. When comparing spatial normalization of synPET images to a synPET template with the gold standard (MR images to an MR template), a mean translation error of 0.24mm (0.20) and a maximal mean rotational error of 0.85 (0.91) were found. Significant decrease in misregistration error was measured when achieving spatial normalization of functional images to a functional template instead of an anatomical template. This accuracy strengthens the use of standardization methods where individual PET images are registered to a customized PET template in order to statistically assess physiological changes in rat brains.
Cortical thinning and intracortical gray matter volume losses are widely observed in normal ageing, while the decreasing rate of the volume loss in subjects with neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease is reported to be faster than the average speed. Therefore, neurodegenerative disease is considered as accelerated ageing. Accurate detection of accelerated ageing based on the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain is a relatively new direction of research in computational neuroscience as it has the potential to offer positive clinical outcome through early intervention. In order to capture the faster structural alterations in the brain with ageing, we propose in this paper a computational approach for modelling the MRI-based structure of the brain using the framework of hidden Markov models, which can be utilized for age prediction. Experiments were carried out on healthy subjects to validate its accuracy and its robustness. The results have shown its ability of predicting the brain age with an average normalized age-gap error of two to three years, which is superior to several recently developed methods for brain age prediction.
Hippocampal early (E-) long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) elicited by a weak stimulus normally fades within 90 min. Late (L-) LTP and LTD elicited by strong stimuli continue for &gt;180 min and require new protein synthesis to persist. If a strong tetanus is applied once to synaptic inputs, even a weak tetanus applied to another synaptic input can evoke persistent LTP. A synaptic tag is hypothesized to enable the capture of newly synthesized synaptic molecules. This process, referred to as synaptic tagging, is found between not only the same processes (i.e. E- and L-LTP; E- and L-LTD) but also between different processes (i.e. E-LTP and L-LTD; E-LTD and L-LTP) induced at two independent synaptic inputs (cross-tagging). However, the mechanisms of synaptic tag setting remain unclear. In our previous study, we found that synaptic associativity in the hippocampal Schaffer collateral pathway depended on neuropsin (kallikrein-related peptidase 8 or KLK8), a plasticity-related extracellular protease. In the present study, we investigated how neuropsin participates in synaptic tagging and cross-tagging. We report that neuropsin is involved in synaptic tagging during LTP at basal and apical dendritic inputs. Moreover, neuropsin is involved in synaptic tagging and cross-tagging during LTP at apical dendritic inputs via integrin 1 and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II signalling. Thus, neuropsin is a candidate molecule for the LTP-specific tag setting and regulates the transformation of E- to L-LTP during both synaptic tagging and cross-tagging.
Dietary composition during pregnancy influences fetal and adult phenotype but its effects on placental phenotype remain largely unknown. Using molecular, morphological and functional analyses, placental nutrient transfer capacity was examined in mice fed isocaloric diets containing 23%, 18% or 9% casein (C) during pregnancy. At day 16, placental transfer of glucose, but not methyl-aminoisobutyric acid (MeAIB), was greater in C18 and C9 than C23 mice, in association with increased placental expression of the glucose transporter Slc2a1/GLUT1, and the growth factor Igf2. At day 19, placental glucose transport remained high in C9 mice while MeAIB transfer was less in C18 than C23 mice, despite greater placental weights in C18 and C9 than C23 mice. Placental System A amino acid transporter expression correlated with protein intake at day 19. Relative growth of transport verses endocrine zones of the placenta was influenced by diet at both ages without changing the absolute volume of the transport surface. Fetal weight was unaffected by diet at day 16 but was reduced in C9 animals by day 19. Morphological and functional adaptations in placental phenotype, therefore, occur to optimise nutrient transfer when dietary composition is varied, even subtly. This has important implications for the intrauterine programming of life expectancy.
During fatigue caused by a sustained maximal voluntary contraction (MVC), motoneurones become markedly less responsive when tested during the silent period following transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). To determine whether this reduction depends on the repetitive activation of the motoneurones, responses to TMS (motor evoked potentials, MEPs) and to cervicomedullary stimulation (cervicomedullary motor evoked potentials, CMEPs) were tested during a sustained submaximal contraction at a constant level of electromyographic activity (EMG). In such a contraction, some motoneurones are repetitively activated whereas others are not active. On four visits, eight subjects performed a 10 min maintained-EMG elbow flexor contraction of 25% maximum. Test stimuli were delivered with and without conditioning by TMS given 100 ms prior. Test responses were MEPs or CMEPs (two visits each, small responses evoked by weak stimuli on one visit and large responses on the other). During the sustained contraction, unconditioned CMEPs decreased 20% whereas conditioned CMEPs decreased 75 and 30% with weak and strong stimuli, respectively. Conditioned MEPs were reduced to the same extent as CMEPs of the same size. The data reveal a novel decrease in motoneurone excitability during a submaximal contraction if EMG is maintained. Further, the much greater reduction of conditioned than unconditioned CMEPs shows the critical influence of voluntary drive on motoneurone responsiveness. Strong test stimuli attenuate the reduction of conditioned CMEPs which indicates that low-threshold motoneurones active in the contraction are most affected. The equivalent reduction of conditioned MEPs and CMEPs suggests that, similar to findings with a sustained MVC, impaired motoneurone responsiveness rather than intracortical inhibition is responsible for the fatigue-related impairment of the MEP during a sustained submaximal contraction.
Small-conductance calcium-activated K(+) channels (SK channels) regulate the excitability of neurons and their responsiveness to synaptic input patterns. SK channels contribute to the afterhyperpolarization (AHP) following action potential bursts, and curtail excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in neuronal dendrites. Here we review evidence that SK2 channels are expressed in rat cerebellar Purkinje cells during development and throughout adulthood, and play a key role in diverse cellular processes such as the regulation of the spike firing frequency and the modulation of calcium transients in dendritic spines. In Purkinje cells as well as in other types of neurons, SK2 channel plasticity seems to provide an important mechanism allowing these cells to adjust their intrinsic excitability and to alter the probabilities for the induction of synaptic learning correlates, such as long-term potentiation (LTP).
Theories concerning the role of the climbing fibre system in motor learning, as opposed to those addressing the olivocerebellar system in the organization of motor timing, are briefly contrasted. The electrophysiological basis for the motor timing hypothesis in relation to the olivocerebellar system is treated in detail.
In yeast the Golgi-associated retrograde protein (GARP) complex is required for tethering of endosome-derived transport vesicles to the late Golgi. It consists of four subunits--Vps51p, Vps52p, Vps53p, and Vps54p--and shares similarities with other multimeric tethering complexes, such as the conserved oligomeric Golgi (COG) and the exocyst complex. Here we report the functional characterization of the GARP complex in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Furthermore, we identified the C. elegans Vps51 subunit, which is conserved in all eukaryotes. GARP mutants are viable but show lysosomal defects. We show that GARP subunits bind specific sets of Golgi SNAREs within the yeast two-hybrid system. This suggests that the C. elegans GARP complex also facilitates tethering as well as SNARE complex assembly at the Golgi. The GARP and COG tethering complexes may have overlapping functions for retrograde endosome-to-Golgi retrieval, since loss of both complexes leads to a synthetic lethal phenotype.
During vertebrate neuromuscular junction (NMJ) assembly, motor axons and their muscle targets exchange short-range signals that regulate the subsequent steps of presynaptic and postsynaptic specialization. We report here that this interaction is in part mediated by axonal filopodia extended preferentially by cultured Xenopus spinal neurons toward their muscle targets. Immunoblotting and labeling experiments showed that basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) was expressed by muscle and associated with the cell surface, and treatment of cultured spinal neurons with recombinant bFGF nearly doubled the normal density of filopodia in neurites. This effect of bFGF was abolished by SU5402, a selective inhibitor of FGF-receptor 1 (FGFR1), and forced expression of wild-type or dominant-negative FGFR1 in neurons enhanced or suppressed the assembly of filopodia, respectively. Significantly, in nerve-muscle cocultures, knocking down bFGF in muscle decreased both the asymmetric extension of filopodia by axons toward muscle and the assembly of NMJs. In addition, neurons expressing dominant-negative FGFR1 less effectively triggered the aggregation of muscle acetylcholine receptors at innervation sites than did control neurons. These results suggest that bFGF activation of neuronal FGFR1 generates filopodial processes in neurons that promote nerve-muscle interaction and facilitate NMJ establishment.

How do separate neural networks interact to support complex cognitive processes such as remembrance of the personal past? Autobiographical memory (AM) retrieval recruits a consistent pattern of activation that potentially comprises multiple neural networks. However, it is unclear how such large-scale neural networks interact and are modulated by properties of the memory retrieval process. In the present functional MRI (fMRI) study, we combined independent component analysis (ICA) and dynamic causal modeling (DCM) to understand the neural networks supporting AM retrieval. ICA revealed four task-related components consistent with the previous literature: 1) medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) network, associated with self-referential processes, 2) medial temporal lobe (MTL) network, associated with memory, 3) frontoparietal network, associated with strategic search, and 4) cingulooperculum network, associated with goal maintenance. DCM analysis revealed that the medial PFC network drove activation within the system, consistent with the importance of this network to AM retrieval. Additionally, memory accessibility and recollection uniquely altered connectivity between these neural networks. Recollection modulated the influence of the medial PFC on the MTL network during elaboration, suggesting that greater connectivity among subsystems of the default network supports greater re-experience. In contrast, memory accessibility modulated the influence of frontoparietal and MTL networks on the medial PFC network, suggesting that ease of retrieval involves greater fluency among the multiple networks contributing to AM. These results show the integration between neural networks supporting AM retrieval and the modulation of network connectivity by behavior.
Sequence learning can be investigated by serial reaction-time (SRT) paradigms. Explicit learning occurs when subjects have to recognize a test sequence and has been shown to activate the frontoparietal network in both contralateral and ipsilateral hemispheres. Thus, the left and right superior longitudinal fasciculi (SLF), connecting the intra-hemispheric frontoparietal circuits, could have a role in explicit unimanual visuomotor learning. Also, as both hemispheres are involved, we could hypothesize that the corpus callosum (CC) has a role in this process. Pathological damage in both SLF and CC has been detected in patients with Multiple Sclerosis (PwMS), and microstructural alterations can be quantified by Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI). In light of these findings, we inquired whether PwMS with minimal disability showed impairments in explicit visuomotor sequence learning and whether this could be due to loss of white matter integrity in these intra- and inter-hemispheric white matter pathways. Thus, we combined DTI analysis with a modified version of SRT task based on finger opposition movements in a group of PwMS with minimal disability. We found that the performance in explicit sequence learning was significantly reduced in these patients with respect to healthy subjects; the amount of sequence-specific learning was found to be more strongly correlated with fractional anisotropy (FA) in the CC (r=0.93) than in the left (r=0.28) and right SLF (r=0.27) (p for interaction=0.005 and 0.04 respectively). This finding suggests that an inter-hemispheric information exchange between the homologous areas is required to successfully accomplish the task and indirectly supports the role of the right (ipsilateral) hemisphere in explicit visuomotor learning. On the other hand, we found no significant correlation of the FA in the CC and in the SLFs with nonspecific learning (assessed when stimuli are randomly presented), supporting the hypothesis that inter-hemispheric integrity is specifically relevant for explicit sequence learning.
Understanding the highly complex, spatially distributed and temporally organized phenomena entailed by mental processes using functional MRI is an important research problem in cognitive and clinical neuroscience. Conventional analysis methods focus on the spatial dimension of the data discarding the information about brain function contained in the temporal dimension. This paper presents a fully spatio-temporal multivariate analysis method using a state-space model (SSM) for brain function that yields not only spatial maps of activity but also its temporal structure along with spatially varying estimates of the hemodynamic response. Efficient algorithms for estimating the parameters along with quantitative validations are given. A novel low-dimensional feature-space for representing the data, based on a formal definition of functional similarity, is derived. Quantitative validation of the model and the estimation algorithms is provided with a simulation study. Using a real fMRI study for mental arithmetic, the ability of this neurophysiologically inspired model to represent the spatio-temporal information corresponding to mental processes is demonstrated. Moreover, by comparing the models across multiple subjects, natural patterns in mental processes organized according to different mental abilities are revealed.
The myelin-associated protein Nogo-A is a well-known inhibitor for axonal regeneration and compensatory plasticity, yet functions of endogenous Nogo-A in oligodendrocyte differentiation are not as clear. As oligodendrocyte matures, its processes branch and eventually form lamellae that ensheath target axons. The present study examined the effects of decreased levels of Nogo-A on the development of oligodendrocytes. The siRNA mediated Nogo-A silencing in these cells did not change their proliferation rates identified by BrdU incorporation assay and neither the expression of stage specific oligodendrocyte makers as identified by qRT-PCR and immunostaining. But knockdown the expression of Nogo-A significantly enhances the process branching complexity by Sholl analysis. Current results suggest a novel role for Nogo-A in maintaining a restricted branching phenotype in oligodendrocytes process outgrowth, which is a key step towards myelin membrane sheet formation and myelination.
Most hypotheses concerning the mechanisms underlying seizure activity in focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) are based on alterations in synaptic transmission and glial dysfunction. However, neurons may also communicate by extrasynaptic transmission, which was recently found to affect epileptiform activity under experimental conditions and which is mediated by the diffusion of neuroactive substances in the extracellular space (ECS). The ECS diffusion parameters were therefore determined using the real-time iontophoretic method in human neocortical tissue samples obtained from surgically treated epileptic patients. The obtained values of the extracellular space volume fraction and tortuosity were then correlated with the histologicaly assessed type of cortical malformation (FCD type I or II). While the extracellular volume remained unchanged (FCD I) or larger (FCD II) than in normal/control tissue, tortuosity was significantly increased in both types of dysplasia, indicating the presence of additional diffusion barriers and compromised diffusion, which might be another factor contributing to the epileptogenicity of FCD.
Reward-motivated behavior is strongly influenced by the learned significance of contextual stimuli in the environment. However, the neural pathways that mediate context-reward relations are not well understood. We have identified a circuit from area CA3 of dorsal hippocampus to ventral tegmental area (VTA) that uses lateral septum (LS) as a relay. Theta frequency stimulation of CA3 excited VTA dopamine (DA) neurons and inhibited non-DA neurons. DA neuron excitation was likely mediated by disinhibition because local antagonism of -aminobutyric acid receptors blocked responses to CA3 stimulation. Inactivating components of the CA3-LS-VTA pathway blocked evoked responses in VTA and also reinstatement of cocaine-seeking by contextual stimuli. This transsynaptic link between hippocampus and VTA appears to be an important substrate by which environmental context regulates goal-directed behavior.
We conducted suprathreshold discrimination experiments to compare how natural-scene information is processed in central and peripheral vision (16 eccentricity). Observers' ratings of the perceived magnitude of changes in naturalistic scenes were lower for peripheral than for foveal viewing, and peripheral orientation changes were rated less than peripheral colour changes. A V1-based Visual Difference Predictor model of the magnitudes of perceived foveal change was adapted to match the sinusoidal grating sensitivities of peripheral vision, but it could not explain why the ratings for changes in peripheral stimuli were so reduced. Perceived magnitude ratings for peripheral stimuli were further reduced by simultaneous presentation of flanking patches of naturalistic images, a phenomenon that could not be replicated foveally, even after M-scaling the foveal stimuli to reduce their size and the distances from the flankers. The effects of the peripheral flankers are very reminiscent of crowding phenomena demonstrated with letters or Gabor patches.
PSD-95, a principal scaffolding component of the postsynaptic density, is targeted to synapses by palmitoylation, where it couples NMDA receptor stimulation to production of nitric oxide (NO) by neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). Here, we show that PSD-95 is physiologically S-nitrosylated. We identify cysteines 3 and 5, which are palmitoylated, as sites of nitrosylation, suggesting a competition between these two modifications. In support of this hypothesis, physiologically produced NO inhibits PSD-95 palmitoylation in granule cells of the cerebellum, decreasing the number of PSD-95 clusters at synaptic sites. Further, decreased palmitoylation, as seen in heterologous cells treated with 2-bromopalmitate or in ZDHHC8 knockout mice deficient in a PSD-95 palmitoyltransferase, results in increased PSD-95 nitrosylation. These data support a model in which NMDA-mediated production of NO regulates targeting of PSD-95 to synapses via mutually competitive cysteine modifications. Thus, differential modification of cysteines may represent a general paradigm in signal transduction.
The role of neuronal dendrites is to receive and process synaptic inputs. The geometry of the dendritic arbor can undergo neuronal activity-dependent changes that may impact the cognitive abilities of the organism. Here we show that vascular endothelial growth factor D (VEGFD), commonly known as an angiogenic mitogen, controls the total length and complexity of dendrites both in cultured hippocampal neurons and in the adult mouse hippocampus. VEGFD expression is dependent upon basal neuronal activity and requires nuclear calcium-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IV (CaMKIV) signaling. Suppression of VEGFD expression in the mouse hippocampus by RNA interference causes memory impairments. Thus, nuclear calcium-VEGFD signaling mediates the effect of neuronal activity on the maintenance of dendritic arbors in the adult hippocampus and is required for cognitive functioning. These results suggest that caution be employed in the clinical use of blockers of VEGFD signaling for antiangiogenic cancer therapy.
Cortical reorganization of visual and object representations following neural injury was examined using fMRI and behavioral investigations. We probed the visual responsivity of the ventral visual cortex of an agnosic patient who was impaired at object recognition following a lesion to the right lateral fusiform gyrus. In both hemispheres, retinotopic mapping revealed typical topographic organization and visual activation of early visual cortex. However, visual responses, object-related, and -selective responses were reduced in regions immediately surrounding the lesion in the right hemisphere, and also, surprisingly, in corresponding locations in the structurally intact left hemisphere. In contrast, hV4 of the right hemisphere showed expanded response properties. These findings indicate that the right lateral fusiform gyrus is critically involved in object recognition and that an impairment to this region has widespread consequences for remote parts of cortex. Finally, functional neural plasticity is possible even when a cortical lesion is sustained in adulthood.
Both observational and perturbational technologies are essential for advancing the understanding of brain function and dysfunction. But while observational techniques have greatly advanced in the last century, techniques for perturbation that are matched to the speed and heterogeneity of neural systems have lagged behind. The technology of optogenetics represents a step toward addressing this disparity. Reliable and targetable single-component tools (which encompass both light sensation and effector function within a single protein) have enabled versatile new classes of investigation in the study of neural systems. Here we provide a primer on the application of optogenetics in neuroscience, focusing on the single-component tools and highlighting important problems, challenges, and technical considerations.
Sensory cortices show a decline in synaptic plasticity (e.g., long-term potentiation, LTP) during postnatal maturation. We demonstrate a partial reversal of this decline in rat primary auditory cortex (A1) by pharmacological manipulations or modifications of the acoustic environment. In adult, anesthetized rats, field postsynaptic potentials (fPSPs) in A1 elicited by medial geniculate nucleus (MGN) stimulation consisted of two sequential peaks. Simultaneous application in A1 of a GABA(A) receptor agonist (muscimol) and GABA(B) receptor antagonist (SCH 50911), thought to result in a preferential inhibition of intracortical activity while preserving thalamocortical inputs, suggested that these two fPSP components largely reflect thalamocortical and intracortical synapses, respectively. Rats (postnatal day [PD]60-70) showed moderate LTP of fPSPs following theta-burst stimulation (TBS) of the MGN. Interestingly, repeated episodes (PD10-20 &amp; 50-60) of patterned sound deprivation by continuous white noise exposure resulted in substantial LTP, an effect not seen with single exposure (PD10-20 or 50-60), or two episodes during adulthood (PD50-60 &amp; 100-110). Thus, early sensory deprivation acts as a &quot;prime,&quot; allowing subsequent deprivation to reinstate juvenile-like levels of LTP. Older (&gt;PD200) rats that no longer exhibit LTP in A1 showed LTP of the first fPSP peak when TBS occurred during cortical zinc application. We conclude that the age-related decline of plasticity in A1 can be partially reversed by pharmacological techniques or manipulations of the acoustic environment during specific periods of postnatal life.
We investigated the role of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter in the mechanism of non-quantal (non-vesicular) secretion of neurotransmitter in the neuromuscular synapse of the rat diaphragm muscle. Non-quantal secretion was estimated electrophysiologically by the amplitude of end-plate hyperpolarization after inhibition of cholinesterase and nicotinic receptors (H-effect) or measured by the optical detection of acetylcholine in the bathing solution. It was shown that 1 mM methyl--cyclodextrin (MCD) reduced both endocytosis and, to much lesser extent, exocytosis of synaptic vesicles (SV) thereby increasing non-quantal secretion of acetylcholine with a concurrent decrease in axoplasm pH. During high-frequency stimulation of the motor nerve, that substantially increases vesicles exocytosis, the non-quantal secretion was further enhanced if the endocytosis of SV was blocked by MCD. In contrast, non-quantal secretion of acetylcholine did not increase when the MCD-treated neuromuscular preparations were superfused with either vesamicol, an inhibitor of vesicular transporter of acetylcholine, or sodium propionate, which decreases intracellular pH. These results suggest that the proton-dependent, vesamicol-sensitive vesicular transporters of acetylcholine, which become inserted into the presynaptic membrane during SV exocytosis and removed during endocytotic recycling of SV, play the major role in the process of non-quantal secretion of neurotransmitter.
lpha-7 neuronal nicotinic receptors (NNRs) are considered targets for cognitive enhancement in schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. AZD0328 is an alpha-7 NNR partial agonist that enhances cognition in rodents and nonhuman primates at sub-microgram to microgram doses. We hypothesized that increased expression of the alpha-7 receptor contributes to this beneficial activity at low doses and tested this by examining the effect of AZD0328 using in vivo and ex vivo binding, RT-PCR and cognitive function in rodents. AZD0328 (0.00178 mg/kg) was subcutaneously administered to mice 4, 24, 48 and 72 hours prior to testing in novel object recognition and produced a significant increase in cognition at 4, 24 and 48 h post-dosing. In vivo binding was examined in rat brain using [(3)H]AZ11637326 and there was a dose-dependent reduction in receptor binding at higher doses of AZD0328 (0.001-3 mg/kg), and a second alpha-7 partial agonist, SSR180711 (0.01-30 mg/kg). Lower doses of both compounds (0.0001 mg/kg) produced a significant increase in binding of [(3)H]AZ11637326. Ex vivo binding using [(125)I]--bungarotoxin, showed a significant increase in receptor number (B(max.)) in the frontal cortex or hippocampus with no significant effect on receptor affinity (K(d)) 2 h post administration of AZD0328. [(3)H]AZ11637326 administered 1.5 h following AZD0328 produced a significant increase in specific binding in rat brain regions. We found that the effect on receptor number was long-lasting, with [(125)I]--bungarotoxin binding increased in rats given AZD0328 for 2-48 h, but this was not accompanied by increased mRNA synthesis. SSR180711 produced a similar increase in B(max.) and specific binding with no effect on K(d). Therefore, trace dose of alpha-7 partial agonists has rapid onset and produces a profound, sustained effect on novel object recognition in mice that corresponds by dose to an increase in receptor number in rat brain. These findings provide an explanation for the acute and sustained benefit of alpha-7 receptor activation in working memory in nonhuman primates and guidance for drug development initiatives and treatment regimens for nicotinic partial agonists.
Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), characterized by spontaneous recurrent seizures, learning and memory impairments is associated with neurodegeneration, abnormal reorganization of the circuitry and loss of functional inhibition in hippocampus. In adult hippocampus, the GABAergic cells mediate the major inhibitory function of the principal neurons, promoting the Cl(-) entry through the GABA(A) receptor, whether through phasic (synaptic) or tonic (extrasynaptic) conductance. Aside from classical synaptic component, tonic GABAergic inhibition mediated by extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptor received increasing attention over the past years. There is growing evidence that tonic inhibition plays an important role in epilepsy, memory and cognition. Since GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition depends on the maintenance of intracellular Cl(-) concentration at low levels in mature neurons, a shift in E(cl) is likely to participate in the generation and not merely a consequence of TLE. As we know, chloride channel-2 (ClC-2) is a member of the supergene family of voltage-gated chloride channels, it constitutes part of the background conductance and is involved in chloride extrusion. Here we show that ClC-2 were upregulated functionally in CA1 pyramidal cells in pilocarpine-treated rats, and that an observed increase in ClC-2 currents in CA1 pyramidal cells was reversed by L655,708, a specific antagonist of 5 subunit-containing GABA(A) receptor.
The bladder and distal colon are innervated by lumbar splanchnic (LSN) and pelvic nerves (PN) whose axons arise from dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons at thoracolumbar (TL) and lumbosacral (LS) spinal levels, respectively. In an attempt to understand the molecular basis of differences between LSN and PN mechanosensitive afferents, we analyzed the gene expression of two potentially counteracting ion channel groups involved in mechanosensation, transient receptor potential channels (TRPV1 and TRPA1) and mechanosensitive two pore-domain K(+) (K(2P)) channels (TREK-1, TREK-2 and TRAAK), in TL and LS DRG neurons innervating mouse bladder or distal colon. The proportion of TRPV1-expressing cells (4161%) did not differ between TL and LS neurons innervating bladder or colon. TRPA1 was seldom detected in bladder LS neurons whereas it was expressed in 6466% of bladder TL, colon TL and colon LS neurons. Coexpression of TRPV1 and TRPA1 was frequent. TREK-1-expressing cells were more prevalent in LS than TL ganglia in both bladder- and colon-DRG neurons. All three K(2P) channels were detected more frequently in TRPV1-positive neurons in TL ganglia. More than half of TL neurons expressing only TRPA1 were devoid of any of the three K(2P) channels, whereas all TL neurons expressing both TRPA1 and TRPV1 expressed at least one of the K(2P) channels. These results reveal clear differences between LSN and PN sensory pathways in TRPA1 and TREK-1 gene expression and in the gene expression of K(2P) channels in TRPV1-expressing neurons. This study further documents heterogeneity of visceral afferents based on combinations of the five channels examined.
Previous studies have shown that acoustic trauma can disrupt the firing of place cells in the hippocampus and also inhibit hippocampal neurogenesis, suggesting that such trauma might impair spatial memory. In this study, we investigated performance in the alternating T maze and Morris water maze of rats exposed to acoustic trauma (16 kHz, 110 dB SPL pure tone for 1 h), who had elevated auditory brainstem response thresholds and the psychophysical attributes of tinnitus (using a conditioned lick suppression task). To our surprise, we found that rats with tinnitus did not perform significantly differently from sham control animals in either the alternating T maze task or any aspect of the reference or working memory versions of the Morris water maze task except for a faster acquisition in T maze alternation. These results suggest that acoustic trauma and tinnitus may not impair spatial memory in rats.
The effects of forskolin on low-threshold tetrodotoxin-resistant (TTX-r) Na(+) currents was studied in small diameter (average  25 m) dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells. All DRG cells included in the study were categorized as type-2 or non-type-2 based on the expression of a low-threshold A-current. In all type-2 and some non-type-2 DRG cells held at -80 mV, the adenylyl cyclase (AC) activator forskolin (10 M) up-regulated TTX-r Na(+) currents evoked with steps to -55 mV through -35 mV (low-threshold current). Up-regulation of low-threshold current by forskolin was mimicked by the protein kinase A (PKA) agonist Sp-cAMPs and the inflammatory mediator serotonin, and blocked by the PKA antagonist Rp-cAMPs. Forskolin-induced up-regulation of low-threshold current evoked from a holding potential of -60 mV was blocked by 40 ms steps to 0 mV, which presumably induced a long lasting inactivation of the low-threshold channels. Reducing to 3 ms the duration of steps to 0 mV, significantly increased the number of DRG cells where low-threshold current was up-regulated by forskolin, presumably by reducing the long-lasting inactivation of the low-threshold channels. In the same cells, high-threshold current, evoked by 40 ms or 3 ms steps to 0 mV, was consistently up-regulated by forskolin. The selective Na(V)1.8 channel blocker A-803467 markedly blocked high-threshold current but not low-threshold current. The different voltage protocols observed to activate and inactivate the low- and high-threshold currents, and the observation that A-803467 blocked high- but not low-threshold current suggests that the two currents were mediated by different channels, possibly Na(V)1.8 and Na(V)1.9, respectively. Inflammatory mediators may simultaneously up-regulate Na(V)1.8 and Na(V)1.9 channels in the same nociceptor via a AC/PKA signaling pathway, increasing nociceptor signaling strength, and lowering nociceptor threshold, respectively.
Several studies suggest that hypothalamic cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) may interact with the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in the control of neuroendocrine function and may also participate in cardiovascular regulation. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate, in experimental models of isotonic (I-EVE) and hypertonic (H-EVE) extracellular volume expansion and water deprivation (WD), the activation of CART- and corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF)-immunoreactive neurons, as well as the relative expression of CART and CRF mRNAs in the paraventricular (PVN) and supraoptic (SON) nuclei of the hypothalamus. Both H-EVE (0.30M NaCl, 2mL/100g of body weight, in 1 minute) and 24 hours of WD significantly increased plasma sodium concentrations, producing, respectively, either an increase or a decrease in extracellular volume. I-EVE (0.15M NaCl, 2mL/100g of body weight, in 1 minute) evoked a significant increase in the circulating volume accompanied by unaltered plasma concentrations of sodium. CART-expressing neurons of both magnocellular and parvocellular hypothalamic divisions were activated to produce Fos in response to H-EVE but not in response to I-EVE. Furthermore, increased expression of CART mRNA was found in the PVN of H-EVE but not I-EVE rats. These data show for the first time that EVE not only activates hypothalamic CRF neurons but also increases CRF mRNA expression in the PVN. In contrast, WD increases the number of CART-immunoreactive neurons activated to produce Fos in the PVN and SON but does not change the number of neurons double labeled for Fos and CRF or expression of CRF mRNA in the PVN. These findings provided new insights into the participation of CART in diverse processes within the PVN and SON, including its possible involvement in activation of the HPA axis and cardiovascular regulation in response to changes in extracellular volume and osmolality.
Botulinum toxin A (BTX-A) is approved for treatment of different cholinergic hyperactivity disorders, and, recently, migraine headache. Although suggested to act only locally, novel observations demonstrated bilateral reduction of pain after unilateral toxin injection, and proposed retrograde axonal transport, presumably in sensory neurons. However, up to now, axonal transport of BTX-A from periphery to CNS was identified only in motoneurons, but with unknown significance. We assessed the effects of low doses of BTX-A injected into the rat whisker pad (3.5 U/kg) or into the sensory trigeminal ganglion (1 U/kg) on formalin-induced facial pain. Axonal transport was prevented by colchicine injection into the trigeminal ganglion (5 mM, 2 l). To find the possible site of action of axonally transported BTX-A, we employed immunohistochemical labeling of BTX-A-truncated synaptosomal-associated protein 25 (SNAP-25) in medullary dorsal horn of trigeminal nucleus caudalis after toxin injection into the whisker pad. Both peripheral and intraganglionic BTX-A reduce phase II of formalin-induced pain. Antinociceptive effect of BTX-A was prevented completely by colchicine. BTX-A-truncated SNAP-25 in medullary dorsal horn (spinal trigeminal nucleus) was evident 3 days following the peripheral treatment, even with low dose applied (3.5 U/kg). Presented data provide the first evidence that axonal transport of BTX-A, obligatory for its antinociceptive effects, occurs via sensory neurons and is directed to sensory nociceptive nuclei in the CNS.
The present study investigated whether cocaine (COC) administration evokes changes in the mRNA and protein levels of neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) and polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of rats. NCAM/PSA-NCAM is required for neuronal structural plasticity and is constitutively expressed in the mPFC. Rats were treated with a single dose of COC (15 mg/kg, i.p.), and mRNA levels of NCAM and the polysialyltransferases ST8SiaII and ST8SiaIV, enzymes involved in polysialylation of NCAM, were measured at 3, 6 and 24 h after COC treatment. At the same time points, the protein levels of NCAM and PSA-NCAM were measured via western blotting. Acute COC injection did not affect mRNA levels of NCAM and ST8SiaIV, but it increased the mRNA level of ST8SiaII 3 h after injection. At the same time point, an increase in PSA-NCAM, but not in NCAM, protein was observed. Morphological studies of PSA-NCAM protein expression patterns (immunocytochemistry/stereology) performed 3 h after COC administration revealed an enhancement of PSA-NCAM immunostaining in perisomatic-like sites and in the length density of PSA-NCAM-positive neuropil. Double immunofluorescence staining showed that PSA-NCAM perisomatic-like sites surround excitatory neurons. We also observed that a single injection of raclopride (0.4 mg/kg) or SCH 23390 (0.5 mg/kg), D2/D3 and D1 dopamine receptors antagonists, respectively, which were ineffective when given alone, abolished the effects of COC administration on mRNA and protein expression. The data in the present study indicate that COC administration may modify constitutive synaptic plasticity in the mPFC by increasing the NCAM polysialylation in perisomatic innervations of pyramidal neurons via activation of dopamine D1 and D2/D3 receptors.
Symptoms of opiate withdrawal include disturbances in circadian rhythms. We examined in male Wistar rats (n=48) the effects of a daily, mid-morning morphine injection (5-40 mg/kg, i.p.) and its withdrawal on 24-h wheel-running activity and on the expression of the clock protein, PERIOD2 (PER2), in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), oval nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNSTov), central amygdala (CEA), and dorsal striatum. Rats were killed over 2 days at 10, 22, 46, and 58 h after the last daily morphine injection at zeitgeber times (ZT) 1 or ZT13. Daily morphine injections and their withdrawal suppressed nighttime wheel running, but did not entrain any increase in activity in advance of the injection. Neither morphine injection nor its withdrawal affected PER2 expression in the SCN, whereas the normal daily peaks of PER2 in the BNSTov, CEA, and dorsal striatum were blunted both during morphine administration and its withdrawal. Treatment with a dopaminergic agonist (the D2/3 agonist, quinpirole, 1.0 mg/kg) or a noradrenergic agonist (alpha2 agonist, clonidine, 0.1 mg/kg) in morphine withdrawal did not restore normal PER2 patterns in each affected region; however, both quinpirole and clonidine themselves altered normal daily PER2 expression patterns in morphine-naive rats. These findings confirm and extend previous observations that opiates disrupt daily patterns of clock gene expression in the limbic forebrain. Furthermore, catecholaminergic drugs, which have been previously found to alleviate symptoms of opiate withdrawal, do not alleviate the effects of morphine withdrawal on PER2, but do modulate daily patterns of PER2 expression in saline controls.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)  coactivator 1- (PGC-1) is a transcriptional coactivator identified as an upstream regulator of lipid catabolism, mitochondrial number and function. PGC-1 protects neurons against oxidative damage by inducing several members of the mitochondrial antioxidant system such as superoxide dismutase 2 (SOD2) and uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2). Its role in seizure-induced oxidative stress has not been studied. Here we showed that pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) stimulates the PGC-1/mitochondrial antioxidant system signaling pathway in the rat hippocampus. Because nitric oxide (NO) is the key factor of mitochondrial biogenesis through the transcriptional induction of PGC-1, we investigated whether NO is involved in activation of the PGC-1/mitochondrial antioxidant system after SE. Treatment with the NO synthase (NOS) inhibitor N(G)-nitro-l-argininemethyl ester (l-NAME) attenuated the increased expression of the PGC-1/mitochondrial antioxidant system after SE and enhanced oxidative stress. These results suggest that SE can induce the PGC-1/mitochondrial antioxidant system signaling pathway, which may represent a protective mechanism against SE-induced oxidative stress. Furthermore, NO may positively regulate the mitochondrial antioxidant system by inducing PGC-1 in pilocarpine-induced SE.
Glycine receptors are widely expressed in the mammalian central nervous system, and previous studies have demonstrated that glycine receptors are modulated by endogenous zinc. Zinc is concentrated in synaptic vesicles in several brain regions but is particularly abundant in the hippocampus and olfactory bulb. In the present study, we used patch-clamp electrophysiology of rat hippocampal and olfactory bulb neurons in primary culture to examine the effects of zinc on glycine receptors. Although glycine has been reported to reach millimolar concentrations during synaptic transmission, most previous studies on the effects of zinc on glycine receptors have used relatively low concentrations of glycine. High concentrations of glycine cause receptor desensitization. Our current results extend our previous demonstration that the modulatory actions of zinc are largely prevented when co-applied with desensitizing concentrations of glycine (300 M), suggesting that the effects of zinc are dependent on the state of the receptor. In contrast, pre-application of 300 M zinc, prior to glycine (300 M) application, causes a slowly developing inhibition with a slow rate of recovery, suggesting that the timing of zinc and glycine release also influences the effects of zinc. Furthermore, previous evidence suggests that synaptically released zinc can gain intracellular access, and we provide the first demonstration that low concentrations of intracellular zinc can potentiate glycine receptors. These results support the notion that zinc has complex effects on glycine receptors and multiple factors may interact to influence the efficacy of glycinergic transmission.
Long-term memory formation requires &quot;de novo&quot; expression and post-translational modification of many proteins. Understanding the temporal and spatial regulatory pattern of these proteins is fundamental to decoding the molecular basis of learning and memory. We characterized changes in expression, phosphorylation, and glycosylation of CNS proteins after operant conditioning in pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis. The phosphorylation and the glycosylation levels of proteins, measured by the ratio of Pro-Q Diamond (phosphoproteins) or Pro-Q Emerald (glycoproteins) vs. SYPRO-Ruby (total proteins) signals, increased during memory formation. Proteins whose modulation of phosphorylation might be involved in learning and memory were identified by mass spectrometry (MS) and are associated with cytoskeleton, glutamine cycle, energy metabolism, G-protein signaling, neurotransmitter release regulation, iron transport, protein synthesis, and cell division. Phosphorylation of actin increased during memory formation. To identify proteins whose expression levels changed in long-term memory formation we used two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis followed by MS. The up-regulated proteins are mostly associated with lipoprotein and cholesterol metabolism, protein synthesis and degradation, cytoskeleton, nucleic acid synthesis, and energy supply. The down-regulated proteins are enzymes of aspartic acid metabolism involved in regulation of protein synthesis. Our proteomic analyses have revealed a number of candidate proteins associated with memory formation. These findings provide new directions for further investigation into the signaling networks required for memory formation and consolidation.
Intramuscular arrays (IMAs), vagal mechanoreceptors that innervate gastrointestinal smooth muscle, have not been completely described structurally or functionally. To delineate more fully the architecture of IMAs and to consider the structure-function implications of the observations, the present experiment examined the organization of the IMA terminal arbors and the accessory tissue elements of those arbors. IMA terminal fields, labeled by injection of biotinylated dextran into the nodose ganglia, were examined in whole mounts of rat gastric smooth muscle double-labeled with immunohistochemistry for interstitial cells of Cajal (ICCs; c-Kit) and/or inputs of different neuronal efferent transmitter (markers: tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT), and nitric oxide synthase (NOS)) or afferent neuropeptidergic (calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)) phenotypes. IMAs make extensive varicose and lamellar contacts with ICCs. In addition, axons of the multiple efferent and afferent phenotypes examined converge and articulate with IMA terminal arbors innervating ICCs. This architecture is consistent with the hypothesis that IMAs, or the multiply innervated IMA-ICC complexes they form, can function as stretch receptors. The tissue organization is also consonant with the proposal that those units can operate as functional analogues of muscle spindle organs. For electrophysiological assessments of IMA functions, experiments will need protocols that preserve both the complex architecture and the dynamic operations of IMA-ICC complexes.
Microdialysis is a powerful in vivo technique for the continuous sampling of small molecules within the extracellular fluid space. However, efforts to collect larger molecules have met with little success. To identify biologically active larger molecules in free-moving animals would be of great benefit. For this purpose, we have developed a novel microdialysis method that allows consistent recovery of large molecules from the brain interstitial space in the awake, free-moving mouse. Using a new &quot;vent&quot; probe with a push-pull perfusion system, the present study successfully demonstrated in vivo sampling of pathophysiologically important macromolecules in free-moving mouse brain. This sampling system allowed monitoring of the dynamic changes in their concentrations. Overall, this novel microdialysis system would provide the opportunity to identify the expression patterns of pathophysiologically important proteins in a variety of physiological and pathological processes for a better understanding of various diseases.
High-frequency stimulation (HFS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is an established neurosurgical therapy for movement disability in advanced Parkinson's disease (PD), but some patients experience psychiatric side-effects like depression. In a previous electrophysiological study, we observed that HFS of the STN inhibited a population of neurones in the rat dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), with firing properties characteristic of 5-HT neurones. The present study extended these findings to a second population of neurones, and combined extracellular recording with juxtacellular-labelling to investigate the chemical identity of the neurones affected by HFS. Bilateral HFS (130 Hz, 100-200 A, 5 min) of the STN inhibited (26.02.9%) the firing of 37/74 DRN neurones displaying a slow, regular firing pattern. Slower firing neurones were more strongly inhibited than those firing faster. Importantly, 10 inhibited DRN neurones were juxtacellular-labelled with neurobiotin, and all neurones contained 5-HT as shown by post-mortem 5-HT immunocytochemistry. A minority of slow firing DRN neurones (18/74) were activated by STN HFS (37.98.3%) which was not observed previously. Of these neurones, three were juxtacellular-labelled and one was 5-HT immunopositive. Also a small number of DRN neurones (19/74) did not respond to HFS, four of which were juxtacellular-labelled and all contained 5-HT. These data show that individual chemically-identified 5-HT-containing neurones in the DRN were modulated by STN HFS, and that the majority were inhibited but some were activated and some failed to respond. These data extend previous findings of modulation of the 5-HT system by STN HFS but suggest a destabilisation of the 5-HT system rather than simple inhibition as indicated previously. Although the mechanism is not yet known, such changes may contribute to the psychiatric side-effects of STN stimulation in some PD patients.
Elderly individuals display a rapid age-related increase in intraindividual variability (IIV) of their performances. This phenomenon could reflect subtle changes in frontal lobe integrity. However, structural studies in this field are still missing. To address this issue, we computed an IIV index for a simple reaction time (RT) task and performed magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) including voxel based morphometry (VBM) and the tract based spatial statistics (TBSS) analysis of diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) in 61 adults aged from 22 to 88 years. The age-related IIV increase was associated with decreased fractional anisotropy (FA) as well as increased radial (RD) and mean (MD) diffusion in the main white matter (WM) fiber tracts. In contrast, axial diffusion (AD) and grey matter (GM) densities did not show any significant correlation with IIV. In multivariate models, only FA has an age-independent effect on IIV. These results revealed that WM but not GM changes partly mediated the age-related increase of IIV. They also revealed that the association between WM and IIV could not be only attributed to the damage of frontal lobe circuits but concerned the majority of interhemispheric and intrahemispheric corticocortical connections.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is medically and socioeconomically debilitating. Currently, there is a paucity of effective therapies that promote regeneration at the injury site, and limited understanding of mechanisms that can be utilized to therapeutically manipulate spinal cord plasticity. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) constitute novel targets for therapeutic intervention to promote repair and regeneration. Microarray comparisons of the injury sites of contused and sham rat spinal cords, harvested 4 and 14 days following SCI, showed that 32 miRNAs, including miR124, miR129, and miR1, were significantly down-regulated, whereas SNORD2, a translation-initiation factor, was induced. Additionally, three miRNAs including miR21 were significantly induced, indicating adaptive induction of an anti-apoptotic response in the injured cord. Validation of miRNA expression by qRT-PCR and in situ hybridization assays revealed that the influence of SCI on miRNA expression persists up to 14 days and expands both anteriorly and caudally beyond the lesion site. Specifically, changes in miR129-2 and miR146a expression significantly explained the variability in initial injury severity, suggesting that these specific miRNAs may serve as biomarkers and therapeutic targets for SCI. Moreover, the pattern of miRNA changes coincided spatially and temporally with the appearance of SOX2, nestin, and REST immunoreactivity, suggesting that aberrant expression of these miRNAs may not only reflect the emergence of stem cell niches, but also the reemergence in surviving neurons of a pre-neuronal phenotype. Finally, bioinformatics analysis of validated miRNA-targeted genes indicates that miRNA dysregulation may explain apoptosis susceptibility and aberrant cell cycle associated with a loss of neuronal identity, which underlies the pathogenesis of secondary SCI.
Iron surcharge may induce an oxidative stress-based decline in several neurological functions. In addition, electromagnetic fields (EMF) of frequencies up to about 100 kHz, emitted by electric/electronic devices, have been suggested to enhance free radical production through an iron dependent pathway. The purpose of this study was therefore to determine a possible relationship between iron status, exposure to EMF, and brain oxidative stress in young adult rats. Samples were micro-dissected from prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, striatum, and cerebellum after chronic saline or iron overload (IO) as well as after chronic sham exposure or exposure to a 150 kHz EMF or after combining EMF exposure with IO. The brain samples were used to monitor oxidative stress-induced lipid peroxidation and activity of the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase and catalase. While IO did not induce any oxidative stress in young adult rats, it stimulated antioxidant defenses in the cerebellum and prefrontal cortex in particular. On the contrary, EMF exposure stimulated lipid peroxidation mainly in the cerebellum, without affecting antioxidant defenses. When EMF was coapplied with IO, lipid peroxidation was further increased as compared to EMF alone while the increase in antioxidant defenses triggered by the sole IO was abolished. These data suggest that EMF exposure may be harmful in young adults by impairing the antioxidant defenses directed at preventing iron-induced oxidative stress.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPAR-), which is expressed by neurons of the nigrostriatal circuit, plays a prominent role in oxidative stress and neuroinflammation. The objectives were: (i) to discern if levels of antioxidant molecules and pro-inflammatory cytokines, along with PPAR- expression are modified in the nigrostriatal region of null PPAR- mice, (ii) to discern whether dopaminergic neuronal features of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and dorsal striatum are affected in null mice, and (iii) to establish if aging-induced decline of nigral neurons is different in null PPAR- mice relative to wild-type littermates. A substantial decrease in antioxidant molecules was found in SNpc of null mice, by using ELISA. The pro-inflammatory factors TNF- and IL-3 were found to be reduced in the substantia nigra, suggesting dual and opposite effects of PPAR- deficiency on oxidative and pro-inflammatory molecules. Immunohistological and stereological studies revealed that young null mice present a smaller SNpc (-19.8%; TH downregulation was discarded). Normal locomotion in an open-field was not affected in null mice. Dopamine cell death could be caused by reduced protection against oxidative stress. Old null mice showed a percentage reduction of nigral dopamine neurons similar to that of young null animals, with a rate of decline over life of around 44%, the same value than that of wild-type littermates. These findings suggest that nuclear PPAR- is necessary for the normal development of the substantia nigra along with normal levels of antioxidant molecules. Lack of PPAR- does not modify the normal motor behavior of mice or decline of nigral dopamine neurons throughout life.
Krppel-like factor 6 (KLF6) is a transcriptional regulator involved in a broad range of cellular processes. To date, however, the expression of KLF6 in brains with pathophysiological conditions, such as epilepsy, has not been reported. Therefore, the present study investigated the temporal pattern of KLF6 expression in the mouse hippocampus and identified cell types expressing KLF6 after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE). Seizures were induced by administrating pilocarpine hydrochloride (280 mg/kg, i.p.) 30 min after an injection of atropine methyl nitrate (3 mg/kg, i.p.). Pilocarpine- and saline-injected animals were sacrificed 1, 3, 7, 14, or 28 days after the onset of SE. Immunohistochemistry showed that the proportion of KLF6-positive cells increased in the hippocampus 1 day after SE onset, peaked at 3 days after SE, and then gradually decreased until 28 days after SE, consistent with the results from our immunoblot analysis. Cells expressing increased levels of KLF6 following pilocarpine-induced SE also expressed GFAP and Ox-42, markers for astrocytes and microglia, respectively. Quantitative analysis revealed that astrocytes were the major type of KLF6-expressing glial cells. These cells also expressed heat shock protein 47 (HSP47), a collagen-specific molecular chaperone. This is the first report showing that KLF6 is inducible in the hippocampus and may be associated with glial responses, especially HSP47-related tissue remodeling after pilocarpine-induced SE.
As cone photoreceptors mediate vision in bright light, their photopigments are bleached at a rapid rate and require substantial recycling of the chromophore 11-cis-retinal (RAL) for continued function. The retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) supplies 11-cis-RAL to both rod and cone photoreceptors; however, stringent demands imposed by the function of cones in bright light exceed the output from this source. Recent evidence has suggested that cones may be able to satisfy this demand through privileged access to an additional source of chromophore located within the inner retina. In this study, we demonstrate that the protein RPE65, previously identified in RPE as the isomerohydrolase of the RPE-retinal visual cycle, is found within cones of the rod-dominant mouse retina, and the level of RPE65 in cones is inversely related to the level in the RPE. The light sensitivity of cone ERGs of BALB/c mice, which had an undetectable level of cone RPE65, was enhanced by approximately threefold with administration of exogenous chromophore, indicating that the cones of these animals are chromophore deficient. This enhancement with chromophore administration was not observed in C57BL/6 mice, whose cones contain RPE65. These results demonstrate that RPE65 within cones may be essential for the efficient regeneration of cone photopigments under bright-light conditions.
Social communication in nonhuman primates and humans is strongly affected by facial information from other individuals. Many cortical and subcortical brain areas are known to be involved in processing facial information. However, how the neural representation of faces differs across different brain areas remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that the reference frame for spatial frequency (SF) tuning of face-responsive neurons differs in the temporal visual cortex and amygdala in monkeys. Consistent with psychophysical properties for face recognition, temporal cortex neurons were tuned to image-based SFs (cycles/image) and showed viewing distance-invariant representation of face patterns. On the other hand, many amygdala neurons were influenced by retina-based SFs (cycles/degree), a characteristic that is useful for social distance computation. The two brain areas also differed in the luminance contrast sensitivity of face-responsive neurons; amygdala neurons sharply reduced their responses to low luminance contrast images, while temporal cortex neurons maintained the level of their responses. From these results, we conclude that different types of visual processing in the temporal visual cortex and the amygdala contribute to the construction of the neural representations of faces.
There is a rise in the concurrent use of methylphenidate (MPH) and fluoxetine (FLX) in pediatric populations. However, the long-term neurobiological consequences of combined MPH and FLX treatment (MPH + FLX) during juvenile periods are unknown. We administered saline (VEH), MPH, FLX, or MPH + FLX to juvenile Sprague Dawley male rats from postnatal day 20 to 34, and assessed their reactivity to reward- and mood-related stimuli 24 h or 2 months after drug exposure. We also assessed mRNA and protein levels within the ventral tegmental area (VTA) to determine the effect of MPH, FLX, or MPH + FLX on the extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase-1/2 (ERK) pathway--a signaling cascade implicated in motivation and mood regulation. MPH + FLX enhanced sensitivity to drug (i.e., cocaine) and sucrose rewards, as well as anxiety (i.e., elevated plus maze)- and stress (i.e., forced swimming)-eliciting situations when compared with VEH-treated rats. MPH + FLX exposure also increased mRNA of ERK2 and its downstream targets cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), BDNF, c-Fos, early growth response protein-1 (Zif268), and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), and also increased protein phosphorylation of ERK2, CREB, and mTOR 2 months after drug exposure when compared with VEH-treated rats. Using herpes simplex virus-mediated gene transfer to block ERK2 activity within the VTA, we rescued the MPH and FLX-induced behavioral deficits seen in the forced-swimming task 2 months after drug treatment. These results indicate that concurrent MPH + FLX exposure during preadolescence increases sensitivity to reward-related stimuli while simultaneously enhancing susceptibility to stressful situations, at least in part, due to long-lasting disruptions in ERK signaling within the VTA.
How does the brain translate information signaling potential rewards into motivation to get them? Motivation to obtain reward is thought to depend on the midbrain [particularly the ventral tegmental area (VTA)], the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC), but it is not clear how the interactions among these regions relate to reward-motivated behavior. To study the influence of motivation on these reward-responsive regions and on their interactions, we used dynamic causal modeling to analyze functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data from humans performing a simple task designed to isolate reward anticipation. The use of fMRI permitted the simultaneous measurement of multiple brain regions while human participants anticipated and prepared for opportunities to obtain reward, thus allowing characterization of how information about reward changes physiology underlying motivational drive. Furthermore, we modeled the impact of external reward cues on causal relationships within this network, thus elaborating a link between physiology, connectivity, and motivation. Specifically, our results indicated that dlPFC was the exclusive entry point of information about reward in this network, and that anticipated reward availability caused VTA activation only via its effect on the dlPFC. Anticipated reward thus increased dlPFC activation directly, whereas it influenced VTA and NAcc only indirectly, by enhancing intrinsically weak or inactive pathways from the dlPFC. Our findings of a directional prefrontal influence on dopaminergic regions during reward anticipation suggest a model in which the dlPFC integrates and transmits representations of reward to the mesolimbic and mesocortical dopamine systems, thereby initiating motivated behavior.
Interest has increased recently in correlations across brain regions in the resting-state fMRI blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) response, but little is known about the functional significance of these correlations. Here we directly test the behavioral relevance of the resting-state correlation between two face-selective regions in human brain, the occipital face area (OFA) and the fusiform face area (FFA). We found that the magnitude of the resting-state correlation, henceforth called functional connectivity (FC), between OFA and FFA correlates with an individual's performance on a number of face-processing tasks, not non-face tasks. Further, we found that the behavioral significance of the OFA/FFA FC is independent of the functional activation and the anatomical size of either the OFA or FFA, suggesting that face processing depends not only on the functionality of individual face-selective regions, but also on the synchronized spontaneous neural activity between them. Together, these findings provide strong evidence that the functional correlations in the BOLD response observed at rest reveal functionally significant properties of cortical processing.
Neurons in the cerebellar nuclei fire at accelerated rates for prolonged periods after trains of synaptic inhibition that interrupt spontaneous firing. Both in vitro and in vivo, however, this prolonged rebound firing is favored by strong stimulation of afferents, suggesting that neurotransmitters other than GABA may contribute to the increased firing rates. Here, we tested whether metabotropic glutamate receptors modulate excitability of nuclear cells in cerebellar slices from mouse. In current clamp, the prolonged rebound firing rate after high-frequency synaptic stimulation was reduced by a variety of group I mGluR antagonists, including CPCCOEt [7-(hydroxyimino)cyclopropa[b]chromen-1a-carboxylate ethyl ester], JNJ16259685 (3,4-dihydro-2H-pyrano[2,3-b]quinolin-7-yl)-(cis-4-methoxycyclohexyl)-methanone) plus MPEP, or 3-MATIDA (-amino-5-carboxy-3-methyl-2-thiopheneacetic acid) plus MPEP, as long as both mGluR1 and mGluR5 were blocked. This mGluR-dependent acceleration of firing was reduced but still evident when IPSPs were prevented by GABA(A) receptor antagonists. In voltage clamp, voltage ramps revealed a non-inactivating, low-voltage-activated, nimodipine-sensitive current that was enhanced by the selective group I mGluR agonist s-DHPG [(S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine]. This putative L-type current also increased when mGluRs were activated by trains of evoked synaptic currents instead of direct application of agonist. In current clamp, blocking L-type Ca channels with the specific blocker nifedipine greatly reduced prolonged poststimulus firing and occluded the effect of adding group I mGluR antagonists. Thus, potentiation of a low-voltage-activated L-type current by synaptically released glutamate accounted nearly fully for the mGluR-dependent acceleration of firing. Together, these data suggest that prolonged rebound firing in the cerebellar nuclei in vivo is most likely to occur when GABA(A) and mGluRs are simultaneously activated by concurrent excitation and inhibition.
Feeling the beat and meter is fundamental to the experience of music. However, how these periodicities are represented in the brain remains largely unknown. Here, we test whether this function emerges from the entrainment of neurons resonating to the beat and meter. We recorded the electroencephalogram while participants listened to a musical beat and imagined a binary or a ternary meter on this beat (i.e., a march or a waltz). We found that the beat elicits a sustained periodic EEG response tuned to the beat frequency. Most importantly, we found that meter imagery elicits an additional frequency tuned to the corresponding metric interpretation of this beat. These results provide compelling evidence that neural entrainment to beat and meter can be captured directly in the electroencephalogram. More generally, our results suggest that music constitutes a unique context to explore entrainment phenomena in dynamic cognitive processing at the level of neural networks.
When certain memory becomes obsolete, effective suppression of the previously established memory is essential for animals to adapt to the changing environment. At the cellular level, reversal of synaptic potentiation may be important for neurons to acquire new information and to prevent synaptic saturation. Here, we investigated the function of Ca(2+)-stimulated cAMP signaling in the regulation of bidirectional synaptic plasticity and spatial memory formation in double knock-out mice (DKO) lacking both type 1 and 8 adenylyl cyclases (ACs). In anesthetized animals, the DKO mutants showed defective long-term potentiation (LTP) after a single high-frequency stimulation (HFS) or two spaced HFSs at 100 Hz. However, DKO mice showed normal LTP after a single HFS at 200 Hz or two compressed HFSs at 100 Hz. Interestingly, reversal of synaptic potentiation as well as de novo synaptic depression was impaired in DKO mice. In the Morris water maze, DKO mice showed defective acquisition and memory retention, although the deficits could be attenuated by overtraining or compressed trainings with a shorter intertrial interval. In the reversal platform test, DKO animals were impaired in both relearning and old memory suppression. Furthermore, the extinction of the old spatial memory was not efficient in DKO mice. These data demonstrate that Ca(2+)-stimulated AC activity is important not only for LTP and spatial memory formation but also for the suppression of both previously established synaptic potentiation and old spatial memory.
The calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase type II (CaMKII) holoenzyme of the forebrain predominantly consists of heteromeric complexes of the CaMKII and CaMKII isoforms. Yet, in contrast to CaMKII, the role of CaMKII in hippocampal synaptic plasticity and learning has not been investigated. Here, we compare two targeted Camk2b mouse mutants to study the role of CaMKII in hippocampal function. Using a Camk2b(-/-) mutant, in which CaMKII is absent, we show that both hippocampal-dependent learning and Schaffer collateral-CA1 long-term potentiation (LTP) are highly dependent upon the presence of CaMKII. We further show that CaMKII is required for proper targeting of CaMKII to the synapse, indicating that CaMKII regulates the distribution of CaMKII between the synaptic pool and the adjacent dendritic shaft. In contrast, localization of CaMKII, hippocampal synaptic plasticity and learning were unaffected in the Camk2b(A303R) mutant, in which the calcium/calmodulin-dependent activation of CaMKII is prevented, while the F-actin binding and bundling property is preserved. This indicates that the calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase activity of CaMKII is fully dispensable for hippocampal learning, LTP, and targeting of CaMKII, but implies a critical role for the F-actin binding and bundling properties of CaMKII in synaptic function. Together, our data provide compelling support for a model of CaMKII function in which CaMKII and CaMKII act in concert, but with distinct functions, to regulate hippocampal synaptic plasticity and learning.


Spinal cord injuries often occur at the cervical level above the phrenic motor pools, which innervate the diaphragm. The effects of impaired breathing are a leading cause of death from spinal cord injuries, underscoring the importance of developing strategies to restore respiratory activity. Here we show that, after cervical spinal cord injury, the expression of chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans (CSPGs) associated with the perineuronal net (PNN) is upregulated around the phrenic motor neurons. Digestion of these potently inhibitory extracellular matrix molecules with chondroitinase ABC (denoted ChABC) could, by itself, promote the plasticity of tracts that were spared and restore limited activity to the paralysed diaphragm. However, when combined with a peripheral nerve autograft, ChABC treatment resulted in lengthy regeneration of serotonin-containing axons and other bulbospinal fibres and remarkable recovery of diaphragmatic function. After recovery and initial transection of the graft bridge, there was an unusual, overall increase in tonic electromyographic activity of the diaphragm, suggesting that considerable remodelling of the spinal cord circuitry occurs after regeneration. This increase was followed by complete elimination of the restored activity, proving that regeneration is crucial for the return of function. Overall, these experiments present a way to markedly restore the function of a single muscle after debilitating trauma to the central nervous system, through both promoting the plasticity of spared tracts and regenerating essential pathways.


The cortical processing of musical sounds is influenced by listeners' sensitivity to the structural regularities of music, and particularly by sensitivity to harmonic relationships. As subcortical and cortical processing dynamically interact to shape auditory perception in an experience-dependent manner, we asked whether subcortical processing of musical sounds would be sensitive to harmonic relationships. We examined auditory brainstem responses to a chord that was preceded either by a harmonically related chord, by an unrelated chord, or was repeated. We observed higher spectral response magnitudes in the related than in the unrelated or repeated conditions, for both musician and nonmusician listeners. Our results suggest that listeners' implicit knowledge of musical regularities influences subcortical auditory processing.
Neural templates for phonemes in one's native language are formed early in life; these can be modified but are difficult to form de novo. These can be examined with mismatch negativity (MMN). Three phonemic contrasts were presented to adult native English compared with Japanese speakers who acquired English later in life: vowels native to both languages (/i//iy/), consonant-vowel contrasts (/da//wa/) phonemic in both languages, and consonant-vowel contrasts phonemic in English but not in Japanese (/ra//la/). For vowels, no MMN differences were found. For /da//wa/, MMN amplitude was significantly reduced in Japanese speakers. For /ra//la/, only 50% of the Japanese group showed an identifiable MMN. This suggests that phonemic templates are formed early in life, and non-native consonant contrasts are difficult to learn later.

Alcohol addiction is associated with cognitive impairment of clinically varying intensity and duration, which starts progressively while remaining often underestimated. Progressive brain damage can lead over time to a dementia syndrome. The diagnosis of cognitive deficits is of prime importance since it helps to optimize patient care and to decrease failure in re-insertion programs. Here we propose several screening tests which should give the practitioner the opportunity to make a basic cognitive assessment and to decide whether a comprehensive neuropsychological evaluation is indicated. In alcohol addiction cognitive impairment is dominated by executive dysfunction of varying severity, which is also characteristic of alcohol dementia.


The lamprey brain has now been shown to have basal ganglia circuitry, with an output that acts tonically on midbrain and brainstem motor centers and is modulated by ascending dopaminergic input. This condition was believed to represent the tetrapod condition, but now appears to be far more ancient.

The question of how we experience ownership of an entire body distinct from the external world is a fundamental problem in psychology and neuroscience [1-6]. Earlier studies suggest that integration of visual, tactile, and proprioceptive information in multisensory areas [7-11] mediates self-attribution of single limbs. However, it is still unknown how ownership of individual body parts translates into the unitary experience of owning a whole body. Here, we used a &quot;body-swap&quot; illusion [12], in which people experienced an artificial body to be their own, in combination with functional magnetic resonance imaging to reveal a coupling between the experience of full-body ownership and neural responses in bilateral ventral premotor and left intraparietal cortices, and left putamen. Importantly, activity in the ventral premotor cortex reflected the construction of ownership of a whole body from the parts, because it was stronger when the stimulated body part was attached to a body, was present irrespective of whether the illusion was triggered by stimulation of the hand or the abdomen, and displayed multivoxel patterns carrying information about full-body ownership. These findings suggest that the unitary experience of owning an entire body is produced by neuronal populations that integrate multisensory information across body segments.
TorsinA is an AAA+ ATPase located within the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum and nuclear envelope, with a mutant form causing early onset torsion dystonia (DYT1). Here we report a new function for torsinA in endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation (ERAD). Retro-translocation and proteosomal degradation of a mutant cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTRF508) was inhibited by downregulation of torsinA or overexpression of mutant torsinA, and facilitated by increased torsinA. Retro-translocation of cholera toxin was also decreased by downregulation of torsinA. TorsinA associates with proteins implicated in ERAD, including Derlin-1, VIMP and p97. Further, torsinA reduces endoplasmic reticulum stress in nematodes overexpressing CFTRF508, and fibroblasts from DYT1 dystonia patients are more sensitive than controls to endoplasmic reticulum stress and less able to degrade mutant CFTR. Therefore, compromised ERAD function in the cells of DYT1 patients may increase sensitivity to endoplasmic reticulum stress with consequent alterations in neuronal function contributing to the disease state.
The identification of encephalitis associated with antibodies against cell surface and synaptic proteins, although recent, has already had a substantial impact in clinical neurology and neuroscience. The target antigens are receptors and proteins that have critical roles in synaptic transmission and plasticity, including the NMDA receptor, the AMPA receptor, the GABA(B) receptor, and the glycine receptor. Other autoantigens, such as leucine-rich glioma-inactivated 1 and contactin-associated protein-like 2, form part of trans-synaptic complexes and neuronal cell adhesion molecules involved in fine-tuning synaptic transmission and nerve excitability. Syndromes resulting from these immune responses resemble those of pharmacologic or genetic models in which the antigens are disrupted. For some immune responses, there is evidence that the antibodies alter the structure and function of the antigen, suggesting a direct pathogenic effect. These disorders are important because they can affect children and young adults, are severe and protracted, occur with or without tumor association, and respond to treatment but may relapse. This review provides an update on these syndromes and autoantigens with special emphasis on clinical diagnosis and treatment.

The anterodorsal nucleus of the thalamus contains a high percentage of head-direction cells whose activities are correlated with an animal's directional heading in the horizontal plane. The firing of head-direction cells could involve self-sustaining reverberating activity in a recurrent network, but the thalamus by itself lacks strong excitatory recurrent synaptic connections to sustain tonic reverberating activity. Here we examined whether a single thalamic neuron could sustain its own activity without synaptic input by recording from individual neurons from anterodorsal thalamus in brain slices with synaptic blockers. We found that the rebound firing induced by hyperpolarizing pulses often decayed slowly so that a thalamic neuron could keep on firing for many minutes after stimulation. The hyperpolarization-induced persistent firing rate was graded under repeated current injections, and could be enhanced by serotonin. The effect of depolarizing pulses was much weaker and only slightly accelerated the decay of the hyperpolarization-induced persistent firing. Our finding provides the first direct evidence for single-cell persistent activity in the thalamus, supporting the notion that cellular mechanisms at the slow time scale of minutes might potentially contribute to the operations of the head-direction system.

Molecules of keystone significance are relatively rare, yet mediate a variety of interactions between organisms. They influence the distribution and abundance of species, the transfer of energy across multiple trophic levels, and thus they play significant roles in structuring ecosystems. Despite their potential importance in facilitating our understanding of ecological systems, only three molecules thus far have been proposed as molecules of keystone significance: saxitoxin and dimethyl sulfide in marine communities and tetrodotoxin in riparian communities. In the course of studying the neuroecology of chemical defenses, we identified three mycosporine-like amino acids (MAAs)--N-ethanol palythine (= asterina-330), N-isopropanol palythine (= aplysiapalythine A), and N-ethyl palythine (= aplysiapalythine B)--as intraspecific alarm cues for sea hares (Aplysia californica). These alarm cues are released in the ink secretion of sea hares and cause avoidance behaviors in neighboring conspecifics. Further, we show that these three bioactive MAAs, two [aplysiapalythine A (APA) and -B (APB)] being previously unknown molecules, are present in the algal diet of sea hares and are concentrated in their defensive secretion as well as in their skin. MAAs are known to be produced by algae, fungi, and cyanobacteria and are acquired by many aquatic animals through trophic interactions. MAAs are widely used as sunscreens, among other uses, but sea hares modify their function to serve a previously undocumented role, as intraspecific chemical cues. Our findings highlight the multifunctionality of MAAs and their role in ecological connectivity, suggesting that they may function as molecules of keystone significance in marine ecosystems.
Both normal aging and dementia are associated with dysregulation of the biological clock, which contributes to disrupted circadian organization of physiology and behavior. Diminished circadian organization in conjunction with the loss of cholinergic input to the cortex likely contributes to impaired cognition and behavior. One especially notable and relatively common circadian disturbance among the aged is &quot;sundowning syndrome,&quot; which is characterized by exacerbated anxiety, agitation, locomotor activity, and delirium during the hours before bedtime. Sundowning has been reported in both dementia patients and cognitively intact elderly individuals living in institutions; however, little is known about temporal patterns in anxiety and agitation, and the neurobiological basis of these rhythms remains unspecified. In the present study, we explored the diurnal pattern of anxiety-like behavior in aged and amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic mice. We then attempted to treat the observed behavioral disturbances in the aged mice using chronic nightly melatonin treatment. Finally, we tested the hypothesis that time-of-day differences in acetylcholinesterase and choline acetyltransferase expression and general neuronal activation (i.e., c-Fos expression) coincide with the behavioral symptoms. Our results show a temporal pattern of anxiety-like behavior that emerges in elderly mice. This behavioral pattern coincides with elevated locomotor activity relative to adult mice near the end of the dark phase, and with time-dependent changes in basal forebrain acetylcholinesterase expression. Transgenic APP mice show a similar behavioral phenomenon that is not observed among age-matched wild-type mice. These results may have useful applications to the study and treatment of age- and dementia-related circadian behavioral disturbances, namely, sundowning syndrome.
It is increasingly recognized that the mechanisms underlying ischemic cell death are sexually dimorphic. Stroke-induced cell death in males is initiated by the mitochondrial release of apoptosis-inducing factor, resulting in caspase-independent cell death. In contrast, ischemic cell death in females is primarily triggered by mitochondrial cytochrome c release with subsequent caspase activation. Because X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP) is the primary endogenous inhibitor of caspases, its regulation may play a unique role in the response to injury in females. XIAP mRNA levels were higher in females at baseline. Stroke induced a significant decrease in XIAP mRNA in females, whereas no changes were seen in the male brain. However, XIAP protein levels were decreased in both sexes after stroke. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) predominantly induce translational repression and are emerging as a major regulators of mRNA and subsequent protein expression after ischemia. The miRNA miR-23a was predicted to bind XIAP mRNA. miR-23a directly bound the 3' UTR of XIAP, and miR-23a inhibition led to an increase in XIAP mRNA in vitro, demonstrating that XIAP is a previously uncharacterized target for miR-23a. miR-23a levels differed in male and female ischemic brains, providing evidence for sex-specific miRNA expression in stroke. Embelin, a small-molecule inhibitor of XIAP, decreased the interaction between XIAP and caspase-3 and led to enhanced caspase activity. Embelin treatment significantly exacerbated stroke-induced injury in females but had no effect in males, demonstrating that XIAP is an important mediator of sex-specific responses after stroke.
Recent investigations indicate that retinal motion is not directly available for perception when moving around [Souman JL, et al. (2010) J Vis 10:14], possibly pointing to suppression of retinal speed sensitivity in motion areas. Here, we investigated the distribution of retinocentric and head-centric representations of self-rotation in human lower-tier visual motion areas. Functional MRI responses were measured to a set of visual self-motion stimuli with different levels of simulated gaze and simulated head rotation. A parametric generalized linear model analysis of the blood oxygen level-dependent responses revealed subregions of accessory V3 area, V6(+) area, middle temporal area, and medial superior temporal area that were specifically modulated by the speed of the rotational flow relative to the eye and head. Pursuit signals, which link the two reference frames, were also identified in these areas. To our knowledge, these results are the first demonstration of multiple visual representations of self-motion in these areas. The existence of such adjacent representations points to early transformations of the reference frame for visual self-motion signals and a topography by visual reference frame in lower-order motion-sensitive areas. This suggests that visual decisions for action and perception may take into account retinal and head-centric motion signals according to task requirements.
Imaging studies have shown that even the earliest phases of long-term plasticity are accompanied by the rapid recruitment of synaptic components, which generally requires actin polymerization and may be one of the first steps in a program that can lead to the formation of new stable synapses during late-phase plasticity. However, most of those results come from studies of long-term potentiation in rodent hippocampus and might not generalize to other forms of synaptic plasticity or plasticity in other brain areas and species. For example, recruitment of presynaptic proteins during long-term facilitation by 5HT in Aplysia is delayed for several hours, suggesting that whereas activity-dependent forms of plasticity, such as long-term potentiation, involve rapid recruitment of presynaptic proteins, neuromodulatory forms of plasticity, such as facilitation by 5HT, involve more delayed recruitment. To begin to explore this hypothesis, we examined an activity-dependent form of plasticity, homosynaptic potentiation produced by tetanic stimulation of the presynaptic neuron in Aplysia. We found that homosynaptic potentiation involves presynaptic but not postsynaptic actin and a rapid (under 10 min) increase in the number of clusters of the presynaptic vesicle-associated protein synaptophysin. These results indicate that rapid recruitment of synaptic components is not limited to hippocampal potentiation and support the hypothesis that activity-dependent types of plasticity involve rapid recruitment of presynaptic proteins, whereas neuromodulatory types of plasticity involve more delayed recruitment.
Exposure to endocrine disrupting compounds (EDCs), such as bisphenol A (BPA), may cause adverse health effects in wildlife and humans, but controversy remains as to what traits are most sensitive to EDCs and might serve as barometers of exposure. Expression of sexually selected traits that have evolved through intrasexual competition for mates and intersexual choice of mating partner are more dependent on developmental and physical condition of an animal than naturally selected traits and thus might be particularly vulnerable to disruption by developmental exposure to EDCs. We have used the deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus) as a model to test this hypothesis. Adult male-male competition for mates in this species is supported by enhanced spatial navigational and exploratory abilities, which enable males to search for prospective, widely dispersed females. Male deer mice exposed to BPA or ethinyl estradiol (EE) through maternal diet showed no changes in external phenotype, sensory development, or adult circulating concentrations of testosterone and corticosterone, but spatial learning abilities and exploratory behaviors were severely compromised compared with control males. Because these traits are not sexually selected in females, BPA exposure predictably had no effect, although EE-exposed females demonstrated enhanced spatial navigational abilities. Both BPA-exposed and control females preferred control males to BPA-exposed males. Our demonstration that developmental exposure to BPA compromises cognitive abilities and behaviors essential for males to reproduce successfully has broad implications for other species, including our own. Thus, sexually selected traits might provide useful biomarkers to assess risk of environmental contamination in animal and human populations.
We consider the mechanisms that enable decisions to be postponed for a period after the evidence has been provided. Using an information theoretic approach, we show that information about the forthcoming action becomes available from the activity of neurons in the medial premotor cortex in a sequential decision-making task after the second stimulus is applied, providing the information for a decision about whether the first or second stimulus is higher in vibrotactile frequency. The information then decays in a 3-s delay period in which the neuronal activity declines before the behavioral response can be made. The information then increases again when the behavioral response is required. We model this neuronal activity using an attractor decision-making network in which information reflecting the decision is maintained at a low level during the delay period, and is then selectively restored by a nonspecific input when the response is required. One mechanism for the short-term memory is synaptic facilitation, which can implement a mechanism for postponed decisions that can be correct even when there is little neuronal firing during the delay period before the postponed decision. Another mechanism is graded firing rates by different neurons in the delay period, with restoration by the nonspecific input of the low-rate activity from the higher-rate neurons still firing in the delay period. These mechanisms can account for the decision making and for the memory of the decision before a response can be made, which are evident in the activity of neurons in the medial premotor cortex.
Itch has been defined as an unpleasant skin sensation that triggers the urge to scratch. Primary sensory dorsal root ganglia neurons detect itch stimuli through peripheral axons in the skin, playing an important role in generating itch. Itch is broadly categorized as histaminergic (sensitive to antihistamines) or nonhistaminergic. The peptide Ser-Leu-Ile-Gly-Arg-Leu (SLIGRL) is an itch-inducing agent widely used to study histamine-independent itch. Here, we show that Mrgprs (Mas-related G protein-coupled receptors), particularly MrgprC11, rather than PAR2 (protease-activated receptor 2) as previously thought, mediate this type of itch. A shorter peptide, SLIGR, which specifically activates PAR2 but not MrgprC11, induced thermal pain hypersensitivity in mice but not a scratch response. Therefore, although both Mrgpr and PAR2 are SLIGRL-responsive G protein-coupled receptors present in dorsal root ganglia, each plays a specific role in mediating itch and pain.
Delivery of cellular and/or trophic factors to the site of injury may promote neural repair or axonal regeneration and return of function after spinal cord injury. Engineered scaffolds provide a platform to deliver therapeutic cells and neurotrophic molecules. To explore therapeutic potential of engineered neural tissue, we generated an artificial neural construct in vitro, and transplanted this construct into a completely transected spinal cord of adult rats. Two months later, behavioral analysis showed that the locomotion recovery was significantly improved compared with control animals. Immunoreactivity against microtubule associated protein 2 (Map2) and postsynaptic density 95 (PSD95) demonstrated that grafted cells had a higher survival rate and were able to differentiate toward neuronal phenotype with ability to form synapse-like structure at the injury site; this was also observed under the electron microscope. Immunostaining of neurofilament-200 (NF-200) showed that the number of nerve fibers regrowing into the injury site in full treatment group was much higher than that seen in other groups. Furthermore, Nissl staining revealed that host neuron survival rate was significantly increased in rats with full treatments. However, there were no biotin dextran amine (BDA) anterograde tracing fibers crossing through the injury site, suggesting the limited ability of corticospinal tract axonal regeneration. Taken together, although our artificial neural construct permits grafted cells to differentiate into neuronal phenotype, synaptogenesis, axonal regeneration and partial locomotor function recovery, the limited capacity for corticospinal tract axonal regeneration may affect its potential therapy in spinal cord injury.
Based on the findings of postnatal tactile stimulation (TS), a favorable experience in rats, the present study examined the influence of prenatal TS on juvenile behavior, adult amphetamine (AMPH) sensitization, and structural alteration in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the striatum. Female rats received TS through a baby hair brush throughout pregnancy, and the pups born were tested for open field locomotion, elevated plus maze (EPM), novel object recognition (NOR), and play fighting behaviors. Development and persistence of drug-induced behavioral sensitization in adults were tested by repeated AMPH administration and a challenge, respectively. Structural plasticity in the brain was assessed from the prefrontal cortical thickness and striatum size from serial coronal sections. The results indicate that TS females showed enhanced exploration in the open field. TS decreased the frequency of playful attacks whereas the response to face or evade an attack was not affected. Anxiety-like behavior and cognitive performance were not influenced by TS. AMPH administration resulted in gradual increase in locomotor activity (i.e., behavioral sensitization) that persisted at least for 2 weeks. However, both male and female TS rats exhibited attenuated AMPH sensitization compared to sex-matched controls. Furthermore, the drug-associated alteration in the prefrontal cortical thickness and striatum size observed in controls were prevented by TS experience. In summary, TS during prenatal development modified juvenile behavior, attenuated drug-induced behavioral sensitization in adulthood, and reorganized brain regions implicated in drug addiction.
In personal and in society related context, people often evaluate the risk of environmental and technological hazards. Previous research addressing neuroscience of risk evaluation assessed particularly the direct personal risk of presented stimuli, which may have comprised for instance aspects of fear. Further, risk evaluation primarily was compared to tasks of other cognitive domains serving as control conditions, thus revealing general risk related brain activity, but not such specifically associated with estimating a higher level of risk. We here investigated the neural basis on which lay-persons individually evaluated the risk of different potential hazards for the society. Twenty healthy subjects underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging while evaluating the risk of fifty more or less risky conditions presented as written terms. Brain activations during the individual estimations of 'high' against 'low' risk, and of negative versus neutral and positive emotional valences were analyzed. Estimating hazards to be of high risk was associated with activation in medial thalamus, anterior insula, caudate nucleus, cingulate cortex and further prefrontal and temporo-occipital areas. These areas were not involved according to an analysis of the emotion ratings. In conclusion, we emphasize a contribution of the mentioned brain areas involved to signal high risk, here not primarily associated with the emotional valence of the risk items. These areas have earlier been reported to be associated with, beside emotional, viscerosensitive and implicit processing. This leads to assumptions of an intuitive contribution, or a &quot;gut-feeling&quot;, not necessarily dependent of the subjective emotional valence, when estimating a high risk of environmental hazards.
The amygdala is activated by fear and plays an important role in the emotional response to life-threatening situations. When rats feel threatened, they respond by biting fiercely. Bite strength is regulated by the trigeminal motor nucleus and the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus (Me5). The Me5 relays proprioceptive signals from the masticatory muscles and the periodontal ligaments to the trigeminal motor and premotor nuclei. The amygdala projects to the trigeminal motor nucleus and the premotor reticular formation. However, it is unknown whether the amygdala projects directly to the Me5. In the present study, neurons of the central amygdaloid nucleus (ACe) were labeled following injection of a retrograde tracer, Fast Blue, into the caudal Me5, and fibers and terminal buttons from the ACe to the Me5 were examined after injections of an anterograde neuronal tracer, biotinylated dextran amine into the ACe. Furthermore, wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated to horseradish peroxidase was injected into the ACe, and labeled fibers and terminal buttons in the Me5 were examined by electron microscopy. Labeled terminal buttons on Me5 somata were more abundant in the caudal than the rostral Me5. Electron microscopic observation revealed that a part of these terminal buttons formed axo-somatic synapses. These results indicate that the ACe sends direct projections to the Me5, and suggest that the amygdala regulates bite strength by modifying neuronal activity in the Me5.


Correlating gene expression with cell behavior is ideally done at the single-cell level. However, this is not easily achieved because the small amount of labile mRNA present in a single cell (1-5% of 1-50 pg total RNA, or 0.01-2.5 pg mRNA, per cell) mostly degrades before it can be reverse transcribed into a stable cDNA copy. For example, using standard laboratory reagents and hardware, only a small number of genes can be qualitatively assessed per cell. One way to increase the efficiency of standard laboratory reverse transcriptase (RT) reactions (i.e. standard reagents in microliter volumes) comprising single-cell amounts of mRNA would be to more rapidly mix the reagents so the mRNA can be converted to cDNA before it degrades. However this is not trivial because at microliter scales liquid flow is laminar, i.e. currently available methods of mixing (i.e. shaking, vortexing and trituration) fail to produce sufficient chaotic motion to effectively mix reagents. To solve this problem, micro-scale mixing techniques have to be used. A number of microfluidic-based mixing technologies have been developed which successfully increase RT reaction yields. However, microfluidics technologies require specialized hardware that is relatively expensive and not yet widely available. A cheaper, more convenient solution is desirable. The main objective of this study is to demonstrate how application of a novel &quot;micromixing&quot; technique to standard laboratory RT reactions comprising single-cell quantities of mRNA significantly increases their cDNA yields. We find cDNA yields increase by approximately 10-100-fold, which enables: greater numbers of genes to be analyzed per cell; more quantitative analysis of gene expression; and better detection of low-abundance genes in single cells. The micromixing is based on acoustic microstreaming, a phenomenon where sound waves propagating around a small obstacle create a mean flow near the obstacle. We have developed an acoustic microstreaming-based device (&quot;micromixer&quot;) with a key simplification; acoustic microstreaming can be achieved at audio frequencies by ensuring the system has a liquid-air interface with a small radius of curvature. The meniscus of a microliter volume of solution in a tube provides an appropriately small radius of curvature. The use of audio frequencies means that the hardware can be inexpensive and versatile, and nucleic acids and other biochemical reagents are not damaged like they can be with standard laboratory sonicators.
Neuroanatomic analysis depends on the reconstruction of complete cell shapes. High-throughput reconstruction of neural circuits, or connectomics, using volume electron microscopy requires dense staining of all cells, which leads even experts to make annotation errors. Currently, reconstruction speed rather than acquisition speed limits the determination of neural wiring diagrams. We developed a method for fast and reliable reconstruction of densely labeled data sets. Our approach, based on manually skeletonizing each neurite redundantly (multiple times) with a visualization-annotation software tool called KNOSSOS, is 50-fold faster than volume labeling. Errors are detected and eliminated by a redundant-skeleton consensus procedure (RESCOP), which uses a statistical model of how true neurite connectivity is transformed into annotation decisions. RESCOP also estimates the reliability of consensus skeletons. Focused reannotation of difficult locations promises a rather steep increase of reliability as a function of the average skeleton redundancy and thus the nearly error-free analysis of large neuroanatomical datasets.
FOXP2 is a forkhead box-containing transcription factor with several recognizable sequence motifs. However, little is known about the FOXP2-associated proteins except for C-terminal binding protein (CtBP). In the present study, we attempted to isolate the FOXP2-associated protein with a yeast two-hybrid system using the C-terminal region, including the forkhead domain, as a bait probe, and identified protection of telomeres 1 (POT1) as a FOXP2-associated protein. Immunoprecipitation assay confirmed the association with FOXP2 and POT1. POT1 alone localized in the cytoplasm but co-localized with FOXP2 and the forkhead domain of FOXP2 in nuclei. However, both FOXP2 with mutated nuclear localization signals and (R553H) mutated forkhead, which is associated with speech-language disorder, prevented the nuclear translocation of POT1. These results suggest that FOXP2 is a binding partner for the nuclear translocation of POT1. As loss of POT1 function induces the cell arrest, the impaired nuclear translocation of POT1 in the developing neuronal cells may be associated with the pathogenesis of speech-language disorder with FOXP2(R553H) mutation.
The mechanisms that generate specific neuronal connections in the brain are under intense investigation. In zebrafish, retinal ganglion cells project their axons into at least six layers within the neuropil of the midbrain tectum. Each axon elaborates a single, planar arbor in one of the target layers and forms synapses onto the dendrites of tectal neurons. We show that the laminar specificity of retinotectal connections does not depend on self-sorting interactions among RGC axons. Rather, tectum-derived Slit1, signaling through axonal Robo2, guides neurites to their target layer. Genetic and biochemical studies indicate that Slit binds to Dragnet (Col4a5), a type IV Collagen, which forms the basement membrane on the surface of the tectum. We further show that radial glial endfeet are required for the basement-membrane anchoring of Slit. We propose that Slit1 signaling, perhaps in the form of a superficial-to-deep gradient, presents laminar positional cues to ingrowing retinal axons.
-Aminobutyric acid type B (GABA(B)) receptors are important for slow synaptic inhibition in the CNS. The efficacy of inhibition is directly related to the stability of cell surface receptors. For GABA(B) receptors, heterodimerization between R1 and R2 subunits is critical for cell surface expression and signaling, but how this determines the rate and extent of receptor internalization is unknown. Here, we insert a high affinity -bungarotoxin binding site into the N terminus of the R2 subunit and reveal its dominant role in regulating the internalization of GABA(B) receptors in live cells. To simultaneously study R1a and R2 trafficking, a new -bungarotoxin binding site-labeling technique was used, allowing -bungarotoxin conjugated to different fluorophores to selectively label R1a and R2 subunits. This approach demonstrated that R1a and R2 are internalized as dimers. In heterologous expression systems and neurons, the rates and extents of internalization for R1aR2 heteromers and R2 homomers are similar, suggesting a regulatory role for R2 in determining cell surface receptor stability. The fast internalization rate of R1a, which has been engineered to exit the endoplasmic reticulum, was slowed to that of R2 by truncating the R1a C-terminal tail or by removing a dileucine motif in its coiled-coil domain. Slowing the rate of internalization by co-assembly with R2 represents a novel role for GPCR heterodimerization whereby R2 subunits, via their C terminus coiled-coil domain, mask a dileucine motif on R1a subunits to determine the surface stability of the GABA(B) receptor.
Neuregulin-1 (Nrg1) is encoded by a single gene and exists in naturally secreted and transmembrane isoforms. Nrg1 exerts its signaling activity through interaction with its cognate ErbB receptors. Multiple membrane-anchored Nrg1 isoforms, present in six different membrane topologies, must be processed by a protease to initiate a signaling cascade. Here, we demonstrate that BACE1 and ADAM10 can process type I and III Nrg1 at two adjacent sites. Our cleavage site mapping experiments showed that the BACE1 cleavage site is located eight amino acids downstream of the ADAM10 cleavage site, and this order of cleavage is the opposite of amyloid precursor protein cleavage by these two enzymes. Cleavages were further confirmed via optimized electrophoresis. Cleavage of type I or III Nrg1 by ADAM10 and BACE1 released a signaling-capable N-terminal fragment (ntf), either Nrg1-ntf or Nrg1-ntf, which could similarly activate an ErbB receptor as evidenced by increased phosphorylation of Akt and ERK, two downstream signaling molecules. Although both Nrg1-ntf and Nrg1-ntf could initiate a common signaling cascade, inhibition or down-regulation of ADAM10 alone in a co-culture system did not affect normal myelination, whereas specific inhibition of BACE1 impaired normal myelination. Thus, processing of Nrg1 by BACE1 appears to be more critical for regulating myelination. Our results imply that a significant inhibition of BACE1 could potentially impair Nrg1 signaling activity in vivo.
The conference &quot;Neuroscience and Pragmatism: Productive Prospects&quot; was held on June 10, 2011 at the Potomac Institute for Policy Studies in Arlington, Virginia.
Past studies have shown that the lateral septum is involved in anxiety. Here, we tested whether the dorsal lateral septum contributes to neophagia by using the novelty induced suppression of feeding (NISF) paradigm. We found that while lesions of the dorsal lateral septum did not affect home or novel cage responding in the NISF test, they did decrease open arm avoidance in the elevated plus maze and burying in the shock probe burying test. Our results suggest that the dorsal lateral septum does not regulate neophagia in the NISF, but further experiments are needed to determine if the same is true for the intermediate and ventral lateral septum.
Gamma activity has been linked to a variety of different cognitive processes and exists in both transient and persistent forms. Across studies, different brain regions have been suggested to contribute to gamma activity. Multiple studies have shown that the function of gamma oscillations may be related to temporal binding of early sensory information to relevant top-down processes. Given this hypothesis, we expected gamma oscillations to subserve general brain mechanisms that contribute to the development of cognitive and linguistic systems. The present study aims to examine the predictive relations between resting-state cortical gamma power density at a critical point in language and cognitive acquisition (i.e. 16, 24 and 36 months), and cognitive and language output at ages 4 and 5 years. Our findings show that both 24- and 36-month gamma power are significantly correlated with later language scores, notably Non-Word Repetition. Further, 16-, 24- and 36-month gamma were all significantly correlated with 4-year PLS-3 and CELF-P sentence structure scores. Although associations reported here do not reflect a direct cause and effect of early resting gamma power on later language outcomes, capacity to generate higher power in the gamma range at crucial developmental periods may index better modulation of attention and allow easier access to working memory, thus providing an advantage for overall development, particularly in the linguistic domain. Moreover, measuring abilities at times when these abilities are still emergent may allow better prediction of later outcomes.
This study was undertaken to know whether cognition deficits produced by chronic mild stress (CMS) were associated with pathological markers of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The results show that the impairment in the Morris water maze test induced by CMS correlated with an increase in CDK5-dependent phospho-tau levels and with an increase in APP processing. Mice exposed to CMS may then constitute a non-transgenic model for sporadic forms of AD.
Developmental plasticity can be defined as the ability of one genotype to produce a range of phenotypes in response to environmental conditions. Such plasticity can be manifest at the level of individual cells, an organ, or a whole organism. Imprinted genes are a group of approximately 100 genes with functionally monoallelic, parental-origin specific expression. As imprinted genes are critical for prenatal growth and metabolic axis development and function, modulation of imprinted gene dosage has been proposed to play a key role in the plastic development of the unborn foetus in response to environmental conditions. Evidence is accumulating that imprinted dosage may also be involved in controlling the plastic potential of individual cells or stem cell populations. Imprinted gene dosage can be modulated through canonical, transcription factor mediated mechanisms, or through the relaxation of imprinting itself, reactivating the normally silent allele.


Immunity and inflammation are key elements of the pathobiology of stroke, a devastating illness second only to cardiac ischemia as a cause of death worldwide. The immune system participates in the brain damage produced by ischemia, and the damaged brain, in turn, exerts an immunosuppressive effect that promotes fatal infections that threaten the survival of people after stroke. Inflammatory signaling is involved in all stages of the ischemic cascade, from the early damaging events triggered by arterial occlusion to the late regenerative processes underlying post-ischemic tissue repair. Recent developments have revealed that stroke engages both innate and adaptive immunity. But adaptive immunity triggered by newly exposed brain antigens does not have an impact on the acute phase of the damage. Nevertheless, modulation of adaptive immunity exerts a remarkable protective effect on the ischemic brain and offers the prospect of new stroke therapies. As immunomodulation is not devoid of deleterious side effects, a better understanding of the reciprocal interaction between the immune system and the ischemic brain is essential to harness the full therapeutic potential of the immunology of stroke.
In Drosophila, the GAL4/UAS/GAL80 repressible binary expression system is widely used to manipulate or mark tissues of interest. However, complex biological systems often require distinct transgenic manipulations of different cell populations. For this purpose, we recently developed the Q system, a second repressible binary expression system. We describe here the basic steps for performing a variety of Q system experiments in vivo. These include how to generate and use Q system reagents to express effector transgenes in tissues of interest, how to use the Q system in conjunction with the GAL4 system to generate intersectional expression patterns that precisely limit which tissues will be experimentally manipulated and how to use the Q system to perform mosaic analysis. The protocol described here can be adapted to a wide range of experimental designs.
Neurons that respond selectively to the orientation of visual stimuli were discovered in V1 more than 50 years ago, but it is still not fully understood how or why this is brought about. We report experiments planned to show whether human observers use cross-correlation or auto-correlation to detect oriented streaks in arrays of randomly positioned dots, expecting that this would help us to understand what David Marr called the 'computational goal' of V1. The streaks were generated by two different methods: either by sinusoidal spatial modulation of the local mean dot density, or by introducing coherent pairs of dots to create moir patterns, as Leon Glass did. A wide range of dot numbers was used in the randomly positioned arrays, because dot density affects cross- and auto-correlation differently, enabling us to infer which method was used. This difference stems from the fact that the cross-correlation task is limited by random fluctuations in the local mean density of individual dots in the noisy array, whereas the auto-correlation task is limited by fluctuations in the numbers of randomly occurring spurious pairs having the same separation and orientation as the deliberately introduced coherent pairs. After developing a new method using graded dot luminances, we were able to extend the range of dot densities that could be used by a large factor, and convincing results were obtained indicating that the streaks generated by amplitude modulation were discriminated by cross-correlation, while those generated as moir patterns were discriminated by auto-correlation. Though our current results only apply to orientation selectivity, it is important to know that early vision can do more than simple filtering, for evaluating auto-correlations opens the way to more interesting possibilities, such as the detection of symmetries and suspicious coincidences.

Most voluntary actions rely on neural circuits that map sensory cues onto appropriate motor responses. One might expect that for everyday movements, like reaching, this mapping would remain stable over time, at least in the absence of error feedback. Here we describe a simple and novel psychophysical phenomenon in which recent experience shapes the statistical properties of reaching, independent of any movement errors. Specifically, when recent movements are made to targets near a particular location subsequent movements to that location become less variable, but at the cost of increased bias for reaches to other targets. This process exhibits the variance-bias tradeoff that is a hallmark of Bayesian estimation. We provide evidence that this process reflects a fast, trial-by-trial learning of the prior distribution of targets. We also show that these results may reflect an emergent property of associative learning in neural circuits. We demonstrate that adding Hebbian (associative) learning to a model network for reach planning leads to a continuous modification of network connections that biases network dynamics toward activity patterns associated with recent inputs. This learning process quantitatively captures the key results of our experimental data in human subjects, including the effect that recent experience has on the variance-bias tradeoff. This network also provides a good approximation of a normative Bayesian estimator. These observations illustrate how associative learning can incorporate recent experience into ongoing computations in a statistically principled way.
Saccades are imprecise, due to sensory and motor noise. To avoid an accumulation of errors during sequences of saccades, a prediction derived from the efference copy can be combined with the reafferent visual feedback to adjust the following eye movement. By varying the information quantity of the visual feedback, we investigated how the reliability of the visual information affects the postsaccadic update in humans. Two elements of the visual scene were manipulated, the saccade target or the background, presented either together or in isolation. We determined the weight of the postsaccadic visual information by measuring the effect of intrasaccadic visual shifts on the following saccade. We confirmed that the weight of visual information evolves with information quantity as predicted for a statistically optimal system. In particular, we found that the visual background alone can guide the postsaccadic update, and that information from target and background are optimally combined. Moreover, these visual weights are adjusted dynamically and on a trial-to-trial basis to the level of visual noise determined by target eccentricity and reaction time. In contrast, we uncovered a dissociation between the visual signals used to update the next planned saccade (main saccade) and those used to generate an involuntary corrective saccade. The latter was exclusively based on visual information about the target, and discarded all information about the background: a suboptimal use of visual evidence.
Accurate motor execution is achieved by estimating future sensory states via a forward model of limb dynamics. In the current experiment, we probed the time course over which state estimation evolves during movement planning by combining a bimanual arm crossing movement with a temporal order judgment (TOJ) task. Human participants judged which of two successive vibrotactile stimuli delivered to each index finger arrived first as they were preparing to either cross or uncross their hands. TOJ error rate was found to systematically vary in a time- and direction-dependent manner. When planning to cross the hands, error rate systematically increased as the vibrotactile stimuli were delivered closer in time to the onset of the movement. By contrast, planning to uncross the hands led to a gradual reduction in error rate as movement planning progressed. In both cases, these changes occurred before the actual alteration in hand configuration. We suggest that these systematic changes in error represent an interaction between the evolving state estimation processes and decisions regarding the timing of successive events.
Gap junction coupling synchronizes activity among neurons in adult neural circuits, but its role in coordinating activity during development is less known. The developing retina exhibits retinal waves--spontaneous depolarizations that propagate among retinal interneurons and drive retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) to fire correlated bursts of action potentials. During development, two connexin isoforms, connexin 36 (Cx36) and Cx45, are expressed in bipolar cells and RGCs, and therefore provide a potential substrate for coordinating network activity. To determine whether gap junctions contribute to retinal waves, we compared spontaneous activity patterns using calcium imaging, whole-cell recording, and multielectrode array recording in control, single-knock-out (ko) mice lacking Cx45 and double-knock-out (dko) mice lacking both isoforms. Wave frequency, propagation speed, and bias in propagation direction were similar in control, Cx36ko, Cx45ko, and Cx36/45dko retinas. However, the spontaneous firing rate of individual retinal ganglion cells was elevated in Cx45ko retinas, similar to Cx36ko retinas (Hansen et al., 2005; Torborg and Feller, 2005), a phenotype that was more pronounced in Cx36/45dko retinas. As a result, spatial correlations, as assayed by nearest-neighbor correlation and functional connectivity maps, were significantly altered. In addition, Cx36/45dko mice had reduced eye-specific segregation of retinogeniculate afferents. Together, these findings suggest that although Cx36 and Cx45 do not play a role in gross spatial and temporal propagation properties of retinal waves, they strongly modulate the firing pattern of individual RGCs, ensuring strongly correlated firing between nearby RGCs and normal patterning of retinogeniculate projections.
The molecular circadian clock consists of a feedback loop in which canonical clock proteins negatively regulate transcription of their own genes. Timed nuclear entry of these proteins is critical, but regulation of this event is poorly understood. In Drosophila melanogaster, the idea that nuclear entry of PERIOD (PER) is controlled by its partner protein TIMELESS (TIM) has been challenged by several studies. We identify here a novel mutation in the tim gene that eliminates behavioral rhythms while allowing robust expression of TIM and PER. Mutant TIM can bind to and stabilize PER. However, neither protein is expressed cyclically, and phosphorylation of both is reduced. In addition, TIM and PER are localized in the cytoplasm at all times of day, and mutant TIM attenuates transcriptional feedback by PER in cultured cells, suggesting that it holds PER in the cytoplasm. In fact, much of the reduced phosphorylation of PER in the new tim mutant appears to result from the cytoplasmic localization of PER. Interestingly, mutating a threonine near the original mutation produces similar phenotypes, raising the possibility that defective phosphorylation is the basis of TIM dysfunction in the novel tim mutant. We also show that a stable form of PER is cytoplasmic in tim-null flies. These studies establish an essential role of TIM in the timed nuclear entry of PER.
Neuronal oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) deficiency has been associated with a variety of neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease. However, it is not clear how mitochondrial dysfunction alone can lead to a preferential elimination of certain neuronal populations in vivo. We compared different types of neuronal populations undergoing the same OXPHOS deficiency to determine their relative susceptibility and mechanisms responsible for selective neuron vulnerability. We used a mouse model expressing a mitochondria-targeted restriction enzyme, PstI or mito-PstI. The expression of mito-PstI induces double-strand breaks in the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), leading to OXPHOS deficiency, mostly due to mtDNA depletion. We targeted mito-PstI expression to the cortex, hippocampus, and striatum under the CaMKII- promoter. Animals undergoing long-term expression of mito-PstI displayed a selective worsening of the striatum over cortical and hippocampal areas. Mito-PstI expression and mtDNA depletion were not worse in the striatum, but the latter showed the most severe defects in mitochondrial membrane potential, response to calcium, and survival. These results showed that the striatum is particularly sensitive to defects in OXPHOS possibly due to an increased reliance on OXPHOS function in this area and differences in response to physiological stimuli. These results may help explain the neuropathological features associated with Huntington's disease, which have been associated with OXPHOS defects.

Previous data suggests that the adiposity signal leptin reduces food intake in part by enhancing sensitivity to short-term signals that promote meal termination, including glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1). We hypothesized that maintenance on a high-fat (HF) diet, which causes resistance to leptin, would impair GLP-1's ability to reduce food intake. To test this hypothesis, we examined the anorexic responses to intraperitoneal injection of 100 g/kg GLP-1 and 1 g/kg exendin-4 (Ex-4), the potent, degradation resistant GLP-1 receptor agonist, in Wistar rats maintained on a low-fat (10%; LF) or HF (60%) diet for 4-6 weeks. Rats maintained on each of these diets were tested twice, once while consuming LF food and once while consuming HF food, to distinguish between effects of acute vs. chronic consumption of HF food. LF-maintained rats tested on LF diet reduced 60-min dark phase intake in response to GLP-1, but HF-maintained rats failed to respond to GLP-1 whether they were tested on HF or LF diet. LF-maintained rats tested on HF diet also showed no response, suggesting that even brief exposure to HF diet can impair sensitivity to GLP-1 receptor activation. Both LF- and HF-maintained rats showed significant anorexic responses to Ex4 at 4h post-treatment, but only LF-maintained rats had significantly reduced intake and body weight 24h after injections. To determine whether the ability of endogenous GLP-1 to promote satiation is impaired by HF maintenance, we examined the response to exendin 3 (9-39) (Ex9), a GLP-1 receptor antagonist. In LF-maintained rats, Ex9 increased intake significantly, but HF-maintained rats reduced food intake in response to Ex9. These data support the suggestion that maintenance on HF diet reduces the anorexic effects of GLP-1 receptor activation, and this phenomenon may contribute to overconsumption of high-fat foods.
Ketogenic diets are high in fat and low in carbohydrates, and have long been used as an anticonvulsant therapy for drug-intractable and pediatric epilepsy. Additionally, ketogenic diets have been shown to provide neuroprotective effects against acute and chronic brain injury, including beneficial effects in various rodent models of neurodegeneration. Huntington's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by neurological, behavioral and metabolic dysfunction, and ketogenic diets have been shown to increase energy molecules and mitochondrial function. We tested the effects of a ketogenic diet in a transgenic mouse model of Huntington's disease (R6/2 1J), with a focus on life-long behavioral and physiological effects. Matched male and female wild-type and transgenic mice were maintained on a control diet or were switched to a ketogenic diet fed ad libitum starting at six weeks of age. We found no negative effects of the ketogenic diet on any behavioral parameter tested (locomotor activity and coordination, working memory) and no significant change in lifespan. Progressive weight loss is a hallmark feature of Huntington's disease, yet we found that the ketogenic diet-which generally causes weight loss in normal animals-delayed the reduction in body weight of the transgenic mice. These results suggest that metabolic therapies could offer important benefits for Huntington's disease without negative behavioral or physiological consequences.
Memory Island and the Novel-Image Novel-Location are recently developed measures of spatial learning and recognition-memory modeled after the Morris water maze and the novel object-recognition tests. The goal of this study was to characterize how sex, age, and handedness contribute to Memory Island and Novel-Image Novel-Location performance. Volunteers (N=287, ages 6 to 67) from a local science museum completed four Memory Island trials containing a visible target and four trials containing a hidden target. A pronounced sex difference favoring males was noted in all measures of hidden trial performance. The total latency during the hidden trials among older-adults was longer than younger-adults or adolescents. Faster and more efficient performance by males was also identified during the visible trials, particularly among children. Adolescents and younger-adults outperformed children and older ages. Sinistrals had a lower cumulative distance to the target. Novel-Image Novel-Location behavior was examined in a separate sample (N=128, ages 6 to 86). Females had higher Novel-Image and Novel-Location scores than males. Novel-Image performance was independent of age while sinistrals had elevated Novel-Image scores relative to dextrals. Together, these findings identify how sex, age, and handedness uniquely contribute to performance on these tasks.


1,4-Dihydroxy-2-naphthoyl-coenzyme A (DHNA-CoA) synthase, or MenB, catalyzes an intramolecular Claisen condensation involving two oxyanion intermediates in the biosynthetic pathway of menaquinone, an essential respiration electron transporter in many microorganisms. Here we report the finding that the DHNA-CoA product and its analogues bind and inhibit the synthase from Escherichia coli with significant ultraviolet--visible spectral changes, which are similar to the changes induced by deprotonation of the free inhibitors in a basic solution. Dissection of the structure--affinity relationships of the inhibitors identifies the hydroxyl groups at positions 1 (C1-OH) and 4 (C4-OH) of DHNA-CoA or their equivalents as the dominant and minor sites, respectively, for the enzyme--ligand interaction that polarizes or deprotonates the bound ligands to cause the observed spectral changes. In the meantime, spectroscopic studies with active site mutants indicate that C4-OH of the enzyme-bound DHNA-CoA interacts with conserved polar residues Arg-91, Tyr-97, and Tyr-258 likely through a hydrogen bonding network that also includes Ser-161. In addition, site-directed mutation of the conserved Asp-163 to alanine causes a complete loss of the ligand binding ability of the protein, suggesting that the Asp-163 side chain is most likely hydrogen-bonded to C1-OH of DHNA-CoA to provide the dominant polarizing effect. Moreover, this mutation also completely eliminates the enzyme activity, strongly supporting the possibility that the Asp-163 side chain provides a strong stabilizing hydrogen bond to the tetrahedral oxyanion, which takes a position similar to that of C1-OH of the enzyme-bound DHNA-CoA and is the second high-energy intermediate in the intracellular Claisen condensation reaction. Interestingly, both Arg-91 and Tyr-97 are located in a disordered loop forming part of the active site of all available DHNA-CoA synthase structures. Their involvement in the interaction with the small molecule ligands suggests that the disordered loop is folded in interaction with the substrates or reaction intermediates, supporting an induced-fit catalytic mechanism for the enzyme.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) primarily infects CD4(+) T cells and cells of the monocyte-macrophage lineage, resulting in immunodeficiency in an infected patient. Along with this immune deficiency, HIV-1 has been linked to a number of neurological symptoms in the absence of opportunistic infections or other co-morbidities, suggesting that HIV-1 is able to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB), enter the central nervous system (CNS), and cause neurocognitive impairment. HIV-1-infected monocyte-macrophages traverse the BBB and enter the CNS throughout the course of HIV-1 disease. Once in the brain, both free virus and virus-infected cells are able to infect neighboring resident microglia and astrocytes and possibly other cell types. HIV-1-infected cells in both the periphery and the CNS give rise to elevated levels of viral proteins, including gp120, Tat, and Nef, and of host inflammatory mediators such as cytokines and chemokines. It has been shown that the viral proteins may act alone or in concert with host cytokines and chemokines, affecting the integrity of the BBB. The pathological end point of these interactions may facilitate a positive feedback loop resulting in increased penetration of HIV into the CNS. It is proposed in this review that the dysregulation of the BBB during and after neuroinvasion is a critical component of the neuropathogenic process and that dysregulation of this protective barrier is caused by a combination of viral and host factors including secreted viral proteins, components of the inflammatory process, the aging process, therapeutics, and drug or alcohol abuse.

The unprecedented growth, availability and accessibility of imaging data from people with neurodegenerative conditions has led to the development of computational infrastructures, which offer scientists access to large image databases and e-Science services such as sophisticated image analysis algorithm pipelines and powerful computational resources, as well as three-dimensional visualization and statistical tools. Scientific e-infrastructures have been and are being developed in Europe and North America that offer a suite of services for computational neuroscientists. The convergence of these initiatives represents a worldwide infrastructure that will constitute a global virtual imaging laboratory. This will provide computational neuroscientists with a virtual space that is accessible through an ordinary web browser, where image data sets and related clinical variables, algorithm pipelines, computational resources, and statistical and visualization tools will be transparently accessible to users irrespective of their physical location. Such an experimental environment will be instrumental to the success of ambitious scientific initiatives with high societal impact, such as the prevention of Alzheimer disease. In this article, we provide an overview of the currently available e-infrastructures and consider how computational neuroscience in neurodegenerative disease might evolve in the future.
Mutations in the NOTCH3 gene are responsible for cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL), an adult onset hereditary angiopathy leading to ischemic stroke, vascular dementia and psychiatric disorders. All mutation of NOTCH3 described so far are striking stereotyped leading to the gain or loss of cystiene residue in a given epidermal growth factor (EGF), like repeat. We report an Arabic family affected with CADASIL mutation, G1790 C, in Exon 11 of the NOTCH3 gene. This is the first novel mutation reported in Arabic CADASIL patients. This finding confirms that mutations in NOTCH3 are associated with the pathogenesis of CADASIL across different ethnic background.
Hypertension (HT) is considered the main classic vascular risk factor for stroke and the importance of lowering blood pressure (BP) is well established. However, not all the benefit of antihypertensive treatment is due to BP reduction per se, as the effect of reducing the risk of stroke differs among classes of antihypertensive agents. Extensive evidences support that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI), angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARB), dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (CCB) and thiazide diuretics each reduced risk of stroke compared with placebo or no treatment. Therefore, when combination therapy is required, a combination of these antihypertensive classes represents a logical approach. Despite the efficacy of antihypertensive therapy a large proportion of the population, still has undiagnosed or inadequately treated HT, and remain at high risk of stroke. In primary stroke prevention current guidelines recommend a systolic/diastolic BP goal of &lt;140/&lt;90 mmHg in the general population and &lt;130/80 mmHg in diabetics and in subjects with high cardiovascular risk and renal disease. The recent release in the market of the fixed-dose combination (FDC) of ACEI or ARB and CCB should provide a better control of BP. However to confirm the efficacy of the FDC in primary stroke prevention, clinical intervention trials are needed.
Laminin-332 is a major component of the dermo-epidermal skin basement membrane and maintains skin integrity. The transduction of mechanical force into electrical signals by sensory endings in the skin requires mechanosensitive channels. We found that mouse epidermal keratinocytes produce a matrix that is inhibitory for sensory mechanotransduction and that the active molecular component is laminin-332. Substrate-bound laminin-332 specifically suppressed one type of mechanosensitive current (rapidly adapting) independently of integrin-receptor activation. This mechanotransduction suppression could be exerted locally and was mediated by preventing the formation of protein tethers necessary for current activation. We also found that laminin-332 could locally control sensory axon branching behavior. Loss of laminin-332 in humans led to increased sensory terminal branching and may lead to a de-repression of mechanosensitive currents. These previously unknown functions for this matrix molecule may explain some of the extreme pain experienced by individuals with epidermolysis bullosa who are deficient in laminin-332.
The amyloid- peptide A42 is known to be a primary amyloidogenic and pathogenic agent in Alzheimer's disease. However, the role of A43, which is found just as frequently in the brains of affected individuals, remains unresolved. We generated knock-in mice containing a pathogenic presenilin-1 R278I mutation that causes overproduction of A43. Homozygosity was embryonic lethal, indicating that the mutation involves a loss of function. Crossing amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice with heterozygous mutant mice resulted in elevated A43, impairment of short-term memory and acceleration of amyloid- pathology, which accompanied pronounced accumulation of A43 in plaque cores similar in biochemical composition to those observed in the brains of affected individuals. Consistently, A43 showed a higher propensity to aggregate and was more neurotoxic than A42. Other pathogenic presenilin mutations also caused overproduction of A43 in a manner correlating with A42 and with the age of disease onset. These findings indicate that A43, an overlooked species, is potently amyloidogenic, neurotoxic and abundant in vivo.
Transplantation of dopaminergic neurons can potentially improve the clinical outcome of Parkinson's disease, a neurological disorder resulting from degeneration of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons. In particular, transplantation of embryonic-stem-cell-derived dopaminergic neurons has been shown to be efficient in restoring motor symptoms in conditions of dopamine deficiency. However, the use of pluripotent-derived cells might lead to the development of tumours if not properly controlled. Here we identified a minimal set of three transcription factors--Mash1 (also known as Ascl1), Nurr1 (also known as Nr4a2) and Lmx1a--that are able to generate directly functional dopaminergic neurons from mouse and human fibroblasts without reverting to a progenitor cell stage. Induced dopaminergic (iDA) cells release dopamine and show spontaneous electrical activity organized in regular spikes consistent with the pacemaker activity featured by brain dopaminergic neurons. The three factors were able to elicit dopaminergic neuronal conversion in prenatal and adult fibroblasts from healthy donors and Parkinson's disease patients. Direct generation of iDA cells from somatic cells might have significant implications for understanding critical processes for neuronal development, in vitro disease modelling and cell replacement therapies.



Olfactory dysfunction is a frequent and early feature of patients with neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) and is very uncommon in patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Mechanisms underlying this clinical manifestation are poorly understood but the premature deposition of protein aggregates in the olfactory bulb (OB) of these patients might impair its synaptic organization, thus accounting for the smell deficits. Tau, -amyloid and alpha-synuclein deposits were studied in 41 human OBs with histological diagnosis of AD (n=24), PD (n=6), FTD (n=11) and compared with the OB of 15 control subjects. Tau pathology was present in the OB of all patients, irrespective of the histological diagnosis, while -amyloid and alpha-synuclein protein deposit were frequently observed in AD and PD, respectively. Using stereological techniques we found an increased number of dopaminergic periglomerular neurons in the OB of AD, PD and FTD patients when compared with age-matched controls. Moreover, volumetric measurements of OBs showed a significant decrease only in AD patients, while the OB volume was similar to control in PD or FTD cases. The increased dopaminergic tone created in the OBs of these patients could reflect a compensatory mechanism created by the early degeneration of other neurotransmitter systems and might contribute to the olfactory dysfunction exhibited by patients with neurodegenerative disorders.

Reexposure to cocaine-associated environments promotes relapse to cocaine seeking and represents a persistent impediment to successful abstinence. Neurobiological adaptations are thought to underlie the preservation of drug-seeking behavior during protracted withdrawal periods, possibly including changes associated specifically with cocaine-paired contexts. We measured GluR(1) (S845) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation in rat striatal subregions in an animal model of cocaine relapse. Animals with cocaine self-administration experience and their yoked partners were exposed to extinction conditions for one hour in the drug-paired environmental context after one day or three weeks withdrawal to measure protein phosphorylation induced by the cocaine-paired context in the absence of cocaine reinforcement. GluR(1) (S845) (an index of protein kinase A (PKA) activity) and ERK phosphorylation increased in the nucleus accumbens core of self-administering but not yoked animals after three weeks (but not one day) withdrawal, indicating a time-dependent emergence of context-associated protein phosphorylation in this accumbens subregion. In comparison, animals trained to self-administer sucrose displayed a similar increase in ERK, but not GluR(1) (S845) , phosphorylation following reexposure to a sucrose-paired environment three weeks later, indicating that GluR(1) (S845) phosphorylation did not result solely from lever press behavior per se. In contrast, basal (home cage) GluR(1) (S845) phosphorylation was elevated in the nucleus accumbens shell and caudate-putamen after one day or three weeks cocaine withdrawal regardless of context exposure. These results suggest that time-dependent emergence of context-associated GluR(1) (S845) phosphorylation in the nucleus accumbens core may contribute to the persistence of cocaine-seeking behavior, whereas ERK phosphorylation may be a consequence of this behavior.
The synaptic signaling mechanisms mediating the behavioral effects of ethanol (EtOH) remain poorly understood. Post-synaptic density 95 (PSD-95, SAP-90, Dlg4) is a key orchestrator of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDAR) and glutamatergic synapses, which are known to be major sites of EtOH's behavioral actions. However, the potential contribution of PSD-95 to EtOH-related behaviors has not been established. Here, we evaluated knockout (KO) mice lacking PSD-95 for multiple measures of sensitivity to the acute intoxicating effects of EtOH (ataxia, hypothermia, sedation/hypnosis), EtOH drinking under conditions of free access and following deprivation, acquisition and long-term retention of EtOH conditioned place preference (CPP) (and lithium chloride-induced conditioned taste aversion), and intoxication-potentiating responses to NMDAR antagonism. PSD-95 KO exhibited increased sensitivity to the sedative/hypnotic, but not ataxic or hypothermic, effects of acute EtOH relative to wild-type controls (WT). PSD-95 KO consumed less EtOH than WT, particularly at higher EtOH concentrations, although increases in KO drinking could be induced by concentration-fading and deprivation. PSD-95 KO showed normal EtOH CPP 1 day after conditioning, but showed significant aversion 2 weeks later. Lithium chloride-induced taste aversion was impaired in PSD-95 KO at both time points. Finally, the EtOH-potentiating effects of the NMDAR antagonist MK-801 were intact in PSD-95 KO at the dose tested. These data reveal a major, novel role for PSD-95 in mediating EtOH behaviors, and add to growing evidence that PSD-95 is a key mediator of the effects of multiple abused drugs.
Baclofen, a -amino-butyric-acid (GABA)(B) receptor agonist, can reduce cue-enhanced cocaine-seeking in rats and attenuate cue-evoked craving in cocaine addicts. However, baclofen also has sedative effects that might interfere with its efficacy in reducing cocaine's rewarding effects. The present study aimed at comparing the effects of baclofen with the GABA(B) -receptor positive allosteric modulator GS39783 on psychostimulant conditioned cues. Two identically trained groups of male Lister-Hooded rats were baselined on a new responding for a light stimulus previously paired with cocaine self-administration. One group was treated with the GABA(B) -receptor positive allosteric modulator GS39783 (0, 10, 30, 100 mg/kg, i.p.), the other with baclofen (0, 0.6, 1.25, 1.9, 2.5 mg/kg, i.p.). In another series of experiments, male Wistar rats received GS39783 (0, 10, 30, 100 mg/kg, i.p.) or baclofen (1.25 mg/kg) prior to the expression of a conditioned place preference (CPP) to amphetamine (2mg/kg i.p.). Both GS39783 (30 and 100 mg/kg) and baclofen (2.5 mg/kg) significantly decreased responding for the cocaine cue; however, only GS39783 (30 mg/kg) reduced lever pressing responding without interfering with locomotor activity. Both GS39783 (30 and 100 mg/kg) and baclofen (1.25 mg/kg), significantly blocked the expression of amphetamine CPP without affecting locomotor activity. These findings suggest that GABA(B) positive allosteric modulators can modulate discrete and contextual psychostimulant conditioned stimuli in a manner dissociable from unwanted sedative effects and may offer a novel therapeutic approach to treat cravings and relapse to drug-taking triggered by stimuli associated with psychostimulant use.
We have previously demonstrated that glycine receptors in the nucleus accumbens (nAc) are involved in modulating both basal and ethanol-induced dopamine output in the same brain region. Ethanol is known to induce a release of both taurine and dopamine in the nAc, but the relationship between these two neuromodulators has not been investigated thoroughly. In vivo microdialysis was used to measure the effects of systemic ethanol diluted in isotonic (0.9% NaCl) or hypertonic (3.6% NaCl) saline on accumbal taurine and dopamine levels. We found that ethanol given in a hypertonic solution, contrary to an isotonic solution, failed to increase concentrations both of taurine and dopamine in the nAc. However, a modest, non-dopamine elevating concentration of taurine in the nAc disclosed a dopamine-elevating effect of systemic ethanol also when given in a hypertonic solution. In a second experiment, we investigated the effects of ethanol on taurine and dopamine in normal rats and rats with decreased levels of endogenous taurine. Lowering the level of taurine, approximately 40% by adding 5% -alanine in the drinking water, did not influence taurine or dopamine output over time. We conclude that the elevations of taurine and dopamine in the nAc are closely related, and that in order for ethanol to induce dopamine release, a simultaneous increase of extracellular taurine levels in the nAc is required. These data also provide support for the notion that the nAc is the primary target for ethanol in its dopamine-activating effect after systemic administration.
Several recent studies suggest functional and molecular interactions between striatal adenosine A(2A) and cannabinoid CB(1) receptors. Here, we demonstrate that A(2A) receptors selectively modulate reinforcing effects of cannabinoids. We studied effects of A(2A) receptor blockade on the reinforcing effects of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and the endogenous CB(1) receptor ligand anandamide under a fixed-ratio schedule of intravenous drug injection in squirrel monkeys. A low dose of the selective adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonist MSX-3 (1mg/kg) caused downward shifts of THC and anandamide dose-response curves. In contrast, a higher dose of MSX-3 (3mg/kg) shifted THC and anandamide dose-response curves to the left. MSX-3 did not modify cocaine or food pellet self-administration. Also, MSX-3 neither promoted reinstatement of extinguished drug-seeking behavior nor altered reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior by non-contingent priming injections of THC. Finally, using in vivo microdialysis in freely-moving rats, a behaviorally active dose of MSX-3 significantly counteracted THC-induced, but not cocaine-induced, increases in extracellular dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens shell. The significant and selective results obtained with the lower dose of MSX-3 suggest that adenosine A(2A) antagonists acting preferentially at presynaptic A(2A) receptors might selectively reduce reinforcing effects of cannabinoids that lead to their abuse. However, the appearance of potentiating rather than suppressing effects on cannabinoid reinforcement at the higher dose of MSX-3 would likely preclude the use of such a compound as a medication for cannabis abuse. Adenosine A(2A) antagonists with more selectivity for presynaptic versus postsynaptic receptors could be potential medications for treatment of cannabis abuse.
Food restriction (FR) augments the behavioral and reinforcing effects of psychomotor stimulants such as cocaine or amphetamine; effects that may be related to the capacity of FR to increase plasma levels of ghrelin (GHR), a 28-amino acid orexigenenic peptide linked to activation of brain dopamine systems. The present study used wild-type (WT) mice or mutant mice sustaining knockout of either GHR [GHR((-/-)) ] or of the growth hormone secretagogue receptor [GHS-R((-/-)) ] and subjected to FR or not to evaluate the role of GHR and GHS-R in cocaine-stimulated locomotion. WT, GHR((-/-)) , and GHS-R((-/-)) mice were either restricted to 60% of baseline caloric intake or allowed to free-feed (FF). Mice were treated with 0, 1.25, 2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg cocaine on separate test days (in random dose order) and forward locomotion was recorded on each drug day for 45 minutes after drug dosing. Food (and water) was available immediately after (but not during) each activity test. For FF mice, there was no interaction between cocaine and GHR status on locomotion. FR-WT mice treated with saline exhibited significant increases in anticipatory locomotion (relative to FF-WT mice), whereas FR-GHS-R((-/-)) mice did not. Cocaine significantly increased locomotion in FR-GHR((-/-)) and FR-GHS-R((-/-)) mice to the levels noted in FR-WT mice. These results suggest that GHS-R activity, but not GHR activity, is required for FR to augment food-associated anticipatory locomotion, but do not support the contention that GHR pathways are required for the capacity of FR to augment the acute effect of cocaine on locomotion.
Instrumental conditioning has been implicated in persistence at slot machine gambling, but its specific role remains unclear. Dopamine (DA) mediates aspects of instrumental responding, and D2 antagonists reliably alter this process. This study investigated the effects of the preferential D2 antagonist, haloperidol (3 mg) on reward-related betting behavior in 20 subjects with pathological gambling (PG) and 18 healthy controls. Hierarchical regression assessed the prospective relationship between Payoff and Bet Size on consecutive trials, along with potential moderating effects of Cumulative Winnings and Phase of game (early/late) under drug and placebo. Payoff predicted Bet Size on the next trial regardless of other factors, consistent with an instrumental view of slot machine gambling. Under placebo, this correlation varied as a function of Winnings and Phase in PG subjects but was strong and invariant in Controls. Under haloperidol, the Payoff-Bet Size correlation in PG subjects resembled the invariant pattern of Controls under placebo. In contrast, the Payoff-Bet Size correlation rose then fell sharply over trials under haloperidol in controls. The correlation of Payoff with Bet Size is remarkable given that there is no actual contingency between winning and betting, and suggests that reward expectancies largely drive slot machine gambling. By blocking inhibitory D2 receptors, haloperidol may have reversed 'tolerance' to monetary reward mediated by increased tonic DA in PG subjects. Disturbance of the Payoff-Bet Size correlation in controls may reflect indiscriminate reward signaling under haloperidol in subjects with normal DA function. Indirect enhancement of DA transmission may reduce undue reward-related responding in PG subjects.




Most studies on adolescent offending heterogeneity are based on general population samples, and few include individuals with substance misuse or look specifically at substance-related offending. It is also unclear how offender subtypes develop after young adulthood or how offending heterogeneity varies between genders. This study aimed to identify subgroups of offending among adolescents with misuse problems and to examine associations with offending in adulthood. The study included 1,992 females and males that consulted a clinic for adolescents with misuse problems between 1968 and 1971. Latent Class Analyses were conducted to identify subgroups based on violent and nonviolent offending before age 20. Participants were then followed until age 50 and reexamined regarding violent, nonviolent, and substance-related crimes. Associations between subgroups before age 20 and subgroups age 21-50 were examined. Before age 20, three subgroups were identified among the females and six among the males. Males were more specialized in their offending and demonstrated higher levels of offending. Results pointed to both stability and decrease of violent and nonviolent offending, and to the emergence of substance-related offending in adulthood in both genders. The connection between substance-related crimes and general delinquency in adulthood among individuals treated for substance misuse suggests that interventions should also address substance misuse for reducing the overall volume of crime. This study also highlights the importance of including females in research on offending heterogeneity.

This commentary discusses the impact of the manuscript by Zhou etal., titled &quot;Alcohol Alters DNA Methylation Patterns and Inhibits Neural Stem Cell Differentiation,&quot; published in the April 2011 issue of Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research (volume 35, issue 4, pages 1-12). In this manuscript, the authors present intriguing evidence from a genome scale analysis of promoter DNA methylation patterns in a class of neural crest stem cells associated with dorsal root ganglia, showing that ethanol essentially prevents epigenetic programming associated with neural stem cell differentiation. This manuscript presents several interesting and novel pieces of data and raises important questions for future research. The implications of these data for our understanding of the etiology of fetal alcohol spectrum disorders are discussed.


Lexical-semantic competency in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) 4 carriers was used as an endophenotype, and gray matter volume in MCI 4 carriers/noncarriers and in noncarrier controls was compared. Residual gray matter volumes were correlated with age of acquisition values for words from a category fluency task, an index of semantic competency. MCI patients had significantly impoverished lexical-semantic output compared with controls, more marked in MCI 4 carriers. Smaller volumes in the left hippocampus, bilateral regions of the uncus, and posterior cingulate cortex were associated with a tendency to retrieve earlier acquired words in the category fluency task in MCI 4 carriers, whereas poor semantic performance in MCI noncarriers was associated with smaller volumes in the left uncus, bilateral regions of the parahippocampal gyrus, and hippocampus, and also in a large number of neocortical regions. There was a significant semantic competency by genotype interaction in the left perirhinal cortex, in a number of left frontal and temporal areas and in the right inferior parietal lobule and precuneus. MCI 4 carriers, when compared with noncarriers, had lower gray matter volume values confined to the right precuneus and the cerebellum bilaterally, but the converse comparison showed that MCI noncarriers had lower values in extensive frontal, temporal, and parietal regions of the neocortex. Similar brain volumetric variations linked to genotype were found in minimal-to-mild AD. The results suggest a relatively specific impact of apolipoprotein E (APOE) 4 burden and underline the value of linguistic assessment in preclinical diagnosis.

The objective of this study was to determine whether there are gender-specific associations between trauma exposure and alcohol or drug relapse in alcohol-dependent adults. Participants were 51 men (n = 24) and women (n = 27) with alcohol dependence, 22 (43.1%) of whom relapsed during study participation. Severity of childhood trauma; number of lifetime events evoking fear, helplessness, or horror; and current trauma symptoms all predicted relapse in women, but not in men. These findings highlight the importance of assessing trauma history and providing treatment of trauma-related symptoms for individuals with alcohol and drug dependence, and for women in particular.
Rhombencephalosynapsis (RES) is a rare congenital brain malformation typically identified by magnetic resonance imaging and characterized by fusion of the cerebellar hemispheres and dentate nuclei and vermian agenesis or hypogenesis. Although RES is frequently found in conjunction with other brain malformations and/or congenital anomalies, no specific molecular etiology has been discovered to date and no animal models exist. We identified two half sisters with alobar or semi-lobar holoprosencephaly (HPE) and partial RES, suggesting that genes linked to HPE may also contribute to RES. A deletion of seven base pairs in exon one of the ZIC2 gene (c.392_98del7) was identified in each of the two half sisters with HPE and partial RES. To identify genetic causes of RES and to assess whether genes identified in HPE have a role in RES, we tested 11 additional individuals with RES by high-resolution chromosome analysis, chromosomal microarray analysis, and sequencing of four HPE genes. No mutations in ZIC2 or in other genes that cause HPE were identified, suggesting that mutation of ZIC2 is a rare cause of, or contributor to, RES associated with HPE. In addition, an individual with a complex rearrangement of chromosome 22q13.3 and RES was identified, suggesting the presence of a dosage-sensitive gene that may contribute to RES in this region.
-Adrenergic receptor (-AR) activation elevates cAMP levels in fat cells and triggers both metabolic and transcriptional responses; however, the potential interactions between these pathways are poorly understood. This study investigated whether lipolysis affects -AR-mediated gene expression in adipocytes. Acute (3)-adrenergic receptor ((3)-AR) stimulation with CL 316,243 (CL) increased expression of PKA-targeted genes PCG-1, UCP1, and NOR-1 in mouse white fat. Limiting lipolysis via inhibition of hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL), a direct target of PKA, sharply potentiated CL induction of PCG-1, UCP1, and NOR-1. CL also induced greater expression of PKA-targeted genes in white fat of HSL-null mice compared with wild-type littermates, further indicating that HSL activity limits PKA-mediated gene expression. Inhibiting HSL in 3T3-L1 adipocytes also potentiated the induction of PGC-1, UCP1, and NOR-1 by -AR activation, as did siRNA knockdown of adipose triglyceride lipase, the rate-limiting enzyme for lipolysis. Conversely, treatments that promote intracellular fatty acid accumulation suppressed induction of PGC-1 and UCP1 through -AR stimulation. Analysis of -adrenergic signaling indicated that excessive intracellular fatty acid production inhibits adenylyl cyclase activity and thereby reduces PKA signaling to the nucleus. Lastly, partially limiting lipolysis by inhibition of HSL increased the induction of oxidative gene expression and mitochondrial electron transport chain activity in white adipose tissue and facilitated fat loss in mice treated for 5 days with CL. Overall, our results demonstrate that fatty acids limit the upregulation of -AR-responsive genes in white adipocytes and suggest that limiting lipolysis may be a novel means of enhancing -AR signaling.
Transmembrane adenylyl cyclase (AC) generates a cAMP pool within the subplasma membrane compartment that strengthens the endothelial cell barrier. This cAMP signal is steered toward effectors that promote junctional integrity and is inactivated before it accesses microtubules, where the cAMP signal causes phosphorylation of tau, leading to microtubule disassembly and barrier disruption. During infection, Pseudomonas aeruginosa uses a type III secretion system to inject a soluble AC, ExoY, into the cytosol of pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells. ExoY generates a cAMP signal that disrupts the endothelial cell barrier. We tested the hypothesis that this ExoY-dependent cAMP signal causes phosphorylation of tau, without inducing phosphorylation of membrane effectors that strengthen endothelial barrier function. To approach this hypothesis, we first discerned the membrane compartment in which endogenous transmembrane AC6 resides. AC6 was resolved in caveolin-rich lipid raft fractions with calcium channel proteins and the cell adhesion molecules N-cadherin, E-cadherin, and activated leukocyte adhesion molecule. VE-cadherin was excluded from the caveolin-rich fractions and was detected in the bulk plasma membrane fractions. The actin binding protein, filamin A, was detected in all membrane fractions. Isoproterenol activation of ACs promoted filamin phosphorylation, whereas thrombin inhibition of AC6 reduced filamin phosphorylation within the membrane fraction. In contrast, ExoY produced a cAMP signal that did not cause filamin phosphorylation yet induced tau phosphorylation. Hence, our data indicate that cAMP signals are strictly compartmentalized; whereas cAMP emanating from transmembrane ACs activates barrier-enhancing targets, such as filamin, cAMP emanating from soluble ACs activates barrier-disrupting targets, such as tau.

Motor neuronal (MN) degeneration in motor neuron disease (MND) often starts focally before spreading to neighbouring MN populations, suggesting soluble factors may contribute to disease propagation. Whether cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from MND patients contains such factors has been difficult to prove. We aimed to determine the effect of glia on the response of MNs to CSF from MND patients. Primary rat spinal MNs grown in mono-culture or cocultured with glia were exposed to CSF from patients (MND-CSF) or controls (Con-CSF) and survival measured by cell counting. In mono-culture both MND-CSF and Con-CSF reduced MN survival with MND-CSF reducing MN survival by less than Con-CSF. In coculture MN survival was unchanged by exposure to MND-CSF while exposure to Con-CSF improved MN survival. In separate experiments, murine MNs grown in mono-culture and stressed by growth factor withdrawal were partially rescued by the application of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), a trophic factor previously found to be elevated in MND-CSF. Our results suggest that MND-CSF may contain factors harmful to MNs as well as factors protective of MNs, the interplay of which is altered by the presence of glial cells. These preliminary results further emphasize the importance of MN environment to MN health.
Monomelic amyotrophy (MA) is a variant of motor neuron disease (MND), characterized by muscle weakness and atrophy restricted to one limb. We describe the case of a 56-year-old Italian patient who developed a segmental muscular atrophy limited to the lower left limb. After 11 years of clinical stability he developed progressive spread of the disease to all limbs and to bulbar and respiratory muscles. The patient died from respiratory failure 15 years after disease onset. This case demonstrates that monomelic amyotrophy may rarely evolve to a diffuse fatal MND, even after more than a decade of clinical stability. Our findings support the idea that MA is part of the clinical continuum of MND.
The development of powerful analytical techniques for specific molecular characterization of neural cell types is of central relevance in neuroscience research for elucidating cellular functions in the central nervous system (CNS). This study examines the use of differential protein expression profiling of mammalian neural cells using direct analysis by means of matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS). MALDI-MS analysis is rapid, sensitive, robust, and specific for large biomolecules in complex matrices. Here, we describe a newly developed and straightforward methodology for direct characterization of rodent CNS glial cells using MALDI-MS-based intact cell mass spectrometry (ICMS). This molecular phenotyping approach enables monitoring of cell growth stages, (stem) cell differentiation, as well as probing cellular responses towards different stimulations. Glial cells were separated into pure astroglial, microglial, and oligodendroglial cell cultures. The intact cell suspensions were then analyzed directly by MALDI-TOF-MS, resulting in characteristic mass spectra profiles that discriminated glial cell types using principal component analysis. Complementary proteomic experiments revealed the identity of these signature proteins that were predominantly expressed in the different glial cell types, including histone H4 for oligodendrocytes and S100-A10 for astrocytes. MALDI imaging MS was performed, and signature masses were employed as molecular tracers for prediction of oligodendroglial and astroglial localization in brain tissue. The different cell type specific protein distributions in tissue were validated using immunohistochemistry. ICMS of intact neuroglia is a simple and straightforward approach for characterization and discrimination of different cell types with molecular specificity.
Previous studies have involved the &quot;posterodorsal&quot; amygdaloid area with the control of food intake and the development of obesity in rats. Within this wide region, the posterodorsal medial amygdala (MePD) has connections with specific hypothalamic nuclei that increase feeding behavior and modulate energy balance. Glutamate is the major brain excitatory neurotransmitter, remarkably enhances centrally mediated food consumption, and is abundantly found in the MePD. Here, it was studied the effects of saline (0.3 L) and glutamate (45 nM or 45 mM/0.3 L) directly microinjected in the MePD of adult male rats on the consumption of a three-choice (high-carbohydrate, high-protein, or high-lipid) macronutrient selective diet. The rat adaptation to the experimental procedures and its body weight gain were continuously evaluated. Control data for all groups and results following microinjections were obtained after a fasting protocol. Feeding behavior was evaluated during the subsequent 2-hr period of free access to the selective diets. Both doses of glutamate microinjected in the MePD did not lead to a higher percentage of animals consuming any of the different diets (P &gt; 0.05), although glutamate 45 mM induced a higher consumption of the high-carbohydrate diet when compared with presurgery control values (P &lt; 0.01). Interestingly, present data indicate that glutamate in the male MePD induces only a subtle modification in the feeding behavior and suggest that large electrolytic lesions of the &quot;posterodorsal&quot; amygdaloid region might have affected other regions to alter drastically meal size consumption in rats.


Peripheral nerve injuries result in loss of motor, sensory and autonomic functions of the denervated limb, but are also accompanied by positive symptoms, such as hyperreflexia, hyperalgesia and pain. Strategies to improve functional recovery after neural injuries have to address the enhancement of axonal regeneration and target reinnervation and also the modulation of the abnormal plasticity of neuronal circuits. By enhancing sensory inputs and/or motor outputs, activity-dependent therapies, like electrostimulation or exercise, have been shown to positively influence neuromuscular functional recovery and to modulate the plastic central changes after experimental nerve injuries. However, it is important to take into account that the type of treatment, the intensity and duration of the protocol, and the period during which it is applied after the injury are factors that determine beneficial or detrimental effects on functional recovery. The adequate maintenance of activity of neural circuits and denervated muscles results in increased trophic factor release to act on regenerating axons and on central plastic changes. Among the different neurotrophins, BDNF seems a key player in the beneficial effects of activity-dependent therapies after nerve injuries.
Restoration of function after peripheral nerve repair in humans is unsatisfactory. Various causes of poor recovery have been proposed. Still, we do not understand which of these potential factors are indeed detrimental and do not know how to manipulate them experimentally in a clinically feasible way. Future success largely depends on methodological improvement in rodent models. An example of recent progress is the introduction of new functional and anatomical outcome measures in the facial nerve injury paradigm which led to novel insights into facial nerve regeneration and a new therapeutic concept. Less success can be ascribed to the use of the classical spinal nerve model, the sciatic nerve paradigm, not least because of its anatomical and functional complexity making assessment of recovery challenging. A simpler alternative to the sciatic nerve is the femoral nerve model. It offers, alongside with its known usefulness for studies on precision of motor reinnervation, the possibility of reliable functional assessments and a straightforward search of anatomical substrates of dysfunction. The structure-function approach in the femoral nerve paradigm has been useful for testing of novel therapeutic means and analyses of regeneration in mutant mice. The potential of the method has still not been really exploited and its more extensive use may contribute to better understanding of nerve regeneration.
Peripheral nerve injury is a common casualty and although peripheral nerve fibers retain a considerable regeneration potential also in the adult, recovery is usually rather poor, especially in case of large nerve defects. The aim of this paper is to address the perspectives in regeneration and tissue engineering after peripheral nerve injury by reviewing the relevant experimental studies in animal models. After a brief overview of the morphological changes related to peripheral nerve injury and regeneration, the paper will address the evolution of peripheral nerve tissue engineering with special focus on transplantation strategies, from organs and tissues to cells and genes, that can be carried out, particularly in case of severe nerve lesions with substance loss. Finally, the need for integrated research which goes beyond therapeutic strategies based on single approaches is emphasized, and the importance of bringing together the various complimentary disciplines which can contribute to the definition of effective new strategies for regenerating the injured peripheral nerve is outlined.
Fluctuating ptosis is usually caused by Myasthenia gravis. There are a few case reports of central causes of fluctuating ptosis. A 58-year-old man presented with fluctuating ptosis of one year duration. He was diagnosed as having ocular myasthenia and investigated. On evaluation, his electrophysiological tests revealed negative decremental response and results of neostigmine test was negative. During follow-up, patient developed headache. Imaging of the brain revealed midbrain cysticercosis granuloma. The focal encephalitis and edema was responsible for fluctuating ptosis. It is therefore essential to be aware of conditions that cause such pseudomyasthenic features. Patients with ptosis need to be evaluated for other rare central cause especially when neostigmine test is negative.
Hashimoto's encephalopathy (H.E.) is probably of autoimmune etiology, and manifests with seizures, stroke-like episodes, cognitive decline, neuropsychiatric symptoms, myoclonus. It is presumed to be autoimmune in origin with high serum titers of antithyroid peroxidase antibodies (anti-TPA). Thyroid function might often be normal. The diagnosis is arrived at by excluding other toxic, metabolic and infectious causes of encephalopathies, supportive clinical profile, elevated thyroid antibodies and optimum steroid response. We present the characteristic phenotypic manifestations, magnetic resonance imaging and electroechography observations and response to immunomodulation with follow-up in three cases of H.E. All the three cases manifested with subacute to chronic progressive encephalopathy, cerebellar dysfunction, seizures, behavioral abnormalities and oculomotor disturbances and had evidence of hypothyroidism, elevated titers of anti-TPA and positive thyroid anti-microsomal antibodies. Atypical and uncommon presentations are known. This report emphasizes that a high index of suspicion is often required in cases with &quot;investigation negative encephalopathy&quot; for early diagnosis of H.E.






Physical activity (PA) has potential benefits after stroke or spinal cord injury (SCI), especially in improving efficiency and functional capacity in activities of daily living. Currently, many who could benefit from PA may be routinely excluded from participation because of myths related to functional capacity and the concern for harm. The purpose of this review was to evaluate the literature for reports of adverse events during exercise after stroke or SCI, and to provide recommendations regarding exercise participation in supervised and unsupervised environments. Studies were evaluated for quality, and the summary level and quality of evidence were evaluated using the AGREE rubric, modified to address the main outcome measure of adverse events. Levels of exercise stress were evaluated for aerobic activities, using an established rubric. Included in the current analysis were 32 studies for stroke and 4 for SCI. In aggregate, this yielded a total of 730 experimental participants with stroke and 143 with SCI. It should be noted that almost all studies were not designed to examine naturally occurring adverse events from PA. Significant contraindications to unsupervised exercise include manifestation of autonomic dysreflexia in SCI and cardiovascular comorbidity after stroke. There are clear benefits of exercise training on physiological outcomes in stroke and SCI, but the relation between outcomes and safety remains unclear. However, taken on balance, the risk-to-benefit ratio favors the recommendation of exercise. This recommendation is based on studies in which participants were almost universally screened for participation in supervised environments. Thus, the grading of evidence for finding adverse events to support this conclusion is inadequate.

Although traditionally regarded as spared, a range of oculomotor dysfunction has been recorded in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Most frequent is ophthalmoparesis, particularly in patients with prolonged survival; however, pursuit, nystagmus, and saccadic impairments have also been reported. The apparent resistance to pathologic involvement of oculomotor (and sphincter) control pathways in most patients with ALS has prompted comparative study to establish the key pathways that underlie motor neuronal vulnerability, with the hope of generating novel therapeutic strategies. Developments in the assessment of oculomotor function, including portable eye-tracking devices, have revealed more subtle impairments in ALS in relation to phenotype, which can now be better understood through parallel elucidation of the normal cerebral oculomotor control network. Given the clinicopathologic overlap between ALS and some types of frontotemporal dementia, the study of oculomotor function has particular value in probing the variable but consistent cognitive impairment seen in ALS and that reflects frontotemporal extramotor cerebral abnormalities. By transcending the requirement to write or speak, loss of which precludes standard neuropsychological testing in some patients with advanced ALS, cognitive tests performed using only oculomotor functions offer additional potential, allowing the study of patients much later in their disease course. The study of oculomotor dysfunction holds significant promise as an additional source of much needed prognostic, monitoring, and mechanistic biomarkers for ALS.



Simple distributed strategies that modify the behavior of selfish individuals in a manner that enhances cooperation or global efficiency have proved difficult to identify. We consider a network of selfish agents who each optimize their individual utilities by coordinating (or anticoordinating) with their neighbors, to maximize the payoffs from randomly weighted pairwise games. In general, agents will opt for the behavior that is the best compromise (for them) of the many conflicting constraints created by their neighbors, but the attractors of the system as a whole will not maximize total utility. We then consider agents that act as creatures of habit by increasing their preference to coordinate (anticoordinate) with whichever neighbors they are coordinated (anticoordinated) with at present. These preferences change slowly while the system is repeatedly perturbed, so that it settles to many different local attractors. We find that under these conditions, with each perturbation there is a progressively higher chance of the system settling to a configuration with high total utility. Eventually, only one attractor remains, and that attractor is very likely to maximize (or almost maximize) global utility. This counterintuitive result can be understood using theory from computational neuroscience; we show that this simple form of habituation is equivalent to Hebbian learning, and the improved optimization of global utility that is observed results from well-known generalization capabilities of associative memory acting at the network scale. This causes the system of selfish agents, each acting individually but habitually, to collectively identify configurations that maximize total utility.



This study examined adult age differences in reflexive orienting to two types of uninformative spatial cues: central arrows and peripheral onsets. In two experiments using a Posner cuing task, young adults (ages 18-28years), young-old adults (60-74years), and old-old adults (75-92years) responded to targets that were preceded 100-1,000ms earlier by a central arrow or a peripheral abrupt onset. In Experiment 1, the cue remained present upon target onset. Facilitation effects at short cue-target stimulus onset asynchronies (SOAs) were prolonged in duration for the two older groups relative to the young adults. At longer cue-target SOAs, inhibition of return (IOR) that was initiated by peripheral onset cues was observed in the performance of young adults but not in that of the two older groups. In Experiment 2, the cue was presented briefly and removed prior to target onset. The change in cue duration minimized age differences (particularly for young-old adults) in facilitation effects and led to IOR for all three age groups. The findings are consistent with the idea that attentional control settings change with age, with higher settings for older adults leading to delayed disengagement from spatial cues.

Amphetamines are psychostimulant drugs with high abuse potential. Acute and chronic doses of amphetamines affect dopamine (DA) neurotransmission in the basal ganglia. The basal ganglia are a group of subcortical nuclei that are anatomically positioned to integrate cognitive, motor and sensorimotor inputs from the cortex. Amphetamines can differentially alter the functioning of specific BG circuits to produce neurochemical changes that affect cognition, movement, and drug seeking behavior through their effects on DA neurotransmission. This review focuses on how alterations in dopaminergic neurotransmission within distinct basal ganglia pathways can modify their functional output to predict and explain the acute and long term behavioral consequences of amphetamine exposure.
Lamotrigine (LTG) is a commonly used antiepileptic drug. However, the use of LTG is limited because of its cutaneous adverse drug reactions (cADRs) ranging from mild maculopapular eruption (MPE) to severe Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN). A strong association between HLA-B*1502 and carbamazepine-induced SJS/TEN has been identified in Chinese and Thai. Although three of seven cases with HLA-B*1502 have been reported in LTG-induced SJS/TEN so far, the relationship between HLA-B*1502 and LTG-induced SJS/TEN needs further investigation. It is also unclear whether there is a specific genetic marker associated with LTG-induced MPE in Chinese. In this study, we genotyped 43 Han Chinese patients treated with LTG (14 cases with LTG-induced cADRs and 29 LTG-tolerant controls), using PCR-SSP for HLA-B*1502 testing and low-resolution genotyping, as well as sequencing for four-digit genotyping. The two cases with SJS were negative for HLA-B*1502, with B1301/1301 and 4601/5610, respectively. Combining the data with previous studies, there was no significant difference in the frequency of subjects with HLA-B*1502 between the LTG-induced SJS/TEN group and the LTG-tolerant group (p=0.08, OR 4.23, 95% CI 0.94-18.97). In the MPE group, only one was positive for HLA-B*1502. There was no significant difference in the frequency of a specific HLA-B allele between the MPE group and the LTG-tolerant group either. In this study, no significant association between HLA-B*1502 and LTG-induced SJS or MPE was found. Given the small sample size and only HLA-B locus genotyping, further large-scale studies are required to explore genetic associations with LTG-induced cADRs.
The winter wren is a common forest bird living in groups of few adjacent neighbours during the breeding season. Inside each group, males vocally interact in the context of both territorial holding and sexual competition, forming a complex communication network. To study this network, we first analysed song type and syllable repertoires within and between distinct groups. We found a limited number of song types highly stereotyped in length, syntax and syllable composition, frequently shared among neighbours. Between groups, song type and syllable repertoires sharing decreased with increasing distance at a higher rate for song types than for syllables. Then, with continuous recordings, we focused on the dynamics of acoustic interactions between neighbours. We showed that male winter wrens can differentially use their song type repertoire (non-matching strategy), overlap their neighbours and modulate their singing rhythm producing longer inter-song intervals with no change in song length during acoustic interactions.
The introduction of neuroscientific evidence in criminal trials has given rise to fears that neuroimagery presented by an expert witness might inordinately influence jurors' evaluations of the defendant. In this experiment, a diverse sample of 1,170 community members from throughout the U.S. evaluated a written mock trial in which psychological, neuropsychological, neuroscientific, and neuroimage-based expert evidence was presented in support of a not guilty by reason of insanity (NGRI) defense. No evidence of an independent influence of neuroimagery was found. Overall, neuroscience-based evidence was found to be more persuasive than psychological and anecdotal family history evidence. These effects were consistent across different insanity standards. Despite the non-influence of neuroimagery, however, jurors who were not provided with a neuroimage indicated that they believed neuroimagery would have been the most helpful kind of evidence in their evaluations of the defendant.
Inflammatory processes are involved in the pathogenesis and/or progression of acute central nervous system (CNS) infection, traumatic brain injury and neurodegenerative disorders among others indicating the need for novel strategies to limit neuroinflammation. Eicosanoids including leukotrienes, particularly leukotriene B(4) (LTB(4)) are principle mediator(s) of inflammatory response, initiating and amplifying the generation of cytokines and chemokines. Cytochrome P450 (Cyp), a family of heme proteins mediate metabolism of xenobiotics and endogenous compounds, such as eicosanoids and leukotrienes. Cytochrome P4504F (Cyp4f) subfamily includes five functional enzymes in mouse. We cloned and expressed the mouse Cyp4f enzymes, assayed their relative expression in brain and examined their ability to hydroxylate the inflammatory cascade prompt LTB(4) to its inactive 20-hydroxylated product. We then examined the role of Cyp4fs in regulating inflammatory response in vitro, in microglial cells and in vivo, in mouse brain using lipopolysacharide (LPS), as a model compound to generate inflammatory response. We demonstrate that mouse brain Cyp4fs are expressed ubiquitously in several cell types in the brain, including neurons and microglia, and modulate inflammatory response triggered by LPS, in vivo and in microglial cells, in vitro through metabolism of LTB(4) to the inactive 20-hydroxy LTB(4). Chemical inhibitor or shRNA to Cyp4fs enhance and inducer of Cyp4fs attenuates inflammatory response. Further, induction of Cyp4f expression lowers LTB(4) levels and affords neuroprotection in microglial cells or mice exposed to LPS. Thus, catalytic activity of Cyp4fs is a novel target for modulating neuroinflammation through hydroxylation of LTB(4).

Phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type IIIa (PI4KIII) is one of four mammalian PI 4-kinases that catalyzes the first committed step in polyphosphoinositide synthesis. PI4KIII has been linked to regulation of ER exit sites and to the synthesis of plasma membrane phosphoinositides and recent studies have also revealed its importance in replication of the Hepatitis C virus in liver. Two isoforms of the mammalian PI4KIII have been described and annotated in GenBank: a larger, ~230kDa (isoform 2) and a shorter splice variant containing only the ~97kDa C-terminus that includes the catalytic domain (isoform 1). However, Northern analysis of human tissues and cancer cells showed only a single transcript of ~7.5kb with the exception of the proerythroleukemia line K562, which contained significantly higher level of the 7.5kb transcript along with smaller ones of 2.4, 3.5 and 4.2kb size. Bioinformatic analysis also confirmed the high copy number of PI4KIII transcript in K562 cells along with several genes located in the same region in Chr22, including two pseudogenes that cover most exons coding for isoform 1, consistent with chromosome amplification. A panel of polyclonal antibodies raised against peptides within the C-terminal half of PI4KIII failed to detect the shorter isoform 1 either in COS-7 cells or K562 cells. Moreover, expression of a cDNA encoding isoform 1 yielded a protein of ~97kDa that showed no catalytic activity and failed to rescue hepatitis C virus replication. These data draw attention to PI4KIII as one of the genes found in Chr22q11, a region affected by chromosomal instability, but do not substantiate the existence of a functionally relevant short form of PI4KIII.
The multifaceted functions of nitric oxide (NO) in the CNS are defined by the activity of neuronal NO synathase (nNOS). The activities of nNOS are modulated by posttranslational modifications, such as phosphorylation and ubiquitination, but whether it is modified by small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) remains unknown. The aim of this study was to elucidate whether nNOS is posttranslationally modified by SUMO proteins. Bioinformatic analyses using SUMOplot and SUMOFI predicted that nNOS had potential SUMO modification sites. When HEK293T cells were transiently co-expressed with nNOS and SUMO-1, two bands corresponding to nNOS-SUMO-1 conjugates were detected. In addition, two nNOS-SUMO-1 conjugates were confirmed by an in vitro sumoylation assay using recombinant proteins. Furthermore, nNOS-SUMO-1 conjugates were identified by MALDI-QIT/TOF mass spectrometry. These findings indicate that nNOS is clearly defined as a SUMO-1 target protein both in vitro and at the cellular level. We next characterized specific enzymes in the nNOS-SUMO-1 conjugation cycle at the cellular level. SUMO-1 conjugation of nNOS depended on Ubc9 (E2). The interaction between nNOS and Ubc9 was facilitated by PIASx (E3). On the other hand, SUMO-1 was deconjugated from nNOS by SENP1 and SENP2. Overall, this study has newly identified that nNOS is posttranslationally modified by SUMO-1.
Mitochondria play a central role in heart energy metabolism and Ca(2+) homeostasis and are involved in the pathogenesis of many forms of heart disease. The body of knowledge on mitochondrial pathophysiology in living cells and organs is increasing, and so is the interest in mitochondria as potential targets for cardioprotection. This critical review will focus on the permeability transition pore (PTP) and its regulation by cyclophilin (CyP) D as effectors of endogenous protective mechanisms and as potential drug targets. The complexity of the regulatory interactions underlying control of mitochondrial function in vivo is beginning to emerge, and although apparently contradictory findings still exist we believe that the network of regulatory protein interactions involving the PTP and CyPs in physiology and pathology will increase our repertoire for therapeutic interventions in heart disease. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Mitochondria and Cardioprotection.
Cerebrovascular disease studies have shown similarity between humans and spontaneously hypertensive rats stroke-prone rats in the development of spontaneous stroke and transitory ischemic attacks (TIA). In addition, nitric oxide (NO) suppression by L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) can precipitate several vascular diseases including TIA and strokes. On the other hand, alpha-tocopherol (AT) has been associated with beneficial effects on vascular disorders. Four groups were tested to evaluate AT effects on NO inhibition: AT, control (C), AT + L-NAME, and L-NAME. During 4 weeks, all groups had their physiologic parameters evaluated and were submitted to neurological tests. After the sacrifice of the animals, total L-lactate dehydrogenase, fibrinogen levels, and platelet counts were measured. Our results demonstrated improvement in memory function and sensory-motor function of the rats treated with AT. The AT treatment also demonstrated a significant difference on the injury identifier, fibrinogen levels, and platelet count between the treated groups and the L-NAME group. In conclusion, AT reversed damaging L-NAME neurological effects and could be considered as a possible protective agent in neurological diseases.
This article introduces several fundamental concepts in information theory from the perspective of their origins in engineering. Understanding such concepts is important in neuroscience for two reasons. Simply applying formulae from information theory without understanding the assumptions behind their definitions can lead to erroneous results and conclusions. Furthermore, this century will see a convergence of information theory and neuroscience; information theory will expand its foundations to incorporate more comprehensively biological processes thereby helping reveal how neuronal networks achieve their remarkable information processing abilities.
The role of the mechanical properties of the neuromuscular system in motor control has been investigated for a long time in both human and animal subjects, mainly through the application of mechanical perturbations to the limb during natural movements and the observation of its corrective responses. These methods have provided a wealth of insight into how the central nervous system controls the limb. They suffer, however, from the fact that it is almost impossible to separate the active and passive components of the measured arm stiffness and that the measurement may themselves alter the stiffness characteristic of the arm. As a complement to these analyses, the implementation of a given neuroscientific hypothesis on a real mechanical system could overcome these measurement artifact and provide a tool that is, under full control of the experimenter, able to replicate the relevant functional features of the human arm. In this article, we introduce the NEURARM platform, a robotic arm intended to test hypotheses on the human motor control system. As such, NEURARM satisfies two key requirements. First, its kinematic parameters and inertia are similar to that of the human arm. Second, NEURARM mimics the main physical features of the human actuation system, specifically, the use of tendons to transfer force, the presence of antagonistic muscle pairs, the passive elasticity of muscles in the absence of any neural feedback and the non-linear elastic behaviour. This article presents the design and characterization of the NEURARM actuation system. The resulting mechanical behaviour, which has been tested in joint and Cartesian space under static and dynamic conditions, proves that the NEURARM platform can be exploited as a robotic model of the human arm, and could thus represent a powerful tool for neuroscience investigations.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a neuropsychiatric tool that can serve as a useful method to better understand the neurobiology of cognitive function, behavior, and emotional processing. The purpose of this article is to examine the utility of TMS as a means to measure neocortical function in neuropsychiatric disorders in general, and schizophrenia in particular, for the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia initiative. When incorporating TMS paradigms in research studies, methodologic considerations include technical aspects of TMS, cohort selection and confounding factors, and subject safety. Available evidence suggests benefits of TMS alone or in combination with neurophysiologic and neuroimaging methods, including positron emission tomography, single photon emission computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, functional magnetic resonance imaging, functional near infrared spectroscopy, magnetoencephalography, and electroencephalography, to explore neocortical function. With the multiple TMS techniques including single-pulse, paired-pulse, paired associative stimulation, and repetitive TMS and theta burst stimulation, combined with neurophysiologic and neuroimaging methods, there exists a plethora of TMS experimental paradigms to modulate neocortical physiologic processes. Specifically, TMS can measure cortical excitability, intracortical inhibitory and excitatory mechanisms, and local and network cortical plasticity. Coupled with functional and electrophysiologic modalities, TMS can provide insight into the mechanisms underlying healthy neurodevelopment and aging, as well as neuropsychiatric pathology. Thus, TMS could be a useful tool in the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia armamentarium of biomarker methods. Future investigations are warranted to optimize TMS methodologies for this purpose.

The Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) initiative, funded by an R13 from the National Institute of Mental Health, seeks to enhance translational research in treatment development for impaired cognition in schizophrenia by developing tools from cognitive neuroscience into useful measures of treatment effects on behavior and brain function. An initial series of meetings focused on the selection of a new set of tasks from cognitive neuroscience for the measurement of treatment effects on specific cognitive and neural systems. Subsequent validation and optimization studies are underway and a subset of validated measures with well-characterized psychometric properties will be generally available in 2011. This article describes results of the first meeting of the second phase of the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia, which seeks to develop imaging biomarkers and improved animal models to enhance translational research. In this meeting, we considered issues related to the use of methods such as functional magnetic resonance imaging, electroencephalography, magnetoencephalography, and transcranial magnetic simulation as biomarkers for treatment development. We explored the biological nature of the signals measured by each method, their validity and reliability as measures of cognition-related neural activity, potential confounds related to drug effects on the signal of interest, and conceptual, methodological, and pragmatic issues related to their use in preclinical, first into human, and multicenter phase II and III studies. This overview article describes the background and goals of the meeting together with a summary of the major issues discussed in more detail in the accompanying articles appearing in this issue of Biological Psychiatry.

The first phase of the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICs) initiative focused on the identification of cognitive constructs from human and animal neuroscience that were relevant to understanding cognitive deficits in schizophrenia, as well as promising task paradigms that could be used to assess these constructs behaviorally. The current phase of CNTRICs has the goal of expanding this initial work by including measures of brain function that can augment these behavioral tasks as biomarkers to be used in drug development processing. Here we review many of the psychometric issues that need to be addressed regarding the development and inclusion of such methods in the drug development process. In addition, we review quality assurance concerns, issues associated with multicenter trials, concerns associated with potential pharmacologic confounds on imaging measures, as well as power and analysis considerations. Although review is couched in the context of the use of biomarkers for treatment studies in schizophrenia, we believe the issues and suggestions included are relevant to the entire range of neuropsychiatric disorders as well as to a wide range of imaging modalities (i.e., functional magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography, event-related potentials, electroencephalography, transcranial magnetic stimulation, near infrared spectroscopy, etc.) and are relevant to both pharmacologic and psychological intervention approaches.
The current study examined the singular and interactive effects of the 5-HTTLPR genotype and trait neuroticism on affective and physiological stress responses to an academic examination in healthy undergraduate students. From 771 students, 46 short/short (S/S)-allele carriers and 48 long/long (L/L)-allele carriers with the lowest and the highest neuroticism scores (80 females, 14 males; mean ageSD: 20.31.7 years) were selected. Salivary cortisol concentrations, mood and perceived stress were assessed before and after a 2-h written examination and compared with a control day. Negative mood, perceived stress and cortisol significantly increased during the examination compared to the control day. Negative stress effects on mood and perceived stress were significantly larger for S/S-allele carriers compared to L/L-allele carriers, regardless of trait neuroticism. Since vulnerability to real-life stressors is an important risk factor for depression pathogenesis, this may be a mediating factor making S/S-allele carriers more susceptible for depression symptoms.
The impact of stress on health varies across the different stages of human life. Aging is associated with psychobiological changes that could limit our ability to cope with stressors. Therefore, it is crucial to clarify the physiological mechanisms that underlie the stress response and the changes that occur in them as we age. Our aim was to investigate age differences in the salivary alpha amylase (sAA) response to stress, and its relationship with other typical stress biomarkers such as cortisol and heart rate (HR). Sixty-two participants divided into two age groups (younger group: N=31, age range: 18-35 years; older group: N=31, age range: 54-71 years) were exposed to the Trier Social Stress Test and a control condition in a crossover design. No age differences were found in the sAA or HR responses to stress. However, the sAA global output was higher in older than younger adults. Additionally, in the stress condition, the total amount of cortisol released was positively related to the total sAA released, while the HR increase was positively related to the sAA increase. Our results do not support the existence of an attenuated autonomic nervous system response to stress in older adults, but rather a heightened sympathetic tone. Furthermore, we found further evidence of the coordination between the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal system and the autonomic nervous system in their response to acute psychosocial stress.
Planning and readiness for action are associated with pre-movement brain activity reflected in the readiness potential (RP). Previous research suggests that RP is affected by higher-order cognitive functions. The present study investigated the relationship between arousal and RP. Twenty participants performed a RP paradigm in which they executed self-paced movements approximately every 4-5s. Participants' arousal level was directly manipulated through interaction with the experimenter during the rest breaks preceding the movement task. Skin conductance level (SCL) differed between arousal conditions, indicating that the arousal manipulation was effective. RP was significantly higher under the low arousal than the high arousal condition. This arousal effect also changed depending on whether RP was measured at overall high or low levels of arousal. Our data indicate that arousal does not directly activate structures underlying action preparation. We suggest that the arousal effect may be mediated by the attentional resources allocated to the movement.
The cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-dependent signaling pathway directs the expression of several genes involved in diverse neuroendocrine, immune, metabolic, and developmental pathways. The primary effectors of this pathway are members of the cAMP response element binding (CREB) family of transcription factors, in particular the CREB-1 and cAMP response element modulator (CREM). Both these genes encode alternative splice variants that serve as activators or repressors in a context- and position-specific manner. Although the -chemokine receptor CC chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) has been identified on progenitor cells in the bone marrow, the regulatory mechanisms orchestrating its expression are not fully understood. Previous reports have identified putative cAMP response elements in the CCR5 promoter and have described a suppressive role of cAMP in CCR5 expression. In this study, the CD34+CD4+CCR5+ human bone marrow progenitor cell line TF-1 was used to investigate the detailed kinetics of CCR5 transcription in response to the elevation of intracellular cAMP levels and the underlying molecular events. We hypothesize that CCR5 transcription follows an asymmetrical sinusoidal pattern in TF-1 cells that parallels a protein kinase A-dependent alternating change in the ratio of activator pCREB-1-, to repressor pCREM-, isoforms. However, elevated CCR5 mRNA levels do not correlate with enhancement in infectivity with respect to the R5 human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) strain. Our results lend critical insight into the precise mechanism governing the cAMP-CCR5 axis in progenitor cells and pose interesting questions regarding its functional role in HIV-1 infection.
Eight novel 2-(2,6-dioxopiperidin-3-yl)phthalimidine EM-12 dithiocarbamates 9 and 10, N-substituted 3-(phthalimidin-2-yl)-2,6-dioxopiperidines 11-14 and 3-substituted 2,6-dioxopiperidines 16 and 18 were synthesized as tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) synthesis inhibitors. Synthesis involved utilization of a novel condensation approach, a one-pot reaction involving addition, iminium rearrangement and elimination, to generate the phthalimidine ring required for the creation of compounds 9-14. Agents were, thereafter, quantitatively assessed for their ability to suppress the synthesis on TNF- in a lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-challenged mouse macrophage-like cellular screen, utilizing cultured RAW 264.7 cells. Whereas compounds 9, 14 and 16 exhibited potent TNF- lowering activity, reducing TNF- by up to 48% at 30 M, compounds 12, 17 and 18 presented moderate TNF- inhibitory action. The TNF- lowering properties of these analogs proved more potent than that of revlimid (3) and thalidomide (1). In particular, N-dithiophthalimidomethyl-3-(phthalimidin-2-yl)-2,6-dioxopiperidine 14 not only possessed the greatest potency of the analogs to reduce TNF- synthesis, but achieved this with minor cellular toxicity at 30 M. The pharmacological focus of the presented compounds is towards the development of well-tolerated agents to ameliorate the neuroinflammation, that is, commonly associated with neurodegenerative disorders, epitomized by Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease.
The emergence of a unified cognitive behaviour relies on the coordination of specialized components that distribute across a 'brain', body and environment. Although a general dynamical mechanism involved in agent-environment integration is still largely unknown for behavioural robustness, discussions here are focussed on one of the most plausible candidate: the formation of distributed mechanisms working in transient during agent-environment coupling. This article provides discussions on this sort of coordination based on a mobile object-tracking task with situated, embodied and minimal agents, and tests for robust yet adaptive behaviour. The proposed scenario provides examples of behavioural mechanisms that counterbalance the functional organization of internal control activity and agents' situatedness to enable the evolution of a two-agent interaction task. Discussions in this article suggest that future studies of distributed cognition should take into account that there are at least two possible modes of interpreting distributed mechanisms and that these have a qualitatively different effect on behavioural robustness.
Multiple pathways including oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage are implicated in neurodegeneration during Parkinson's disease (PD). The current PD drugs provide only symptomatic relief and have limitations in terms of adverse effects and inability to prevent neurodegeneration. Therefore, there is a demand for novel compound(s)/products that could target multiple pathways and protect the dying midbrain dopaminergic neurons, with potential utility as adjunctive therapy along with conventional drugs. Turmeric is a spice used in traditional Indian cuisine and medicine with antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and potential neuroprotective properties. To explore the neuroprotective property of turmeric in PD, mice were subjected to dietary supplementation with aqueous suspensions of turmeric for 3 months, mimicking its chronic consumption and challenged in vivo with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Brain samples from untreated and treated groups were characterised based on mitochondrial complex I (CI) activity, protein nitration and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. Chronic turmeric supplementation induced the enzyme activity of -glutamyl cysteine ligase, which in turn increased glutathione levels and protected against peroxynitrite-mediated inhibition of brain CI. These mice were also protected against MPTP-mediated protein nitration, CI inhibition and degeneration of substantia nigra neurons in the brain. We conclude that chronic dietary consumption of turmeric protects the brain against neurotoxic insults, with potential application in neurodegeneration. Further characterisation of the active constituents of turmeric that potentially promote neuroprotection could improve the utility of dietary turmeric in brain function and disease.
The neuropeptide Y system has proven to be one of the most important regulators of feeding behaviour and energy homeostasis, thus presenting great potential as a therapeutic target for the treatment of disorders such as obesity and at the other extreme, anorexia. Due to the initial lack of pharmacological tools that are active in vivo, functions of the different Y receptors have been mainly studied in knockout and transgenic mouse models. However, over recent years various Y receptor selective peptidic and non-peptidic agonists and antagonists have been developed and tested. Their therapeutic potential in relation to treating obesity and other disorders of energy homeostasis is discussed in this review.

Cigarette smoking doubles the risk of dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Various pathophysiological pathways have been proposed to cause such a cognitive decline, but the exact mechanisms remain unclear. Smoking may affect the microstructural integrity of cerebral white matter. Diffusion tensor imaging is known to be sensitive for microstructural changes in cerebral white matter. We therefore cross-sectionally studied the relation between smoking behaviour (never, former, current) and diffusion tensor imaging parameters in both normal-appearing white matter and white matter lesions as well as the relation between smoking behaviour and cognitive performance. A structured questionnaire was used to ascertain the amount and duration of smoking in 503 subjects with small-vessel disease, aged between 50 and 85 years. Cognitive function was assessed with a neuropsychological test battery. All subjects underwent 1.5 Tesla magnetic resonance imaging. Using diffusion tensor imaging, fractional anisotropy and mean diffusivity were calculated in both normal-appearing white matter and white matter lesions. A history of smoking was associated with significant higher values of mean diffusivity in normal-appearing white matter and white matter lesions (P-trend for smoking status = 0.02) and with poorer cognitive functioning compared with those who never smoked. Associations with smoking and loss of structural integrity appeared to be strongest in normal-appearing white matter. Furthermore, the duration of smoking cessation was positively related to lower values of mean diffusivity and higher values of fractional anisotropy in normal-appearing white matter [ = -0.004 (95% confidence interval -0.007 to 0.000; P = 0.03) and  = 0.019 (95% confidence interval 0.001-0.038; P = 0.04)]. Fractional anisotropy and mean diffusivity values in normal-appearing white matter of subjects who had quit smoking for &gt;20 years were comparable with subjects who had never smoked. These data suggest that smoking affects the microstructural integrity of cerebral white matter and support previous data that smoking is associated with impaired cognition. Importantly, they suggest that quitting smoking may reverse the impaired structural integrity.
Long-term results show that benefits from chronic deep brain stimulation in dystonia are maintained for many years. Despite this, the neurophysiological long-term consequences of treatment and their relationship to clinical effects are not well understood. Previous studies have shown that transcranial magnetic stimulation measures of abnormal long-term potentiation-like plasticity (paired associative stimulation) and GABAa-ergic inhibition (short-interval intracortical inhibition), which are seen in dystonia, normalize after several months of deep brain stimulation. In the present study, we examine the same measures in a homogenous group of 10 DYT1 gene-positive patients after long-term deep brain stimulation treatment for at least 4.5 years. Recordings were made 'on' deep brain stimulation and after stopping deep brain stimulation for 2 days. The results show that: (i) on average, prior to discontinuing deep brain stimulation, the paired associative stimulation response was almost absent and short-interval intracortical inhibition was reduced compared with normal. This pattern differs from that in both healthy volunteers and from the typical pattern of enhanced plasticity and reduced inhibition seen in deep brain stimulation-nave dystonia. It is similar to that seen in untreated Parkinson's disease and may relate to thus far unexplained clinical phenomena like parkinsonian symptoms that have sometimes been observed in patients treated with deep brain stimulation. (ii) Overall, there was no change in average physiological or clinical status when deep brain stimulation was turned off for 2 days, suggesting that deep brain stimulation had produced long-term neural reorganization in the motor system. (iii) However, there was considerable variation between patients. Those who had higher levels of plasticity when deep brain stimulation was 'on', had the best retention of clinical benefit when deep brain stimulation was stopped and vice versa. This may indicate that better plasticity is required for longer term retention of normal movement when deep brain stimulation is off. (iv) Patients with the highest plasticity 'on' deep brain stimulation were those who had been receiving stimulation with the least current drain. This suggests that it might be possible to 'shape' deep brain stimulation of an individual patient to maximize beneficial neurophysiological patterns that have an impact on clinical status. The results are relevant for understanding long-term consequences and management of deep brain stimulation in dystonia.
Gain-of-function missense mutations of voltage-gated sodium channel Na(V)1.7 have been linked to the painful disorder inherited erythromelalgia. These mutations hyperpolarize activation, slow deactivation and enhance currents evoked by slow ramp stimuli (ramp currents). A correlation has recently been suggested between the age of onset of inherited erythromelalgia and the extent of hyperpolarizing shifts in mutant Na(V)1.7 channel activation; mutations causing large activation shifts have been linked to early age of onset inherited erythromelalgia, while mutations causing small activation shifts have been linked to age of onset within the second decade of life. Here, we report a family with inherited erythromelalgia with an in-frame deletion of a single residue--leucine 955 (Del-L955) in DII/S6. The proband did not show symptoms until the age of 15 years, and her affected mother only experienced mild symptoms during adolescence, which disappeared at the age of 38 years. Del-L955 shows no effect on Na(V)1.7 current density and fast inactivation, but causes an approximately -24 mV shift in activation, together with increases in amplitude of persistent currents and ramp currents. The mutation also produces an approximately -40 mV shift in slow inactivation, which reduces channel availability. Comparison of the effects of the Del-L955 mutation on dorsal root ganglion neuron hyperexcitability with those produced by another inherited erythromelalgia mutation (L858F) that does not enhance slow inactivation suggests that a delayed age of onset and milder symptoms in association with a large shift of channel activation, enhanced persistent and enhanced ramp currents may be related to the approximately -40 mV shift in slow inactivation for Del-L955, the largest shift thus far demonstrated in mutant Na(V)1.7 channels. Our results suggest that despite the pivotal role of activation shift in inherited erythromelalgia development, slow inactivation may regulate clinical phenotype by altering channel availability.
The life and achievements are described of (William) Ian McDonald, BMedSc MBChB PhD FRACP FRCP FRCOpth FMedSci: neurologist, National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery (1966-98); physician, Moorfields Eye Hospital (1969-96); professor of neurology, Institute of Neurology and Institute of Ophthalmology, University of London (1974-98); Editor of Brain (1991-97); Harveian Librarian, Royal College of Physicians of London (1996-2004); born Wellington, New Zealand, 15 April 1933; died London, 13 December 2006. At his death, Ian McDonald left 33 box files of largely unsorted material relating to his private and professional life. The archive has not been catalogued but this biographical account of his life and work draws on the material contained therein. Where possible the date and provenance of material are identified and cited in the text; his curriculum vitae is provided as a supplementary file with individual papers identified by number within each category.
Clinical findings in Parkinson's disease suggest that most patients progressively develop disabling non-levodopa-responsive symptoms during the course of the disease. Nevertheless, several heterogeneous factors, such as clinical phenotype, age at onset and genetic aspects may influence the long-term clinical picture. In order to investigate the main features of long-term Parkinson's disease progression, we studied a cohort of 19 subjects treated with subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation after &gt;20 years of disease, reporting clinical and neuropsychological data up to a mean of 30 years from disease onset. This group of patients was characterized by an early onset of disease, with a mean age of 38.63 years at Parkinson's disease onset, which was significantly lower than in the other long-term subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation follow-up cohorts reported in the literature. All subjects were regularly evaluated by a complete Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale, a battery of neuropsychological tests and a clinical interview, intended to assess the rate of non-levodopa-responsive symptom progression. Clinical data were available for all patients at presurgical baseline and at 1, 3 and 5 years from the subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation surgical procedure, while follow-up data after &gt;7 years were additionally reported in a subgroup of 14 patients. The clinical and neuropsychological performance progressively worsened during the course of follow-up; 64% of patients gradually developed falls, 86% dysphagia, 57% urinary incontinence and 43% dementia. A progressive worsening of motor symptoms was observed both in 'medication-ON' condition and in 'stimulation-ON' condition, with a parallel reduction in the synergistic effect of 'medication-ON/stimulation-ON' condition. Neuropsychological data also showed a gradual decline in the performances of all main cognitive domains, with an initial involvement of executive functions, followed by the impairment of language, reasoning and memory. Thirty years after the disease onset, most patients presented non-levodopa-responsive symptoms, although the effect of both subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation and dopaminergic therapies still showed significant efficacy on the main disease cardinal features. Nevertheless, compared with other subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation follow-up studies, which included patients with a shorter disease duration at the time of surgery, a higher prevalence of axial and non-levodopa-responsive symptoms was observed in the long-term evaluations, confirming that several complex aspects underlie the development of non-motor symptoms and other features of Parkinson's disease progression, even in patients with an early disease onset and a prior long-lasting response to dopaminergic therapies.
Semantic dementia, in which there is progressive deterioration of semantic knowledge, is associated with focal, typically asymmetric, temporal lobe degeneration. The ventrorostral temporal lobe is most severely affected and there is concordance between atrophy and reduced metabolic activity. In this study, we confirmed the veracity of this claim using F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography and anatomical magnetic resonance images. The principal aim, however, was to understand the impact on neuronal projections from the ventrorostral temporal cortex lesion by studying the full extent of white matter changes, with no a priori assumptions about the nature or spatial location of the tracts involved. Using an unbiased voxel-wise approach known as tract-based spatial statistics, we compared results of whole-brain diffusion tensor imaging--absolute metrics of axial, radial and mean diffusion as well as fractional anisotropy--from 10 patients with mild/moderate semantic dementia and 21 matched controls. Distributions of increased absolute diffusivity and reduced fractional anisotropy for patients with semantic dementia were spatially concordant with each other. Abnormalities in all metrics were highly statistically significant in ventrorostral temporal white matter, more extreme on the left side, thus closely matching results from structural and functional imaging of grey matter. The most sensitive marker of change was radial diffusion. Local white matter tract abnormalities extended rostrally towards the frontal lobe and dorsocaudally towards the superior temporal and supramarginal gyri. To examine more remote changes, we performed a skeletonized probabilistic tractography analysis--'seeding' the rostral temporal voxels identified as abnormal in the patient group--in a healthy control group. Three major neural pathways were found to emanate from this 'seed region': uncinate, arcuate and inferior longitudinal fasciculi. At a less conservative threshold, tensor abnormalities in the semantic dementia group mapped onto the tractographies for the uncinate and arcuate bundles well beyond the rostral temporal lobe; this was not the case for the inferior longitudinal bundle, where abnormalities in semantic dementia did not extend caudal to the atrophic/hypometabolic zone. The results offer direct evidence for how the ventrorostral temporal lesion, proposed to be responsible for deteriorating semantic knowledge in semantic dementia and separate from 'classic' language areas, is associated with degeneration of efferent white matter projections to such language areas.
Demyelinating disorders of the central nervous system are among the most crippling neurological diseases affecting patients at various stages of life. In the most prominent demyelinating disease, multiple sclerosis, the regeneration of myelin sheaths often fails due to a default of the resident stem/precursor cells (oligodendrocyte precursor cells) to differentiate into mature myelin forming cells. Significant advances have been made in our understanding of the molecular and cellular processes involved in remyelination. Furthermore, important insight has been gained from studies investigating the interaction of stem/precursor cells with the distinct environment of demyelinating lesions. These suggest that successful regeneration depends on a signalling environment conducive to remyelination, which is provided in the context of acute inflammation. However, multiple sclerosis lesions also contain factors that inhibit the differentiation of oligodendrocyte precursor cells into myelinating oligodendrocytes. The pattern by which remyelination inducers and inhibitors are expressed in multiple sclerosis lesions may determine a window of opportunity during which oligodendrocyte precursor cells can successfully differentiate. As the first molecules aiming at promoting remyelination are about to enter clinical trials, this review critically evaluates recent advances in our understanding of the biology of oligodendrocyte precursor cells and of the stage-dependent molecular pathology of multiple sclerosis lesions relevant to the regeneration of myelin sheaths. We propose a model that may help to provide cues for how remyelination can be therapeutically enhanced in clinical disease.
Genetic regulation of autoimmune neuroinflammation is a well known phenomenon, but genetic influences on inflammation following traumatic nerve injuries have received little attention. In this study we examined the inflammatory response in a rat traumatic brain injury (TBI) model, with a particular focus on major histocompatibility class II (MHC II) presentation, in two inbred rat strains that have been extensively characterized in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE); DA and PVG. In addition, MHC and Vra4 congenic strains on these backgrounds were studied to give information on MHC and non-MHC gene contribution. Thus, allelic differences in Vra4, harboring the Ciita gene, was found to regulate expression of the invariant chain at the mRNA level, with a much smaller effect exerted by the MHC locus itself. Notably, however, at the protein level the MHC congenic PVG-RT1(av1) strain displayed much stronger MHCII(+) presentation, as shown both by immunolabeling and flow cytometry, than the PVG strain, dwarfing the effect of Ciita. The PVG-RT1(av1) strain had significantly more T-cell influx than both DA and PVG, suggesting regulation both by MHC and non-MHC genes. Finally, in terms of outcome, the EAE susceptible DA strain displayed a significantly smaller resulting lesion volume than the resistant PVG-RT1(av1) strain. These results provide additional support for a role of adaptive immune response after neurotrauma and demonstrate that outcome is significantly affected by host genetic factors.
Schizophrenia has been associated with deficits in functional brain lateralization. According to some authors, the reduction of asymmetry could even promote this psychosis. At the same time, schizophrenia is accompanied by a high prevalence of nicotine dependency compared to any other population. This association is very interesting, because sex-dependent effects of smoking in auditory language asymmetries have been reported recently, and the verbal domain is also one major focus in cognitive deficit studies of schizophrenia. Thus, the altered laterality pattern in schizophrenia could, at least in part, result from secondary artefacts due to smoking rather than being a pure cause of the disease itself. To test this hypothesis, the present study examined auditory language lateralization in 67 schizophrenia patients and in 72 healthy controls in a phonemic and an emotional dichotic listening task. Our findings replicate previous research, in that smoking reduces language lateralization in men in phonemic dichotic listening. In addition, we show that smoking also reduces laterality in women in the emotional dichotic listening task. Thus, smoking alters phonemic and emotional language asymmetries differentially for men and women, with a stronger effect for men in the left hemisphere phonemic task, and a stronger effect for women in the right hemisphere emotional task. Together, these findings point towards an effect of smoking which is possibly independent of sex and hemisphere. Importantly, by testing equal numbers of smoking and non-smoking patients and controls, we found no schizophrenia-associated asymmetry effect. Possible neurobiological mechanisms with which smoking may alter auditory microcircuits and thereby diminish left-right differences are discussed.
One of the most frequent symptoms of unilateral stroke is aphasia, the impairment or loss of language functions. Over the past few years, behavioral and neuroimaging studies have shown that rehabilitation interventions can promote neuroplastic changes in aphasic patients that may be associated with the improvement of language functions. Following left hemisphere strokes, the functional reorganization of language in aphasic patients has been proposed to involve both intrahemispheric interactions between damaged left hemisphere and perilesional sites and transcallosal interhemispheric interactions between the lesioned left hemisphere language areas and homotopic regions in the right hemisphere. A growing body of evidence for such reorganization comes from studies using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), two safe and noninvasive procedures that can be applied clinically to modulate cortical excitability during post-stroke language recovery. We discuss a hierarchical model for the plastic changes in language representation that occur in the setting of dominant hemisphere stroke and aphasia. We further argue that TMS and tDCS are potentially promising tools for enhancing functional recovery of language and for further elucidating mechanisms of plasticity in patients with aphasia.
Textbooks dealing with the anatomical representation of language in the human brain display two language-related zones, Broca's area and Wernicke's area, connected by a single dorsal fiber tract, the arcuate fascicle. This classical model is incomplete. Modern imaging techniques have identified a second long association tract between the temporal and prefrontal language zones, taking a ventral course along the extreme capsule. This newly identified ventral tract connects brain regions needed for language comprehension, while the well-known arcuate fascicle is used for &quot;sensorimotor mapping&quot; during speech production. More than 130 years ago, Carl Wernicke already described a ventral connection for language, almost identical to the present results, but during scientific debate in the following decades either its function or its existence were rejected. This article tells the story of how this knowledge was lost and how the ventral connection, and in consequence the dual system, fits into current hypotheses and how language relates to other systems.
Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) is an autoimmune disease of the neuromuscular junction, and approximately 60% of patients with LEMS have a tumor, mostly small cell lung cancer (SCLC), as a paraneoplastic neurological syndrome. The clinical data of Japanese patients in the present study are as follows: the ratio of men to women is 3: 1 (mean age, 62 years; age range, 17-80 years). Of the patients with LEMS, 61% have SCLC, whereas the others do not have cancer. Clinical symptoms are usually characterized by proximal muscle weakness and dysautonomia. In less than 10% of the patients, there are signs of cerebellar dysfunctions (paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration with LEMS; PCD-LEMS), and these are usually associated with SCLC. The diagnosis can be confirmed by detecting a specific antibody in a radioimmunoprecipitation assay and finding reduced amplitude of compound muscle action potential that increases by over 100% after maximum voluntary activation or 50Hz of nerve stimulation. The pathomechanism of LEMS is characterized by impaired transmission across the neuromuscular junction because of autoantibodies directed against the presynaptic P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channels (P/Q-VGCCs). Histopathologic evaluation of the cerebellum in patients with PCD-LEMS showed a reduced number of P/Q-type VGCCs in the molecular layer. Therefore, it was hypothesized that P/Q-VGCC antibodies may induce cerebellar dysfunction after entering the CNS in patients with PCD-LEMS. Specific tumor therapy in patients with LEMS as well as cancer often improves the neurologic deficit. Tumor removal is the primary treatment for LEMS. If the result of the primary screening is negative, screening should be repeated after 3-6 months and thereafter every 6 months for up to 2 years. Most patients benefit from 3, 4-diaminopyridine administered with pyridostigmine. In those with severe weakness, intravenous gamma globulin (IVIg) or plasmapheresis confers short-term benefits. Prednisone when administered alone or in combination with immunosuppressive drugs can achieve long-term control of the disorder.
To evaluate whether central histaminergic signaling in Huntington's disease (HD) patients is affected, we assessed mRNA levels of histidine decarboxylase (HDC), volume of and neuron number in the hypothalamic tuberomamillary nucleus (TMN) (HD n = 8, controls n = 8). In addition, we assessed histamine N-methyltransferase (HMT) and histamine receptor (H(1) R, H(2) R and H(3) R) mRNA levels in the inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) (n = 9 and 9) and caudate nucleus (CN) (n = 6 and 6) by real-time polymerase chain reaction. In HD patients, TMN volume and neuronal number was unaltered (P = 0.72, P = 0.25). The levels of HDC mRNA (P = 0.046), IFG HMT (P &lt; 0.001), H(1) R (P &lt; 0.001) and H(3) R mRNA levels (P = 0.011) were increased, while CN H(2) R and H(3) R mRNA levels were decreased (P = 0.041, P = 0.009). In HD patients, we observed a positive correlation between IFG H(3) R mRNA levels and CAG repeat length (P = 0.024) and negative correlations between age at onset of disease and IFG HMT (P = 0.015) and H(1) R (P = 0.021) mRNA levels. These findings indicate a functional increase in brain histaminergic signaling in HD, and provide a rationale for the use of histamine receptor antagonists.
The Purkinje cell (PC) degeneration (pcd) phenotype results from mutation in nna1 gene and is associated with the degeneration and death of PCs during the postnatal life. Although the pcd mutation is a model of the ataxic mouse, it shares clinical and pathological characteristics of inherited human spinocerebellar ataxias. PC degeneration in pcd mice provides a useful neuronal system to study nuclear mechanisms involved in DNA damage-dependent neurodegeneration, particularly the contribution of nucleoli and Cajal bodies (CBs). Both nuclear structures are engaged in housekeeping functions for neuronal survival, the biogenesis of ribosomes and the maturation of snRNPs and snoRNPs required for pre-mRNA and pre-rRNA processing, respectively. In this study, we use ultrastructural analysis, in situ transcription assay and molecular markers for DNA damage, nucleoli and CB components to demonstrate that PC degeneration involves the progressive accumulation of nuclear DNA damage associated with disruption of nucleoli and CBs, disassembly of polyribosomes into monoribosomes, ribophagy and shut down of nucleolar and extranucleolar transcription. Microarray analysis reveals that four genes encoding repressors of nucleolar rRNA synthesis (p53, Rb, PTEN and SNF2) are upregulated in the cerebellum of pcd mice. Collectively, these data support that nucleolar and CB alterations are hallmarks of DNA damage-induced neurodegeneration.
With the recent approval by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) for Parkinson's Disease, dystonia and obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) for epilepsy and depression, and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) for the treatment of depression, neuromodulation has become increasingly relevant to clinical research. However, these techniques have significant drawbacks (eg, lack of special specificity and depth for the rTMS, and invasiveness and cumbersome maintenance for DBS). This article reviews the background, rationale, and pilot studies to date, using a new brain stimulation method-low-intensity focused ultrasound pulsation (LIFUP). The ability of ultrasound to be focused noninvasively through the skull anywhere within the brain, together with concurrent imaging (ie, functional magnetic resonance imaging [fMRI]) techniques, may create a role for research and clinical use of LIFUP. This technique is still in preclinical testing and needs to be assessed thoroughly before being advanced to clinical trials. In this study, we review over 50 years of research data on the use of focused ultrasound (FUS) in neuronal tissue and live brain, and propose novel applications of this noninvasive neuromodulation method.
Choroid plexus carcinoma (CPC) is a malignant tumor with a strong tendency to spread along the cerebrospinal fluid pathway. There is no standardized chemotherapy protocol for this rare tumor. We report a 38-year-old man with CPC in the lateral ventricle with obstructive hydrocephalus. Because of the poor demarcation between thalamus and fornix, subtotal tumor resection was performed. Postoperative spine magnetic resonance (MR) image revealed whole spinal axis dissemination. After diagnosis of CPC, the patient was treated with whole ventricular and spine radiation concomitant with temozolomide chemotherapy, although the O(6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) promoter was found to be unmethylated. Although MR images revealed transient stable disease during adjuvant therapy, tumor progression was depicted after four cycles of temozolomide therapy. We discuss the ineffectiveness of adjuvant temozolomide therapy for CPC in connection with O(6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase promoter methylation.
Although it is now generally recognized that the clinical spectrum of Parkinson disease (PD) is broader than its defining motor aspects, its various non-motor symptoms are often not routinely assessed in the clinical setting. As most of these symptoms are amenable to treatment, improved recognition would lead to more comprehensive management of the disease, and ultimately improve the quality of life for PD patients. In an attempt to increase the general awareness of physicians caring for these patients, this article focuses on the clinical manifestations and treatment of the gastrointestinal symptoms most commonly experienced by PD patients, as well as on the gastrointestinal side effects of antiparkinsonian treatments.
Tauopathies are a group of disorders that have in common abnormal accumulation of tau protein in the brain. Although the different tauopathies have long been considered to be separate diseases, it is now clear that progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration and some forms of tau-positive frontotemporal lobar degeneration share clinical, pathological and genetic features. The important overlap between these disorders suggest they may represent different phenotypes of a single disease process, the clinical result depending on the topography of pathological lesions as well as other unknown factors.
Recent research has shown that depression, anxiety disorders, and psychosis are more common than previously supposed in elderly populations without dementia. It is unclear whether the frequency of these disorders increases or decreases with age. Clinical expression of psychiatric disorders in old age may be different from that seen in younger age groups, with less and often milder symptoms. Concurrently, comorbidity between different psychiatric disorders is immense, as well as comorbidity with somatic disorders. Cognitive function is often decreased in people with depression, anxiety disorders, and psychosis, but whether these disorders are risk factors for dementia is unclear. Psychiatric disorders in the elderly are often related to cerebral neurodegeneration and cerebrovascular disease, although psychosocial risk factors are also important. Psychiatric disorders, common among the elderly, have consequences that include social deprivation, poor quality of life, cognitive decline, disability, increased risk for somatic disorders, suicide, and increased nonsuicidal mortality.
Trastuzumab shows remarkable efficacy in treatment of ErbB2-positive breast cancers when used alone or in combination with other chemotherapeutics. However, acquired resistance develops in most treated patients, necessitating alternate treatment strategies. Increased aerobic glycolysis is a hallmark of cancer and inhibition of glycolysis may offer a promising strategy to preferentially kill cancer cells. In this study, we investigated the antitumor effects of trastuzumab in combination with glycolysis inhibitors in ErbB2-positive breast cancer. We found that trastuzumab inhibits glycolysis via downregulation of heat shock factor 1 (HSF1) and lactate dehydrogenase A (LDH-A) in ErbB2-positive cancer cells, resulting in tumor growth inhibition. Moreover, increased glycolysis via HSF1 and LDH-A contributes to trastuzumab resistance. Importantly, we found that combining trastuzumab with glycolysis inhibition synergistically inhibited trastuzumab-sensitive and -resistant breast cancers in vitro and in vivo, due to more efficient inhibition of glycolysis. Taken together, our findings show how glycolysis inhibition can dramatically enhance the therapeutic efficacy of trastuzumab in ErbB2-positive breast cancers, potentially useful as a strategy to overcome trastuzumab resistance.
A hallmark of neurogenesis in vertebrate is the apical-basal fluctuation of radial glia nuclei. Such a phenomenon, called INM, has been known for decades and is closely associated with mitosis but still puzzles scientists. An impressive step in the molecular understanding of INM has recently been achieved by Tsai and coworkers. Using RNA interference associated with time-lapse imaging, these authors demonstrated a dual motor system that can push/pull the nuclei accordingly with the cell cycle stages.
The amyloid-beta (A) peptide is the derivative of amyloid precursor protein (APP) generated through sequential proteolytic processing by - and -secretases. Excessive accumulation of A, the main constituent of amyloid plaques, has been implicated in the etiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). It was found recently that the impairments of neurogenesis in brain were associated with the pathogenesis of AD. Furthermore recent findings implicated that APP could function to influence proliferation of neural progenitor cells (NPC) and might regulate transcriptional activity of various genes. Studies demonstrated that influence of neurogenesis by APP is conferred differently via its two separate domains, soluble secreted APPs (sAPPs, mainly sAPP) and APP intracellular domain (AICD). The sAPP was shown to be neuroprotective and important to neurogenesis, whereas AICD was found to negatively modulate neurogenesis. Furthermore, it was demonstrated recently that microRNA could function to regulate APP expression, APP processing, A accumulation and subsequently influence neurotoxicity and neurogenesis related to APP, which was implicated to AD pathogenesis, especially for sporadic AD. Based on data accumulated, secretase balances were proposed. These secretase balances could influence the downstream balance related to regulation of neurogenesis by AICD and sAPP as well as balance related to influence of neuron viability by A and sAPP. Disruption of these secretase balances could be culprits to AD onset.
Members of the BAR domain protein superfamily are essential elements of cellular traffic. Endophilins are among the best studied BAR domain proteins. They have a prominent function in synaptic vesicle endocytosis (SVE), receptor trafficking and apoptosis, and in other processes that require remodeling of the membrane structure. Here, we discuss the role of endophilins in these processes and summarize novel insights into the molecular aspects of endophilin function. Also, we discuss phosphorylation of endophilins and how this and other mechanisms may contribute to disease.
A change in intracellular free calcium is a common signaling mechanism that modulates a wide array of physiological processes in most cells. Responses to increased intracellular Ca(2+) are often mediated by the ubiquitous protein calmodulin (CaM) that upon binding Ca(2+) can interact with and alter the functionality of numerous proteins including a family of protein kinases referred to as CaM-kinases (CaMKs). Of particular interest are multifunctional CaMKs, such as CaMKI, CaMKII, CaMKIV and CaMKK, that can phosphorylate multiple downstream targets. This review will outline several protocols we have used to identify which members and/or isoforms of this CaMK family mediate specific cellular responses with a focus on studies in neurons. Many previous studies have relied on a single approach such as pharmacological inhibitors or transfected dominant-negative kinase constructs. Since each of these protocols has its limitations, that will be discussed, we emphasize the necessity to use multiple, independent approaches in mapping out cellular signaling pathways.
Plasma membrane receptor proteins play a key role in signal transduction and nutrient uptake, thereby controlling quality of receptor proteins is one of the most important issues in cellular logistics. After endocytosis, receptor proteins are generally delivered to lysosomes for degradation or recycled back to the plasma membrane for recycling. Transferrin receptor (TfR) is a well-known representative of recycling receptor proteins, which are traveled between plasma membrane and recycling endosomes. Although the molecular mechanism of the TfR recycling pathway has been extensively investigated in the literature, almost nothing is known about its degradation mechanism. We have recently shown that small GTPase Rab12 and its upstream activator Dennd3 regulate the constitutive degradation of TfR without modulating a conventional endocytic degradation pathway or TfR recycling pathway. Our findings suggest that Rab12 regulates membrane trafficking of TfR from recycling endosomes to lysosomes. In this addendum, we discuss the physiological significance of TfR degradation and the fate of determination of TfR (recycling or degradation).
The purpose of the study was to examine the nanoscale distribution and density of the VEGFR-2 membrane receptor on the endothelial cell surface of glioma microvasculature. Immunofluorescence and atomic force microscopy combined with immunogold labeling techniques were used to characterize and determine the position of the glioma microvasculature endothelial cell surface receptor VEGFR-2. We aimed to indirectly detect the distribution of VEGFR-2 on the cell membrane at the nanoscale level and to analyze VEGFR-2 quantitatively. Immunofluorescence imaging showed a large amount of VEGFR-2 scattered across the endothelial cell surface; atomic force microscopy imaging also showed two globular structures of different sizes scattered across the endothelial cell surface. The difference between the average diameter of the small globular structure outside the cell surface (43.67  5.02 nm) and that of IgG (44.61  3.19 nm) was not statistically significant (P &gt; 0.05). The three-dimensional morphologies of the small globular structure outside the cell surface and IgG were similar. The difference between the average diameter of the large globular structure outside the cell surface (74.19  9.10 nm) and that of IgG-SpA-CG (74.54  15.93 nm) was also not statistically significant (P &gt; 0.05). The three-dimensional morphologies of this large globular structure outside the cell surface and IgG-SpA-CG were similar. The total density of these two globular structures within the unit area was 92  19 particles m(2). No globular structures were seen on the cell surface in the control group. The large globular structure on the surface of glioma microvascular endothelial cells was categorized as a VEGFR-2-IgG-SpA-CG immune complex, whereas the small globular structure was categorized as a VEGFR-2-IgG immune complex. The positions of the globular structures were the same as the positions of the VEGFR-2 molecules. A large amount of VEGFR-2 was scattered across glioma microvascular endothelial cell surfaces; the receptor density was about 92 per square micron.
The Slit-Robo GTPase-activating proteins (srGAPs) are important multifunctional adaptor proteins involved in various aspects of neuronal development, including axon guidance, neuronal migration, neurite outgrowth, dendritic morphology and synaptic plasticity. Among them, srGAP3, also named MEGAP (Mental disorder-associated GTPase-activating protein), plays a putative role in severe mental retardation. SrGAP3 expression in ventricular zones of neurogenesis indicates its involvement in early stage of neuronal development and differentiation. Here, we show that overexpression of srGAP3 inhibits VPA (valproic acid)-induced neurite initiation and neuronal differentiation in Neuro2A neuroblastoma cells, whereas knockdown of srGAP3 facilitates the neuronal differentiation in this cell line. In contrast to the wild type, overexpression of srGAP3 harboring an artificially mutation R542A within the functionally important RhoGAP domain does not exert a visible inhibitory effect on neuronal differentiation. The endogenous srGAP3 selectively binds to activated form of Rac1 in a RhoGAP pull-down assay. We also show that constitutively active (CA) Rac1 can rescue the effect of srGAP3 on attenuating neuronal differentiation. Furthermore, change in expression and localization of endogenous srGAP3 is observed in neuronal differentiated Neuro2A cells. Together, our data suggest that srGAP3 could regulate neuronal differentiation in a Rac1-dependent manner.
The primary cilium is a small microtubule-based organelle projecting from the plasma membrane of practically all cells in the mammalian body. In the past 8years, a flurry of papers has indicated a crucial role of this long-neglected organelle in the development of a wide variety of organs, including derivatives of all three germ layers. A common theme of these studies is the critical dependency of signal transduction of the Hedgehog pathway upon functionally intact cilia to regulate organogenesis. Another common theme is the role that the cilium plays, not necessarily in the determination of the embryonic anlagen of these organs, although this too occurs but rather in the proliferation and morphogenesis of the previously determined organ. We outline the various organ systems that are dependent upon primary cilia for their proper development and we discuss the cilia-dependent roles that Sonic and Indian Hedgehog play in these processes. In addition and most importantly for the field, we discuss the controversial involvement of another major developmental pathway, Wnt signaling, in cilia-dependent organogenesis.
Decapod crustaceans have long served as important models for the study of neuroendocrine signaling. For example, the process of neurosecretion was first formally demonstrated by using a member of this order. In this review, the major decapod neuroendocrine organs are described, as are their phylogenetic conservation and neurochemistry. In addition, recent advances in crustacean neurohormone discovery and tissue mapping are discussed, as are several recent advances in our understanding of hormonal control in this group of animals.
Spatiotemporal and recognition memory are affected by aging in humans and macaque monkeys. To investigate whether these deficits are coupled with atrophy of memory-related brain regions, T(1)-weighted magnetic resonance images were acquired and volumes of the cerebrum, ventricles, prefrontal cortex (PFC), calcarine cortex, hippocampus, and striatum were quantified in young and aged rhesus monkeys. Subjects were tested on a spatiotemporal memory procedure (delayed response [DR]) that requires the integrity of the PFC and a medial temporal lobe-dependent recognition memory task (delayed nonmatching to sample [DNMS]). Region of interest analyses revealed that age inversely correlated with striatal, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC), and anterior cingulate cortex volumes. Hippocampal volume predicted acquisition of the DR task. Striatal volume correlated with DNMS acquisition, whereas total prefrontal gray matter, prefrontal white matter, and dlPFC volumes each predicted DNMS accuracy. A regional covariance analysis revealed that age-related volumetric changes could be captured in a distributed network that was coupled with declining performance across delays on the DNMS task. This volumetric analysis adds to growing evidence that cognitive aging in primates arises from region-specific morphometric alterations distributed across multiple memory-related brain systems, including subdivisions of the PFC.
Met receptor tyrosine kinase signaling regulates the growth and development of axons and may contribute to the wiring of cortical and limbic circuits in the rodent forebrain. Whether the orthologous MET receptor functions similarly in the developing primate forebrain is not known but is of considerable interest considering the association of variant MET alleles with social and communication phenotypes in autism. To begin addressing this question, we compared Met/MET protein expression in the developing mouse and rhesus macaque forebrain. There was a strong temporal conservation of expression during the time of rapid axon development and the onset of robust synapse formation. Expression patterns of Met/MET in limbic-related structures were almost identical between species. In marked contrast, there was highly divergent expression in the neocortex. In mouse, Met was broadly distributed throughout neocortex. In the macaque, robust MET expression was largely restricted to the posterior cingulate, inferior temporal, posterior parietal, and visual cortices, including face processing regions. The pattern is consistent with the importance of vision in the social repertoire of the primate. Collectively, these data suggest a conserved developmental function of the MET receptor in wiring together limbic and neocortical circuits that facilitate species-appropriate responses, including social behavior.
Intermittent theta burst stimulation (iTBS) transiently increases motor cortex excitability in healthy humans by a process thought to involve synaptic long-term potentiation (LTP), and this is enhanced by nicotine. Acquisition of a ballistic motor task is likewise accompanied by increased excitability and presumed intracortical LTP. Here, we test how iTBS and nicotine influences subsequent motor learning. Ten healthy subjects participated in a double-blinded placebo-controlled trial testing the effects of iTBS and nicotine. iTBS alone increased the rate of learning but this increase was blocked by nicotine. We then investigated factors other than synaptic strengthening that may play a role. Behavioral analysis and modeling suggested that iTBS increased performance variability, which correlated with learning outcome. A control experiment confirmed the increase in motor output variability by showing that iTBS increased the dispersion of involuntary transcranial magnetic stimulation-evoked thumb movements. We suggest that in addition to the effect on synaptic plasticity, iTBS may have facilitated performance by increasing motor output variability; nicotine negated this effect on variability perhaps via increasing the signal-to-noise ratio in cerebral cortex.
The emergence of functional neuronal connectivity in the developing cerebral cortex depends on 1) neural progenitor differentiation, which leads to the generation of appropriate number and types of neurons, and 2) neuronal migration, which enables the appropriate positioning of neurons so that the correct patterns of functional synaptic connectivity between neurons can emerge. In this review, we discuss 1) currently available methods to study neural progenitor development and differentiation in the developing cerebral cortex and emerging technologies in this regard, 2) assays to study the migration of descendents of progenitors (i.e., neurons) in vitro and in vivo, and 3) the use of these assays to probe the molecular control of these events in the developing brain and evaluation of gene functions disrupted in human neurodevelopmental disorders.
In most studies, many statistical tests are performed. They can be run to compare the groups at baseline, look at relationships among the various measures, and, for intervention trials, examine more than one end point. As the number of tests increases, so does the probability of finding at least one of them to be statistically significant just by chance (the problem of multiplicity). A number of procedures have been developed to deal with multiplicity, such as the Bonferroni correction, but there is continuing controversy regarding if and when these procedures should be used. In this article, we offer recommendations about when they should and should not be brought into play.


This article reviews the contributions of the Cuban Neuroscience Center to the evolution of the statistical parametric mapping (SPM) of quantitative Multimodal Neuroimages (qMN), from its inception to more recent work. Attention is limited to methods that compare individual qMN to normative databases (n/qMN). This evolution is described in three successive stages: (a) the development of one variant of normative topographical quantitative EEG (n/qEEG-top) which carries out statistical comparison of individual EEG spectral topographies with regard to a normative database--as part of the now popular SPM of brain descriptive parameters; (b) the development of n/qEEG tomography (n/qEEG-TOM), which employs brain electrical tomography (BET) to calculate voxelwise SPM maps of source spectral features with respect to a norm; (c) the development of a more general n/qMN by substituting EEG parameters with other neuroimaging descriptive parameters to obtain SPM maps. The study also describes the creation of Cuban normative databases, starting with the Cuban EEG database obtained in the early 90s, and more recently, the Cuban Human Brain Mapping Project (CHBMP). This project has created a 240 subject database of the normal Cuban population, obtained from a population-based random sample, comprising clinical, neuropsychological, EEG, MRI and SPECT data for the same subjects. Examples of clinical studies using qMN are given and, more importantly, receiver operator characteristics (ROC) analyses of the different developments document a sustained effort to assess the clinical usefulness of the techniques.
1. Cardiac natriuretic peptides act on cardiopulmonary chemoreceptor afferents to enhance the von Bezold-Jarisch reflex (BJR). Activity of the natriuretic peptide particulate guanylyl cyclase receptor is essential for full expression of the BJR. Whether natriuretic peptides act directly on cardiac afferents or they require another intermediate factor(s) for their effects on the BJR is unknown. Endogenous candidates tested as possible intermediates in the present study were prostanoids and nitric oxide (NO), plausible endogenous chemical mediators of cardiac chemoreflex activity. 2. Dose-dependent BJR bradycardia was evoked by the 5-HT(3) receptor agonist, phenylbiguanide (range 5-89 g/kg), in conscious instrumented adult sheep (n = 6). The influence of B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP; the most potent of the natriuretic peptides) on the BJR was assessed before and after blockade of prostanoids (using indomethacin, 1 mg/kg per h i.v.) or nitric oxide (using N-nitro-l-arginine (NOLA), 3 mg/kg bolus, then 3 mg/kg per h infusion i.v.). 3. On their own, indomethacin and NOLA did not significantly alter the BJR, showing that prostanoids and NO are not essential endogenous mediators of the BJR. As shown in previous studies, BNP (10 pmol/kg per min i.v.) infusion enhanced the BJR by 85  36%, P &lt; 0.05. When the production of either prostanoids or nitric oxide was inhibited, BNP still enhanced the BJR. 4. The present study provides evidence that BNP does not require the activity or influence of prostaglandins or NO for its sensitising effects on the BJR. We propose that natriuretic peptides act directly on cardiac afferents, in synergy with 5-HT(3) agonists, to facilitate the BJR.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a major public health problem resulting in death and disabilities of young and productive people. Though the mortality of TBI has decreased substantially in recent years the disability due to TBI has not appreciably reduced. Various outcome scales have been proposed and used to assess disability after TBI. A few, commonly used are Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS) with or without extended scores, Disability Rating Scale (DRS), Functional Independence Measure (FIM), Community Integration Questionnaire (CIQ), and the Functional Status Examination (FSE). These scales assess disability resulting from physical and cognitive impairments. For patients with good physical recovery a cognitive and neuropsychological outcome measure is required. Such measures include Neurobehavioural Function Inventory and specific neuropsychological tests like Rey Complex Figure for visuoconstruction and memory, Controlled Oral Word Association for verbal fluency, Symbol Digit Modalities (verbal) for sustained attention and Grooved Pegboard for fine motor dexterity. A more holistic and complete outcome measure is Quality of Life (QOL). Disease specific QOL measure for TBI, Quality of Life after Brain Injury (QOLIBRI) has also been recently proposed. The problems with outcome measures include poor operational definitions, lack of sensitivity or low ceiling effects, inability to evaluate patients who cannot report, lack of integration of morbidity and mortality categories, and limited domains of functioning assessed. GOSE-E satisfies most of the criteria of good outcome scale and in combination with neuropsychological tests is a near complete instrument for assessment of outcome after TBI.





The current study examined the prevalence of cognitive underperformance and symptom over-reporting in a mixed sample of psychiatric patients (N=183). We employed the Amsterdam Short-Term Memory Test (ASTM) to measure cognitive underperformance and the Structured Inventory of Malingered Symptomatology (SIMS) to measure the tendency to over-report symptoms. We also administered neuropsychological tests (e.g., Concept Shifting Task; Rey's Verbal Learning Test) and the Symptom Checklist-90 (SCL-90) to the patients. A total of 34% of them failed the ASTM, the SIMS or both tests. ASTM and SIMS scores were significantly, albeit modestly, correlated with each other (r=-.22). As to the links between underperformance, over-reporting, neuropsychological tasks, and the SCL-90, the association between over-reporting on the SIMS and SCL-90 scores was the most robust one. The subsample that only failed on the ASTM performed significantly worse on a compound index of memory performance. Our findings indicate that underperformance and over-reporting are loosely coupled dimensions and that particularly over-reporting is intimately linked to heightened SCL-90 scores.
Cytochrome P4501A2 (CYP1A2) is involved in the metabolism of several drugs and is induced by smoking. We aimed to determine the interindividual change in CYP1A2 activity after smoking cessation and to relate it to CYP1A2 genetic polymorphisms. CYP1A2 activity was determined from the paraxanthine:caffeine ratio in 194 smokers and in 118 of them who had abstained from smoking during a 4-week period. The participants were genotyped for CYP1A2*1F, *1D, and *1C polymorphisms. Smokers had 1.55-fold higher CYP1A2 activity than nonsmokers (P &lt; 0.0001). The individual change in CYP1A2 activity after smoking cessation ranged from 1.0-fold (no change) to a 7.3-fold decrease in activity. In five participants with low initial CYP1A2 activity, an increase was observed after smoking cessation. Before smoking cessation, the following factors were found to influence CYP1A2 activity: CYP1A2*1F (P = 0.005), CYP1A2*1D (P = 0.014), the number of cigarettes/day (P = 0.012), the use of contraceptives (P &lt; 0.001), and -163A/-2467T/-3860G haplotype (P = 0.002). After quitting smoking, only CYP1A2*1F (P = 0.017) and the use of contraceptives (P = 0.05) had an influence. No influence of CYP1A2 polymorphisms on the inducibility of CYP1A2 was observed.
Advances in neuroscience have added to the understanding of social functioning which has become an increasing area of focus in the psychology and neuropsychology literature. Given importance of appropriate social functioning to everyday interactions, as well as psychological well-being, accurately identifying and documenting such functions constitute a critical undertaking for both researchers and clinicians in psychology and related health professions. This review aimed to identify available social function assessment tools for children and adolescents using a comprehensive search method. Eighty-six measures were identified. Information on the assessment tools including the theoretical model they are based on, age range, sample used in development, and psychometric information are described. Results will aid researchers, psychologists and other health professionals in the selection of an appropriate tool to assess social function.

Ischaemic stroke is associated with an excessive release of glutamate in brain. GOT (glutamate-oxaloacetate transaminase) and GPT (glutamate-pyruvate transaminase) are two enzymes that are able to metabolize blood glutamate facilitating the lowering of extracellular levels of brain glutamate. Our aim was to study the association between blood levels of both enzymes and stroke outcome in patients with acute ischaemic stroke. We prospectively studied 365 patients with first ischaemic stroke&lt;12 h. Glutamate, GOT and GPT levels were determined in blood samples obtained at admission. We considered functional outcome at 3 months [good outcome: mRS (modified Rankin Scale)2; poor outcome mRS &gt;2], END (early neurological deterioration) in the first 72 h [increment 4 points in NIHSS (National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale)] and infarct volume [CT (computed tomography) at 36-72 h] as end points. We have found an inverse correlation between GOT and GPT levels and blood glutamate levels. Patients with poor outcome showed lower levels of GOT (11.98.2 compared with 22.710.2 m-units/ml, P&lt;0.0001) and GPT (19.514.3 compared with 24.720.3 m-units/ml; P=0.004). A negative correlation has been found between GOT (Pearson coefficient=-0.477, P&lt;0.0001) and GPT (Pearson coefficient=-0.116; P=0.027) levels and infarct volume. Patients with END showed higher levels of blood glutamate (381.797.9 compared with 237.6114.0 mol/l, P&lt;0.0001) and lower levels of GOT (10.86.7 compared with 18.110.8 m-units/ml; P&lt;0.0001). This clinical study shows an association between high blood GOT and GPT levels and good outcome in ischaemic stroke patients, this association being stronger for GOT than GPT levels.
Despite a long history of anatomical mapping of neuronal networks, we are only beginning to understand the detailed three-dimensional (3D) organization of the cortical micro-circuitry. This is in part due to the lack of complete reconstructions of individual cortical neurons. Morphological studies are either performed on incomplete cells in vitro, or when performed in vivo, lack the necessary cellular resolution. We recently reconstructed the in vivo axonal and dendritic morphology of two types of L(ayer) 5 neurons from vibrissal cortex. The 3D profiles of short-range as well as longrange projections indicate that L5 slender-tufted and L5 thick-tufted neurons represent very different building blocks of the cortical circuitry. In this addendum to Oberlaender et al. (PNAS 2011), we motivate our technical approach and the advancements this may give in reconstructing the cortical micro-circuitry.

Our visual world is hierarchically organized. Hierarchical processing is frequently investigated using Navon figures (large letters made up of smaller ones). In young adults, many studies reported faster reaction times (RT) to target letters presented at the global level [i.e., global precedence (GP)]. Furthermore, an age-related decline of this GP has been reported. We tested whether deficits in perceptual grouping via Gestalt laws (Gestalt principles of Proximity and Continuity) might contribute to this decline. In a directed attention task with valid and invalid cues, 20 young (mean age 22) and 20 older (mean age 57) male subjects had to indicate whether a target letter appeared at the global or local level of a Navon figure. The number of local letters forming the global figure was modulated in 5 steps. As expected, during valid trials, young adults showed a GP that linearly increased with increasing numbers of local letters (i.e., GP enhancement). This suggests that GP is related to perceptual grouping via Gestalt laws. By contrast, the group of older subjects demonstrated no precedence effect in RT and a non-significant trend toward GP in error rates (ER). No GP enhancement with an increasing number of local elements was observed. Exploratory analysis revealed that individual insensitivity to the modulation of matrix density, as revealed by a lack of global RT acceleration, was restricted to subjects that showed an overall local precedence (LP). Because older subjects tended to more frequently display an insensitivity to matrix modulation and an LP, we conclude that deficient Gestalt detection as indicated by non-enhanced global RT might contribute to the RT-related decline of GP with age.



The use of BAC/P1 as a vector for the generation of a transgene has gained popularity after the genomic annotation of many organisms was completed (often based on the respective BAC library). Large-scale generation of BAC transgenic mice has proven that BAC transgene approaches have less integration position effects and dosage artifacts when compared with traditional transgenic approaches. Also, a BAC can achieve the same tissue-specific expression as a knock-in of the same gene with less effort and shorter time of establishment. The -RED recombinogenic system has been used to manipulate DNA constructs with site-directed mutagenesis, truncation, and tagging with an epitope tag or as a fusion protein by homologous recombination, as well as used here to modify many BACs with various transgenes. The recombineering plasmid, pKD46, is used to fabricate BAC transgenic constructs that can be used in generating transgenic organisms as well as used in mammalian cell culture.
Autism is diagnosed by three major symptom categories: unusual reciprocal social interactions, impaired communication, and repetitive behaviors with restricted interests. Direct social approach in mice has strong face validity to simple social approach behaviors in humans, which are frequently impaired in autism. This unit presents a basic protocol for a standardized, high-throughput social approach test for assaying mouse sociability. Our automated three-chambered social approach task quantifies direct social approach behaviors when a subject mouse is presented with the choice of spending time with either a novel mouse or a novel object. Sociability is defined as the subject mouse spending more time in the chamber containing the novel target mouse than in the chamber containing the inanimate novel object. The Basic Protocol describes procedures for testing one subject at a time in a single apparatus. A Support Protocol addresses data collection.

Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)- is a pro-inflammatory cytokine associated with psoriasis pathogenesis. Anti-TNF- therapies are effective in psoriasis. A significant weight gain has been reported in patients treated with anti-TNF- agents. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the body composition changes in psoriatic patients receiving anti-TNF- therapies according with disease phenotype. Forty patients affected with psoriasis were followed up for 24 weeks and divided into two groups: psoriasis vulgaris (PsO) and psoriatic arthritis (PsA). Anthropometric, blood biochemical, body composition parameters, resting metabolic rate, and disease activity indexes were measured at baseline and at week 24. After 24 weeks of anti-TNF- administration, the disease activity indexes and concentration of inflammatory markers were significantly decreased. Seventy-five percent of PsO and 60% of PsA patients had an increase in body weight. Weight changes correlated with fat mass gain in the PsO group, and with fat and lean mass gain in the PsA group. In the present study, we demonstrated that a blockage of TNF- bioactivity is related with fat and lean mass gain in both PsO and PsA subjects. The anti-TNF- therapies could play a key role in the cross talk between adipose tissue and skeletal muscle, mediated by the reduction of TNF- and interleukin-6 production.
This opinion paper suggests that developmental neuroimaging studies investigating emerging cortical networks for specific cognitive functions can contribute substantially to our understanding of mature brain organisation. Based on a review of the literature on the neural correlates of face processing abilities, this paper shows how developmental neuroimaging can help resolve outstanding issues, such as whether specific brain regions actually start out by responding to specific stimulus classes, and how this response changes with development. It has been suggested for example, that improving specialisation in a particular brain regions may be the result of increasing connectivity with other network regions supporting the same cognitive function. Developmental neuroimaging studies are particularly well suited to disentangle the interplay between changes at different network levels, such as improving behavioural proficiencies and functional and structural brain development, as well as overall network configuration changes. However, much of the future progress will depend on whether developmental changes are assessed by combining multiple network observations. This paper makes specific suggestions as to how such a multifaceted approach may look like by exploring the suitability of different theoretical frameworks, such as the neural re-use theory or the neuroconstructivist approach for providing guiding principles for future research.
BOLD fMRI (blood oxygenation level dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging) is increasingly used to detect developmental changes of human brain function that are hypothesized to underlie the maturation of cognitive processes. BOLD signals depend on neuronal activity increasing cerebral blood flow, and are reduced by neural oxygen consumption. Thus, developmental changes of BOLD signals may not reflect altered information processing if there are concomitant changes in neurovascular coupling (the mechanism by which neuronal activity increases blood flow) or neural energy use (and hence oxygen consumption). We review how BOLD signals are generated, and explain the signalling pathways which convert neuronal activity into increased blood flow. We then summarize in broad terms the developmental changes that the brain's neural circuitry undergoes during growth from childhood through adolescence to adulthood, and present the changes in neurovascular coupling mechanisms and energy use which occur over the same period. This information provides a framework for assessing whether the BOLD changes observed during human development reflect altered cognitive processing or changes in neurovascular coupling and energy use.
Have you ever shouted your child's name from the kitchen while they were watching television in the living room to no avail, so you shout their name again, only louder? Yet, still no response. The current study provides evidence that young children process loudness changes differently than pitch changes when they are engaged in another task such as watching a video. Intensity level changes were physiologically detected only when they were behaviorally relevant, but frequency level changes were physiologically detected without task relevance in younger children. This suggests that changes in pitch rather than changes in volume may be more effective in evoking a response when sounds are unexpected. Further, even though behavioral ability may appear to be similar in younger and older children, attention-based physiologic responses differ from automatic physiologic processes in children. Results indicate that 1) the automatic auditory processes leading to more efficient higher-level skills continue to become refined through childhood; and 2) there are different time courses for the maturation of physiological processes encoding the distinct acoustic attributes of sound pitch and sound intensity. The relevance of these findings to sound perception in real-world environments is discussed.
Over the last several years a number of studies in both humans and animals have suggested that the orbitofrontal and ventrolateral prefrontal cortices play an important role in generating flexible behavior. We suggest that input from these brain regions contribute to three functions involved in generating flexible behavior within social contexts: valuation, inhibition, and rule use. Recent studies have also demonstrated that the prefrontal cortex undergoes a prolonged course of maturation that extends well after puberty. Here, we review evidence that the prolonged development of these prefrontal regions parallels a slowly emerging ability for flexible social behavior. We also speculate on the possibility that sensitive periods for organizing social behavior may be embedded within this developmental time-fame. Finally, we discuss the role of prefrontal cortex in adolescent mood and anxiety disorders, particularly as orbitofrontal and ventrolateral prefrontal cortices are engaged in a social context.
Despite significant social difficulties, children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) are vulnerable to the effects of social exclusion. We recorded EEG while children with ASD and typical peers played a computerized game involving peer rejection. Children with ASD reported ostracism-related distress comparable to typically developing children. Event-related potentials (ERPs) indicated a distinct pattern of temporal processing of rejection events in children with ASD. While typically developing children showed enhanced response to rejection at a late slow wave indexing emotional arousal and regulation, those with autism showed attenuation at an early component, suggesting reduced engagement of attentional resources in the aversive social context. Results emphasize the importance of studying the time course of social information processing in ASD; they suggest distinct mechanisms subserving similar overt behavior and yield insights relevant to development and implementation of targeted treatment approaches and objective measures of response to treatment.
To understand the developmental mechanism that determines limb size and the consequent limb-to-trunk proportions in the tetrapod body, we investigated the role of the paraxial mesoderm in the specification of the limb and flank fields in the chick embryo. We found that the paraxial mesoderm subjacent to the limb field can affect the size of the limb bud along the anterior-posterior and proximal-distal axes. We also found that the paraxial mesoderm subjacent to the flank plays roles in suppressing the emergence and growth of the limb bud and in promoting flank-specific apoptosis in the lateral plate mesoderm. Our results suggest that signals from the paraxial mesoderm specify the limb and flank fields in the competent lateral plate mesoderm.
Axon guidance is influenced by the presence of heparan sulfate (HS) proteoglycans (HSPGs) on the surface of axons and growth cones (Hu, [2001]: Nat Neurosci 4:695-701; Irie et al. [2002]: Development 129:61-70; Inatani et al. [2003]: Science 302:1044-1046; Johnson et al. [2004]: Curr Biol 14:499-504; Steigemann et al. [2004]: Curr Biol 14:225-230). Multiple HSPGs, including Syndecans, Glypicans and Perlecans, carry the same carbohydrate polymer backbones, raising the question of how these molecules display functional specificity during nervous system development. Here we use the Drosophila central nervous system (CNS) as a model to compare the impact of eliminating Syndecan (Sdc) and/or the Glypican Dally-like (Dlp). We show that Dlp and Sdc share a role in promoting accurate patterns of axon fasciculation in the lateral longitudinal neuropil; however, unlike mutations in sdc, which disrupt the ability of the secreted repellent Slit to prevent inappropriate passage of axons across the midline, mutations in dlp show neither midline defects nor genetic interactions with Slit and its Roundabout (Robo) receptors at the midline. Dlp mutants do show genetic interactions with Slit and Robo in lateral fascicle formation. In addition, simultaneous loss of Dlp and Sdc demonstrates an important role for Dlp in midline repulsion, reminiscent of the functional overlap between Robo receptors. A comparison of HSPG distribution reveals a pattern that leaves midline proximal axons with relatively little Dlp. Finally, the loss of Dlp alters Slit distribution distal but not proximal to the midline, suggesting that distinct yet overlapping pattern of HSPG expression provides a spatial system that regulates axon guidance decisions.
Behavioral experience has long been known to influence functional outcome after brain injury, but only recently has its pervasive role in the reorganization of the adult brain after damage become appreciated. We briefly review findings from animal models on the role of experience in shaping neuronal events after stroke-like injury. Experience-dependent neural plasticity can be enhanced or impaired by brain damage, depending upon injury parameters and timing. The neuronal growth response to some experiences is heightened due to interactions with denervation-induced plasticity. This includes compensatory behavioral strategies developed in response to functional impairments. Early behavioral experiences can constrain later experience-dependent plasticity, leading to suboptimal functional outcome. Time dependencies and facets of neural growth patterns are reminiscent of experience-expectant processes that shape brain development. As with sensitive periods in brain development, this process may establish behavioral patterns early after brain injury which are relatively resistant to later change.
Autism is an early onset neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by disruption of early social interaction. Although the social disability of autism remains the central defining feature of the condition, mechanisms that might account for this disability remain poorly understood. This paper briefly reviews some aspects of the social deficit in autism focusing on new approaches to characterizing social information processing problems, potential brain mechanisms, and theoretical models of the disorder. It will touch on aspects of specific social processes that appear to develop in unusual ways in autism including facial perception, joint attention, and social information processing. The importance of adopting more ecologically valid methods and for integrating the various approaches in deriving new models for social deficits in autism will be highlighted. Future research should build on the emerging synergy of different aspects of social neuroscience.

The relationship between consistency of hand preference, left hemispheric specialization, and cognitive functioning was examined in an ongoing longitudinal investigation. Children were classified as consistent or inconsistent in their hand preference across 5 assessments from ages 18 to 42 months. Findings demonstrated that (a) this early classification continued to reveal differences in cognitive functioning from 10 to 17 years but only for girls, (b) consistent girls' performances were continually higher relative to the inconsistent girls on measures of verbal intelligence and reading achievement, (c) differences between the female groups were specifically related to left-hemispheric language specialization, and (d) one factor influencing the consistent girls' development may be the amount of reading exposure received during infancy.
An intriguing error has been observed in toddlers presented with a 3-location search task involving invisible displacements of an object, namely, the C-not-B task. In 3 experiments, the authors investigated the dynamics of the attentional focus process that is suspected to be involved in this task. In Experiment 1, 2.5-year-old children were tested on a new adaptation of the C-not-B task in which the opening of the experimenter's hand between cloths provided visual information about the correct localization of the toy. Children still emitted a strong response bias toward the last hiding place. In Experiment 2, 2.5-year-old children were tested on a new version of the task that was designed to investigate the role of the central location in the task. This 2nd experiment demonstrated that changing the hand's movement from A to C to B did not enable children to succeed in the task. In Experiment 3, 2.5-year-old children were tested in a situation that is analogous to the C-not-B with open hands task except for the fact that the experimenter dropped the toy under the 1st cloth in the path. Toddlers succeeded when the toy was hidden at Location A but not when it was hidden at Location B. Data indicate that attentional focus on the experimenter's hand motion is contingent on whether that stimulus is critical to performing the task. We argue that these findings provide a potential mechanism through which motor routines can be regulated in accordance with strategic intentions.
Our objectives were to document and examine socioeconomic gradients across a comprehensive set of child development measures in a population living in extreme poverty, and to interpret these gradients in light of findings from the neuroscience literature. We assessed a nationally representative sample of 3-6-year-old children (n = 1332) from 150 communities of Madagascar using standard tests of development. We found that children whose families were in the top wealth quintile or whose mothers had secondary education performed significantly better across almost all measures of cognitive and language development and had better linear growth compared with children of women in the lowest wealth quintile or women with no education. These differences between children of low and high socioeconomic position were greatest for receptive language, working memory, and memory of phrases. The mean difference in the scores between children in the highest and lowest socioeconomic status categories doubled between age 3 and age 6, and the biggest gaps across socioeconomic position by age 6 were in receptive language and sustained attention. Our results suggest that even within the context of extreme poverty, there are strong associations between family socioeconomic status and child development outcomes among preschool children, and that the language and executive function domains exhibit the largest gradients.
A default mode network of brain regions is known to demonstrate coordinated activity during the resting state. While the default mode network is well characterized in adults, few investigations have focused upon its development. We scanned 9-13-year-old children with diffusion tensor imaging and resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging. We identified resting-state networks using Independent Component Analysis and tested whether the functional connectivity between the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) depends upon the maturation of the underlying cingulum white matter tract. To determine the generalizability of this relationship, we also tested whether functional connectivity depends on white matter maturity between bilateral lateral prefrontal cortex (lateral PFC) within the executive control network. We found a positive relationship between mPFC-PCC connectivity and fractional anisotropy of the cingulum bundle; this positive relationship was moderated by the age of the subjects such that it was stronger in older children. By contrast, no such structure-function relationship emerged between right and left lateral PFC. However, functional and structural connectivity of this tract related positively with cognitive speed, fluency, and set-switching neuropsychological measures.
The phonological deficit theory of dyslexia assumes that degraded speech sound representations might hamper the acquisition of stable letter-speech sound associations necessary for learning to read. However, there is only scarce and mainly indirect evidence for this assumed letter-speech sound association problem. The present study aimed at clarifying the nature and the role of letter-speech sound association problems in dyslexia by analysing event-related potentials (ERP) of 11-year-old dyslexic children to speech sounds in isolation or combined with letters, which were presented either simultaneously with or 200 ms before the speech sounds. Recent studies with normal readers revealed that letters systematically modulated speech sound processing in an early (mismatch negativity or MMN) and late (Late Discriminatory Negativity or LDN) time-window. The amplitude of the MMN and LDN to speech sounds was enhanced when speech sounds were presented with letters. The dyslexic readers in the present study, however, did not exhibit any early influences of letters on speech sounds even after 4 years of reading instruction, indicating no automatic integration of letters and speech sounds. Interestingly, they revealed a systematic late effect of letters on speech sound processing, probably reflecting the mere association of letters and speech sounds. This pattern is strongly divergent from that observed in age-matched normal readers, who showed both early and late effects, but reminiscent of that observed in beginner normal readers in a previous study (Froyen, Bonte, van Atteveldt &amp; Blomert, 2009). The finding that the quality of letter-speech sound processing is directly related to reading fluency urges further research into the role of audiovisual integration in the development of reading failure in dyslexia.
The RNA-binding protein, hnRNP K, is essential for axonogenesis. Suppressing its expression in Xenopus embryos yields terminally specified neurons with severely disorganized microtubules, microfilaments and neurofilaments, raising the hypothesis that hnRNP K post-transcriptionally regulates multiple transcripts of proteins that organize the axonal cytoskeleton. To identify downstream candidates for this regulation, RNAs that co-immunoprecipitated from juvenile brain with hnRNP K were identified on microarrays. A substantial number of these transcripts were linked to the cytoskeleton and to intracellular localization, trafficking and transport. Injection into embryos of a non-coding RNA bearing multiple copies of an hnRNP K RNA-binding consensus sequence found within these transcripts largely phenocopied hnRNP K knockdown, further supporting the idea that it regulates axonogenesis through its binding to downstream target RNAs. For further study of regulation by hnRNP K of the cytoskeleton during axon outgrowth, we focused on three validated RNAs representing elements associated with all three polymers - Arp2, tau and an -internexin-like neurofilament. All three were co-regulated post-transcriptionally by hnRNP K, as hnRNP K knockdown yielded comparable defects in their nuclear export and translation but not transcription. Directly knocking down expression of all three together, but not each one individually, substantially reproduced the axonless phenotype, providing further evidence that regulation of axonogenesis by hnRNP K occurs largely through pleiotropic effects on cytoskeletal-associated targets. These experiments provide evidence that hnRNP K is the nexus of a novel post-transcriptional regulatory module controlling the synthesis of proteins that integrate all three cytoskeletal polymers to form the axon.


Morphine, heroin and other commonly abused opioids induce little mu opioid receptor (MOR) trafficking compared to endogenous opioids. We utilized knock-in mice expressing a mutant recycling MOR (RMOR) that desensitizes and is internalized in response to morphine to show that facilitating MOR trafficking not only enhances morphine reward but, despite this, reduces the development of addiction-like behaviours. To demonstrate this, we developed a novel model of the transition from controlled to compulsive drug use that recapitulates many features of human addiction, including persistent drug seeking despite adverse consequences and a decreased preference for alternative rewards. These behaviours emerged spontaneously in wild-type but not RMOR mice, and their intensity predicted the reinstatement of morphine seeking after extended abstinence, while prior morphine intake did not. These results confirm previous findings in the rat that addiction can be dissociated from both reward and consumption. Most importantly, these results demonstrate that one can simultaneously reduce the 'addictiveness' of morphine and enhance its desirable effects by promoting agonist-induced MOR trafficking.


Estrogens have been shown to have protective effects on a wide range of cell types and animal models for many neurodegenerative diseases. The present study demonstrates the cytoprotective effects of 17-estradiol (E2) and estrogen-like compounds in an in vitro model of Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA) using human donor FRDA skin fibroblasts. FRDA fibroblasts are extremely sensitive to free radical damage and oxidative stress, produced here using l-buthionine (S,R)-sulfoximine to inhibit de novo glutathione synthesis. We have shown that the protective effect of E2 in the face of l-buthionine (S,R)-sulfoximine -induced oxidative stress is independent of estrogen receptor-, estrogen receptor- or G protein-coupled receptor 30 as shown by the inability of either ICI 182,780 or G15 to inhibit the E2-mediated protection. These cytoprotective effects appear to be dependent on antioxidant properties and the phenolic structure of estradiol as demonstrated by the observation that all phenolic compounds tested were protective, whereas all nonphenolic compounds were inactive, and the observation that the phenolic compounds reduced the levels of reactive oxygen species, whereas the nonphenolic compounds did not. These data show for the first time that phenolic E2-like compounds are potent protectors against oxidative stress-induced cell death in FRDA fibroblasts and are possible candidate drugs for the treatment and prevention of FRDA symptoms.
Behavioral and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have consistently shown abnormalities of language function or cortical organization in patients with well-established temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). However, whether these changes are present in new-onset TLE has not been studied to date. Studying such changes in new-onset TLE would provide valuable insight into the timing and factors that affect language deficits in TLE and may unmask fundamental differences in brain organization in persons who have TLE and those who do not.




Autism is a pervasive developmental disorder that frequently co-occurs with epilepsy. Dravet syndrome is a severe epileptic encephalopathy associated with psychomotor developmental delay. Autism in Dravet syndrome, however, has rarely been studied. In this study, the prevalence and features of autism in patients with Dravet syndrome, their potential association with mental retardation, and the clinical characteristics of epilepsy were investigated. Clinical data of 37 patients with Dravet syndrome were collected, and evaluations of autism and mental retardation were performed. Nine patients (24.3%) met the criteria for autism. All patients with autism showed speech delay, no emotional reciprocity, and narrow interests, whereas 89.3, 46.4, and 39.9% of patients without autism had speech delay, short temper, and narrow interests, respectively. Mental retardation was observed in 94.6% of patients with Dravet syndrome, with more frequent severe or profound mental retardation in those with autism. The clinical features of epilepsy did not statistically differ between the patients with autism and the patients without autism.
With the burgeoning array of molecular tests available in the epilepsies, the clinician needs to know which tests to order for each patient. Epileptic encephalopathies are the most important clinical group for genetic testing with an increasing number of distinctive epilepsy syndromes being recognized. Identification of the causative mutation affects treatment as well as prognostic and genetic counseling.
Evidence-based programs have been shown to improve functioning and mental health outcomes, especially for vulnerable populations. However, these populations face numerous barriers to accessing care including lack of resources and stigma surrounding mental health issues. In order to improve mental health outcomes and reduce health disparities, it is essential to identify methods for reaching such populations with unmet need. A promising strategy for reducing barriers and improving access to care is Community Partnered Participatory Research (CPPR). Given the power of this methodology to transform the impact of research in resource-poor communities, we developed an NIMH-funded Center, the Partnered Research Center for Quality Care, to support partnerships in developing, implementing, and evaluating mental health services research and programs. Guided by a CPPR framework, center investigators, both community and academic, collaborate in all phases of research with the goal of establishing trust, building capacity, increasing buy-in, and improving the sustainability of interventions and programs. We engage in two-way capacity-building, which affords the opportunity for practical problems to be raised and innovative solutions to be developed. This article discusses the development and design of the Partnered Research Center for Quality Care and provides examples of partnerships that have been formed and the work that has been conducted as a result.
Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress in pancreas, liver, and adipose tissue is a key event in the pathogenesis of obesity-related metabolic disease. Lipid-induced ER stress in liver and adipose tissue leads to inhibition of insulin signaling. Whether this mechanism exists in skeletal muscle is currently unknown. The present study aimed at assessing the ER stress response in skeletal muscle of subjects receiving a hyper-caloric fat-rich diet (HFD). Seven healthy males (20.6  0.5 years; 70.9  3.4 kg) volunteered to participate in the study. They received a hyper-caloric (+30% kcal) fat-rich (50% kcal) diet for 6 weeks. An oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) was performed, and muscle biopsies were taken before and after HFD. HFD increased body mass by ~3 kg (P = 0.007) and the sum of skinfolds by 15% (P = 0.003). After HFD, blood glucose concentrations were higher during OGTT (two-way ANOVA, P = 0.023; +45% at 20 min, P = 0.002), and fasting plasma insulin level tended to be higher (+20%). HFD increased intramyocellular lipids content by ~50 and 75% in type I (P = 0.0009) and IIa fibers (P = 0.002), respectively. The protein expression of inositol-requiring enzyme 1, protein kinase R-like ER protein kinase, BiP and calnexin and the mRNA level of spliced X box binding protein-1, CCAAT/enhancer binding protein homologous protein and activating transcription factor 4 were not changed after HFD. Despite the increase in body mass, subcutaneous fat deposits, and intramyocellular lipids content, ER stress markers were unchanged in skeletal muscle of subjects receiving a HFD for 6 weeks. This suggests that the onset of glucose intolerance is not related to ER stress in skeletal muscle.
In oncology clinics, there is an increasing need for fast and accurate screening scales and procedures in order to evaluate cancer patients for depression. The present study investigated the comparative effectiveness in recognising depressed patients of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), a self-report screening scale, and the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), a semi-structured clinician-rated scale, in 151 patients affected by mixed cancer pathologies. With the MADRS, 73.5% of the patients were identified as depressed, whereas the HADS identified 36.4% and 58.3% as depressed, using the cut-offs of 11 and 8 respectively. The results suggest moderate agreement between the MADRS and the HADS when a cut-off of 8 is used (K-test: 0.44), while using a HADS cut-off of 11 gave a significantly higher underestimation of depressed patients (K-test: 0.29). In conclusion, the results suggest that the HADS can be useful as a sufficiently accurate first-step screening tool for depression in mixed oncology settings.

Sparse scalp hair, a peculiar shape of the nose, and cone-shaped epiphyses of the phalanges are the hallmarks of the tricho-rhino-phalangeal syndromes (TRPS). Short stature, hip dysplasia, and malformations of inner organs including mitral valve prolpase have also often been described for these conditions. Here, we described a 64-year-old woman with molecularly proved TRPS I and several atypical late-onset rheumatologic and neurological symptoms.

The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) exhibits strong voltage-dependent block by extracellular Mg(2+) , which is relieved by sustained depolarization and glutamate binding, and which is central to the function of the NMDAR in synaptic plasticity. Rapid membrane depolarization during agonist application reveals a slow unblock of NMDARs, which has important functional implications, for example in the generation of NMDAR spikes, and in determining the narrow time window for spike-timing-dependent plasticity. However, its mechanism is still unclear. Here, we study unblock of divalent cations in native NMDARs in nucleated patches isolated from mouse cortical layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons. Comparing unblock kinetics of NMDARs in the presence of extracellular Mg(2+) or in nominally zero Mg(2+) , and with Mn(2+) or Co(2+) substituting for Mg(2+) , we found that the properties of slow unblock were determined by the identity of the blocking metal ion at the binding site, presumably by affecting the operation of a structural link to channel gating. The time course of slow unblock was not affected by zinc, or the zinc chelator TPEN [N,N,N',N'-tetrakis-(2-pyridylmethyl)-ethylenediamine], while the slower fraction of unblock was reduced by ifenprodil, an NR2B-selective antagonist. Slow unblock was only weakly temperature dependent, speeding up with rise in temperature with a Q(10) of 1.5. Finally, using action potential waveform voltage-clamp, we show that this slow relief from divalent cation block is a prominent feature in physiologically realistic patterns of changing membrane potential.


In the rodent nucleus accumbens (NAc), cocaine elevates levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Conversely, BDNF can augment cocaine-related behavioral responses. The latter could reflect enhancement of -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (AMPAR) transmission, because AMPARs in the NAc mediate some cocaine-induced behaviors. Furthermore, in vitro studies in other cell types show that BDNF can promote AMPAR synaptic delivery. In this study, we investigated whether BDNF similarly promotes AMPAR trafficking in the adult rat NAc. After unilateral intracranial injection of BDNF into NAc core or shell, rats were killed at post-injection times ranging from 30 min to 3 days. NAc core or shell tissue from both injected and non-injected hemispheres was analysed by Western blotting. A protein cross-linking assay was used to measure AMPAR surface expression. Assessment of tropomyosin receptor kinase B signaling demonstrated that injected BDNF was biologically active. BDNF injection into NAc core, but not NAc shell, led to a protein synthesis- and extracellular signal-regulated kinase-dependent increase in cell surface GluA1 and a trend towards increased total GluA1. This was detected 30 min post-injection but not at longer time-points. GluA2 and GluA3 were unaffected, suggesting an effect of BDNF on homomeric GluA1 Ca(2+) -permeable AMPARs. These results demonstrate that exogenous BDNF rapidly increases AMPAR surface expression in the rat NAc core, raising the possibility of a relationship between increases in endogenous BDNF levels and alterations in AMPAR transmission observed in the NAc of cocaine-experienced rats.
Attention increases our ability to detect behaviorally relevant stimuli. At the neuronal level this is supported by increased firing rates of neurons representing the attended object. In primary visual cortex an attention-mediated activity increase depends on the presence of the neuromodulator acetylcholine. Using a spiking network model of visual cortex we have investigated how acetylcholine interacts with biased feedback to enable attentional processing. Although acetylcholine affects cortical processing in a multitude of manners, we restricted our analysis to four of its main established actions. These were (i) a reduction in firing rate adaptation by reduction in M-currents (muscarinic), (ii) an increase in thalamocortical synaptic efficacy by nicotinic presynaptic receptors, (iii) a reduction in lateral interactions by muscarinic presynaptic receptors, and (iv) an increase in inhibitory drive by muscarinic receptors located on inhibitory interneurons. We found that acetylcholine contributes to feedback-mediated attentional modulation, mostly by reducing intracortical interactions and also to some extent by increasing the inhibitory drive. These findings help explain why acetylcholine is necessary for top-down-driven attentional modulation, and suggest a close interdependence of cholinergic and feedback drive in mediating cognitive function.
Visual cortical areas are activated by auditory stimuli in blind mice. Direct heteromodal cortical connections have been shown between the primary auditory cortex (A1) and primary visual cortex (V1), and between A1 and secondary visual cortex (V2). Auditory afferents to V2 terminate in close proximity to neurons that project to V1, and potentially constitute an effective indirect pathway between A1 and V1. In this study, we injected a retrograde adenoviral vector that expresses enhanced green fluorescent protein under a synapsin promotor in V1 and biotinylated dextran amine as an anterograde tracer in A1 to determine: (i) whether A1 axon terminals establish synaptic contacts onto the lateral part of V2 (V2L) neurons that project to V1; and (ii) if this indirect cortical pathway is altered by a neonatal enucleation in mice. Complete dendritic arbors of layer V pyramidal neurons were reconstructed in 3D, and putative contacts between pre-synaptic auditory inputs and postsynaptic visual neurons were analysed using a laser-scanning confocal microscope. Putative synaptic contacts were classified as high-confidence and low-confidence contacts, and charted onto dendritic trees. As all reconstructed layer V pyramidal neurons received auditory inputs by these criteria, we conclude that V2L acts as an important relay between A1 and V1. Auditory inputs are preferentially located onto lower branch order dendrites in enucleated mice. Also, V2L neurons are subject to morphological reorganizations in both apical and basal dendrites after the loss of vision. The A1-V2L-V1 pathway could be involved in multisensory processing and contribute to the auditory activation of the occipital cortex in the blind rodent.
Patients with Parkinson's disease can show brief but dramatic normalization of motor activity in highly arousing situations, a phenomenon often termed paradoxical kinesis. We sought to mimic this in a controlled experimental environment. Nine patients with Parkinson's disease and nine age-matched healthy controls were asked to grip a force dynamometer as quickly and strongly as possible in response to a visual cue. A loud (96 dB) auditory stimulus was delivered at the same time as the visual cue in ~50% of randomly selected trials. In patients with Parkinson's disease, the experiment was conducted after overnight withdrawal of antiparkinsonian drugs and again 1 h after patients had taken their usual morning medication. Patients showed improvements in the peak rate of force development and the magnitude of force developed when loud auditory stimuli accompanied visual cues. Equally, they showed improvements in the times taken to reach the peak rate of force development and their maximal force. The paradoxical facilitatory effect of sound was similar whether patients were off or on their usual antiparkinsonian medication, and could be reproduced in age-matched healthy controls. We conclude that motor improvement induced by loud auditory stimuli in Parkinson's disease is related to a physiological phenomenon which survives both with and after withdrawal of antiparkinsonian medication. The potential independence of the mediating pathways from the dopaminergic system provides impetus for further investigation as it may yield a novel nondopaminergic target for therapeutic manipulation in Parkinson's disease.
The ataxic sticky (sti/sti) mouse is a spontaneous autosomal recessive mutant resulting from a disruption in the editing domain of the alanyl-tRNA synthetase (Aars) gene. The sticky phenotype is characterized by a small body size, a characteristic unkempt coat and neurological manifestations including marked tremor and ataxia starting at 6 weeks of age. The present study was undertaken to examine the spatiotemporal features of Purkinje cell degeneration in the sticky mouse. Purkinje cell loss was found to be both progressive and patterned, with vermal lobules VI, IX and X, crus 1 of the hemisphere, and the flocculus and paraflocculus being differentially resistant to degeneration. The pattern of Purkinje cell degeneration in sticky is not random - in general, the sphingosine kinase 1a-immunonegative Purkinje cell subset is preferentially susceptible to early cell death. In addition, zebrin II/aldolase C expression in the sticky cerebellum is profoundly downregulated, whereas the heat-shock protein 25 is both ectopically expressed in some scattered Purkinje cells and downregulated in other Purkinje cells in which it is normally expressed constitutively. Compared with many mouse mutants with patterned Purkinje cell death, in which successive stripes of cell loss are very clear, Purkinje cell loss in sticky shows a less clear-cut pattern between different Purkinje cell subtypes, with the result that preferential survival is less dramatic. This may represent a secondary consequence of the downregulation of zebrin II expression.
Increasing evidence suggests that interleukin-1 (IL-1) is a key mediator of the inflammatory response following traumatic brain injury (TBI). Recently, we showed that intracerebroventricular administration of an IL-1-neutralizing antibody was neuroprotective following TBI in mice. In the present study, an anti-IL-1 antibody or control antibody was administered intraperitoneally following controlled cortical injury (CCI) TBI or sham injury in 105 mice and we extended our histological, immunological and behavioral analysis. First, we demonstrated that the treatment antibody reached target brain regions of brain-injured animals in high concentrations (&gt; 11 nm) remaining up to 8 days post-TBI. At 48 h post-injury, the anti-IL-1 treatment attenuated the TBI-induced hemispheric edema (P &lt; 0.05) but not the memory deficits evaluated using the Morris water maze (MWM). Neutralization of IL-1 did not influence the TBI-induced increases (P &lt; 0.05) in the gene expression of the Ccl3 and Ccr2 chemokines, IL-6 or Gfap. Up to 20 days post-injury, neutralization of IL-1 was associated with improved visuospatial learning in the MWM, reduced loss of hemispheric tissue and attenuation of the microglial activation caused by TBI (P &lt; 0.05). Motor function using the rotarod and cylinder tests was not affected by the anti-IL-1 treatment. Our results suggest an important negative role for IL-1 in TBI. The improved histological and behavioral outcome following anti-IL-1 treatment also implies that further exploration of IL-1-neutralizing compounds as a treatment option for TBI patients is warranted.
Adenosine neuromodulation depends on a balanced activation of inhibitory A (AR) and facilitatory A(A) receptors (A(A) R). Both A R and A(A) R modulate hippocampal glutamate release and NMDA-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) but ageing affects the density of both A R and A(A) R. We tested the effects of selective A R and A(2A) R antagonists in the modulation of synaptic transmission and plasticity in rat hippocampal slices from three age groups (young adults, 2-3 month; middle-aged adults, 6-8 months; aged, 18-20 months). The selective A(A) R antagonist SCH58261 (50 nm) attenuated LTP in all age groups, with a larger effect in aged (-63  7%) than in middle-aged adults (-36  9%) or young adult rats (-36  9%). In contrast, the selective A R antagonist DPCPX (50 nm) increased LTP magnitude in young adult rats (+42  6%), but failed to affect LTP magnitude in the other age groups. Finally, in the continuous presence of DPCPX, SCH58261 caused a significantly larger inhibition of LTP amplitude in aged (-71  45%) than middle-aged (-28 9%) or young rats (-11  2%). Accordingly, aged rats displayed an increased expression of A(A) R mRNA in the hippocampus and a higher number of glutamatergic nerve terminals equipped with A(2A) R in aged (67  6%) compared with middle-aged (34  7%) and young rats (25  5%). The results show an enhanced A(A) R-mediated modulation of LTP in aged rats, in accordance with the age-associated increased expression and density of A(A) R in glutamatergic terminals. This age-associated gain of function of A(A) R modulating synaptic plasticity may underlie the ability of A(A) R antagonists to prevent memory dysfunction in aged animals.
To understand how the human amygdala contributes to associative learning, it is necessary to differentiate the contributions of its subregions. However, major limitations in the techniques used for the acquisition and analysis of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data have hitherto precluded segregation of function with the amygdala in humans. Here, we used high-resolution fMRI in combination with a region-of-interest-based normalization method to differentiate functionally the contributions of distinct subregions within the human amygdala during two different types of instrumental conditioning: reward and avoidance learning. Through the application of a computational-model-based analysis, we found evidence for a dissociation between the contributions of the basolateral and centromedial complexes in the representation of specific computational signals during learning, with the basolateral complex contributing more to reward learning, and the centromedial complex more to avoidance learning. These results provide unique insights into the computations being implemented within fine-grained amygdala circuits in the human brain.

The identification of the first gene involved in a speech-language disorder was made possible through the study of a British multi-generational family (the &quot;KE family&quot;) in whom half the members have an inherited speech-language disorder caused by a FOXP2 mutation. Neuroimaging investigations in the affected members of the KE family have revealed structural and functional abnormalities in a wide cortical-subcortical network. Functional imaging studies have confirmed dysfunction of this network by revealing abnormal activation in several areas including Broca's area and the putamen during language-related tasks, such as word repetition and generation. Repeating nonsense words is particularly challenging for the affected members of the family, as well as in other individuals suffering from idiopathic developmental specific language impairments; yet, thus far the neural correlates of the nonword repetition task have not been examined in individuals with developmental speech and language disorders. Here, four affected members of the KE family and four unrelated age-matched healthy participants repeated nonsense words aloud during functional MRI scanning. Relative to control participants, repetition in the affected members was severely impaired, and brain activation was significantly reduced in the premotor, supplementary and primary motor cortices, as well as in the cerebellum and basal ganglia. We suggest that nonword repetition is the optimal endophenotype for FOXP2 disruption in humans because this task recruits brain regions involved in the imitation and vocal learning of novel sequences of speech sounds.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) administration in rats induces a characteristic syndrome termed 'sickness behavior', including profound changes on locomotor activity and circulating stress and inflammatory mediators. The aim of the present investigation was to evaluate whether the behavioral and the peripheral biomarker responses induced by LPS could be modified by acute treatment with the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor SB-239063. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated orally either with vehicle or SB-239063 (3, 10 and 30 mg/kg) 1h before an intraperitoneal injection of either saline or LPS 125 g/kg. Two hours after LPS injection, rats were placed in a novel open field arena for locomotion assessment during both the light and dark periods. Inflammation and stress mediators were evaluated in plasma 2, 3, 5 or 14 h into the dark phase. Pre-treatment with SB-239063 significantly reversed the locomotor deficits induced by LPS injection. Interleukin (IL)-1, IL-6, IL-10, Granulocyte-Macrophage-Colony Stimulating Factor, Interferon-, and C-reactive-protein levels were increased significantly by LPS, but not when LPS was preceded by SB-239063 treatment. LPS significantly decreased growth-hormone and Prolactin, and this effect was attenuated by SB-239063. Tumor Necrosis Factor-, Adrenocorticotropic Hormone and Corticosterone levels were significantly higher in LPS-treated rats and were not normalized by SB-239063. Thus, we demonstrate that acute treatment with SB-239063 may have ameliorating effects in early changes of LPS-induced sickness behavior and alteration in the peripheral cytokines/hormones. As such, our procedure may offer an opportunity to test the activity of novel anti-inflammatory compounds on specific symptoms of sickness associated with neuroimmune dysfunctions.
Eszopiclone (Lunesta) is used for the treatment of insomnia. It is the S (+)-enantiomer of racemic zopiclone, a cyclopyrrolone with no structural similarity to the hypnotic drugs zolpidem and zaleplon or to the benzodiazepines and barbiturates. Although eszopiclone interacts with the gamma-aminobutyric acid A-type (GABA(A)) receptor complex, it has a different binding profile than other sedative/hypnotic agents and modulates the receptor complex in a unique manner. Thus, eszopiclone might produce different pharmacological effects compared to other sedative/hypnotic agents. Beside their behavioral properties, sedative/hypnotic drugs affect the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. In general, low doses of benzodiazepine-type drugs decrease, whereas high doses increase the activity of the HPA axis. Furthermore, benzodiazepines reduce stress-induced increases in HPA axis activity. The goal of the present study was to characterize the effects of eszopiclone on the HPA axis in the rat. Male rats were injected with saline or eszopiclone and trunk blood was collected for the measurement of plasma levels of adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) and corticosterone by radioimmunoassay. The acute administration of eszopiclone produced dose-dependent increases in plasma levels of ACTH and corticosterone, and tolerance developed to these effects after repeated drug administration. Pretreatment with eszopiclone did not affect stress-induced stimulation of the HPA axis. These results show that eszopiclone and the benzodiazepine-type drugs differentially affect the HPA axis.


Current approaches to dissect the molecular neurobiology of complex neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia and major depression have been rightly criticized for failing to provide benefits to patients. Improving the translational potential of our efforts will require the development and refinement of better disease models that consider a wide variety of contributing factors, such as genetic variation, gene-by-environment interactions, endophenotype or intermediate phenotype assessment, cross species analysis, sex differences, and developmental stages. During a targeted expert meeting of the European College of Neuropsychopharmacology (ECNP) in Istanbul, we addressed the opportunities and pitfalls of current translational animal models of psychiatric disorders and agreed on a series of core guidelines and recommendations that we believe will help guiding further research in this area.
Although most available antidepressants increase monoaminergic neurotransmission, their therapeutic efficacy is likely mediated by longer-term molecular adaptations. To investigate the molecular changes induced by chronic antidepressant treatment we analysed proteomic changes in rat pre-frontal/frontal cortex and hippocampus after nortriptyline (NT) administration. A wide-scale analysis of protein expression was performed on the Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL), a genetically-selected rat model of depression, and the control Flinders Resistant Line (FRL). The effect of NT treatment was examined in a gene-environment interaction model, applying maternal separation (MS) to both strains. In the forced swim test, FSL rats were significantly more immobile than FRL animals, whereas NT treatment reduced immobility time. MS alone did not modify immobility time, but it impaired the response to NT in the FSL strain. In the proteomic analysis, in FSL rats NT treatment chiefly modulated cytoskeleton proteins and carbohydrate metabolism. In the FRL strain, changes influenced protein polymerization and intracellular transport. After MS, NT treatment mainly affected proteins in nucleotide metabolism in FSL rats and synaptic transmission and neurite morphogenesis pathways in FRL rats. When the effects of NT treatment and MS were compared between strains, carbohydrate metabolic pathways were predominantly modulated.
Voluntary exercise reduces the incidence of stress-related psychiatric disorders in humans and prevents serotonin-dependent behavioral consequences of stress in rodents. Evidence reviewed herein is consistent with the hypothesis that exercise increases stress resistance by producing neuroplasticity at multiple sites of the central serotonergic system, which all help to limit the behavioral impact of acute increases in serotonin during stressor exposure.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is thought to start years or decades prior to clinical diagnosis. Overt pathology such as protein misfolding and plaque formation occur at later stages, and factors other than amyloid misfolding contribute to the initiation of the disease. Vascular and metabolic dysfunctions are excellent candidates, as they are well-known features of AD that precede pathology or clinical dementia. While the general notion that vascular and metabolic dysfunctions contribute to the etiology of AD is becoming accepted, recent research suggests novel mechanisms by which these/such processes could possibly contribute to AD pathogenesis. Vascular dysfunction includes reduced cerebrovascular flow and cerebral amyloid angiopathy. Indeed, there appears to be an interaction between amyloid  (A) and vascular pathology, where A production and vascular pathology both contribute to and are affected by oxidative stress. One major player in the vascular pathology is NAD(P)H oxidase, which generates vasoactive superoxide. Metabolic dysfunction has only recently regained popularity in relation to its potential role in AD. The role of metabolic dysfunction in AD is supported by the increased epidemiological risk of AD associated with several metabolic diseases such as diabetes, dyslipidemia and hypertension, in which there is elevated oxidative damage and insulin resistance. Metabolic dysfunction is further implicated in AD as pharmacological inhibition of metabolism exacerbates pathology, and several metabolic enzymes of the glycolytic, tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA) and oxidative phosphorylation pathways are damaged in AD. Recent studies have highlighted the role of insulin resistance, in contributing to AD. Thus, vascular and metabolic dysfunctions are key components in the AD pathology throughout the course of disease. The common denominator between vascular and metabolic dysfunction emerging from this review appears to be oxidative stress and A. This review also provides a framework for evaluation of current and future therapeutics for AD.
Recent investigations have revealed the kinematics of horizontal saccades are less variable near the end of the trajectory than during the course of execution. Converging evidence indicates that oculomotor networks use online sensorimotor feedback to correct for initial trajectory errors. It is also known that oculomotor networks express saccadic corrections with decreased efficiency when responses are made toward memorized locations. The present research investigated whether repetitive motor timekeeping influences online feedback-based corrections in predictive saccades. Predictive saccades are a subclass of memory-guided saccades and are observed when one makes series of timed saccades. We hypothesized that cueing predictive saccades in a sequence would facilitate the expression of trajectory corrections. Seven participants produced a number of single unpaced, visually guided saccades, and also sequences of timed predictive saccades. Kinematic and trajectory variability were used to measure the expression of online saccadic corrections at a number of time indices in saccade trajectories. In particular, we estimated the minimum time required to implement feedback-based corrections, which was consistently 37ms. Our observations demonstrate that motor commands in predictive memory-guided saccades can be parameterized by spatial working memory and retain the accuracy of online trajectory corrections typically associated with visually guided behavior. In contrast, untimed memory-guided saccades exhibited diminished kinematic evidence for online corrections. We conclude that motor timekeeping and sequencing contributed to efficient saccadic corrections. These results contribute to an evolving view of the interactions between motor planning and spatial working memory, as they relate to oculomotor control.
Recent imaging studies in healthy controls with a conditional stop signal reaction time (RT) task have implicated the subthalamic nucleus (STN) in response inhibition and the pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA) in conflict resolution. Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by striatal dopamine deficiency and overactivity of the STN and underactivation of the pre-SMA during movement. We used the conditional stop signal RT task to investigate whether PD produced similar or dissociable effects on response initiation, response inhibition and response initiation under conflict. In addition, we also examined inhibition of prepotent responses on three cognitive tasks: the Stroop, random number generation and Hayling sentence completion. PD patients were impaired on the conditional stop signal reaction time task, with response initiation both in situations with or without conflict and response inhibition all being significantly delayed, and had significantly greater difficulty in suppressing prepotent or habitual responses on the Stroop, Hayling and random number generation tasks relative to controls. These results demonstrate the existence of a generalized inhibitory deficit in PD, which suggest that PD is a disorder of inhibition as well as activation and that in situations of conflict, executive control over responses is compromised.
Recent research has demonstrated that adaptation to a visuomotor distortion systematically influenced movements to auditory targets in adults and typically developing (TD) children, suggesting that the adaptation of spatial-to-motor transformations for reaching movements is multisensory (i.e., generalizable across sensory modalities). The multisensory characteristics of these transformations in children with developmental coordination disorder (DCD) have not been examined. Given that previous research has demonstrated that children with DCD have deficits in sensorimotor integration, these children may also have impairments in the formation of multisensory spatial-to-motor transformations for target-directed arm movements. To investigate this hypothesis, children with and without DCD executed discrete arm movements to visual and acoustic targets prior to and following exposure to an abrupt visual feedback rotation. Results demonstrated that the magnitudes of the visual aftereffects were equivalent in the TD children and the children with DCD, indicating that both groups of children adapted similarly to the visuomotor perturbation. Moreover, the influence of visuomotor adaptation on auditory-motor performance was similar in the two groups of children. This suggests that the multisensory processes underlying adaptation of spatial-to-motor transformations are similar in children with DCD and TD children.
The endogenous opioid peptides, met- or leu-enkephalin, and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) regulate noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus (LC) in a convergent manner via projections from distinct brain areas. In contrast, the opioid peptide dynorphin (DYN) has been shown to serve as a co-transmitter with CRF in afferents to the LC. To further define anatomical substrates targeting noradrenergic neurons by DYN afferents originating from limbic sources, anterograde tract-tracing of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) from the central amygdaloid complex was combined with immunocytochemical detection of DYN and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in the same section of tissue. Triple labeling immunocytochemistry was combined with electron microscopy in the LC where BDA was identified using an immunoperoxidase marker, and DYN and TH were distinguished by the use of sequential immunogold labeling and silver enhancement to produce different sized gold particles. Results show direct evidence of a monosynaptic pathway linking amygdalar DYN afferents with LC neurons. To determine whether DYN-containing amygdalar LC-projecting neurons colocalize CRF, retrograde tract-tracing using fluorescent latex microspheres injected into the LC was combined with immunocytochemical detection of DYN and CRF in single sections in the central amygdala. Retrogradely labeled neurons from the LC were distributed throughout the rostro-caudal extent of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) as previously described. Cell counts showed that approximately 42% of LC-projecting neurons in the CeA contained both DYN and CRF. Taken with our previous studies showing monosynaptic projections from amygdalar CRF neurons to noradrenergic LC cells, the present study extends this by showing that DYN and CRF are co-transmitters in monosynaptic projections to the LC and are poised to coordinately impact LC neuronal activity.
Recent work has demonstrated that self-repair in the adult brain can be augmented by the infusion of growth factors to activate endogenous neural precursor cells that contribute to new tissue formation and functional recovery in a model of stroke. Using both a genetic model and drug treatment, we demonstrate that immunosuppression mimics the effects of growth factor activation, including tissue regeneration, neural precursor cell migration and functional recovery following ischemic injury. In the absence of growth factor treatment, mice with a functional immune system develop a prominent cavity in the cortex underlying the ischemic injury. In untreated immunodeficient NOD/SCID mice, however, the cortical cavity forms but is then filled with regenerated cortical tissue containing glial cells and subependyma derived neural stem and progenitor cells that migrate from their niche lining the lateral ventricles. The daily administration of Cyclosporine A also results in endogenous neural precursor cell migration and regenerated cortical tissue at the site of the cortical injury. Different from growth factor-treated animals is the finding that the regenerated cortical tissue in immunosuppressed animals is devoid of new neurons. Interestingly, both the growth factor and immunosuppressed (NOD/SCID and Cyclosporine A) treated animals displayed functional behavioural recovery despite the lack of neurogenesis within the regenerated cortical tissue. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled &quot;Interaction between repair, disease, &amp; inflammation.&quot;
The 17th century London neuroanatomical school headed by Thomas Willis provided us with the first identifiable images of the sympathetic nervous system. Nineteenth century giants of European physiology (Bernard, Waller and Brown-Sequard) identified these as the 'pressor nerves'. Von Euler's demonstration that the sympathetic transmitter was noradrenaline brought the field into the modern era. The development of ganglion-blocking drugs by Paton, whose name this review commemorates, allowed comprehensive pharmacological antagonism of this system in patients. With the development of contemporary techniques for recording from human sympathetic nerves and quantifying rates of noradrenaline release, the sympathetic nervous system became accessible to clinical scientists investigating possible contributions to cardiovascular and other diseases. Sympathetic nervous system responses typically are regionally differentiated, with activation in one outflow sometimes accompanying no change or sympathetic inhibition in another. Regional sympathetic activity is best studied in humans by recording from postganglionic sympathetic efferents (multi-unit or single-fibre recording) and by isotope dilution-derived measurement of organ-specific noradrenaline release to plasma from sympathetic nerves (regional 'noradrenaline spillover'). With the application of these techniques, evidence has been assembled in the past three decades which indicates that sympathetic nervous system activation is crucial in the development of cardiovascular disorders, most notably heart failure and essential hypertension. An important goal for clinical scientists is translation of knowledge of pathophysiology, such as this, into better treatment for patients. The achievement of this 'mechanisms to management' transition is mature in cardiac failure, with knowledge of cardiac neural pathophysiology having led to introduction of -adrenergic blockers, an effective therapy. Perhaps we are now on the cusp of effective translation in patients with essential hypertension, with recent successful testing of selective catheter-based renal sympathetic nerve ablation in patients with resistant hypertension, an intervention firmly based on prior demonstration in them of activation of the renal sympathetic outflow.
Introduction: Animal behavioral models have become an indispensable tool for studying anxiety disorders and testing anxiety-modulating drugs. However, significant methodological and conceptual challenges affect the translational validity and accurate behavioral dissection in such models. They are also often limited to individual behavioral domains and fail to target the disorder's real clinical picture (its spectrum or overlap with other disorders), which hinder screening and development of novel anxiolytic drugs. Areas covered: In this article, the authors discuss and emphasize the importance of high-throughput multi-domain neurophenotyping based on the latest developments in video-tracking and bioinformatics. Additionally, the authors also explain how bioinformatics can provide new insight into the neural substrates of brain disorders and its benefit for drug discovery. Expert opinion: The throughput and utility of animal models of anxiety and other brain disorders can be markedly increased by a number of ways: i) analyzing systems of several domains and their interplay in a wider spectrum of model species; ii) using a larger number of end points generated by video-tracking tools; iii) correlating behavioral data with genomic, proteomic and other physiologically relevant markers using online databases and iv) creating molecular network-based models of anxiety to identify new targets for drug design and discovery. Experimental models utilizing bioinformatics tools and online databases will not only improve our understanding of both gene-behavior interactions and complex trait interconnectivity but also highlight new targets for novel anxiolytic drugs.
INTRODUCTION: Schizophrenia is currently diagnosed on the basis of patient reports and clinical observations. A diagnosis based on aetiology is inherently more reliable due to being closer to the disease process than the overt clinical manifestations. Accordingly, recent research in schizophrenia has focused on the development of biomarkers in a bit to improve the reliability and neurobiological relevance of the diagnosis. Visual information processing is one of these promising fields of recent biomarker research. AREAS COVERED: This article provides an overview of the available literature regarding deficits in schizophrenia detectable through psychophysical (contrast and motion sensitivity, visual backward-masking), ERP (P1 and N1 visual evoked potentials) and oscillatory (signal power and phase-locking factor of evoked oscilations) measures and their validity as trait or state biomarkers of the disease. The methodology included a search on articles related to visual information processing in schizophrenia on the PubMed database. EXPERT OPINION: Biomarker research in schizophrenia is a rapidly expanding area. Evidence exists to suggest that both psychotic and manic symptoms are associated with visual processing abnormalities. A specific impairment confined to the magnocellular component of the visual system might be a trait biomarker of schizophrenia.
Novel strategies are needed in the treatment of hallucinations as a subgroup of patients with pathological hallucinations (&gt;30%) do not respond to antipsychotics or are not compliant with medication. We review recently developed biological and cognitive treatments. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation concerns neuromodulation targeted at aberrant activity in regions shown to be hyperactive in neuroimaging studies. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation has been shown to reduce auditory hallucinations in several studies. However, not all studies have confirmed such effects, and a number of questions remain. With regard to cognitive therapeutic approaches, new proposals include attention training, acceptance and commitment therapy, and competitive memory training. After a brief discussion of these approaches, we take stock of recent advances and discuss avenues for future research.
Adverse metabolic events, such as increased adiposity, hyperglycemia, diabetes mellitus and dyslipidemia, have been associated with treatment using atypical antipsychotic medications. However, the complexity of some of the reports on this problem and marketing efforts in this area may make it difficult for psychiatrists to remain fully and accurately informed about the metabolic complications of atypical antipsychotic therapy. Little is currently known about how psychiatrists view what they have read or heard, how they perceive the available information and how this affects their management of patients with schizophrenia. A number of studies have demonstrated that nonadherence to the medication regimen in schizophrenia is associated with poor symptomatic outcome, increased risk of relapse, more frequent use of compulsory treatment and increased risk of suicide and severe self-harm. Suicide is a major cause of death among schizophrenic patients, and their attitude toward medication can make the difference between a proper therapeutic regimen that protects patients from suicide risk versus discontinuation of treatments that are associated with disabling symptoms, some of which are risk factors for suicide. We review the characteristics of a new drug, asenapine, that may improve adherence in patients as a result of a distinctive receptor profile that may be associated with fewer side effects than other second-generation antipsychotic drugs.
Alteration of the sleep-wake cycle and of the sleep structure are core symptoms of a major depressive episode, and occur both in course of bipolar disorder and of major depressive disorder. Many other circadian rhythms, such as the daily profiles of body temperature, cortisol, thyrotropin, prolactin, growth hormone, melatonin and excretion of various metabolites in the urine, are disrupted in depressed patients, both unipolar and bipolar individuals. These disrupted rhythms seem to return to normality with patient recovery. Research on circadian rhythms and sleep have led to the definition of nonpharmacological therapies of mood disorder that can be used in everyday practice. These strategies, named chronotherapeutics, are based on controlled exposures to environmental stimuli that act on biological rhythms, and demonstrate good efficacy in the treatment of illness episodes. They include manipulations of the sleep-wake rhythm (such as partial and total sleep deprivation, and sleep phase advance) and of the exposure to the light-dark cycle (light therapy and dark therapy). In recent years, an increasing literature about the safety and efficacy of chronobiological treatments in everyday psychiatric settings has supported the inclusion of these techniques among the first-line antidepressant strategies for patients affected by mood disorders.
Pramipexole is a nonergolinic dopamine agonist, with high affinity for the D2 subfamily of dopamine receptors. Pramipexole is efficacious for the symptomatic treatment of early Parkinson's Disease (PD) and its early use, before that of levodopa can delay the emergence of levodopa-related motor complication. Dosage should be increased gradually from a starting dose of 0.375 mg/day up to a maximum of 4.5 mg/day in equally divided doses taken three times per day with pramipexole immediate-release or equivalent daily dosages once-daily with pramipexole extended-release. Pramipexole can also improve depressive symptoms and possibly health-related quality of life in PD. Nonetheless, its use is not devoid of tolerability problems. While peripheral adverse drug reactions, such as nausea, vomiting or orthostatic hypotension, can be effectively treated and usually pose few problems to most patients, neuropsychiatric events can seriously limit the use of pramipexole in some cases. Indeed, excessive daytime somnolence, impulse-control disorders, hallucinations or delusions can severely affect patients, causing important personal or social handicap. Patients should be informed about the risk of such neuropsychiatric complications and their presence should be actively detected at each consultation. More effort will have to be put into further studying the risk-benefit ratio of pramipexole and other dopamine agonists in the treatment of early PD.

Bone morphogenetic protein-4 (BMP4) may be involved in the molecular switch that determines which late form of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) an individual develops. BMP4 expression is high in retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells in late, dry AMD patients, while BMP4 expression is low in the wet form of the disease, characterized by choroidal neovascularization (CNV). Here, we sought to determine the mechanism by which BMP4 is down-regulated in CNV. BMP4 expression was decreased within laser-induced CNV lesions in mice at a time when tumor necrosis factor (TNF) expression was high (7 d postlaser) and was reexpressed in RPE when TNF levels declined (14 d postlaser). We found that TNF, an important angiogenic stimulus, significantly down-regulates BMP4 expression in cultured human fetal RPE cells, ARPE-19 cells, and RPE cells in murine posterior eye cup explants. We identified two specificity protein 1 (Sp1) binding sites in the BMP4 promoter that are required for basal expression of BMP4 and its down-regulation by TNF. Through c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK) activation, TNF modulates Sp1 phosphorylation, thus decreasing its affinity to the BMP4 promoter. The down-regulation of BMP4 expression by TNF in CNV and mechanisms established might be useful for defining novel targets for AMD therapy.
The effects of anethol, the major component of anise oil, on the Ca(2+)-dependent excitability and afterhyperpolarization (AHP) in snail neurons were examined using intracellular recording. Anethol (0.5%) significantly broadened the spike, reduced the firing frequency and enhanced the AHP amplitude. In contrast, anethol (2%) significantly increased the firing frequency and decreased the AHP. Blockade of Ca(2+) channels after anethol application depolarized the membrane potential and significantly reduced the firing rate. Furthermore, in the presence of anethol (0.5%) a significant decrease in the AHP was observed by Ca(2+) channels blockage. Here, anethol-induced functional modification of Ca(2+) and Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels is suggested.
In the review one of actual problems of psychophysiology in studying a phenomenon of integration of mechanisms of regulation of state of a brain and features of the organization is discussed by a brain of cognitive activity. Basic value of results of long-term researches of academician N.P. Bechterevoj and of her school is opened in the field of neurophysiology of functional states as bases of the organization of mental activity in conditions of direct, long and sparing contact to a cortical and subcortical structures of a brain, with the help long-term intracerebral electrodes. Arguments about a commensurability and complementary value similar on amplitud-time parameters slow and superslow gradual changes of neurophysiological processes registered simultaneously in identified zones of subcortical structures of a brain and with removal from a surface of a head in cortical projections of basic integrativity of the centres are submitted. Representations about a brain as difficultly organized &quot;swimming&quot; many-contour, neurodinamic informational-controlling suprasystem with hierarchically, probability a principle of the organization different on speeds and intensity of processes of the ability to live participating in maintenance of a condition of rest, mental conditions and cognitive activity are formulated and argued. At the limited set universal neurodinamic &quot;languages&quot;, the brain has the multiregister mechanism of regulation of conditions and selectivity of mechanisms of the integration providing the contribution differing on information maintenance gradual neurophysiological of processes of different levels of the structurally functional organization in formation of brain systems of maintenance of concrete kinds of cognitive activity.
Obesity has reached pandemic proportions globally and is often associated with lipotoxic heart diseases. In the obese state, caloric surplus is accommodated in the adipocytes as triglycerides. As the storage capacity of adipocytes is exceeded or malfunctioning, lipids begin to infiltrate and accumulate in non-adipose tissues, including the myocardium of the heart, leading to organ dysfunction. While the disruption of caloric homeostasis has been widely viewed as a principal mechanism in contributing to peripheral tissue steatosis and lipotoxicity, our recent studies in Drosophila have led to the novel finding that deregulation of phospholipid homeostasis may also significantly contribute to the pathogenesis of lipotoxic cardiomyopathy. Fly mutants that bear perturbations in phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) biosynthesis, such as the easily-shocked (eas) mutants defective in ethanolamine kinase, incurred aberrant activation of the sterol regulatory element binding protein (SREBP) pathway, thereby causing chronic lipogenesis and cardiac steatosis that culminates in the development of lipotoxic cardiomyopathy. Here, we describe the potential relationship between SREBP and other eas-associated phenotypes, such as neuronal excitability defects. We will further discuss the additional implications presented by our work toward the effects of altered lipid metabolism on cellular growth and/or proliferation in response to defective phospholipid homeostasis.
Oxidative damage, neuroinflammation, and mitochondrial dysfunction contribute to the pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and these pathologic processes are tightly regulated by the Nrf2/ARE (NF-E2-related factor 2/antioxidant response element) signaling program. Therefore, modulation of the Nrf2/ARE pathway is an attractive therapeutic target for neurodegenerative diseases such as ALS. We examined two triterpenoids, CDDO (2-cyano-3,12-dioxooleana-1,9-dien-28-oic acid) ethylamide and CDDO trifluoroethylamide (CDDO-TFEA), that potently activate Nrf2/ARE in a cell culture model of ALS and in the G93A SOD1 mouse model of ALS. Treatment of NSC-34 cells stably expressing mutant G93A SOD1 with CDDO-TFEA upregulated Nrf2 expression and resulted in translocation of Nrf2 into the nucleus. Western blot analysis showed an increase in the expression of Nrf2/ARE-regulated proteins. When treatment started at a &quot;presymptomatic age&quot; of 30days, both of these compounds significantly attenuated weight loss, enhanced motor performance, and extended the survival of G93A SOD1 mice. Treatment started at a &quot;symptomatic age,&quot; as assessed by impaired motor performance, was neuroprotective and slowed disease progression. These findings provide further evidence that compounds that activate the Nrf2/ARE signaling pathway may be useful in the treatment of ALS.


Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene has an important link to neurotransmitter systems, including serotonin, and seems to play a major role in emotional decision making. Impairment of decision making is an important feature of psychiatric disorders such as obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). We explore the link between decision making and the BDNF Val66Met polymorphism, which results in a reduction of BDNF activity, in a sample of Caucasian OCD patients. We used the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) to measure decision making in 122 OCD patients. All patients were assessed using the Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale, the Beck Depression Inventory, the Beck Anxiety Inventory and the Raven Progressive Matrices. Patients also performed the Continuous Performance Task (CPT-II) and the Trail Making Test (TMT). We grouped Met-allele carriers because these act in a dominant way. Met-allele carries exhibited low performance on both halves of the IGT (first half -F = -2.51, df = 120, P = 0.01; second half -F = -2.32, df = 120, P = 0.02). However, logistic regression analyses showed that the influence of the Met allele seemed to be restricted to the first half of the IGT [first half - = 0.55, df = 1, P &lt; 0.01, odds ratio (OR) = 5.62; second half - = 0.32, df = 1, P = 0.15, OR = 2.30]. No differences were observed in tests used to evaluate executive functions associated with the dorsolateral prefrontal cortices (TMT and CPT-II, df = 120, P &gt; 0.05 for both). Met-allele impairment may only be related to decisions made under ambiguous conditions. The null results involving TMT and CPT-II are possibly related to the dysfunction of the orbitofrontal cortices that is associated with OCD.
The human neurotropic polyomavirus JC (JCV) induces a broad range of neural-origin tumors in experimental animals and has been repeatedly detected in several human cancers, most notably neural crest-origin tumors including medulloblastomas and glioblastomas. The oncogenic activity of JCV is attributed to the viral early gene products, large T and small t antigens, as evident by results from in vitro cell culture and in vivo animal studies. Recently, we have shown that alternative splicing factor, SF2/ASF, has the capacity to exert a negative effect on transcription and splicing of JCV genes in glial cells through direct association with a specific DNA motif within the viral promoter region. Here, we demonstrate that SF2/ASF suppresses large T antigen expression in JCV-transformed tumor cell lines, and the expression of SF2/ASF in such tumor cells thereby inhibits the transforming capacity of the viral tumor antigens. Moreover, down-regulation of SF2/ASF in viral-transformed tumor cell lines induces growth and proliferation of the tumor cells. Mapping analysis of the minimal peptide domain of SF2/ASF responsible for JCV promoter silencing and tumor suppressor activity suggests that amino acid residues 76 to 100 of SF2/ASF are functionally sufficient to suppress the growth of the tumor cells. These observations demonstrate a role for SF2/ASF in JCV-mediated cellular transformation and provide a new avenue of research to pathogenic mechanisms of JCV-induced tumors.
Just 1 month has passed since the biggest earthquake ever recorded in Japan occurred in the Tohoku-Kanto area. The earthquake was followed soon afterwards by an unexpected huge tsunami that destroyed many villages and towns near the coast. Perhaps even more seriously, nuclear power plants in Fukushima were damaged, resulting in electricity interruptions and radioactive contamination. It is sad that nearly thirty thousand people died or are still missing as a result of this disaster. I wish to express my deepest sympathy to all the victims and for those that are still being affected by what happened. The 311 earthquake and the ensuing problems have shaken us to the bottom of our hearts, not only physically but also mentally. As one of the persons present in the area at the time of the earthquake, I would like to report how I experienced the 311 disaster in our laboratory in Tohoku University and how this experience has changed my outlook on many things.
Arachidonic acid (ARA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), which are the dominant polyunsaturated fatty acids in the brain, have crucial roles in brain development and function. Recent studies have shown that ARA and DHA promote postnatal neurogenesis. However, the direct effects of ARA on neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) and the effects of ARA and DHA on NSPCs at the neurogenic and subsequent gliogenic stages are still unknown. Here, we analyzed the effects of ARA and DHA on neurogenesis, specifically maintenance and differentiation, using neurosphere assays. We confirmed that primary neurospheres are neurogenic NSPCs and that tertiary neurospheres are gliogenic NSPCs. Regarding the effects of ARA and DHA on neurogenic NSPCs, ARA and DHA increased the number of neurospheres, whereas neither ARA nor DHA had a detectable effect on NSPCs in the differentiation condition. In gliogenic NSPCs, DHA increased the number of neurospheres, whereas ARA had no such effect. In contrast, ARA increased the number of astrocytes, whereas DHA increased the number of neurons in the differentiation condition. These results suggest that ARA promotes the maintenance of neurogenic NSPCs and might induce the glial differentiation of gliogenic NSPCs and that DHA promotes the maintenance of both neurogenic and gliogenic NSPCs and might lead to the neuronal differentiation of gliogenic NSPCs.
Time-lapse imaging is often the only way to appreciate fully the many dynamic cell movements critical to neural development. Zebrafish possess many advantages that make them the best vertebrate model organism for live imaging of dynamic development events. This review will discuss technical considerations of time-lapse imaging experiments in zebrafish, describe selected examples of imaging studies in zebrafish that revealed new features or principles of neural development, and consider the promise and challenges of future time-lapse studies of neural development in zebrafish embryos and adults.
Chemical transmitters released from astrocytes, termed gliotransmitters, modulate synaptic transmission and neuronal function. Using astrocyte-specific inducible transgenicmice (dnSNARE mice), we have demonstrated that inhibiting gliotransmission leads to reduced activation of adenosine A1 receptors (A1R) and impaired sleep homeostasis (Halassa et al. (2009) Neuron 61:213-219); Pascual et al. (2005) Science 310:113-116). Additionally, synaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) currents are reduced in these astrocyte-specific transgenic animals (Fellin et al. (2009) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 106:15037-15042). Because of the importance of adenosine and NMDA receptors to sleep processes we asked whether there is a causal linkage between changes in A1R activation and synaptic NMDA receptors. We show that astrocytic dnSNARE expression leads to reduced tyrosine phosphorylation of Srckinase and NR2 subunits concomitant with the decreased surface expression of the NR2 subunits. To test the role of A1R signaling in mediating these actions, we show that incubation of wildtype (WT) slices with an A1R antagonist reduces tyrosine phosphorylation of Src kinase and NR2B, decreases the surface expression of the NR2B subunits and leads to smaller NMDA component of miniature EPSCs. In dnSNARE mice we could rescue WT phenotype by incubation in an A1R agonist:activation of A1 receptor led to increased tyrosine phosphorylation of Src kinase and NR2B subunits as well as increased the surface expression of the NR2B subunit and increased NMDA component of the synaptic mEPSC. These results provide the first demonstration that astrocytes can affect neuronal excitability on a long time scale by regulating the surface expression of NMDA receptors through the activation of specific intracellular signaling pathways.

Previous observations show that humans outperform non-human primates on some temporally-based auditory discrimination tasks, suggesting there are species differences in the proficiency of auditory temporal processing among primates. To further resolve these differences we compared the abilities of rhesus macaques and humans to detect sine-amplitude modulation (AM) of a broad-band noise carrier as a function of both AM frequency (2.5 Hz-2 kHz) and signal duration (50-800 ms), under similar testing conditions. Using a go/no-go AM detection task, we found that macaques were less sensitive than humans at the lower frequencies and shorter durations tested but were as, or slightly more, sensitive at higher frequencies and longer durations. Humans had broader AM tuning functions, with lower frequency regions of peak sensitivity (10-60 Hz) than macaques (30-120 Hz). These results support the notion that there are species differences in temporal processing among primates, and underscore the importance of stimulus duration when making cross-species comparisons for temporally-based tasks.
The common marmoset is a small, arboreal, New World primate that has emerged as a promising non-human model system in auditory neuroscience. A complete understanding of the neuroethology of auditory processing in marmosets will include behavioral work examining how sounds are perceived by these animals. However, there have been few studies of the marmoset's hearing and perceptual abilities and the audiogram of this species has not been measured using modern psychophysical methods. The present experiment pairs psychophysics with an operant conditioning technique to examine perception of pure tone stimuli by marmosets using an active behavioral paradigm. Subjects were trained to lick at a feeding tube when they detected a sound. Correct responses provided access to a food reward. Pure tones of varying intensities were presented to subjects using the method of constant stimuli. Behavioral thresholds were calculated for each animal based on hit rate--threshold was defined by the tone intensity that the animal correctly identified 50% of the time. Results show that marmoset hearing is comparable to that of other New World monkeys, with a hearing range extending from about 125 Hz up to 36 kHz and a sensitivity peak around 7 kHz.
An interrupted sound can be perceived as continuous when noise masks the interruption, creating an illusion of continuity. Recent findings have shown that adaptor sounds preceding an ambiguous target sound can influence listeners' rating of target continuity. However, it remains unclear whether these aftereffects on perceived continuity influence sensory processes, decisional processes (i.e., criterion shifts), or both. The present study addressed this question. Results show that the target sound was more likely to be rated as 'continuous' when preceded by adaptors that were perceived as clearly discontinuous than when it was preceded by adaptors that were heard (illusorily or veridically) as continuous. Detection-theory analyses indicated that these contrastive aftereffects reflect a combination of sensory and decisional processes. The contrastive sensory aftereffect persisted even when adaptors and targets were presented to opposite ears, suggesting a neural origin in structures that receive binaural inputs. Finally, physically identical but perceptually ambiguous adaptors that were rated as 'continuous' induced more reports of target continuity than adaptors that were rated as 'discontinuous'. This assimilative aftereffect was purely decisional. These findings confirm that judgments of auditory continuity can be influenced by preceding events, and reveal that these aftereffects have both sensory and decisional components.
The development of cochlear implants for the treatment of patients with profound hearing loss has advanced considerably in the last few decades, particularly in the field of speech comprehension. However, attempts to provide not only sound decoding but also spatial hearing are limited by our understanding of circuit adaptations in the absence of auditory input. Here we investigate the lateral superior olive (LSO), a nucleus involved in interaural level difference (ILD) processing in the auditory brainstem using a mouse model of congenital deafness (the dn/dn mouse). An electrophysiological investigation of principal neurons of the LSO from the dn/dn mouse reveals a higher than normal proportion of single spiking (SS) neurons, and an increase in the hyperpolarisation-activated I(h) current. However, inhibitory glycinergic input to the LSO appears to develop normally both pre and postsynaptically in dn/dn mice despite the absence of auditory nerve activity. In combination with previous electrophysiological findings from the dn/dn mouse, we also compile a simple Hodgkin and Huxley circuit model in order to investigate possible computational deficits in ILD processing resulting from congenital hearing loss. We find that the predominance of SS neurons in the dn/dn LSO may compensate for upstream modifications and help to maintain a functioning ILD circuit in the dn/dn mouse. This could have clinical repercussions on the development of stimulation paradigms for spatial hearing with cochlear implants.
The auditory system can encode interaural delays in highpass-filtered complex sounds by phase locking to their slowly modulating envelopes. Spectrotemporal analysis of interaurally time-delayed highpass waveforms reveals the presence of a concomitant interaural level cue. The current study systematically investigated the contribution of time and concomitant level cues carried by positive and negative envelope slopes of a modified sinusoidally amplitude-modulated (SAM) high-frequency carrier. The waveforms were generated from concatenation of individual modulation cycles whose envelope peaks were extended by the desired interaural delay, allowing independent control of delays in the positive and negative modulation slopes. In experiment 1, thresholds were measured using a 2-interval forced-choice adaptive task for interaural delays in either the positive or negative modulation slopes. In a control condition, thresholds were measured for a standard SAM tone. In experiment 2, decision weights were estimated using a multiple-observation correlational method in a single-interval forced-choice task for interaural delays carried simultaneously by the positive, and independently, negative slopes of the modulation envelope. In experiment 3, decision weights were measured for groups of 3 modulation cycles at the start, middle, and end of the waveform to determine the influence of onset dominance or recency effects. Results were consistent across experiments: thresholds were equal for the positive and negative modulation slopes. Decision weights were positive and equal for the time cue in the positive and negative envelope slopes. Weights were also larger for modulations cycles near the waveform onset. Weights estimated for the concomitant interaural level cue were positive for the positive envelope slope and negative for the negative slope, consistent with exclusive use of time cues.
The medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) occupies a central position within neural circuits devoted to the representation of spatial location and orientation. The MEC contains cells that fire as a function of the animal's head direction (HD), as well as grid cells that fire in multiple locations in an environment, forming a repeating hexagonal pattern. The MEC receives inputs from widespread areas of the cortical mantle including the ventral visual stream, which processes object recognition information, as well as information about visual landmarks. The role of the MEC in processing the HD signal or landmark information is unclear. We addressed this issue by neurotoxically damaging the MEC and recording HD cells within the anterodorsal thalamus (ADN). Direction-specific activity was present in the ADN of all animals with MEC lesions. Moreover, the discharge characteristics of ADN HD cells were only mildly affected by MEC lesions, with HD cells exhibiting greater anticipation of future HDs. Tests of landmark control revealed that HD cells in lesioned rats were capable of accurately updating their preferred firing directions in relation to a salient visual cue. Furthermore, cells from lesioned animals maintained stable preferred firing directions when locomoting in darkness and demonstrated stable HD cell tuning when locomoting into a novel enclosure, suggesting that MEC lesions did not disrupt the integration of idiothetic cues, or angular path integration, by HD cells. Collectively, these findings suggest that the MEC plays a limited role in the formation and spatial updating of the HD cell signal.
Although the hippocampus is critical for the formation and retrieval of spatial memories, it is unclear how subregions are differentially involved in these processes. Previous high-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have shown that CA2, CA3, and dentate gyrus (CA23DG) regions support the encoding of novel associations, whereas the subicular cortices support the retrieval of these learned associations. Whether these subregions are used in humans during encoding and retrieval of spatial information has yet to be explored. Using high-resolution fMRI (1.6 mm  1.6-mm in-plane), we found that activity within the right CA23DG increased during encoding compared to retrieval. Conversely, right subicular activity increased during retrieval compared to encoding of spatial associations. These results are consistent with the previous studies illustrating dissociations within human hippocampal subregions and further suggest that these regions are similarly involved during the encoding and retrieval of spatial information.
The relationship among brain electrophysiological activity, motor activity, and cognition has been a matter of great interest. For example, it has been discussed whether hippocampal theta rhythm reflects motor activity or cognitive activity, whereas it is widely accepted that the P300 event-related potential (ERP) reflects cognitive processes such as updating working memory. Here, we investigated the interrelationships among motor activity, hippocampal theta rhythm, and hippocampal P300 ERP using electrophysiological and behavioral data recorded from rats performing an auditory discrimination task (i.e., the auditory oddball paradigm) in a chamber with and without a running-wheel. We found that the hippocampal theta rhythm generated during locomotion codes information about self-motion, and event-related increases in hippocampal theta rhythm observed when rats performed the auditory discrimination cognitive task reflect a change in motor behavior after learning the cognitive task. Interestingly, the hippocampal P300 ERP occurred coincidently with increases in the power and frequency of hippocampal theta rhythm. In addition, we found that changes in theta rhythm observed during spontaneous wheel running without performing a cognitive task as well as when performing the cognitive task are associated with changes in delta- and gamma-band EEG activities. These major findings are discussed with respect to current hypotheses regarding P300 ERP and theta-, delta-, and gamma-band EEG activities in brain functions.
Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is a genetically determined neurodevelopmental disorder presenting with behavioral symptoms including hyperphagia, disinhibition, and compulsive behavior. The behavioral problems in individuals with PWS are strikingly similar to those in patients with frontal pathologies, particularly those affecting the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC). However, neuroanatomical abnormalities in the frontal lobe have not been established in PWS. The aim of this study was to look, using volumetric analysis, for morphological changes in the frontal lobe, especially the OFC, of the brains of individuals with PWS. Twelve adults with PWS and 13 age- and gender-matched control subjects participated in structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans. The whole-brain images were segmented and normalized to a standard stereotactic space. Regional gray matter volumes were compared between the PWS group and the control group using voxel-based morphometry. The PWS subjects showed small gray-matter volume in several regions, including the OFC, caudate nucleus, inferior temporal gyrus, precentral gyrus, supplementary motor area, postcentral gyrus, and cerebellum. The small gray-matter volume in the OFC remained significant in a separate analysis that included total gray matter volume as a covariate. These preliminary findings suggest that the neurobehavioral symptoms in individuals with PWS are related to structural brain abnormalities in these areas.
The neural mechanisms behind active and passive touch are not yet fully understood. Using fMRI we investigated the brain correlates of these exploratory procedures using a roughness categorization task. Participants either actively explored a surface (active touch) or the surface was moved under the participant's stationary finger (passive touch). The stimuli consisted of three different grades of sandpaper which participants were required to categorize as either coarse, medium, or fine. Exploratory procedure did not affect performance although the coarse and fine surfaces were more easily categorized than the medium surface. An initial whole brain analysis revealed activation of sensory and cognitive areas, including post-central gyrus and prefrontal cortical areas, in line with areas reported in previous studies. Our main analysis revealed greater activation during active than passive touch in the contralateral primary somatosensory region but no effect of stimulus roughness. In contrast, activation in the parietal operculum (OP) was significantly affected by stimulus roughness but not by exploration procedure. Active touch also elicited greater and more distributed brain activity compared with passive touch in areas outside the somatosensory region, possibly due to the motor component of the task. Our results reveal that different cortical areas may be involved in the processing of surface exploration and surface texture, with exploration procedures affecting activations in the primary somatosensory cortex and stimulus properties affecting relatively higher cortical areas within the somatosensory system.
The purpose of our study was to better understand the relationship between mitochondrial structural proteins, particularly dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp1) and amyloid beta (A) in the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Using qRT-PCR and immunoblotting analyses, we measured mRNA and protein levels of mitochondrial structural genes in the frontal cortex of patients with early, definite and severe AD and in control subjects. We also characterized monomeric and oligomeric forms of A in these patients. Using immunoprecipitation/immunoblotting analysis, we investigated the interaction between A and Drp1. Using immunofluorescence analysis, we determined the localization of Drp1 and intraneuronal and oligomeric A in the AD brains and primary hippocampal neurons from A precursor protein (APP) transgenic mice. We found increased expression of the mitochondrial fission genes Drp1 and Fis1 (fission 1) and decreased expression of the mitochondrial fusion genes Mfn1 (mitofusin 1), Mfn2 (mitofusin 2), Opa1 (optic atrophy 1) and Tomm40. The matrix gene CypD was up-regulated in AD patients. Results from our qRT-PCR and immunoblotting analyses suggest that abnormal mitochondrial dynamics increase as AD progresses. Immunofluorescence analysis of the Drp1 antibody and the A antibodies 6E10 and A11 revealed the colocalization of Drp1 and A. Drp1 immunoprecipitation/immunoblotting analysis of A antibodies 6E10 and A11 revealed that Drp1 interacts with A monomers and oligomers in AD patients, and these abnormal interactions are increased with disease progression. Primary neurons that were found with accumulated oligomeric A had lost branches and were degenerated, indicating that oligomeric A may cause neuronal degeneration. These findings suggest that in patients with AD, increased production of A and the interaction of A with Drp1 are crucial factors in mitochondrial fragmentation, abnormal mitochondrial dynamics and synaptic damage. Inhibiting, these abnormal interactions may be a therapeutic strategy to reduce mitochondrial fragmentation, neuronal and synaptic damage and cognitive decline in patients with AD.


Neurological disorders are becoming increasingly common in developed countries as a result of the aging population. In spite of medications, these disorders can result in progressive loss of function as well as chronic physical, cognitive, and emotional disability that ultimately places enormous emotional and economic on the patient, caretakers, and the society in general. Neuromodulation is emerging as a therapeutic option in these patients. Neuromodulation is a field, which involves implantable devices that allow for the reversible adjustable application of electrical, chemical, or biological agents to the central or peripheral nervous system with the objective of altering its functioning with the objective of achieving a therapeutic or clinically beneficial effect. It is a rapidly evolving field that brings together many different specialties in the fields of medicine, materials science, computer science and technology, biomedical, and neural engineering as well as the surgical or interventional specialties. It has multiple current and emerging indications, and an enormous potential for growth. The main challenges before it are in the need for effective collaboration between engineers, basic scientists, and clinicians to develop innovations that address specific problems resulting in new devices and clinical applications.
Dengue hemorrhagic fever leading to hemorrhage in pituitary adenoma is not reported till date: We herein report the first case of bilateral visual loss secondary to pituitary adenoma hemorrhage associated with dengue hemorrhagic fever. Urgent transnasal trans sphenoidal decompression of the macroadenoma prevented permanent visual loss in this patient. Pituitary apoplexy should be considered as differential diagnosis of visual deterioration apart from retinal hemorrhage, maculopathy, and optic neuropathy in cases of dengue hemorrhagic fever. Early decompression of optic nerves helped in the restoration of vision.




Acyclovir, a commonly used antiviral drug can rarely result in neuropsychiatric complications especially in elderly. We for the first time report acyclovir associated hypomania in an elderly woman. Our report suggests that acyclovir is a risk factor for mood episode in vulnerable individual and one need to be cautious while using antiviral agents in patients with psychiatric disorders.


This article reviews some nonmedical interventions that psychiatrists and other clinicians in the field of neuroscience can provide to their patients with dementia. The author discusses how clinicians can help patients and their caregivers understand the diagnosis causing the dementia (whether it be Alzheimer's, traumatic brain injury, Parkinson's disease, or vascular dementia) and help them to set realistic expectations of the treatment process for the patient and his or her loved ones. The author also reviews how clinicians can help caregivers modify their interactions with the patients when required to enhance not only the quality of life for the patient but the quality of life for the caregiver as well. Finally, the author reviews how clinicians can take on new initiatives that may help both the patients with dementia and their loved ones/caregivers when the patients are at the end stages of their disease.
Deltamethrin, a pyrethroid insecticide, and BTG 502, an alkylamide insecticide, target voltage-gated sodium channels. Deltamethrin binds to a unique receptor site and causes prolonged opening of sodium channels by inhibiting deactivation and inactivation. Previous (22)Na(+) influx and receptor binding assays using mouse brain synaptoneurosomes showed that BTG 502 antagonized the binding and action ofbatrachotoxin (BTX), a site 2 sodium channel neurotoxin. However, the effect of BTG 502 has not been examined directly on sodium channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes. In this study, we examined the effect of BTG 502 on wild-type and mutant cockroach sodium channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Toxin competition experiments confirmed that BTG 502 antagonizes the action of BTX and possibly shares a common receptor site with BTX. However, unlike BTX which causes persistent activation of sodium channels, BTG 502 reduces the amplitude of peak sodium current. A previous study showed thatBTG 502 was more toxic to pyrethroid-resistant house flies possessing a super-kdr (knockdown resistance) mechanism than to pyrethroid-susceptible house flies. However, we found that the cockroach sodium channels carrying the equivalent super-kdr mutations (M918T and L1014F) were not more sensitive to BTG 502 than the wild-type channel. Instead, a kdr mutation, F1519I, which reduces pyrethroid binding, abolished the action of BTG 502. These results provide evidence the actions of alkylamide and pyrethroid insecticides require a common sodium channel residue.
Contemporary studies in the cognitive neuroscience of attention and suggestion shed new light on the underlying neural mechanisms that operationalize these effects. Without adhering to important caveats inherent to imaging of the living human brain, however, findings from brain imaging studies may enthrall more than explain. Scholars, practitioners, professionals, and consumers must realize that the influence words exert on focal brain activity is measurable but that these measurements are often difficult to interpret. While recent brain imaging research increasingly incorporates variations of suggestion and hypnosis, correlating overarching hypnotic experiences with specific brain substrates remains tenuous. This article elucidates the mounting role of cognitive neuroscience, including the relative merits and intrinsic limitations of neuroimaging, in better contextualizing trance-like concepts.

A lack of motor neurons abolishes both neurotrophic factor secretion and contractile activity in muscle, which impairs mass, contractile properties, and fibre-type characteristics of the muscle. However, the molecular pathways that can be stimulated or repressed in the scenario of spinal cord injury remain unknown. We investigated for the first time the transcriptional profile of a young male patient 8 months after spinal cord injury. Adaptive metabolic changes of complete denervated skeletal muscle were revealed. In particular, the main molecular pathways involved include metabolic and proteolitic pathways, mitochondrial and synaptic function, calcium homeostasis, sarcomere and anchorage structures. Our data depict the molecular signalling still present in complete denervated skeletal muscle fibres a few months after spinal cord injury. These data could be of interest also to design a specific therapeutic approach aimed at the electrical-stimulation of severe atrophied skeletal muscle.
The aim of this study was to investigate the involvement of serotonin-1A (5-HT(1A)) receptors in the effects of 3,4-methylenedioxymetamphetamine (MDMA) on prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle (PPI) by comparing male and female wild-type (WT) mice and 5-HT(1A) receptor knockout (1AKO) mice. MDMA dose-dependently decreased PPI in male and female mice although female mice were more sensitive at the 100-ms inter-stimulus interval (ISI). In male mice, 10 mg/kg MDMA disrupted PPI in 1AKO but not in WT controls. There was no genotype difference at higher or lower doses of MDMA. In female mice, there was no difference between genotypes at any dose of MDMA. Average startle was reduced by 10 mg/kg and 20 mg/kg MDMA similarly in male and female mice and all genotypes. These results show an involvement of 5-HT(1A) receptors in the effect of MDMA on PPI in male, but not female mice.
The wide-scale analysis of protein expression provides a powerful strategy for the molecular exploration of complex pathophysiological mechanisms, such as the response to antidepressants. Using a 2D proteomic approach we investigated the Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL), a genetically selected rat model of depression, and the control Flinders Resistant Line (FRL). To evaluate gene-environment interactions, FSL and FRL pups were separated from their mothers for 3 h (maternal separation, MS), as early-life trauma is considered an important antecedent of depression. All groups were treated with either escitalopram (Esc) admixed to food (25 mg/kg.d) or vehicle for 1 month. At the week 3, forced swim tests were performed. Protein extracts from prefrontal/frontal cortex and hippocampus were separated by 2D electrophoresis. Proteins displaying statistically significant differences in expression levels were identified by mass spectrometry. Immobility time values in the forced swim test were higher in FSL rats and reduced by antidepressant treatment. Moreover, the Esc-induced reduction in immobility time was not detected in MS rats. The impact of genetic background in response to Esc was specifically investigated here. Bioinformatics analyses highlighted gene ontology terms showing tighter associations with the modulated proteins. Esc modulated protein belonging to cytoskeleton organization in FSL; carbohydrate metabolism and intracellular transport in FRL. Proteins differently modulated in the two strains after MS and Esc play a role in cytoskeleton organization, vesicle-mediated transport, apoptosis regulation and macromolecule catabolism. These findings suggest pathways involved in neuronal remodelling as molecular correlates of response to antidepressants in a model of vulnerability.
Large-scale investigations aimed at elucidating the molecular mechanism of action of antidepressant treatment are achievable through the application of proteomic technologies. We performed a proteomic study on the Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL), a genetically selected rat model of depression, and the control Flinders Resistant Line (FRL). To evaluate gene-environment interactions, FSL and FRL animals were separated from their mothers for 3 h from postnatal days 2 to 14 (maternal separation; MS), since early-life trauma is considered an important antecedent of depression. All groups received either escitalopram (Esc) admixed to food pellets (25 mg/kg.d) or vehicle for 1 month. Protein extracts from prefrontal/frontal cortex and hippocampus were separated by 2D electrophoresis. Proteins differentially modulated were identified by mass spectrometry. Bioinformatics analyses were performed to discover gene ontology terms associated with the modulated proteins. This paper was focused on the modifications induced by the environmental challenge of MS, both on the predisposed genetic background and on the resistant phenotype. The combination between Esc treatment and MS was investigated by comparing the MS, Esc-treated rats with rats subjected to each single procedure. In MS rats, antidepressant treatment influenced mainly proteins involved in carbohydrate metabolism in FSL rats and in vesicle-mediated transport in FRL rats. When studying the interaction between Esc and MS vs. non-separated rats, proteins playing a role in cytoskeleton organization, neuronal development, vesicle-mediated transport and synaptic plasticity were identified. The results provide further support to the available reports that antidepressant treatment affects intracellular pathways and also suggest new potential targets for future therapeutic intervention.
The caudate putamen (CPu) has been implicated in habit learning and neuroadaptive changes that mediate the compulsive nature of drug-seeking following chronic cocaine self-administration. Re-exposure to an operant chamber previously associated with cocaine, but not yoked-saline, increases activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated (Arc) gene mRNA expression within the dorsolateral (dl) CPu following prolonged abstinence. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that antisense gene knockdown of Arc within the dlCPu would alter cocaine-seeking. Initial studies showed that a single infusion of Arc antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) into the dlCPu significantly attenuated the induction of Arc mRNA and Arc protein by a single cocaine exposure (20 mg/kg i.p.) compared to scrambled-ODN-infused controls. In cocaine self-administering rats, infusion of Arc antisense ODN into the dlCPu 3 h prior to a test of context-driven drug-seeking significantly attenuated Arc protein induction, but failed to alter responding during testing, suggesting striatal Arc does not facilitate context-induced drug-seeking following prolonged abstinence. However, Arc antisense ODN infusion blunted the decrease in responding during subsequent 1-h extinction tests 24 and 48 h later. Following re-exposure to a cocaine-paired context, surface expression of the AMPA-type glutamate receptor GluR1 was significantly reduced whereas GluR2 was significantly increased in the dlCPu, independent of Arc antisense ODN infusion. Together, these findings indicate an important role for Arc in neuroadaptations within brain regions responsible for drug-seeking after abstinence and direct attention to changes occurring within striatal circuitry that are necessary to break down the habitual behaviour that leads to relapse.
Dyslexia is a learning difficulty affecting the acquisition of fluent reading and spelling skills due to poor phonological processing. Underlying deficits in processing sound rise time have also been found in children and adults with dyslexia. However, the neural basis for these deficits is unknown. In the present study event-related potentials were used to index neural processing and examine the effect of rise time manipulation on the obligatory N1, T-complex and P2 responses in English speaking adults with and without dyslexia. The Tb wave of the T-complex showed differences between groups, with the amplitudes for Tb becoming less negative with increased rise time for the participants with dyslexia only. Frontocentral N1 and P2 did not show group effects. Enhanced Tb amplitude that is modulated by rise time could indicate altered neural networks at the lateral surface of the superior temporal gyrus in adults with dyslexia.
Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths among US males. Pomegranate juice (PJ), a natural product, was shown in a clinical trial to inhibit progression of this disease. However, the underlying mechanisms involved in the anti-progression effects of PJ on prostate cancer remain unclear. Here we show that, in addition to causing cell death of hormone-refractory prostate cancer cells, PJ also increases cell adhesion and decreases cell migration of the cells that do not die. We hypothesized that PJ does so by stimulating the expression and/or activation of molecules that alter the cytoskeleton and the adhesion machinery of prostate cancer cells, resulting in enhanced cell adhesion and reduced cell migration. We took an integrative approach to these studies by using Affimetrix gene arrays to study gene expression, microRNA arrays to study the non-coding RNAs, molecules known to be disregulated in cancer cells, and Luminex Multiplex array assays to study the level of secreted pro-inflammatory cytokines/chemokines. PJ up-regulates genes involved in cell adhesion such as E-cadherin, intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) and down-regulates genes involved in cell migration such as hyaluranan-mediated motility receptor (HMMR) and type I collagen. In addition, anti-invasive microRNAs such as miR-335, miR-205, miR-200, and miR-126, were up-regulated, whereas pro-invasive microRNA such as miR-21 and miR-373, were down-regulated. Moreover, PJ significantly reduced the level of secreted pro-inflammatory cytokines/chemokines such as IL-6, IL-12p40, IL-1 and RANTES, thereby having the potential to decrease inflammation and its impact on cancer progression. PJ also inhibits the ability of the chemokine SDF1 to chemoattract these cancer cells. SDF1 and its receptor CXCR4 are important in metastasis of cancer cells to the bone. Discovery of the mechanisms by which this enhanced adhesion and reduced migration are accomplished can lead to sophisticated and effective prevention of metastasis in prostate and potentially other cancers.


Salvia verticillata is one of the salvia species which possesses remarkable antioxidant activity. In the present study, we investigated the possible effects of hydro-alcoholic extract from Salvia verticillata plant (SVE) in various models of anxiety, depression and seizure in mice. Mice were randomly divided into control (saline), SVE-treated and standard treatment groups. The SVE-treated groups received oral administration of various doses of SVE. As a standard treatment, diazepam and imipramine were used orally for anxiety/seizure and depression tests, respectively. The results of the study revealed that the plant extract produced significant anticonvulsant activity in maximal electroshock and pentylenetetrazol induced seizure models. Moreover, in forced swim test and tail suspension test of depression, SVE produced significant antidepressant effect in mice compared to control group. However, SVE did not show any effects on anxiety-like behavior of mice in elevated plus maze and light-dark tests. These results suggest potential therapeutic effects of the plant extract in seizure and depression.

It is proposed that the moonlighting concept can be applied to G protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) as, obviously, they can carry out different types of functions. The same motifs in, for example, the third intracellular loop, can moonlight by switching between receptor-receptor interactions and interactions with signaling proteins such as G proteins or calmodulin. A &quot;guide-and-clasp&quot; manner of receptor-receptor interactions has been proposed where the &quot;adhesive guides&quot; may be the triplet homologies. As an example, the triplets AAR (or RAA) and AAE (or EAA) homologies in A(2A) R-D2 R heteromers may guide-and-clasp binding not only of the two protomers but also of calmodulin and G(i) . A beautiful moonlighting phenomenon in the A(2A) R-D2 R heteromer is that the positively charged D2 R N-terminal third intracellular loop epitope (VLRRRRKRVN) may switch between bindings to the negatively charged A(2A) R epitope (SAQEpSQGNT), localized in the medium segment of the C terminus of the A2A receptor to several negative epitopes of calmodulin. Furthermore, overlapping motifs may favor moonlighting to G(i/o) via inter alia electrostatic interaction between triplets AAR(in D2 R third intracellular loop) and AAE (G(i/alpha1) ) (and/or their symmetric variants) contributing to guide-and-clasp D2 R-G(i) interactions Thus, moonlighting in GPCR heteromers can take place via allosteric receptor-receptor interactions and is also described in D1 R-D2 R, D2 R-5-HT2 R,and A1 R-P2Y1 heteromers. Allosteric receptor-receptor interactions in GPCR-receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) heteromers and postulated ion channel receptor-RTK heteromers-like, for example, AMPA-NMDA-TrkB heteromers may lead to moonlighting of the participating GPCR and RTK protomers altering, for example, the pattern of the five major signaling pathways of the RTKs favoring MAPK and/or mTOR signaling with high relevance for neurodegenerative processes and depression induced atrophy of neurons. Moonlighting may also develop in the intracellular loops and C-terminal of the GPCRs as a result of dynamic allosteric interactions between different types of G proteins and other receptor interacting proteins in these domains of the receptor.
At a cocktail party, listeners must attend selectively to a target speaker and segregate their speech from distracting speech sounds uttered by other speakers. To solve this task, listeners can draw on a variety of vocal, spatial, and temporal cues. Recently, Vestergaard et al. [J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 125, 1114-1124 (2009)] developed a concurrent-syllable task to control temporal glimpsing within segments of concurrent speech, and this allowed them to measure the interaction of glottal pulse rate and vocal tract length and reveal how the auditory system integrates information from independent acoustic modalities to enhance recognition. The current paper shows how the interaction of these acoustic cues evolves as the temporal overlap of syllables is varied. Temporal glimpses as short as 25 ms are observed to improve syllable recognition substantially when the target and distracter have similar vocal characteristics, but not when they are dissimilar. The effect of temporal glimpsing on recognition performance is strongly affected by the form of the syllable (consonant-vowel versus vowel-consonant), but it is independent of other phonetic features such as place and manner of articulation.
Lip-reading has been shown to improve the intelligibility of speech in multitalker situations, where auditory stream segregation naturally takes place. This study investigated whether the benefit of lip-reading is a result of a primary audiovisual interaction that enhances the obligatory streaming mechanism. Two behavioral experiments were conducted involving sequences of French vowels that alternated in fundamental frequency. In Experiment 1, subjects attempted to identify the order of items in a sequence. In Experiment 2, subjects attempted to detect a disruption to temporal isochrony across alternate items. Both tasks are disrupted by streaming, thus providing a measure of primary or obligatory streaming. Visual lip gestures articulating alternate vowels were synchronized with the auditory sequence. Overall, the results were consistent with the hypothesis that visual lip gestures enhance segregation by affecting primary auditory streaming. Moreover, increases in the naturalness of visual lip gestures and auditory vowels, and corresponding increases in audiovisual congruence may potentially lead to increases in the effect of visual lip gestures on streaming.
The development of sound-evoked responses in Chinchilla lanigera was studied from postnatal ages P0-1 (first 24 h) to adult. Cochlear microphonic (CMs) and compound action potentials (CAPs), representing ensemble sound-evoked activities of hair cells and auditory nerve fibers, respectively, were present as early as age P0-1. The data indicate that CM thresholds and sensitivities were generally adult-like (i.e., fall into adult ranges) at birth, but suprathreshold CM amplitudes remained below adult ranges through P28. CAP thresholds reached adult-like values between P7-P14, but the suprathreshold CAP amplitude continued to increase until P28. The results confirm the auditory precociousness of the chinchilla.




Abstract Recent developments in neuroscience have provided us with a wealth of the basic knowledge and tools which are required for neurobiological understanding of the psychological concepts. This advantage enables contemporary scientists to suggest and test brain models for psychological concepts, theories, and methods. Considering the current dominance of biological ideas in psychiatry and psychology, such models are essential in confirmation of the psychological theories of mind. In this article a brain model for schemas as essential to cognitive theory is proposed. Schemas are seen as patterns which are recognized and memorized through the training phase of an autoassociative neural network. Then, these patterns are used to complete ambiguous aspects of future experiences through thalamo and hippocampal-cortical pathways. In relation to the self or the outside world when a pattern with unknown, noisy, or vague aspects is encountered, those aspects are completed by the principal components of previously learned patterns (schema). This process is to help the observer acquire a better understanding of the environment or the self. However, the patterns which are used to complete the uncertainties about the self or the environment are sometimes not good estimates of the reality and lead the person/patient to an illusionary perception of the self/environment. In this article, the role of the mirror neuron system in pattern recognition is also explained. Psychological and biological therapeutic implications of this model are discussed and the importance of a link between dynamic and cognitive therapies is rationalized.
Common complications of neurolytic mandibular nerve block are hypoesthesia, dysesthesia, and chemical neuritis. We report a rare complication, prolonged severe vertigo and ataxia, after neurolytic mandibular blockade in a patient suffering from trigeminal neuralgia. Coronoid approach was used for right sided mandibular block. After successful test injection with local anesthetic, absolute alcohol was given for neurolytic block. Immediately after alcohol injection, patient developed nausea and vomiting along with severe vertigo, ataxia and hypertension. Neurological evaluation was normal except for the presence of vertigo and ataxia. Computerised tomography scan brain was also normal. Patient was admitted for observation and symptomatic treatment was given. Vertigo and ataxia gradually improved over 24 hours.
Progenitor cells expressing proteoglycan NG2 (also known as oligodendrocyte precursor cells or polydendrocytes) are widespread in the grey and white matter of the CNS; they comprise 8-9% of the total cell population in adult white matter, and 2-3% of total cells in adult grey matter. NG2 cells have a complex stellate morphology, with highly branched processes that may extend more than 100 m around the cell body. NG2 cells express a complex set of voltage-gated channels, AMPA/kainate and/or -aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptors, and receive glutamatergic and/or GABAergic synaptic input from neurons. In every region of the brain NG2 cells are found as proliferative cells, and the fraction of actively cycling NG2 cells is quite high in young as well as in adult animals. During development NG2 cells either differentiate into myelinating oligodendrocytes (and possibly also few astrocytes and neurons) or persist in the brain parenchyma as NG2 cells. This review highlights new findings related to the morphological and electrophysiological changes of NG2 cells, and the fate of synaptic input between neurons and NG2 cells during proliferation and differentiation of these cells in the neonatal and adult nervous system of rodents.
Trafficking of the proteins that form gap junctions (connexins) from the site of synthesis to the junctional domain appears to require cytoskeletal delivery mechanisms. Although many cell types exhibit specific delivery of connexins to polarized cell sites, such as connexin32 (Cx32) gap junctions specifically localized to basolateral membrane domains of hepatocytes, the precise roles of actin- and tubulin-based systems remain unclear. We have observed fluorescently tagged Cx32 trafficking linearly at speeds averaging 0.25 m/s in a polarized hepatocyte cell line (WIF-B9), which is abolished by 50 M of the microtubule-disrupting agent nocodazole. To explore the involvement of cytoskeletal components in the delivery of connexins, we have used a preparation of isolated Cx32-containing vesicles from rat hepatocytes and assayed their ATP-driven motility along stabilized rhodamine-labeled microtubules in vitro. These assays revealed the presence of Cx32 and kinesin motor proteins in the same vesicles. The addition of 50 M ATP stimulated vesicle motility along linear microtubule tracks with velocities of 0.4-0.5 m/s, which was inhibited with 1 mM of the kinesin inhibitor AMP-PNP (adenylyl-imidodiphosphate) and by anti-kinesin antibody but only minimally affected by 5 M vanadate, a dynein inhibitor, or by anti-dynein antibody. These studies provide evidence that Cx32 can be transported intracellularly along microtubules and presumably to junctional domains in cells and highlight an important role of kinesin motor proteins in microtubule-dependent motility of Cx32.
Hmgb1 (high mobility group box-1; amphoterin) is highly expressed in brain during early development of vertebrate and nonvertebrate species. However, its role in brain development remains elusive. Here we have cloned the zebrafish Hmgb1 and specifically manipulated Hmgb1 expression using injection of morpholino antisense oligonucleotides or Hmgb1 cRNA. The HMGB1 knockdown morphants produced by injection of three different morpholino oligonucleotides display a characteristic phenotype with smaller size, smaller brain width, and shorter distance between the eyes. Closer examination of the phenotype reveals severe defects in the development of the forebrain that largely lacks catecholaminergic neural networks. The HMGB1 morphant is deficient in survival and proliferation of neural progenitors and displays fewer cell groups expressing the transcription factor Pax6a in the forebrain and aberrant Wnt8 signaling. The mechanism of HMGB1-dependent progenitor survival involves the neuronal transmembrane protein AMIGO (amphoterin-induced gene and orf), the expression of which is regulated by HMGB1 in vivo. Our data demonstrate that HMGB1 is a critical factor for brain development, enabling survival and proliferation of neural progenitors that will form the forebrain structures.
Reduced axonal mitochondrial transport has been observed in major neurodegenerative diseases, including fALS patients and SOD1(G93A) mice. However, it is unclear whether this defect plays a critical role in axonal degeneration or simply reflects sequelae of general transport alteration. Using genetic mouse models combined with time-lapse imaging of live neurons, we previously discovered that axon-targeted syntaphilin (SNPH) acts as a docking receptor specific for axonal mitochondria. Deletion of the snph gene in mice results in a substantially higher proportion of axonal mitochondria in the mobile state without any effect on the transport of other axonal organelles. Here we address whether increased (rescued) axonal mitochondrial mobility changes the disease course by crossing fALS-linked transgenic SOD1(G93A) and snph(-/-) knock-out mice. We found that a 2-fold increase in axonal mitochondrial mobility in SOD1(G93A)/snph(-/-) mice did not affect the onset of ALS-like symptoms. Both SOD1(G93A) and SOD1(G93A)/snph(-/-) mice exhibit similar weight loss, deterioration in motor function and motor neuron loss, significant gliosis, and a lifespan of 152-154 days. Thus, for the first time, our study provides genetic and pathological evidence that the impairment of mitochondrial transport seen in SOD1(G93A) mice plays a minimal role in the rapid-onset of fALS-linked pathology.
As the most abundant cell type in the central nervous system, astrocyte has been one of main research topics in neuroscience. Although various tools have been developed, at present, there is no tool that allows noninvasive activation of astrocyte in vivo without genetic or pharmacological perturbation. Here we report a noninvasive label-free optical method for physiological astrocyte activation in vivo using a femtosecond pulsed laser. We showed the laser stimulation robustly induced astrocytic calcium activation in vivo and further verified physiological relevance of the calcium increase by demonstrating astrocyte mediated vasodilation in the brain. This novel optical method will facilitate noninvasive physiological study on astrocyte function.
Pandiculation is the involuntary stretching of the soft tissues, which occurs in most animal species and is associated with transitions between cyclic biological behaviors, especially the sleep-wake rhythm (Walusinski, 2006). Yawning is considered a special case of pandiculation that affects the musculature of the mouth, respiratory system and upper spine (Baenninger, 1997). When, as often happens, yawning occurs simultaneously with pandiculation in other body regions (Bertolini and Gessa, 1981; Lehmann, 1979; Urba-Holmgren etal., 1977) the combined behavior is referred to as the stretch-yawning syndrome (SYS). SYS has been associated with the arousal function, as it seems to reset the central nervous system to the waking state after a period of sleep and prepare the animal to respond to environmental stimuli (Walusinski, 2006). This paper explores the hypothesis that the SYS might also have an auto-regulatory role regarding the locomotor system: to maintain the animal's ability to express coordinated and integrated movement by regularly restoring and resetting the structural and functional equilibrium of the myofascial system. It is now recognized that the myofascial system is integrative, linking body parts, as the force of a muscle is transmitted via the fascial structures well beyond the tendonous attachments of the muscle itself (Huijing and Jaspers, 2005). It is argued here that pandiculation might preserve the integrative role of the myofascial system by (a) developing and maintaining appropriate physiological fascial interconnections and (b) modulating the pre-stress state of the myofascial system by regularly activating the tonic musculature. The ideas presented here initially arose from clinical observations during the practice of a manual therapy called Muscular Repositioning (MR) (Bertolucci, 2008; Bertolucci and Kozasa, 2010a; Bertolucci, 2010b). These observations were supplemented by a review of the literature on the subject. A possible link between MR and SYS is presented: The neural reflexes characteristically evoked through MR are reminiscent of SYS, which both suggests that MR might stimulate parts of the SYS reaction, and also points to one of MR's possible mechanisms of action.
Inhibitor of differentiation-1 (Id-1) is a member of helix-loop-helix (HLH) family of proteins that regulate gene transcription through their inhibitory binding to basic-HLH transcription factors. Similarly to other members of this family, Id-1 is involved in the repression of cell differentiation and activation of cell growth. The dual function of Id-1, inhibition of differentiation, and stimulation of cell proliferation, might be interdependent, as cell differentiation is generally coupled with the exit from the cell cycle. Fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) has been reported to play multiple roles in different biological processes during development of the central nervous system (CNS). In addition, FGF-2 has been described to induce &quot;neuronal-like&quot; differentiation and trigger apoptosis in neuroblastoma SK-N-MC cells. Although regulation of Id-1 protein by several mitogenic factors is well-established, little is known about the role of FGF-2 in the regulation of Id-1. Using human neuroblastoma cell line, SK-N-MC, we found that treatment of these cells with FGF-2 resulted in early induction of both Id-1 mRNA and protein. The induction occurs within 1 h from FGF-2 treatment and is mediated by ERK1/2 pathway, which in turn stimulates expression of the early growth response-1 (Egr-1) transcription factor. We also demonstrate direct interaction of Egr-1 with Id-1 promoter in vitro and in cell culture. Finally, inhibition of Id-1 expression results in G(2) /M accumulation of FGF-2-treated cells and delayed cell death.
LIS1, a WD40 repeat scaffold protein, interacts with components of the cytoplasmic dynein motor complex to regulate dynein-dependent cell motility. Here, we reveal that cAMP-specific phosphodiesterases (PDE4s) directly bind PAFAH1B1 (also known as LIS1). Dissociation of LIS1-dynein complexes is coupled with loss of dynein function, as determined in assays of both microtubule transport and directed cell migration in wounded monolayers. Such loss in dynein functioning can be achieved by upregulation of PDE4, which sequesters LIS1 away from dynein, thereby uncovering PDE4 as a regulator of dynein functioning. This process is facilitated by increased intracellular cAMP levels, which selectively augment the interaction of long PDE4 isoforms with LIS1 when they become phosphorylated within their regulatory UCR1 domain by protein kinase A (PKA). We propose that PDE4 and dynein have overlapping interaction sites for LIS1, which allows PDE4 to compete with dynein for LIS1 association in a process enhanced by the PKA phosphorylation of PDE4 long isoforms. This provides a further example to the growing notion that PDE4 itself may provide a signalling role independent of its catalytic activity, exemplified here by its modulation of dynein motor function.
Cortical spreading depression (CSD) is associated with mitochondrial depolarization, increasing intracellular Ca(2+), and the release of free fatty acids, which favor opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP) and activation of calcineurin (CaN). Here, we test the hypothesis that cyclosporine A (CsA), which blocks both mPTP and CaN, ameliorates the persistent reduction of cerebral blood flow (CBF), impaired vascular reactivity, and a persistent rise in the cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO(2)) following CSD. In addition to CsA, we used the specific mPTP blocker NIM811 and the specific CaN blocker FK506. Cortical spreading depression was induced in rat frontal cortex. Electrocortical activity was recorded by glass microelectrodes, CBF by laser Doppler flowmetry, and tissue oxygen tension with polarographic microelectrodes. Electrocortical activity, basal CBF, CMRO(2), and neurovascular and neurometabolic coupling were unaffected by all three drugs under control conditions. NIM811 augmented the rise in CBF observed during CSD. Cyclosporine A and FK506 ameliorated the persistent decrease in CBF after CSD. All three drugs prevented disruption of neurovascular coupling after CSD; the rise in CMRO(2) was unchanged. Our data suggest that blockade of mPTP formation and CaN activation may prevent persistent CBF reduction and vascular dysfunction after CSD.
Depression and anxiety are among the leading causes of societal burden. Abnormalities in 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT; serotonin) neurotransmission are known to be associated with depressive and anxiety symptoms. The rostral projections of brainstem dorsal (DRN) and median (MRN) raphe nuclei are the main sources of forebrain 5-HT. The expression, turnover and distribution of tryptophan hydroxylase 2 (TPH2), the rate-limiting enzyme in 5-HT biosynthesis in the DRN and MRN are complex, in keeping with the existence of different subpopulations of 5-HT neurons in this area. In the present study, we measured the expression of TPH2 mRNA in the DRN and MRN using in situ hybridization in three genetically modified mouse models, all relevant to depression and anxiety, and matched wild-type controls. Our results show quantitative modifications in TPH2 mRNA expression in the three main subregions of the DRN as well as the MRN in relation to changes in serotonergic, glutamatergic and endocannabinoid neurotransmission systems. Thus, there were significant decreases in TPH2 transcript levels in 5-HT transporter (5-HTT)-/- mutant mice, whereas increases were observed in the vesicular glutamate transporter 1 hemi knock out (VGLUT1+/-) and cannabinoid receptor 1 mutant (CB1R-/-) mice. Based on these findings, we suggest that TPH2 mRNA expression is under the influence of multiple messenger systems in relation to presynaptic and/or postsynaptic feedback control of serotonin synthesis that, 5-HTT, VGLUT1 and CB1R seem to be involved in these feedback mechanisms. Finally, our data are in line with previous reports suggesting that TPH2 activity within different raphe subregions is differentially regulated under specific conditions.
This review paper summarizes our previous contributions to the study of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) innervation of basal ganglia in human and nonhuman primates under normal conditions. We have visualized the 5-HT neuronal system in squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciureus) and human postmortem materials with antibodies directed against either 5-HT, 5-HT transporter (SERT) or 5-HT synthesizing enzyme tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH). Confocal microscopy was used to compare the distribution of 5-HT and dopamine (DA; tyrosine hydroxylase-immunolabeled) axons in human, while the ultrastructural features of 5-HT axon terminals in monkey subthalamic nucleus were characterized at electron microscopic level. In monkeys and humans, midbrain raphe neurons emit axons that traverse the brainstem via the transtegmental system, ascend within the medial forebrain bundle and reach their targets by coursing along the major output pathways of the basal ganglia. These 5-HT axons arborize in virtually all basal ganglia components with the substantia nigra receiving the densest innervation and the striatum the most heterogeneous one. Although the striatum - the major basal ganglia input structure - appears to be a common termination site for many of 5-HT ascending axons, our results reveal that the widely distributed 5-HT neuronal system can also act directly upon neurons located within the two major output structures of the basal ganglia, namely the internal pallidum and the substantia nigra pars reticulata in monkeys and humans. This system also has a direct access to neurons of the DA nigrostriatal pathway, a finding that underlines the importance of the 5-HT/DA interactions in the physiopathology of basal ganglia.
The midbrain dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) is the origin of the central serotonin (5-HT) system, a key neurotransmitter system that has been implicated in the expression of normal behaviors and in diverse psychiatric disorders, particularly affective disorders such as depression and anxiety. One link between the DR-5-HT system and affective disorders is exposure to stressors. Stress is a major risk factor for affective disorders, and stressors alter activity of DR neurons in an anatomically specific manner. Stress-induced changes in DR neuronal activity are transmitted to targets of the DR via ascending serotonergic projections, many of which collateralize to innervate multiple brain regions. Indeed, the collateralization of DR efferents allows for the coordination of diverse components of the stress response. This review will summarize our current understanding of the organization of the ascending DR system and its collateral projections. Using the neuropeptide corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) system as an example of a stress-related initiator of DR activity, we will discuss how topographic specificity of afferent regulation of ascending DR circuits serves to coordinate activity in functionally diverse target regions under appropriate conditions.
Tryptophan hydroxylase is the rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT). Two isoforms of tryptophan hydroxylase, derived from different genes, tph1 and tph2, have been identified. The tph1 isoform is expressed in peripheral tissues, whereas tph2 is brain and neuron-specific. Recent studies suggest that tph2 expression and brain serotonin turnover are upregulated in depressed suicide patients, and drug-free depressed patients, respectively. Increased tph2 expression could result from genetic influences, early life developmental influences, adverse experience during adulthood, or interactions among these factors. Studies in rodents support the hypothesis that interactions between early life developmental influences and adverse experience during adulthood play an important role in determining tph2 expression. In this review, we highlight the evidence for the effects of adverse early life experience and stressful experience during adulthood on both tph1 and tph2 expression.

A ketogenic diet (KD) is a high-fat, low-carbohydrate metabolic regimen; its effectiveness in the treatment of refractory epilepsy suggests that the mechanisms underlying its anticonvulsive effects differ from those targeted by conventional antiepileptic drugs. Recently, KD and analogous metabolic strategies have shown therapeutic promise in other neurologic disorders, such as reducing brain injury, pain, and inflammation. Here, we have shown that KD can reduce seizures in mice by increasing activation of adenosine A1 receptors (A1Rs). When transgenic mice with spontaneous seizures caused by deficiency in adenosine metabolism or signaling were fed KD, seizures were nearly abolished if mice had intact A1Rs, were reduced if mice expressed reduced A1Rs, and were unaltered if mice lacked A1Rs. Seizures were restored by injecting either glucose (metabolic reversal) or an A1R antagonist (pharmacologic reversal). Western blot analysis demonstrated that the KD reduced adenosine kinase, the major adenosine-metabolizing enzyme. Importantly, hippocampal tissue resected from patients with medically intractable epilepsy demonstrated increased adenosine kinase. We therefore conclude that adenosine deficiency may be relevant to human epilepsy and that KD can reduce seizures by increasing A1R-mediated inhibition.
A fundamental question for social cognitive neuroscience is how and where in the brain the identities and actions of others are represented. Here we present a replication and extension of a study by Kable and Chatterjee [Kable, J. W., &amp; Chatterjee, A. Specificity of action representations in the lateral occipito-temporal cortex. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 18, 1498-1517, 2006] examining the role of occipito-temporal cortex in these processes. We presented full-cue movies of actors performing whole-body actions and used fMRI to test for action- and identity-specific adaptation effects. We examined a series of functionally defined regions, including the extrastriate and fusiform body areas, the fusiform face area, the parahippocampal place area, the lateral occipital complex, the right posterior superior temporal sulcus, and motion-selective area hMT+. These regions were analyzed with both standard univariate measures as well as multivoxel pattern analyses. Additionally, we performed whole-brain tests for significant adaptation effects. We found significant action-specific adaptation in many areas, but no evidence for identity-specific adaptation. We argue that this finding could be explained by differences in the familiarity of the stimuli presented: The actions shown were familiar but the actors performing the actions were unfamiliar. However, in contrast to previous findings, we found that the action adaptation effect could not be conclusively tied to specific functionally defined regions. Instead, our results suggest that the adaptation to previously seen actions across identities is a widespread effect, evident across lateral and ventral occipito-temporal cortex.
Several cognitive models suggest that saccade RTs are controlled flexibly not only by mechanisms that accumulate sensory evidence after the appearance of a sensory stimulus (poststimulus mechanisms) but also by mechanisms that preset the saccade control system before the sensory event (prestimulus mechanisms). Consistent with model predictions, neurons in structures tightly related to saccade initiation, such as the superior colliculus and FEF, have poststimulus and prestimulus activities correlated with RTs. It has been hypothesized that the BG influence the saccade initiation process by controlling both poststimulus and prestimulus activities of superior colliculus and FEF neurons. To examine this hypothesis directly, we delivered electrical microstimulation to the caudate nucleus, the input stage of the oculomotor BG, while monkeys performed a prosaccade (look toward a visual stimulus) and antisaccade (look away from the stimulus) paradigm. Microstimulation applied after stimulus appearance (poststimulus microstimulation) prolonged RTs regardless of saccade directions (contra/ipsi) or task instructions (pro/anti). In contrast, microstimulation applied before stimulus appearance (prestimulus microstimulation) shortened RTs, although the effects were limited to several task conditions. The analysis of RT distributions using the linear approach to threshold with ergodic rate model revealed that poststimulus microstimulation prolonged RTs by reducing the rate of rise to the threshold for saccade initiation, whereas fitting results for prestimulus microstimulation were inconsistent across different task conditions. We conclude that both poststimulus and prestimulus activities of caudate neurons are sufficient to control saccade RTs.
Previous studies suggested that the observation of other individuals' somatosensory experiences also activates brain circuits processing one's own somatosensory experiences. However, it is unclear whether cortical regions involved with the elementary stages of touch processing are also involved in the automatic coding of the affective consequences of observed touch and to which extent they show overlapping activation for somatosensory experiences of self and others. In order to investigate these issues, in the present fMRI study, healthy participants either experienced touch or watched videos depicting other individuals' inanimate and animate/social touch experiences. Essentially, a distinction can be made between exteroceptive and interoceptive components of touch processing, involved with physical stimulus characteristics and internal feeling states, respectively. Consistent with this distinction, a specific negative modulation was found in the posterior insula by the mere visual perception of other individuals' social or affective cutaneous experiences, compared to neutral inanimate touch. On the other hand, activation in secondary somatosensory and posterior superior temporal regions, strongest for the most intense stimuli, seemed more dependent on the observed physical stimulus characteristics. In contrast to the detected vicarious activation in somatosensory regions, opposite activation patterns for the experience (positive modulation) and observation (negative modulation) of touch suggest that the posterior insula does not reflect a shared representation of self and others' experiences. Embedded in a distributed network of brain regions underpinning a sense of the bodily self, the posterior insula rather appears to differentiate between self and other conditions when affective experiences are implicated.
&quot;Surface-associated astrocytes&quot; (SAAs) in posterior piriform cortex (PPC) are unique by virtue of a direct apposition to the cortical surface and large-caliber processes that descend into layer I. In this study additional unique and functionally relevant features of SAAs in PPC of the rat were identified by light and electron microscopy. Examination of sections cut parallel to the surface of PPC and stained for glial fibrillar acidic protein revealed that, in addition to descending processes, SAAs give rise to an extensive matrix of &quot;superficial processes.&quot; Electron microscopy revealed that these superficial processes, together with cell bodies, form a continuous sheet at the surface of PPC with features in common with the glia limitans that is formed by endfeet in other cortical areas. These include a glia limiting membrane with basal lamina and similar associated organelles, including a striking array of mitochondria. Of particular interest, SAAs lack the domain organization observed in neocortex and hippocampus. Rather, superficial processes overlap extensively with gap junctions between their proximal regions as well as between cell bodies. Study of the descending processes revealed thin extensions, many of which appose synaptic profiles. We conclude that SAAs provide a potential substrate for bidirectional signaling and transport between brain and the pial arteries and cerebrospinal fluid in the subarachnoid space. We postulate that the spatially distributed character of SAAs in PPC reflects and supports the spatially distributed circuitry and sensory representation that are also unique features of this area.
Blind cavefish use a form of active sensing in which burst-coast swimming motions generate flow signals detected by the lateral line. To determine if blind cavefish have evolved behavioral specializations for active flow-sensing, including the ability to regulate flow signal production through lateral line feedback, the swimming kinematics of blind and sighted morphs of Astyanax were compared before and after 24 h of familiarization with a novel, dark environment and with and without lateral line functionality. Although both morphs showed little difference in the vast majority of kinematic parameters measured, blind morphs differed significantly from sighted morphs in having a much higher incidence of swim cycle sequences devoid of sharp turns. Both lateral line deprivation and familiarization with the arena led to significant declines in this number for blind, but not sighted morphs. These findings suggest that swimming kinematics are largely conserved, but that blind morphs have nevertheless evolved enhanced abilities to use lateral line feedback when linking swim cycles into continuous, straight trajectories for exploratory purposes. This behavioral specialization can best be understood in terms of the intermittent and short-range limitations of active flow-sensing and the challenges they pose for spatial orientation and navigation.
As part of the trauma of the upper third of the massive face, the fronto-orbito-zygomatic arch is the most frequent and is often associated with eyelid involvement. From 2001 to 2008, 135 patients with fronto-orbital eyelid complex alterations occurred at our center; the patients were included in clinical follow-ups until 2010. Most patients (80%) came to our observation in a state of emergency due to automobile accidents, sports injuries, or assaults, whereas a smaller proportion (20%) was because of previous trauma or surgery. Among the urgent patients, 28 patients present bone lesions without soft-tissue involvement, 62 present bone lesions with soft-tissue involvement, and 16 present only soft-tissue lesions. Among the patients who came as outcomes, in 16 patients, a bone review was necessary; in 15 patients, only soft-tissue review was necessary; and 8 patients needed only scar outcome review. Soft-tissue treatment was more difficult, especially the eyelid. The eyelid must be treated as soon as possible to avoid corneal lesions and major complications like total vision lost. The surgical design must satisfy even the aesthetic profile to guarantee functional success and aesthetic too.
The emerging reading and spelling abilities of 24 deaf and 23 hearing beginning readers were followed over 2 years. The deaf children varied in their language backgrounds and preferred mode of communication. All children were given a range of literacy, cognitive and language-based tasks every 12 months. Deaf and hearing children made similar progress in literacy in the beginning stages of reading development and then their trajectories began to diverge. The longitudinal correlates of beginning reading in the deaf children were earlier vocabulary, letter-sound knowledge, and speechreading. Earlier phonological awareness was not a longitudinal correlate of reading ability once earlier reading levels were controlled. Only letter name knowledge was longitudinally related to spelling ability. Speechreading was also a strong longitudinal correlate of reading and spelling in the hearing children. The findings suggested that deaf and hearing children utilize slightly different reading strategies over the first 2 years of schooling.
The aims of this study were to compare test-retest variability and accuracy measures between (1) manual palpation and a novel palpometer and (2) different force levels. Sixteen clinicians were instructed to target 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 kg on a force meter using manual palpation and the new palpometer (adjustable spring-coil with a small pin touching the examiner's hand when the correct pressure is reached). In all experiments, 10 consecutive measures of the force levels were recorded. The coefficient of variation (CV), actual force levels, and relative differences between target level and actual force level were compared between experiments and target levels. All outcome parameters had significantly lower values for the new palpometer than for manual palpation in a force-dependent manner (p&lt;0.004). CVs and actual force levels were significantly different between all target levels (p&lt;0.004). The new palpometer had low test-retest variability and provides a more accurate pressure stimulus than manual palpation.
Adults are expert at recognizing faces, in part because of exquisite sensitivity to the spacing of facial features. Children are poorer than adults at recognizing facial identity and less sensitive to spacing differences. Here we examined the specificity of the immaturity by comparing the ability of 8-year-olds, 14-year-olds, and adults to discriminate houses differing in the spacing between features versus those differing in the shape of the features themselves. By 8 years of age, children were more accurate for discriminations involving the feature set compared with the spacing set, and the difference in accuracy compared with adults was greater for the spacing set than for the feature set. Importantly, when sets were matched in difficulty for adults, this greater immaturity on the spacing set than on the feature set remained. The results suggest that, at least by age 8, immaturities in sensitivity to the spacing of features may be related to immaturities in general perceptual mechanisms rather than face-specific mechanisms.
The expression of expert motor skills typically involves learning to perform a precisely timed sequence of movements. Research examining incidental sequence learning has relied on a perceptually cued task that gives participants exposure to repeating motor sequences but does not require timing of responses for accuracy. In the 1st experiment, a novel perceptual-motor sequence learning task was used, and learning a precisely timed cued sequence of motor actions was shown to occur without explicit instruction. Participants learned a repeating sequence through practice and showed sequence-specific knowledge via a performance decrement when switched to an unfamiliar sequence. In the 2nd experiment, the integration of representation of action order and timing sequence knowledge was examined. When either action order or timing sequence information was selectively disrupted, performance was reduced to levels similar to completely novel sequences. Unlike prior sequence-learning research that has found timing information to be secondary to learning action sequences, when the task demands require accurate action and timing information, an integrated representation of these types of information is acquired. These results provide the first evidence for incidental learning of fully integrated action and timing sequence information in the absence of an independent representation of action order and suggest that this integrative mechanism may play a material role in the acquisition of complex motor skills.

The voltage-activated sodium (Nav) channel Nav1.9 is expressed in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons where it is believed to play an important role in nociception. Progress in revealing the functional properties and pharmacological sensitivities of this non-canonical Nav channel has been slow because attempts to express this channel in a heterologous expression system have been unsuccessful. Here, we use a protein engineering approach to dissect the contributions of the four Nav1.9 voltage sensors to channel function and pharmacology. We define individual S3b-S4 paddle motifs within each voltage sensor, and show that they can sense changes in membrane voltage and drive voltage sensor activation when transplanted into voltage-activated potassium channels. We also find that the paddle motifs in Nav1.9 are targeted by animal toxins, and that these toxins alter Nav1.9-mediated currents in DRG neurons. Our results demonstrate that slowly activating and inactivating Nav1.9 channels have functional and pharmacological properties in common with canonical Nav channels, but also show distinctive pharmacological sensitivities that can potentially be exploited for developing novel treatments for pain.


The electric catfishes of African rivers and lakes, once depicted on Egyptian tomb art, have been largely overlooked in histories and reviews of electric fish biology and animal electricity. This article examines how Westerners, especially Dominican and Jesuit missionaries, discovered them in Ethiopia and other parts of Africa at the beginning of the seventeenth century. What transpired took place against the backdrop of tales involving the Bible, Prester John's mythical empire, and imaginary animals with fabulous powers. In effect, how they were found is related to attempts to convert Ethiopian Christians to true Catholicism, hopes of discovering great riches, and opportunities to trade, and not with the efforts of skilled natural philosophers to document and conduct experiments on the wildlife of this continent. Nevertheless, the early descriptions by Europeans circulated, and during the next century these catfishes began to be used in experiments that helped to make animal electricity a reality.

Nervous system involvement in psoriasis pathogenesis is supported by increases in nerve fiber numbers and neuropeptides in psoriatic skin and by reports detailing spontaneous plaque remission following nerve injury. Using the KC-Tie2 psoriasiform mouse model, we investigated the mechanisms by which nerve injury leads to inflammatory skin disease remission. Cutaneous nerves innervating dorsal skin of KC-Tie2 animals were surgically axotomized and beginning 1 day after denervation, CD11c(+) cell numbers decreased by 40% followed by a 30% improvement in acanthosis at 7 days and a 30% decrease in CD4(+) T-cell numbers by 10 days. Restoration of substance P (SP) signaling in denervated KC-Tie2 skin prevented decreases in CD11c(+) and CD4(+) cells, but had no effect on acanthosis; restoration of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) signaling reversed the improvement in acanthosis and prevented denervated-mediated decreases in CD4(+) cells. Under innervated conditions, small-molecule inhibition of SP in KC-Tie2 animals resulted in similar decreases to those observed following surgical denervation for cutaneous CD11c(+) and CD4(+) cell numbers; whereas small-molecule inhibition of CGRP resulted in significant reductions in CD4(+) cell numbers and acanthosis. These data demonstrate that sensory nerve-derived peptides mediate psoriasiform dendritic cell and T-cell infiltration and acanthosis and introduce targeting nerve-immunocyte/KC interactions as potential psoriasis therapeutic treatment strategies.
Glucosylceramide synthase (GlcT-1) catalyzes the synthesis of glucosylceramide (GlcCer), the core structure of major glycosphingolipids (GSLs). Obesity is a metabolic disorder caused by an imbalance between energy uptake and expenditure, resulting in excess stored body fat. Recent studies have shown that GSL levels are increased in obese rodents and that pharmacologically reducing GSL levels by inhibiting GlcCer synthesis improves adipocyte function. However, the molecular mechanism underlying these processes is still not clearly understood. Using Drosophila as a model animal, we report that GlcT-1 expression in the fat body, which is equivalent to mammalian adipose tissue, regulates energy metabolism. Overexpression of GlcT-1 increases stored nutrition (triacylglycerol and carbohydrate) levels. Conversely, reduced expression of GlcT-1 in the fat body causes a reduction of fat storage. This regulation occurs, at least in part, through the activation of p38-ATF2 signaling. Furthermore, we found that GlcCer is the sole GSL of the fat body, indicating that regulation of GlcCer synthesis by GlcT-1 in the fat body is responsible for regulating energy homeostasis. Both GlcT-1 and p38-ATF2 signaling are evolutionarily conserved, leading us to propose an evolutionary perspective in which GlcT-1 appears to be one of the key factors that control fat metabolism.
In contemporary medicine, it is not always obvious whether the acceptance of a benefit constitutes a conflict of interest. A particular area of controversy has been the impact of small gifts or other benefits from pharmaceutical companies on physicians' behaviour. Typically, in such cases, the gift is not an explicit reward for cooperation; the physician does not perceive the gift as an attempt to influence his or her judgement; and the reward is relatively minor. Under these circumstances, physicians are generally of the view that acceptance of gifts will not affect their behaviour, notwithstanding findings from social psychology and neuroscience that the impact of gifts is often unconscious, shaping action without a person's awareness. Here, we draw on traditional texts of Jewish law pertaining to the prohibition of taking a gift to illustrate recognition by the ancients of unconscious conflicts of interest, and their approach to dealing with the problem.
Alzheimer's disease, a neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive memory loss and cognitive impairment, is the most common type of dementia in aging populations due to severe loss of cholinergic neurons in a specific area. Oxidative stress is known to be involved in the pathogenesis of this condition. Therefore, the cognition-enhancing and neuroprotective effects of rice berry (Oryza sativa), a purple-pigmented rice that is rich in antioxidant substances, was evaluated. Young adult male Wistar rats, weighing 180-220 g, were orally given rice berry once daily at doses of 180, 360, and 720 mg/kg of body weight for a period of 2 weeks before and 1 week after the induction of memory deficit and cholinergic lesions with AF64A, a specific cholinotoxin, via bilateral intracerebroventricular administration. One week following AF64A administration the rats were evaluated for spatial memory, neuron density, acetylcholinesterase activity, and hippocampal lipid peroxidation products. Our results showed that rice berry could significantly prevent memory impairment and hippocampal neurodegeneration in hippocampus. Moreover, it also decreased hippocampal acetylcholinesterase activity and lipid peroxidation product formation. These results suggest that rice berry has potential as an effective agent for neurodegeneration and memory impairment in Alzheimer's disease.
Ionotropic glutamate receptors sensitive to -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA), GluAs, play an important role in neural development, synaptic plasticity, and neurodegeneration. Previous studies using an in vitro model of eyeblink classical conditioning in pond turtles suggested that acquisition of conditioning is associated with synaptic delivery of AMPA receptors containing GluA4 subunits. However, sequences of the GluA4 subunit, expression profile, and its alternatively spliced isoforms in turtle brain have not been previously determined. The sequence and domain structure of turtle GluA4 (tGluA4) and its splice variants was characterized. We found ten isoforms of tGluA4 including several previously unidentified truncated variants. Analysis of the nucleotide sequences of tGluA4 flip/flop, tGluA4c flip/flop, and tGluA4s showed they are highly similar to known isoforms of the GluA4 subunit identified in chick. Examination of the relative abundance of mRNA expression for the tGluA4 variants showed that the flip and flop versions of tGluA4 and tGluA4c, and a novel truncated variant, tGluA4trc1, which is also expressed as protein, are major forms in the adult turtle brain. Identification of these alternatively spliced isoforms of tGluA4 will provide a unique opportunity to assess their role in synaptic plasticity through the application of short interfering RNAs.
Increased oxidative stress is widely accepted to be a factor in the development and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here we introduced Salvia sahendica as a protective agent in differentiated PC12 cells, which are commonly considered to be a reliable model of neuronal cells. Our results demonstrated that S. sahendica has antioxidant and antiglycating properties in in vitro system and these properties are expanded into H(2)O(2)-induced model. S. sahendica inhibited H(2)O(2)-induced cell death in PC12 cells. We further showed that this plant exerts its protective effect by increasing superoxide dismutase and catalase levels, reducing lipid peroxidation and upregulating hemoxygenase-1 and glutamylcysteine synthetase proteins. This study raises the possibility of developing S. sahendica as a potential neuroprotective agent.
The aim of this study was to compare neurocognitive functioning between euthymic patients with bipolar I disorder (BDI), bipolar II disorder (BDII), and healthy controls. An additional aim was to estimate the relationship between neurocognitive impairments and psychosocial functioning. Eighty-seven patients with BDI (n = 48) or BDII (n = 39) and 39 healthy controls were included. All subjects completed an extensive neurocognitive battery. Psychosocial functioning was assessed using the General Assessment of Functioning. Patients with BDII performed more poorly than did the controls in measures of psychomotor speed, verbal memory, and executive functioning. Patient groups did not show differences in any of the cognitive measures assessed. The performance in trail-making test B was the only independent predictor of psychosocial functioning in both patient groups. Patients with BDII have cognitive impairments, and this has a negative influence on their functional outcome. Our results bring additional support to the notion that BDII disorder is not a merely mild type of BDI.
The search for new monoamine oxidase inhibitors aims to identify potential lead compounds that are more potent and selective than current drugs for use in treating a variety of neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative conditions. An integral part of this process is a kinetic examination of monoamine oxidases in the presence of the inhibitor, to determine potency and selectivity and to obtain information on mechanism. To date, kinetic data obtained with a probe substrate have been analysed by fitting to the Michaelis-Menten equation which describes a unireactant process in which velocity is related to substrate concentration in a rectangular hyperbolic manner. In this study, we present evidence that monoamine oxidase activity is often not adequately described by this approach. We outline a novel equation strategy that takes account of substrate and inhibitor binding to oxidised and reduced enzyme forms, and quantifies differences between substrates and inhibitors in this regard. When combined with plate reader-based experimental techniques that allow large numbers of substrate and inhibitor concentrations to be used, and the global nonlinear regression facilities of GraphPad Prism software, this straightforward approach allows more appropriate analyses of monoamine oxidase by non-experts than has previously been possible.
The closely related  and  isoforms of the serine/threonine protein kinase casein kinase 1 (Csnk1) have been implicated in the generation of psychostimulant-induced behaviors. In this study, we show that Csnk1/ produces its effects on behavior by acting on the Darpp-32-PP1 signaling pathway to regulate AMPA receptor phosphorylation in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). Inhibiting Csnk1/ in the NAcc with the selective inhibitor PF-670462 blocks amphetamine induced locomotion and its ability to increase phosphorylation of Darpp-32 at S137 and T34, decrease PP1 activity and increase phosphorylation of the AMPA receptor subunit at S845. Consistent with these findings, preventing GluR1 phosphorylation with the alanine mutant GluR1(S845A) reduces glutamate-evoked currents in cultured medium spiny neurons and blocks the locomotor activity produced by NAcc amphetamine. Thus, Csnk1 enables the locomotor and likely the incentive motivational effects of amphetamine by regulating Darrp-32-PP1-GlurR1(S845) signaling in the NAcc. As such, Csnk1 may be a critical target for intervention in the treatment of drug use disorders.
We have previously demonstrated that lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) production in the spinal cord following partial sciatic nerve injury (SCNI) and its signaling initiate neuropathic pain. In order to examine whether LPA production depends on the intense nociceptive signal, we have attempted to see suppression by pre-emptive treatment with centrally administered morphine, which mainly inhibits nociceptive signal at the level of spinal cord. In the present study, we developed a quantitative mass spectrometry assay to simultaneously analyze several species of lysophosphatidyl choline (LPC). The levels of 16:0-, 18:0- and 18:1-LPC in the spinal cord and dorsal root were maximally increased at 75 min after SCNI and then declined, as LPC is converted to LPA by autotaxin (ATX). In atx(+/-)-mice, on the other hand, these levels were similar to wild-type mice at 75 min, but maximal at 120 min, suggesting that this difference is partly due to the low conversion of LPC to LPA in atx(+/-)-mice. When morphine was centrally administered before SCNI, the injury-induced increase of LPC was completely abolished. These results suggest that LPC (or LPA) is produced by injury-induced nociceptive signal, which is effectively and pre-emptively suppressed by central morphine, possibly through known descending anti-nociceptive pathways.
Mitochondrial oxidative stress is a contributing factor in the etiology of numerous neuronal disorders. However, the precise mechanism(s) by which mitochondrial reactive oxygen species modify cellular targets to induce neurotoxicity remains unknown. In this study, we determined the role of mitochondrial aconitase (m-aconitase) in neurotoxicity by decreasing its expression. Incubation of the rat dopaminergic cell line, N27, with paraquat (PQ(2+) ) resulted in aconitase inactivation, increased hydrogen peroxide (H(2) O(2) ) and increased ferrous iron (Fe(2+) ) at times preceding cell death. To confirm the role of m-aconitase in dopaminergic cell death, we knocked down m-aconitase expression via RNA interference. Incubation of m-aconitase knockdown N27 cells with PQ(2+) resulted in decreased H(2) O(2) production, Fe(2+) accumulation, and cell death compared with cells expressing basal levels of m-aconitase. To determine the metabolic role of m-aconitase in mediating neuroprotection, we conducted a complete bioenergetic profile. m-Aconitase knockdown N27 cells showed a global decrease in metabolism (glycolysis and oxygen consumption rates) which blocked PQ(2+) -induced H(+) leak and respiratory capacity deficiency. These findings suggest that dopaminergic cells are protected from death by decreasing release of H(2) O(2) and Fe(2+) in addition to decreased cellular metabolism.
In our previous work, we found that perfusion of the rat cerebral cortex with hypo-osmotic medium triggers massive release of the excitatory amino acid L-glutamate but decreases extracellular levels of L-glutamine (R. E. Haskew-Layton et al., PLoS ONE, 3: e3543). The release of glutamate was linked to activation of volume-regulated anion channels, whereas mechanism(s) responsible for alterations in extracellular glutamine remained unclear. When mannitol was added to the hypo-osmotic medium to reverse reductions in osmolarity, changes in microdialysate levels of glutamine were prevented, indicating an involvement of cellular swelling. As the main source of brain glutamine is astrocytic synthesis and export, we explored the impact of hypo-osmotic medium on glutamine synthesis and transport in rat primary astrocyte cultures. In astrocytes, a 40% reduction in medium osmolarity moderately stimulated the release of L-[(3) H]glutamine by twofold and produced no changes in L-[(3) H]glutamine uptake. In comparison, hypo-osmotic medium stimulated the release of glutamate (traced with D-[(3) H]aspartate) by more than 20-fold. In whole-cell enzymatic assays, we discovered that hypo-osmotic medium caused a 20% inhibition of astrocytic conversion of L-[(3) H]glutamate into L-[(3) H]glutamine by glutamine synthetase. Using an HPLC assay, we further found a 35% reduction in intracellular levels of endogenous glutamine. Overall, our findings suggest that cellular swelling (i) inhibits astrocytic glutamine synthetase activity, and (ii) reduces substrate availability for this enzyme because of the activation of volume-regulated anion channels. These combined effects likely lead to reductions in astrocytic glutamine export in vivo and may partially explain occurrence of hyperexcitability and seizures in human hyponatremia.
In the mammalian brain, new neurons are continuously generated throughout life in the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus. Previous studies have established that newborn neurons migrate a short distance to be integrated into a pre-existing neuronal circuit in the hippocampus. How the migration of newborn neurons is governed by extracellular signals, however, has not been fully understood. Here, we report that NMDA receptor (NMDA-R)-mediated signaling is essential for the proper migration and positioning of newborn neurons in the DG. An intraperitoneal injection of the NMDA-R antagonists, memantine, or 3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) into adult male mice caused the aberrant positioning of newborn neurons, resulting in the overextension of their migration in the DG. Interestingly, we revealed that the administration of NMDA-R antagonists leads to a decrease in the expression of Disrupted-In-Schizophrenia 1 (DISC1), a candidate susceptibility gene for major psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, which is also known as a critical regulator of neuronal migration in the DG. Furthermore, the overextended migration of newborn neurons induced by the NMDA-R antagonists was significantly rescued by exogenous expression of DISC1. Collectively, these results suggest that the NMDA-R signaling pathway governs the migration of newborn neurons via the regulation of DISC1 expression in the DG.
Wilson's disease (WD) is caused by mutations in the copper transporting ATPase 7B (Atp7b). Patients present with liver pathology or behavioural disturbances. Studies on rodent models for WD so far mainly focussed on liver, not brain. The effect of knockout of atp7b on sensori-motor and cognitive behaviour, as well as neuronal number, inflammatory markers, copper and synaptic proteins in brain were studied in so-called toxic milk mice. Copper accumulated in striatum and hippocampus of toxic milk mice, but not in cerebral cortex. Inflammatory markers were increased in striatum and corpus callosum, but not in cerebral cortex and hippocampus, whereas neuronal numbers were unchanged. Toxic milk mice were mildly impaired in the rotarod and cylinder test and unable to acquire spatial memory in the Morris water maze. Despite the latter observation only synaptophysin of a number of synaptic proteins, was altered in the hippocampus of toxic milk mice. In addition to disturbances in neuronal signalling by increased brain copper, inflammation and inflammatory signalling from the periphery to the brain might add to the behavioural disturbances in the toxic milk mice. These mice can be used to evaluate therapeutic strategies to alleviate behavioural disturbances and cerebral pathology observed in WD.

During the lactation period, mothers have a variety of adaptive changes in brain physiology and behaviour that allow them to properly raise their pups. The exact circuitries and mechanisms responsible for these changes are not fully understood. Recent evidence suggests that the neuropeptide tuberoinfundibular peptide of 39 residues (TIP39) and its receptor, the parathyroid hormone 2 receptor (PTH2-R), contribute to these mechanisms. To further investigate this idea, we evaluated the growth rate of pups from dams with a genetically inactivated PTH2-R (PTH2-R-KO), as well as maternal behavioural and neuroendocrine parameters. We observed that PTH2-R-KO-reared pups had a slowed growth rate. This was associated with a reduced volume of milk yielded by PTH2-R-KO dams after 30-min suckling compared to wild-type (WT) dams when pups were returned after 5 h of separation. Our data suggest a reduced sensitivity of PTH2-R-KO dams to pup stimulation. We also observed a significant reduction in suckling-induced c-Fos expression in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus and signs of lower prolactin levels in the PTH2-R-KO dams. Our data suggest that the reduced growth rate of PTH2-R-KO-reared pups was likely the result of alterations in the milk-production pathway rather than modifications in behaviour. Although PTH2-R-KO dams showed increased anxiety in the elevated zero-maze test, no differences from WT dams in maternal behaviour were observed. Taken together, our findings suggest the involvement of the TIP39/PTH2-R system in the pathways involved in the successful development of the pups.
Sexual differentiation of the neonatal rat brain is regulated by dynamic processes occurring at the level of DNA, resulting in sexually dimorphic gene expression. Steroid hormone receptors act partly in the developing brain by recruiting co-activators, thereby increasing the acetylation of histones and gene expression. Recent data indicate that sexual differentiation of the brain may also result, in part, from differences in promoter methylation patterns of some steroid responsive genes. Methylation of DNA is an epigenetic process that can decrease gene expression without altering the original DNA sequence. DNA cytosine-5-methyltransferases (DNMTs) 1 and 3a are two factors that induce methylation. We investigated whether sex differences in the expression of DNMT1 and DNMT3a were apparent in the amygdala, preoptic area and medial basal hypothalamus at different time points during development. We found that females express significantly more DNMT3a mRNA and protein in the amygdala but not within the preoptic area or the medial basal hypothalamus at postnatal day 1. There were no sex differences in DNMT3a mRNA or protein at postnatal day 10. Furthermore, no sex differences were observed in the expression of DNMT1 at either time point. Because most sex differences in the brain are a result of a higher level of gonadal steroid hormone exposure in males at birth, we examined whether dihydrotestosterone or oestradiol exposure would reduce DNMT3a expression in neonatal female rats. We found that both oestradiol and dihydrotestosterone treatment significantly reduced DNMT3a, but not DNMT1, mRNA expression within the developing amygdala. Our results indicate that sex differences in DNMT3a within the developing amygdala are partly a result of steroid exposure. This suggests that steroid hormone exposures may programme lasting differences in amygdala function by altering the expression of the epigenetic factor, DNMT3a.
The song system of zebra finches differs dramatically between the sexes in terms of both structure and function. Only males sing and the brain regions regulating the learning and production of this behaviour are far more developed in males than females. Mechanisms regulating sexual differentiation likely include both direct genetic and hormonal processes. Expression of both mRNA and the protein product for secretory carrier membrane protein 1 (SCAMP1), a sex chromosome gene, are increased in the brains of juvenile males compared to females. Here we investigated developmental changes in SCAMP1 containing cells in song nuclei and co-localisation with androgen receptor (AR) protein from post-hatching day 25 through adulthood. Almost all SCAMP1 cells co-expressed AR and approximately half of the AR cells expressed SCAMP1 in the HVC and robust nucleus in the arcopallium (RA) of both sexes and in the Area X of males (which could not be clearly defined in females). In HVC and RA, more single and double-labelled cells were detected in males than females overall, and the sex differences increased as animals matured. The results suggest the potential for interaction of these two proteins in regulating development of brain and/or behaviour.

Disturbance of posture is a frequent indication of idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH) and is characterised by an increased sway in the frontal and sagittal planes. Further, iNPH patients with increased backward sway are known to have a defective perception of the subjective visual vertical (SVV), with the upper portion of an articulated rod tilted towards themselves. The objective of the present study was to compare subjective eye level (SEL) with actual eye level (EL) and compare this data with SVV and postural function. Twenty iNPH patients and ten normal controls estimated SEL by placing an adjustable horizontal line at EL. Sway pattern and SVV were also examined as previously described. The patients presented larger errors on downward as compared to upward line adjustments; all patients also presented a SVV tilted towards them. The patients swayed more in the sagittal than in the frontal plane at a higher speed than the normal controls, and they were relatively less helped by their vision. This is in accordance with the tendency to fall backwards seen in many iNPH patients. iNPH patients have a tendency to place SEL higher than EL and this, together with examination of SVV and sway pattern, suggests defective internal processing of gravicentric information.
Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy 2I (LGMD2I) is a neuromuscular disorder with a heterogeneous phenotype. It is caused by mutations in the Fukutin Related Protein (FKRP) gene, which is ubiquitously expressed in human tissues. FKRP functions in CNS are largely unknown. To investigate possible cognitive impairment in LGMD2I and to describe brain MRI features. Ten LGMD2I patients (four males and six females, mean age 44 years, age range 19-69 years) were assessed with an extensive neuropsychological battery, psychopathological tests and neuromuscular specific quality-of-life questionnaire. Adults were compared with ten matched healthy controls. All patients underwent complete neurological examination, and nine underwent brain MRI scanning. Patients showed a fairly specific cognitive profile with mild impairment in executive functions and visuo-spatial planning without substantial impairment in global and logic IQ. MRI findings were heterogeneous: four patients showed non-specific white matter abnormalities; two patients showed moderate ventriculomegaly; three patients showed mild enlargement of subarachnoid spaces, without a specific pattern. Cerebellar atrophy was marked in one patient. Abnormal glycosylation of -dystroglycan in LGMD2I may interfere with brain development and cognitive performances involving the frontal and posterior parietal regions, but does not result in specific brain MRI abnormalities.



The aim was to assess the value of unenhanced fluid-attenuated inversion recovery T2-weighted sequences (FLAIR-T2) in the differential diagnosis between solitary high-grade gliomas (HGG) and cerebral metastases (CM) appearing as contrast-enhancing cortico-subcortical lesions of the brain. In 69 patients with a contrast-enhancing cortico-subcortical brain lesion (43 HGG, and 26 CM), unenhanced FLAIR-T2 and gadolinium-enhanced FLAIR T1-weighted (Gd-FLAIR-T1) axial images have been reviewed for the involvement of the cortex adjacent to the contrast-enhancing lesion. In 27 (62.79%) out of 43 HGG, and 3 (11.53%) out of 26 CM, the cortex adjacent to the contrast-enhancing lesion showed high signal intensity on unenhanced FLAIR-T2 without enhancement at Gd-FLAIR-T1. Fischer's exact probability test was P = 0.0003 when applied to HGG versus CM categories, indicating a significant difference. The high signal intensity on unenhanced FLAIR-T2 without gadolinium-enhancement of the cortex adjacent to the enhancing lesion is more frequently associated with HGG than CM.
Merkel cells have been proposed to play a role in mechanical transduction of light touch in mammals. In the present study, Merkel cells were prepared from upper segments of rat vibrissal hair follicles and maintained in culture. Reponses of these cells to shear mechanical forces were examined by Ca(2+) imaging technique. Shear forces of  0.8 dyn/cm(2) that were delivered to the cells by the application of normal bath solution significantly increased intracellular Ca(2+) levels ([Ca(2+)](i)) in some of these cells, and up to 30% cells responded to 1.6 dyn/cm(2) shear force applied for 20 s. Gd(3+) (100 M), a compound widely used to inhibit mechanically activated channels, abolished shear force-induced increases of [Ca(2+)](i) in these cells. Reduction of extracellular Ca(2+) concentration from 2 mM to 0.2 mM also abolished shear force-induced increases of [Ca(2+)](i) in these cells. In addition to shear force, we found that many shear force-responding cells also responded to hypotonic solution. However, the response to hypotonic solution was not abolished by Gd(3+) (100 M). We also found that all shear force-responding cells responded to ATP (100 M) with large increases of [Ca(2+)](i). The responses to ATP remained in the presence of Gd(3+). Taken together, our results suggest that Merkel cells in culture are sensitive to shear force stress, osmotic, and chemical stimuli and that shear force-induced increases of [Ca(2+)](i) may be mediated by the activation of mechanically activated channels.
Optical imaging with voltage-sensitive dye was used to examine the spatiotemporal dynamics of stimulus-driven activity on the surface of the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN). Stimulation with tones at low to moderate levels produced localized regions of activation that were most commonly elongated rostrocaudally. The size of these activation areas expanded with increases in sound level, while their centers shifted from the lateral direction to the medial direction with increases in stimulus frequency. In contrast to the tonotopic patterns of activation evoked by tones, electrical stimulation of the DCN surface resulted in bands of activation that were elongated along the medial-lateral axis; response latencies increased with distance along these bands from the point of stimulation. Shifting the site of electrical stimulation from the rostral direction to the caudal direction induced corresponding shifts in the rostrocaudal location of the activation band; moving the electrode tip to subsurface depths resulted in loss of the elongated band. Transecting the DCN along the rostrocaudal axis midway between its medial and lateral extremities blocked propagation of the response to the half of the DCN distal to but not proximal to the stimulating electrode. The results suggest that the two modes of stimulation activated two distinct populations of neurons, one involving primarily tonotopically organized cells and the other crossing these tonotopic zones and likely representing the activation of parallel fibers. These results reveal a number of new features in the spatial patterns of tone-elicited activation that are not readily predicted by responses recorded electrophysiologically.
The observation of figure-ground selectivity in neurons of the visual cortex shows that these neurons can be influenced by the image context far beyond the classical receptive field. To clarify the nature of the context integration mechanism, we studied the latencies of neural edge signals, comparing the emergence of context-dependent definition of border ownership with the onset of local edge definition (contrast polarity; stereoscopic depth order). Single-neuron activity was recorded in areas V1 and V2 of Macaca mulatta under behaviorally induced fixation. Whereas local edge definition emerged immediately (&lt;13 ms) after the edge onset response, the context-dependent signal was delayed by about 30 ms. To see if the context influence was mediated by horizontal fibers within cortex, we measured the latencies of border ownership signals for two conditions in which the relevant context information was located at different distances from the receptive field and compared the latency difference with the difference predicted from horizontal signal propagation. The prediction was based on the increase in cortical distance, computed from the mapping of the test stimuli in the cortex, and the known conduction velocities of horizontal fibers. The measured latencies increased with cortical distance, but much less than predicted by the horizontal propagation hypothesis. Probability calculations showed that an explanation of the context influence by horizontal signal propagation alone is highly unlikely, whereas mechanisms involving back projections from other extrastriate areas are plausible.
The nervous system counters mechanical perturbations applied to the arm with a stereotypical sequence of muscle activity, starting with the short-latency stretch reflex and ending with a voluntary response. Occurring between these two events is the enigmatic long-latency reflex. Although researchers have been fascinated by the long-latency reflex for over 60 years, some of the most basic questions about this response remain unresolved and often debated. In the present study we help resolve one such question by providing clear evidence that the human long-latency reflex during a naturalistic motor task is not a single functional response; rather, it appears to reflect the output of (at least) two functionally independent processes that overlap in time and sum linearly. One of these functional components shares an important attribute of the short-latency reflex (i.e., automatic gain scaling, sensitivity to background load), and the other shares a defining feature of voluntary control (i.e., task dependency, sensitivity to goal target position). We further show that the task-dependent component of long-latency activity reflects a feedback control process rather than the simplest triggered reaction to a mechanical stimulus.
Specific types of neurons show stable, predictable excitability properties, while other neurons show transient adaptive plasticity of their excitability. However, little attention has been paid to how the cellular pathways underlying adaptive plasticity interact with those that maintain neuronal stability. We addressed this question in the pacemaker neurons from a weakly electric fish because these neurons show a highly stable spontaneous firing rate as well as an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent form of plasticity. We found that basal firing rates were regulated by a serial interaction of conventional and atypical PKC isoforms and that this interaction establishes individual differences within the species. We observed that NMDA receptor-dependent plasticity is achieved by further activation of these kinases. Importantly, the PKC pathway is maintained in an unsaturated baseline state to allow further Ca(2+)-dependent activation during plasticity. On the other hand, the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent phosphatase calcineurin does not regulate baseline firing but is recruited to control the duration of the NMDA receptor-dependent plasticity and return the pacemaker firing rate back to baseline. This work illustrates how neuronal plasticity can be realized by biasing ongoing mechanisms of stability (e.g., PKC) and terminated by recruiting alternative mechanisms (e.g., calcineurin) that constrain excitability. We propose this as a general model for regulating activity-dependent change in neuronal excitability.
Motor control is critical in daily life as well as in artistic and athletic performance and thus is the subject of intense interest in neuroscience. Mouse models of movement disorders have proven valuable for many aspects of investigation, but adequate methods for analyzing complex motor control in mouse models have not been fully established. Here, we report the development of a novel running-wheel system that can be used to evoke simple and complex stepping patterns in mice. The stepping patterns are controlled by spatially organized pegs, which serve as footholds that can be arranged in adjustable, ladder-like configurations. The mice run as they drink water from a spout, providing reward, while the wheel turns at a constant speed. The stepping patterns of the mice can thus be controlled not only spatially, but also temporally. A voltage sensor to detect paw touches is attached to each peg, allowing precise registration of footfalls. We show that this device can be used to analyze patterns of complex motor coordination in mice. We further demonstrate that it is possible to measure patterns of neural activity with chronically implanted tetrodes as the mice engage in vigorous running bouts. We suggest that this instrumented multipeg running wheel (which we name the Step-Wheel System) can serve as an important tool in analyzing motor control and motor learning in mice.
Interspike interval (ISI) distributions of cortical neurons exhibit a range of different shapes. Wide ISI distributions are believed to stem from a balance of excitatory and inhibitory inputs that leads to a strongly fluctuating total drive. An important question is whether the full range of experimentally observed ISI distributions can be reproduced by modulating this balance. To address this issue, we investigate the shape of the ISI distributions of spiking neuron models receiving fluctuating inputs. Using analytical tools to describe the ISI distribution of a leaky integrate-and-fire (LIF) neuron, we identify three key features: 1) the ISI distribution displays an exponential decay at long ISIs independently of the strength of the fluctuating input; 2) as the amplitude of the input fluctuations is increased, the ISI distribution evolves progressively between three types, a narrow distribution (suprathreshold input), an exponential with an effective refractory period (subthreshold but suprareset input), and a bursting exponential (subreset input); 3) the shape of the ISI distribution is approximately independent of the mean ISI and determined only by the coefficient of variation. Numerical simulations show that these features are not specific to the LIF model but are also present in the ISI distributions of the exponential integrate-and-fire model and a Hodgkin-Huxley-like model. Moreover, we observe that for a fixed mean and coefficient of variation of ISIs, the full ISI distributions of the three models are nearly identical. We conclude that the ISI distributions of spiking neurons in the presence of fluctuating inputs are well described by gamma distributions.
Currently available optogenetic tools, including microbial light-activated ion channels and transporters, are transforming systems neuroscience by enabling precise remote control of neuronal firing, but they tell us little about the role of indigenous ion channels in controlling neuronal function. Here, we employ a chemical-genetic strategy to engineer light sensitivity into several mammalian K(+) channels that have different gating and modulation properties. These channels provide the means for photoregulating diverse electrophysiological functions. Photosensitivity is conferred on a channel by a tethered ligand photoswitch that contains a cysteine-reactive maleimide (M), a photoisomerizable azobenzene (A), and a quaternary ammonium (Q), a K(+) channel pore blocker. Using mutagenesis, we identify the optimal extracellular cysteine attachment site where MAQ conjugation results in pore blockade when the azobenzene moiety is in the trans but not cis configuration. With this strategy, we have conferred photosensitivity on channels containing Kv1.3 subunits (which control axonal action potential repolarization), Kv3.1 subunits (which contribute to rapid-firing properties of brain neurons), Kv7.2 subunits (which underlie &quot;M-current&quot;), and SK2 subunits (which are Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels that contribute to synaptic responses). These light-regulated channels may be overexpressed in genetically targeted neurons or substituted for native channels with gene knockin technology to enable precise optopharmacological manipulation of channel function.
H-reflexes are progressively depressed, relative to the first response, at stimulation frequencies above 0.1 Hz (postactivation depression; PAD). Presently, we investigated whether H-reflexes &quot;recover&quot; from this depression throughout 10-s trains of stimulation delivered at physiologically relevant frequencies (5-20 Hz) during functionally relevant tasks (sitting and standing) and contraction amplitudes [relaxed to 20% maximum voluntary contraction (MVC)]. When participants held a 10% MVC, reflex amplitudes did not change during 5-Hz stimulation. During stimulation at 10 Hz, reflexes were initially depressed by 43% but recovered completely by the end of the stimulation period. During 20-Hz stimulation, reflexes were depressed to 10% and recovered to 36% of the first response, respectively. This &quot;postactivation depression and recovery&quot; (PAD&amp;R) of reflex amplitude was not different between sitting and standing. In contrast, PAD&amp;R were strongly influenced by contraction amplitude. Reflexes were depressed to 10% of the first response during the relaxed condition (10-Hz stimulation) and showed no depression during a 20% MVC contraction. A partial recovery of reflex amplitude occurred when participants were relaxed and during contractions of 1-5% MVC. Surprisingly, reflexes could recover completely by the third pulse within a stimulation train when participants held a contraction between 5 and 10% MVC during stimulation at 10 Hz, a finding that challenges classical ideas regarding PAD mechanisms. Our results support the idea that there is an ongoing interplay between depression and facilitation when motoneurons receive trains of afferent input. This interplay depends strongly on the frequency of the afferent input and the magnitude of the background contraction but is relatively insensitive to changes in task.
Working memory (WM) representations serve as templates that guide behavior, but the neural basis of these templates remains elusive. We tested the hypothesis that WM templates are maintained by biasing activity in sensoriperceptual neurons that code for features of items being held in memory. Neural activity was recorded using event-related potentials (ERPs) as participants viewed a series of faces and responded when a face matched a target face held in WM. Our prediction was that if activity in neurons coding for the features of the target is preferentially weighted during maintenance of the target, then ERP activity evoked by a nontarget probe face should be commensurate with the visual similarity between target and probe. Visual similarity was operationalized as the degree of overlap in visual features between target and probe. A face-sensitive ERP response was modulated by target-probe similarity. Amplitude was largest for probes that were similar to the target, and decreased monotonically as a function of decreasing target-probe similarity. These results indicate that neural activity is weighted in favor of visual features that comprise an actively held memory representation. As such, our findings support the notion that WM templates rely on neural populations involved in forming percepts of memory items.
It has been hypothesized that the coordinated activation of muscles is controlled by the central nervous system by means of a small alphabet of control signals (also referred to as activation signals) and motor modules (synergies). We analyzed the locomotion of 10 patients recently affected by stroke (maximum of 20 wk) and compared it with that of healthy controls. The aim was to assess whether the walking of subacute stroke patients is based on the same motor modules and/or activation signals as healthy subjects. The activity of muscles of the lower and upper limb and the trunk was measured and used for extracting motor modules. Four modules were sufficient to explain the majority of variance in muscle activation in both controls and patients. Modules from the affected side of stroke patients were different from those of healthy controls and from the unaffected side of stroke patients. However, the activation signals were similar between groups and between the affected and unaffected side of stroke patients, and were characterized by impulses at specific time instants within the gait cycle, underlying an impulsive controller of gait. In conclusion, motor modules observed in healthy subjects during locomotion are different from those used by subacute stroke patients, despite similar impulsive activation signals. We suggest that this pattern is consistent with a neuronal network in which the timing of activity generated by central pattern generators is directed to the motoneurons via a premotor network that distributes the activity in a task-dependent manner determined by sensory and descending control information.
When estimating the position of one hand for the purpose of reaching to it with the other, humans have visual and proprioceptive estimates of the target hand's position. These are thought to be weighted and combined to form an integrated estimate in such a way that variance is minimized. If visual and proprioceptive estimates are in disagreement, it may be advantageous for the nervous system to bring them back into register by spatially realigning one or both. It is possible that realignment is determined by weights, in which case the lower-weighted modality should always realign more than the higher-weighted modality. An alternative possibility is that realignment and weighting processes are controlled independently, and either can be used to compensate for a sensory misalignment. Here, we imposed a misalignment between visual and proprioceptive estimates of target hand position in a reaching task designed to allow simultaneous, independent measurement of weights and realignment. In experiment 1, we used endpoint visual feedback to create a situation where task success could theoretically be achieved with either a weighting or realignment strategy, but vision had to be regarded as the correctly aligned modality to achieve success. In experiment 2, no endpoint visual feedback was given. We found that realignment operates independently of weights in the former case but not in the latter case, suggesting that while weighting and realignment may operate in conjunction in some circumstances, they are biologically independent processes that give humans behavioral flexibility in compensating for sensory perturbations.
The stop signal task is used to investigate motor inhibition. Several groups have reported partial electromyogram (EMG) activation when subjects successfully withhold manual responses and have used this finding to define the nature of response inhibition properties in the spinal motor system. It is unknown whether subthreshold EMG activation from extraocular muscles can be detected in the saccadic response version of the stop signal task. The saccadic spike potential provides a way to examine extraocular EMG activation associated with eye movements in electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings. We used several techniques to isolate extraocular EMG activation from anterior electrode locations of EEG recorded from macaque monkeys. Robust EMG activation was present when eye movements were made, but no activation was detected when saccades were deemed canceled. This work highlights a key difference between the spinal motor system and the saccade system.
Social life affects brain function at all levels, including gene expression, neurochemical balance, and neural circuits. We have previously shown that in the cichlid fish Astatotilapia burtoni brightly colored, socially dominant (DOM) males face a trade-off between reproductive opportunities and increased predation risk. Compared with camouflaged subordinate (SUB) males, DOMs exposed to a loud sound pip display higher startle responsiveness and increased excitability of the Mauthner cell (M-cell) circuit that governs this behavior. Using behavioral tests, intracellular recordings, and single-cell molecular analysis, we show here that serotonin (5-HT) modulates this socially regulated plasticity via the 5-HT receptor subtype 2 (5-HTR(2)). Specifically, SUBs display increased sensitivity to pharmacological manipulation of 5-HTR(2) compared with DOMs in both startle-escape behavior and electrophysiological properties of the M-cell. Immunohistochemistry showed serotonergic varicosities around the M-cells, further suggesting that 5-HT impinges directly onto the startle-escape circuitry. To determine whether the effects of 5-HTR(2) are pre- or postsynaptic, and whether other 5-HTR subtypes are involved, we harvested the mRNA from single M-cells via cytoplasmic aspiration and found that 5-HTR subtypes 5A and 6 are expressed in the M-cell. 5-HTR(2), however, was absent, suggesting that it affects M-cell excitability through a presynaptic mechanism. These results are consistent with a role for 5-HT in modulating startle plasticity and increase our understanding of the neural and molecular basis of a trade-off between reproduction and predation.
A proprioceptive representation of eye position exists in area 3a of primate somatosensory cortex (Wang X, Zhang M, Cohen IS, Goldberg ME. Nat Neurosci 10: 640-646, 2007). This eye position signal is consistent with a fusimotor response (Taylor A, Durbaba R, Ellaway PH, Rawlinson S. J Physiol 571: 711-723, 2006) and has two components during a visually guided saccade task: a short-latency phasic response followed by a tonic response. While the early phasic response can be excitatory or inhibitory, it does not accurately reflect the eye's orbital position. The late tonic response appears to carry the proprioceptive eye position signal, but it is not clear when this component emerges and whether the onset of this signal is reliable. To test the temporal dynamics of the tonic proprioceptive signal, we used an oculomotor smooth pursuit task in which saccadic eye movements and phasic proprioceptive responses are suppressed. Our results show that the tonic proprioceptive eye position signal consistently lags the actual eye position in the orbit by ~60 ms under a variety of eye movement conditions. To confirm the proprioceptive nature of this signal, we also studied the responses of neurons in a vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) task in which the direction of gaze was held constant; response profiles and delay times were similar in this task, suggesting that this signal does not represent angle of gaze and does not receive visual or vestibular inputs. The length of the delay suggests that the proprioceptive eye position signal is unlikely to be used for online visual processing for action, although it could be used to calibrate an efference copy signal.
Intraneuronal accumulation of amyloid  (A) is an early pathological change in Alzheimer's disease. Previously, we showed that the E693 mutation (referred to as the &quot;Osaka&quot; mutation) of amyloid precursor protein (APP) caused intracellular accumulation of A oligomers and apoptosis in transfected COS-7 cells. We also showed that transgenic mice expressing APP(E693) (APP(OSK) ) displayed both an age-dependent accumulation of intraneuronal A oligomers from 8 months of age and apparent neuronal loss in the hippocampus at 24 months of age. These findings indicate that intraneuronal A oligomers cause cell death, but the mechanism of this process remains unclear. Accordingly, here we investigated the subcellular localization and toxicity of intraneuronal A oligomers in APP(OSK) -transgenic mice. We found A oligomer accumulation in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), endosomes/lysosomes, and mitochondria in hippocampal neurons of 22-month-old mice. We also detected up-regulation of Grp78 and HRD1 (an E3 ubiquitin ligase), leakage of cathepsin D from endosomes/lysosomes into cytoplasm, cytochrome c release from mitochondria, and activation of caspase-3 in the hippocampi of 18-month-old mice. Collectively, our findings suggest that intraneuronal A oligomers cause cell death by inducing ER stress, endosomal/lysosomal leakage, and mitochondrial dysfunction in vivo.  2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Bone marrow-derived stem/progenitor cells (CD34(+) progenitor cells) were demonstrated to play an important role in the regeneration of damaged brain tissue. Our aim was to study the influence of CD34(+) progenitor cells in the outcome of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Thirty-two patients with primary ICH (64.0% male, mean age 67.1  10.8 years) were prospectively included in the study within 12 hr of symptom onset. The main outcome variable was good functional outcome at 3 months (modified Rankin scale  2). Circulating CD34(+) progenitor cell levels were measured by flow cytometry at admission and at 7  1 days, and serum levels of growth factors (determined by ELISA) were measured at admission and at 24 and 72 hr. Circulating levels of CD34(+) progenitor cells at day 7 were independently associated with good functional outcome at 3 months (OR 1.17, CI95% 1.06-1.39, P = 0.012). On the other hand, CD34(+) progenitor cells at day 7 were negatively correlated with residual cavity volume at 3 months (r = -0.607, P = 0.001). Serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (r = 0.386), angiopoietin 1 (r = 0.518), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (r = 0.484), and stromal cell-derived factor-1 (r = 0.837) but not granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (r = -0.038) at 72 hr showed a strong correlation with CD34(+) progenitor cell levels at day 7. These findings suggest that CD34(+) progenitor cells may participate in the functional recovery of ICH patients.









Brain edema formation associated with trauma-induced intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a clinical complication with high mortality. Studies have shown that heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) plays an important role in ICH-induced brain edema. In order to understand the role of HO-1 in the protective effect of selective brain cooling (SBC), we investigated the time course of HO-1 changes following penetrating ballistic-like brain injury (PBBI) in rats. Samples were collected from injured and control animals at 6, 24, 48, and 72 h, and 7 days post-injury to evaluate HO-1 expression, heme concentration, brain water content, and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Following a 10% frontal PBBI, HO-1 mRNA and protein was increased at all time points studied, reaching maximum expression levels at 24-48 h post-injury. An increase in the heme concentration and the development of brain edema coincided with the upregulation of HO-1 mRNA and protein during the 7-day post-injury period. SBC significantly decreased PBBI-induced heme concentration, attenuated HO-1 upregulation, and concomitantly reduced brain water content. These results suggest that the neuroprotective effects of SBC may be partially mediated by reducing the heme accumulation, which reduced injury-mediated upregulation of HO-1, and in turn ameliorated edema formation. Collectively, these results suggest a potential value of HO-1 as a diagnostic and/or therapeutic biomarker in hemorrhagic brain injury.
Hypothermia is robustly protective in pre-clinical models of both global and focal ischemia, as well as in patients after cardiac arrest. Although the mechanism for hypothermic neuroprotection remains unknown, reducing metabolic drive may play a role. Capitalizing on the beneficial effects of hypothermia while avoiding detrimental effects such as infection will be the key to moving this therapy forward as a treatment for stroke. AMPK is a master energy sensor that monitors levels of key energy metabolites. AMPK is activated via phosphorylation (pAMPK) when cellular energy levels are low, such as that seen during ischemia. AMPK activation appears to be detrimental in experimental stroke, likely via exacerbating ischemia-induced metabolic failure. We tested the hypothesis that hypothermia reduces AMPK activation. First, it was found that hypothermia reduced infarct after middle cerebral artery occlusion. Second, induced hypothermia reduced brain pAMPK in both sham control and stroke mice. Third, hypothermic neuroprotection was ameliorated after administration of compound C, an AMPK inhibitor. Finally, deletion of one of the catalytic isoforms of AMPK completely reversed the effect of hypothermia on stroke outcome after both acute and chronic survival. These effects were mediated by a reduction in AMPK activation rather than a reduction in LKB1, an upstream AMPK kinase. In summary, these studies provide evidence that hypothermia exerts its protective effect in part by inhibiting AMPK activation in experimental focal stroke. This suggests that AMPK represents a potentially important biological target for stroke treatment.

This article provides a quantitative review of the link of emotional labor (emotion-rule dissonance, surface acting, and deep acting) with well-being and performance outcomes. The meta-analysis is based on 494 individual correlations drawn from a final sample of 95 independent studies. Results revealed substantial relationships of emotion-rule dissonance and surface acting with indicators of impaired well-being (s between .39 and .48) and job attitudes (s between -.24 and -.40) and a small negative relationship with performance outcomes (s between -.20 and -.05). Overall, deep acting displayed weak relationships with indicators of impaired well-being and job attitudes but positive relationships with emotional performance and customer satisfaction (s .18 and .37). A meta-analytic regression analysis provides information on the unique contribution of emotion-rule dissonance, surface acting, and deep acting in statistically predicting well-being and performance outcomes. Furthermore, a mediation analysis confirms theoretical models of emotional labor which suggest that surface acting partially mediates the relationship of emotion-rule dissonance with well-being. Implications for future research as well as pragmatic ramifications for organizational practices are discussed in conclusion.
Carbamyl glucuronidation is an increasingly well-recognized route of metabolism for secondary amine drugs. Proper characterization of these metabolites requires the synthesis of authentic standards. O-protected glucuronyl p-nitrophenyl carbonates can be prepared with high selectivity for the -configuration at the anomeric center and efficiently transfer the -glucuronylcarbonyl group to secondary amines, constituting an effective and versatile method for preparation of these metabolites.
Chiari type III is the rarest of the Chiari malformations and is usually associated with high morbidity and mortality. Treatment consists of primary closure of the encephalocele with or without cerebro-spinal fluid (CSF) shunting. In our case, the patient was treated with ventriculoperitoneal shunt followed by excision of the encephalocele. We propose that large encephaloceles should be treated with CSF shunting prior to repair of the sac so as to achieve optimal result.
Sodium channel inhibition is a well precedented mechanism used to treat epilepsy and other hyperexcitability disorders. The established sodium channel blocker and broad-spectrum anticonvulsant lamotrigine is also effective in the treatment of bipolar disorder and has been evaluated in patients with schizophrenia. Double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trials found that the drug has potential to reduce cognitive symptoms of the disorder. However, because of compound-related side-effects and the need for dose titration, a conclusive evaluation of the drug's efficacy in patients with schizophrenia has not been possible. (5R)-5-(4-{[(2-Fluorophenyl)methyl]oxy}phenyl)-l-prolinamide (GSK2) and (2R,5R)-2-(4-{[(2-fluorophenyl)methyl]oxy}phenyl)-7-methyl-1,7-diazaspiro[4.4]nonan-6-one (GSK3) are two new structurally diverse sodium channel blockers with potent anticonvulsant activity. In this series of studies in the rat, we compared the efficacy of the two new molecules to prevent a cognitive deficit induced by the N-methyl-d-aspartic acid receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP) in the reversal-learning paradigm in the rat. We also explored the effects of the drugs to prevent brain activation and neurochemical effects of PCP. We found that, like lamotrigine, both GSK2 and GSK3 were able to prevent the deficit in reversal learning produced by PCP, thus confirming their potential in the treatment of cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia. However, higher doses than those required for anticonvulsant efficacy of the drugs were needed for activity in the reversal-learning model, suggesting a lower therapeutic window relative to mechanism-dependent central side effects for this indication.
The abuse liability profile of three synthetic hallucinogens, N,N-diisopropyltryptamine (DIPT), 5-N,N-diethyl-5-methoxytryptamine (5-MeO-DET), and 5-methoxy--methyltryptamine (5-MeO-AMT), was tested in rats trained to discriminate hallucinogenic and psychostimulant compounds, including cocaine, methamphetamine, 3,4-methylenedioxymethylamphetamine (MDMA), lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), (-)-2,5-dimethoxy-4-methylamphetamine (DOM), and dimethyltryptamine (DMT). Because abused hallucinogens act at 5-hydroxytryptamine 1A (5-HT(1A)) and 5-HT(2A) receptors, and abused psychostimulants act at monoamine transporters, binding and functional activities of DIPT, 5-MeO-DET, and 5-MeO-AMT at these sites were also tested. DIPT fully substituted in rats trained to discriminate DMT (ED(50) = 1.71 mg/kg) and DOM (ED(50) = 1.94 mg/kg), but produced only 68% LSD-appropriate responding. 5-MeO-DET fully substituted for DMT (ED(50) = 0.41 mg/kg) and produced 59% MDMA-appropriate responding. 5-MeO-AMT did not fully substitute for any of the training drugs, but produced 67% LSD-appropriate responding. None of the compounds produced substitution in rats trained to discriminate cocaine or methamphetamine. All three compounds showed activity at 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2A) receptors as well as blockade of reuptake by the serotonin transporter. In addition, 5-MeO-AMT produced low levels of serotonin release and low potency blockade of dopamine uptake. DIPT, 5-MeO-DET, and 5-MeO-AMT produced behavioral and receptor effects similar to those of abused hallucinogens, but were not similar to those of psychostimulants. DIPT and 5-MeO-DET may have abuse liability similar to known hallucinogens and may be hazardous because high doses produced activity and lethality.
While a close correlation exists in obese humans between sympathetic, adrenergic hyperactivity and structural and functional organ damage, a role for the co-transmitter, ATP, in vascular function remains unexplored. We therefore studied sympathetic nerve-mediated responses of pressurised small mesenteric arteries from control and obese rats. Diet-induced obesity significantly increased the amplitude of vasoconstriction to transmural nerve stimulation (1-10 Hz; P &lt;0.05). At 1 and 5 Hz, both adrenergic and purinergic responses were significantly augmented, while only the purinergic component was increased at 10 Hz (P &lt;0.05). Nerve stimulation at 1 Hz evoked contractions and underlying excitatory junction potentials (EJPs), which were both significantly increased in amplitude during obesity (P &lt;0.05) and abolished by -methylene ATP (1 M; desensitises purinergic receptors). The rise time and rate of decay of these EJPs were significant decreased (P &lt;0.05), without change in resting membrane potential. Amplitude and frequency of spontaneous EJPs and the density of perivascular sympathetic nerves were also significantly increased (P &lt;0.05). Inhibition of sensory neurotransmitter release (capsaicin; 10 M) significantly increased the amplitude of nerve-mediated contraction (P &lt;0.05), with a greater effect in control than obese animals, although the density of sensory nerves was unaffected by obesity. We demonstrate that sympathetic nerve-mediated vasoconstriction is enhanced by diet-induced obesity due to upregulation of purinergic, in addition to adrenergic, neurotransmission. Changes result from increased perivascular sympathetic innervation and release of ATP. We conclude that augmented sympathetic control of vasoconstriction induced by obesity could contribute directly to hypertension and global organ damage. A decrease in sensitivity to sensory vasodilatory neurotransmitters may also affect these processes.
Neurons in visual cortex exhibit two major types of stimulus elicited suppression. One, cross-orientation suppression, occurs within the classical receptive field (CRF) when an orthogonal grating is superposed on one at optimal orientation. The second, surround suppression, occurs when the size of an optimally oriented grating extends beyond the CRF. Previous proposals suggest that intracortical inhibition is responsible for surround suppression whereas feedforward processes may underlie cross-orientation suppression. To gain more insight concerning these types of suppression, we have included measurements of metabolic function in addition to neural responses. We made co-localized measurements of multiple unit neural activity and tissue oxygen concentrations in the striate cortex of anaesthetized cats while using visual stimuli to activate the two kinds of suppression. Results show that the amplitude of the initial negative oxygen response increases with stimulus size but neural responses decrease as size extends beyond the CRF. This shows that oxygen consumption increases with stimulus size regardless of reduced neural response. On the other hand, amplitudes of both the initial negative oxygen component and the neural responses are simultaneously attenuated by the orthogonal mask in cross-orientation suppression. These different neurometabolic response patterns are consistent with suggestions that the two types of suppressive processes arise from different neural mechanisms.
Periodic sensory stimuli are prevalent in natural environment and may signal events of particular importance. However, whether periodic and aperiodic stimuli are differentially processed by neural circuits remains unclear. Here we show that periodic stimuli exert influences over longer distances than aperiodic stimuli at both neuronal and perceptual levels. Whole-cell recording from rat visual cortex showed that periodic visual stimulation (1-11 Hz) outside the neuronal receptive field evoked robust membrane potential oscillation at the stimulation frequency, while the same stimulus applied aperiodically had little effect. Human psychophysical experiments showed that periodic luminance changes in the distant surround also exert a stronger modulation of perceived brightness of a centre test stimulus than that exerted by aperiodic changes. Furthermore, both perceptual and neuronal modulation increased with the number of stimulation cycles for periodic surround stimuli. Thus, periodic stimuli can modulate both cortical responses and visual perception over larger spatial scales, generating more global impact on cortical information processing.
Signals associated with the command the brain sends to muscles are thought to create the sensation of heaviness when we lift an object. Thus, as a muscle is weakened by fatigue or partial paralysis (neuromuscular blockade), the increase in the motor command needed to lift a weight is thought to explain the increasing subjective heaviness of the lifted object.With different fatiguing contractions we approximately halved the force output of the thumb flexor muscles, which were then used to lift an object. For two deafferented subjects the perceived heaviness of the lifted object approximately doubled, in keeping with the central-signal theory. However, for normal subjects this resulted in objects feeling the same or lighter, inconsistent with the central-signal theory but consistent with the expected effects of the conditioning contractions on the sensitivity of peripheral receptors. In separate experiments we subjected the forearm muscles to complete paralysis with a non-depolarising neuromuscular blocking agent and then allowed them to recover to approximately half-force output. This also resulted in objects feeling lighter when lifted by the semi-paralysed thumb, even though the motor command to the motoneurons must have been greater. This is readily explained by reduced lift-related reafference caused by the prolonged paralysis of muscle spindle intrafusal fibres.We conclude that peripheral signals, including a major contribution from muscle spindles, normally give rise to the sense of exerted force. In concept, however, reafference from peripheral receptors may also be considered a centrally generated signal that traverses efferent and then afferent pathways to feed perceptual centres rather than one confined entirely to the central nervous system. These results therefore challenge the distinction between central- and peripheral-based perception, and the concept that muscle spindles provide only information about limb position and movement.
Nociceptin or orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) stimulates food intake when injected into the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMN). The VMN negatively regulates energy balance in part by tonically activating proopiomelanocortin arcuate neurons, thereby suppressing food intake. However, it is not clear how orexigenic neurotransmission within the VMN can stimulate food intake. We tested the hypothesis that the orexigenic action of N/OFQ results from its inhibition of anorexigenic VMN neurons. We studied the effects of N/OFQ on the electrical properties of anorexigenic VMN neurons in acute brain slices. Ionic mechanisms underlying the actions of N/OFQ were studied using whole cell patch-clamp recordings from VMN neurons expressing the anorexigenic leptin receptor (LepRb). Bath application of N/OFQ to LepRb-expressing VMN neurons elicited a robust, reversible membrane hyperpolarization that suppressed neuronal excitability by raising the action potential firing threshold and cell rheobase. N/OFQ activated a postsynaptic, G-protein coupled, inwardly rectifying potassium (GIRK) current that was sensitive to G-protein inactivation, blocked by the GIRK blocker SCH23390, and occluded by the GABAB agonist and potent GIRK activator, baclofen. Application of the selective N/OFQ receptor antagonist SB-612111 blocked the inhibitory effects of N/OFQ. We concluded that N/OFQ directly inhibited VMN neurons by activating a GIRK. These results implicate the site-specific contributions of orexigenic neuropeptides at VMN neurons to suppress anorexigenic output. This study thus advances our understanding regarding the contributions of the VMN to hypothalamic regulation of energy balance.
This study examined whether aging influences the effect of gentle mechanical cutaneous stimulation (touch) on somato-cardiac sympathetic reflexes in anesthetized rats. A single electrical stimulus (15 V, 0.5 ms) applied to the tibial nerve induced somato-cardiac sympathetic A- and C-reflexes, which originated from the myelinated A- and unmyelinated C-fibers of the tibial nerve, respectively. When touch was applied to the inner thigh ipsilateral to the electrical stimulation, the C-reflex was selectively inhibited in adult rats (4-12 months), and this response was abolished by the opioid receptor antagonist, naloxone. Such an inhibitory effect of touch was impaired in aged rats (26-30 months). In contrast, depression of both A- and C-reflexes during a phenylephrine-induced rise in blood pressure was well maintained in the aged group. This study indicates that activation of the opioidergic system by gentle mechanical cutaneous stimulation attenuates with aging.
Bridging conduits (BC) are tubular protrusions that facilitate cytoplasm and membrane exchanges between tethered cells. We now report that the human immunodeficiency virus type I (HIV-1) exploits these conduits to accelerate its spread and to shield it from immune surveillance. Endosome transport through BC drives HIV-1 intercellular transfers. How this occurs was studied in human monocyte-derived macrophages using proteomic, biochemical, and imaging techniques. Endosome, endoplasmic reticulum (ER), Golgi markers, and HIV-1 proteins were identified by proteomic assays in isolated conduits. Both the ER and Golgi showed elongated and tubular morphologies that extended into the conduits of polarized macrophages. Env and Gag antigen and fluorescent HIV-1 tracking demonstrated that these viral constituents were sequestered into endocytic and ER-Golgi organelles. Sequestered infectious viral components targeted the Golgi and ER by retrograde transport from early and Rab9 late endosomes. Disruption of the ER-Golgi network impaired HIV-1 trafficking in the conduit endosomes. This study provides, for the first time, mechanisms for how BC Golgi and ER direct cell-cell viral transfer.
Liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was used to discover peptides in extracts of the large parasitic nematode Ascaris suum. This required the assembly of a new database of known and predicted peptides. In addition to those already sequenced, peptides were either previously predicted to be processed from precursor proteins identified in an A. suum library of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) or newly predicted from a library of A. suum genome survey sequences (GSSs). The predicted MS/MS fragmentation patterns of this collection of real and putative peptides were compared with the actual fragmentation patterns found in the MS/MS spectra of peptides fractionated by MS; this enabled individual peptides to be sequenced. Many previously identified peptides were found, and 21 novel peptides were discovered. Thus, this approach is very useful, despite the fact that the available GSS database is still preliminary, having only 1 coverage.
Catatonia is a movement disorder with various possible etiologies. The majority of cases are associated with an underlying mood or psychotic disorder, while others are caused by medical conditions. Currently, benzodiazepines are the first-line psychopharmacologic agents in the treatment of catatonia. However, several cases have been reported in which treatment with memantine proved to be effective. We present the case of a 92-year-old female with major depressive disorder and associated catatonic symptoms. In this case, the patient's symptoms remitted quickly after the initiation of memantine. We review the possible causes of catatonia and pharmacologic treatments for the condition and highlight the possible benefits of N-methylD-aspartic acid receptor antagonists such as memantine in the treatment of catatonia.
This paper presents new data addressing two important controversies in psychiatry: the construct of Minor Depression (MinD) and the efficacy of St. John's Wort for milder forms of depressive disorders. Data are from a three-arm, 12 week, randomized clinical trial of investigating the efficacy of St. John's Wort (810mg/day), citalopram (20mg/day), or placebo for acute treatment of MinD. Due to a high placebo response on all outcome measures, neither St. John's Wort nor citalopram separated from placebo on change in depressive symptom severity, quality of life, or well-being. However, systematic assessment of potential adverse effects (AEs) led to three important observations: (1) prior to the administration of study compound, 60% of subjects endorsed items that would be characterized as AEs once study compound was administered, (2) St. John's Wort and citalopram were each associated with a significant number of new or worsening AEs during treatment, and (3) using a structured interview for identifying AEs at baseline and during treatment is informative. MinD was not responsive to either a conventional antidepressant or a nutraceutical, and both compounds were associated with a notable side effects burden. Other treatment approaches for MinD should be investigated.



Psychoactive drug use shows great diversity, but due to a disproportionate focus on problematic drug use, predominant nonproblematic drug use remains an understudied phenomenon. Historic and anecdotal evidence shows that natural sources of &quot;psychedelic&quot; drugs (e.g., mescaline and psilocybin) have been used in religious and spiritual settings for centuries, as well as for psychological self-enhancement purposes. Our study assessed a total of 667 psychedelic drug users, other drug users, and drug nonusers by online questionnaires. Coping, life purpose, and spirituality were measured with the Psychological Immune Competence Inventory, the Purpose in Life test, and the Intrinsic Spirituality Scale, respectively. Results indicate that the use of psychedelic drugs with a purpose to enhance self-knowledge is less associated with problems, and correlates positively with coping and spirituality. Albeit the meaning of &quot;spirituality&quot; may be ambiguous, it seems that a spiritually-inclined attitude in drug use may act as a protective factor against drug-related problems. The autognostic use of psychedelic drugs may be thus hypothesized as a &quot;training situation&quot; that promotes self-enhancement by rehearsing personal coping strategies and by gaining self-knowledge. However, to assess the actual efficiency and the speculated long-term benefits of these deliberately provoked exceptional experiences, further qualitative investigations are needed.
Homer1a is a glutamate-related gene whose expression is induced by antipsychotics acutely (i.e. 90min after treatment). Acute Homer1a expression is preserved after prolonged antipsychotic treatments, while the effects of short-term discontinuation after chronic antipsychotic treatment have not yet been assessed. Here, we studied early and long-term effects on gene expression by antipsychotics for Homer1a and other components of glutamatergic synapses. In the first paradigm, we evaluated Homer1a acute expression by single administration of antipsychotics (haloperidol 0.8mg/kg, ziprasidone 10 and 4mg/kg, clozapine 15 mg/kg). Haloperidol and ziprasidone induced Homer1a in the striatum. Induction by ziprasidone was dose-dependent. These results suggest that acute Homer1a expression correlates with dopaminergic affinity and motor side effects of antipsychotics. In the second paradigm, we studied antipsychotic-mediated long-term changes in Homer1a and glutamate-related genes. Rats were treated (21 days) with haloperidol 0.8mg/kg, ziprasidone 4 mg/kg, or vehicle, and then sacrificed at 90 min (early time-point) or 24 h (delayed time-point) after last injection. Gene expression at these two time-points was compared. Homer1a preserved its pattern of expression at the early but not at the delayed time-point. Significant changes were also observed for PSD-95. The results suggest that Homer1a preserves its expression profile after chronic antipsychotics.


Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA) was used to investigate associations between, and variations in, ejaculatory control and ejaculation latency time (ELT) over repeated measurements of sexual activities. Differences between measures recorded in partnered or non-partnered settings were also investigated. The sample consisted of 21 male Finns aged 18 years or above, contributing a total of 158 reports of partnered and non-partnered sexual activities over a six-week period. In the context of non-partnered sexual activities, after controlling for within-subjects dependence, ELTs between events were predictive of one another, but ELT did not predict ejaculatory control when measured simultaneously, nor at subsequent events. Also, ejaculatory control could not predict simultaneously measured ELT or ejaculatory control at subsequent events. During partnered sexual activities, both ejaculatory control and ELT could be accurately predicted by observing ejaculatory control at prior events. In this context, ejaculatory control could also reliably predict simultaneously measured ELT. ELT or ejaculatory control during partnered sexual activity could not be predicted by observing ELT at prior events. Between-event correlations were generally low, indicating considerable variation in ejaculatory functioning over time. EMA is a thrifty assessment method for studying variations in ejaculatory function, and is likely suitable for studying sexual dysfunctions in general.

This study was conducted to investigate life satisfaction and employment status after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and to explain the associations between life satisfaction and demographic, disease-related, psychological, and personality characteristics. Subjects with SAH (n = 141) living at home 2-4 years after the SAH responded to a mailed questionnaire. Outcomes were life satisfaction, as measured with the Life Satisfaction Questionnaire 9 (LiSat-9), and employment status. Determinants in multiple regression analysis were demographic and SAH characteristics, subjective complaints (eg, mood disorder, fatigue, cognitive complaints), and personality characteristics (eg, neuroticism, passive coping style). Of the 141 subjects, 64 (46.7%) had a Glasgow Outcome Scale score of V (good outcome) at discharge. Mean subject age was 51.4  12.3 years, and mean time after SAH was 36.1  7.9 months. Of the 88 subjects who were working at the time of the SAH, 54 (61.4%) returned to work, but only 31 (35.2%) resumed their work completely. The subjects were least satisfied with their vocational situation (51.9% satisfied) and sexual life (51.7%) and were most satisfied with their relationships (75.2%-88.7%) and self-care ability (88.6%). Age ( value = 0.17), return to work after SAH (0.19), disability at hospital discharge (0.25), worsened mood (-0.37), and passive coping (-0.25) together accounted for 47.2% of the life satisfaction scores. Our data indicate that return to work is a major issue for individuals who survive an SAH. Not returning to work, disability, depression, and passive coping are associated with reduced life satisfaction. Thus, vocational reintegration after SAH merits more attention during rehabilitation.


Interleukin-10 (IL-10) mRNA is rapidly upregulated in the central nervous system (CNS) following infection with neurotropic coronavirus and remains elevated during persistent infection. Infection of transgenic IL-10/green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter mice revealed that CNS-infiltrating T cells were the major source of IL-10, with minimal IL-10 production by macrophages and resident microglia. The proportions of IL-10-producing cells were initially similar in CD8(+) and CD4(+) T cells but diminished rapidly in CD8(+) T cells as the virus was controlled. Overall, the majority of IL-10-producing CD8(+) T cells were specific for the immunodominant major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I epitope. Unlike CD8(+) T cells, a large proportion of CD4(+) T cells within the CNS retained IL-10 production throughout persistence. Furthermore, elevated frequencies of IL-10-producing CD4(+) T cells in the spinal cord supported preferential maintenance of IL-10 production at the site of viral persistence and tissue damage. IL-10 was produced primarily by the CD25(+) CD4(+) T cell subset during acute infection but prevailed in CD25(-) CD4(+) T cells during the transition to persistent infection and thereafter. Overall, these data demonstrate significant fluidity in the T-cell-mediated IL-10 response during viral encephalitis and persistence. While IL-10 production by CD8(+) T cells was limited primarily to the time of acute effector function, CD4(+) T cells continued to produce IL-10 throughout infection. Moreover, a shift from predominant IL-10 production by CD25(+) CD4(+) T cells to CD25(-) CD4(+) T cells suggests that a transition to nonclassical regulatory T cells precedes and is retained during CNS viral persistence.
Immunoglobulin in cerebral spinal fluid and antibody secreting cells (ASC) within the central nervous system (CNS) parenchyma are common hallmarks of microbial infections and autoimmune disorders. However, the signals directing ASC migration into the inflamed CNS are poorly characterized. This study demonstrates that CXCR3 mediates CNS accumulation of ASC during neurotropic coronavirus-induced encephalomyelitis. Expansion of CXCR3-expressing ASC in draining lymph nodes prior to accumulation within the CNS was consistent with their recruitment by sustained expression of CXCR3 ligands during viral persistence. Both total and virus-specific ASC were reduced greater than 80% in the CNS of infected CXCR3(-/-) mice. Similar T cell CNS recruitment and local T cell-dependent antiviral activity further indicated that the ASC migration defect was T cell independent. Furthermore, in contrast to the reduction of ASC in the CNS, neither virus-specific ASC trafficking to bone marrow nor antiviral serum antibody was reduced relative to levels in control mice. Impaired ASC recruitment into the CNS of infected CXCR3(-/-) mice coincided with elevated levels of persisting viral RNA, sustained infectious virus, increased clinical disease, and mortality. These results demonstrate that CXCR3 ligands are indispensable for recruitment of activated ASC into the inflamed CNS and highlight their local protective role during persistent infection.
Three types of vascular dysfunction have been described in multiple sclerosis (MS). First, findings from epidemiological studies suggest that patients with MS have a higher risk for ischaemic stroke than people who do not have MS. The underlying mechanism is unknown, but might involve endothelial dysfunction secondary to inflammatory disease activity and increased plasma homocysteine concentrations. Second, patients with MS have global cerebral hypoperfusion, which might predispose them to the development of ischaemic stroke. The widespread decrease in perfusion in normal-appearing white matter and grey matter in MS seems not to be secondary to axonal degeneration, but might be a result of reduced axonal activity, reduced astrocyte energy metabolism, and perhaps increased blood concentrations of endothelin-1. Data suggest that a subtype of focal MS lesions might have an ischaemic origin, and there seems to be a link between reduced white matter perfusion and cognitive dysfunction in MS. Third, the pathology of MS might be the consequence of a chronic state of impaired venous drainage from the CNS, for which the term chronic cerebrospinal venous insufficiency (CCSVI) has been coined. A number of recent vascular studies do not support the CCSVI theory, but some elements of CCSVI might be explained by slower cerebral venous blood flow secondary to the reduced cerebral perfusion in patients with MS compared with healthy individuals.
The rationale for use of adult stem cells as a treatment for neurological diseases such as multiple sclerosis arose from the hope that they had the capacity to foster repair of the CNS through tissue integration and differentiation into neural cells. Evidence from preclinical studies suggested that mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), a subset of adult progenitor cells, are an effective therapy in preclinical animal models of neurological diseases such as experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, a model for multiple sclerosis, and stroke. In experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, intravenous injection of MSCs ameliorates clinical course and decreases demyelination, immune infiltrates, and axonal loss. Surprisingly, these effects do not require full CNS engraftment by MSCs, but rely on the capacity of MSCs to inhibit pathogenic immune responses and release neuroprotective and pro-oligodendrogenic molecules favouring tissue repair. These results led to the conclusion that therapeutic use of MSCs should initially focus on individuals with multiple sclerosis and persistent inflammation. Small clinical studies in different neurological diseases have suggested that MSCs are safe, paving the road for larger phase 2 studies addressing the effect of MSCs on clinical outcomes and markers of disease activity.


Schneiderian first rank symptoms (FRS) in schizophrenia have been hypothesised to be secondary to aberrant cerebral lateralisation over the course of human evolution. The ratio of length of second digit to fourth digit (2D:4D) has been put forward as a potential indicator of cerebral lateralisation. This study examined 2D:4D and its asymmetry in antipsychotic-nave schizophrenia patients (N=79) in comparison with healthy controls (N=75). Psychopathology was assessed using Scales for Assessment of Positive and Negative Symptoms. FRS assessment was performed as per established descriptions. The digit lengths (2D &amp; 4D) were measured using a digital vernier caliper with good inter-rater reliability. Female schizophrenia patients showed significantly lower 2D:4D than female healthy controls. Mean 2D:4D asymmetry index was significantly lower in male schizophrenia patients than male healthy controls. FRS status had significant effect on left 2D:4D as well as 2D:4D asymmetry index, the patients with FRS having the lowest values. Our study findings support association between schneiderian FRS and low 2D:4D as well as low 2D:4D asymmetry index. Since 2D:4D is linked with limbic asymmetry, our study findings offer further support to the cerebral lateralisation theories of schizophrenia.
The limit of about 5% for reliable quantification of jitter in sustained vowels of dysphonic voices-a widely accepted guideline-deserves critical analysis. The present study pertains to the effect of experience and training on the perceptual (visual) capability of correctly identifying periods in (highly) perturbed signals, and to a comparison of the performance of several programs for voice analysis. Synthesized realistic vowels (/a:/) with exactly known jitter (2.7%-31.5%) are used as material. After selection and training, experienced raters demonstrate excellent agreement in correctly identifying periods up to high values of jitter put in. Perceptual rating outperforms all computer programs in accuracy. Most remain reliable up to 10% jitter; one of them correctly measures up to the highest level.
Primary central nervous system atypical rhabdoid/teratoid tumour (ATRT) is a rare and highly malignant tumour that tends to occur in infancy and early childhood. The majority of tumours (approximately two-third) arise in the posterior fossa. The optimal treatment for ATRT remains unclear. Options of treatment include surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy. Each of their role is still not clearly defined until now. The prognosis of the disease is generally unfavourable. This is a case report of ATRT in an atypical site in a 9-year-old girl.

Numerous interpretations have been proposed to Kafka's writings, due to their hermetic nature. Psychological interpretations have been the object of numerous psychoanalytical studies, but not of cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) studies; nor have there been attempts to propose a solution to Kafka's inner conflicts supposedly pictured by his characters. In this paper, I assume that Kafka intended to propose a universal principle of self-accusation by human beings. I also assume that self-accusations occur as schemas and core beliefs about the self described by cognitive therapists, and that being aware of such cognitions might permit the patient to organize his or her own defense. Thus, it is possible to set an enquiry to identify the self-accusations and mobilize the characters in the inner tribunal to help the patient judge himself with a more realistic and informed basis. Empirical data supporting this hypothesis as well as the approach I proposed to deal with it are presented in this paper.
Both the antiangiogenic and antitumoral activity of shark cartilage extracts (SCE) have been demonstrated in animal models and clinical trials. Studies reported that SCE induces the expression of tissue plasminogen activator gene (PLAT) in endothelial cells and increases the activity of the protein (t-PA) in vitro. The aim of this study was to demonstrate the crucial role of t-PA induction in the antiangiogenic and antitumor activity of SCE in experimental glioma. This study showed antiangiogenic and antitumoral effects of SCE in three mice glioma models (C6, HGD and GL26). Histological examination suggested perivascular proteolysis and edema as well as important intratumoral necrosis, which artefactually increased the tumor volume at high doses. Thus, the antiangiogenic effect of SCE correlated with the presence of t-PA and angiostatin in degenerating vessels. Functional in vivo experiments were conducted to modulate the plasminogen pathway. No antiangiogenic effect was observed on tumors overexpressing the plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1). Moreover, therapeutical effects were neutralized in mice that were cotreated with -aminocaproic acid (EACA, 120 mg/kg p.o.), an inhibitor that blocks the high-affinity lysine binding sites of both plasminogen and plasmin. In contrast, cotreatment with N-acetylcysteine (NAC, 7,5mg/kg i.p.), a sulfhydril donor that reduces plasmin into angiostatin or other antiangiogenic fragments, increased the benefit of SCE on mice survival. In subcutaneous models, NAC prevented the increase in tumor volume caused by high doses of cartilage extract. In conclusion, this study indicates that induction of t-PA by shark cartilage extract plays an essential role in its antiangiogenic activity, but that control of excessive proteolysis by a plasmin reductor could prevent edema and uncover the full benefit of shark cartilage extract in the treatment of intracranial tumors.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic progressive neurodegenerative movement disorder characterised by a profound and selective loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. In Parkinson's disease, degeneration of dopaminergic neurons involves motor structures including basal ganglia and cerebellum. Glutamate-mediated degeneration of the cerebellum contributes to motor dysfunction in Parkinson's disease. Targeting neurotransmitter system beyond the dopamine system is of important, both for the motor and for the nonmotor problems of Parkinson's disease. The aim of this study is to assess the glutamate and NMDA receptor functional regulation and motor performance of 6-hydroxydopamine-induced Parkinson's rat and the effects of serotonin (5-HT), gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) and bone marrow cells supplementation infused intranigrally to substantia nigra individually and in combination. Scatchard analysis of total glutamate and NMDA receptor binding parameters showed a significant increase in B (max) (P &lt; 0.001) in the cerebellum of 6-hydroxydopamine infused rat compared to control. Real-Time PCR amplification of NMDA2B, mGluR5, and bax were significantly (P &lt; 0.001) upregulated in cerebellum of 6-hydroxydopamine infused rats compared to control. Activation of the glutamate and NMDA receptors gave rise to an increased cAMP and IP3 content in the cerebellum. Gene expression studies of GLAST and CREB showed a significant (P &lt; 0.001) down regulation in 6-OHDA infused rats compared to control. Behavioural studies were carried out to confirm the biochemical and molecular studies. Serotonin and GABA along with bone marrow cells in combination showed reversal of glutamate receptors and motor abnormality shown in the Parkinson's rat model. The therapeutic significance in Parkinson's disease is of prominence.
Extensive studies have identified many growth factors and intracellular pathways that can promote neuronal survival after retinal injury, but the intrinsic survival mechanisms in the normal retina are poorly understood. Here we report that genetic ablation of Shp2 (Ptpn11) protein phosphatase resulted in progressive apoptosis of all retinal cell types. Loss of Shp2 specifically disrupted extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling in Mller cells, leading to Stat3 activation in photoreceptors. However, neither inactivation of Stat3 nor stimulation of AKT signaling could ameliorate the Shp2 retinal degeneration. Instead, constitutively activated Kras signaling not only rescued the retinal cell numbers in the Shp2 mutant but also functionally improved the electroretinogram recording (ERG). These results suggest that Shp2-mediated Ras-mitogen-activated protein kinase (Ras-MAPK) signaling plays a critical role in Mller cell maturation and function, which is necessary for the survival of retinal neurons.
GnRH is a pivotal hypothalamic neurohormone governing reproduction and sexual development. Because transcriptional regulation is crucial for the spatial and temporal expression of the GnRH gene, a region approximately 3.0 kb upstream of the mammalian GnRH promoter has been extensive studied. In the present study, we demonstrate a transcription-enhancer located in the first intron (intron A) region of the GnRH gene. This transcriptional enhancer harbors putative sex-determining region Y-related high-mobility-group box (SOX) family transcription factor-binding sites, which are well conserved across many mammalian species. The class-C SOX member proteins (SOX-C) (SOX4 and SOX11) specifically augment this transcriptional activation by binding to these SOX-binding sites. In accordance, SOX11 is highly enriched in immortalized GnRH-producing GT1-1 cells, and suppression of its expression significantly decreases GnRH gene expression as well as GnRH secretion. Chromatin immunoprecipitation shows that endogenous SOX-C factors recognize and bind to the intronic enhancer in GT1-1 cells and the hypothalamus. Accompanying immunohistochemical analysis demonstrates that SOX4 or SOX11 are highly expressed in the majority of hypothalamic GnRH neurons in adult mice. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that SOX-C transcription factors function as important transcriptional regulators of cell type-specific GnRH gene expression by acting on the intronic transcriptional enhancer.
Abelson family kinases (AFKs; Abl1, Abl2) are non-receptor tyrosine kinases (NRTKs) implicated in cancer, but they also have important physiological roles that include regulating synaptic structure and function. Recent studies using Abl-deficient mice and the antileukemia drug STI571 [imatinib mesylate (Gleevec); Novartis], which potently and selectively blocks Abl kinase activity, implicate AFKs in regulating presynaptic neurotransmitter release in hippocampus and postsynaptic clustering of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in muscle. Here, we tested whether AFKs are relevant for regulating nAChRs and nAChR-mediated synapses on autonomic neurons. AFK immunoreactivity was detected in ciliary ganglion (CG) lysates and neurons, and STI571 application blocked endogenous Abl tyrosine kinase activity. With similar potency, STI571 specifically reduced whole-cell current responses generated by both nicotinic receptor subtypes present on CG neurons (3*- and 7-nAChRs) and lowered the frequency and amplitude of 3*-nAChR-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents. Quantal analysis indicated that the synaptic perturbations were postsynaptic in origin, and confocal imaging experiments revealed they were unaccompanied by changes in nAChR clustering or alignment with presynaptic terminals. The results indicate that in autonomic neurons, Abl kinase activity normally supports postsynaptic nAChR function to sustain nAChR-mediated neurotransmission. Such consequences contrast with the influence of Abl kinase activity on presynaptic function and synaptic structure in hippocampus and muscle, respectively, demonstrating a cell-specific mechanism of action. Finally, because STI571 potently inhibits Abl kinase activity, the autonomic dysfunction side effects associated with its use as a chemotherapeutic agent may result from perturbed 3*- and/or 7-nAChR function.
Allosteric agonists are powerful tools for exploring the pharmacology of closely related G protein-coupled receptors that have nonselective endogenous ligands, such as the short chain fatty acids at free fatty acid receptors 2 and 3 (FFA2/GPR43 and FFA3/GPR41, respectively). We explored the molecular mechanisms mediating the activity of 4-chloro--(1-methylethyl)-N-2-thiazolylbenzeneacetamide (4-CMTB), a recently described phenylacetamide allosteric agonist and allosteric modulator of endogenous ligand function at human FFA2, by combining our previous knowledge of the orthosteric binding site with targeted examination of 4-CMTB structure-activity relationships and mutagenesis and chimeric receptor generation. Here we show that 4-CMTB is a selective agonist for FFA2 that binds to a site distinct from the orthosteric site of the receptor. Ligand structure-activity relationship studies indicated that the N-thiazolyl amide is likely to provide hydrogen bond donor/acceptor interactions with the receptor. Substitution at Leu(173) or the exchange of the entire extracellular loop 2 of FFA2 with that of FFA3 was sufficient to reduce or ablate, respectively, allosteric communication between the endogenous and allosteric agonists. Thus, we conclude that extracellular loop 2 of human FFA2 is required for transduction of cooperative signaling between the orthosteric and an as-yet-undefined allosteric binding site of the FFA2 receptor that is occupied by 4-CMTB.
The method of acute tryptophan depletion (ATD), which reduces the availability of the essential amino acid tryptophan (TRP), the dietary serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)) precursor, has been applied in many experimental studies. ATD application leads to decreased availability of TRP in the brain and its synthesis into 5-HT. It is therefore assumed that a decrease in 5-HT release and subsequent blunted neurotransmission is the underlying mechanism for the behavioural effects of ATD. However, direct evidence that ATD decreases extracellular 5-HT concentrations is lacking. Furthermore, several studies provide support for alternative underlying mechanisms of ATD. This may question the utility of the method as a selective serotonergic challenge tool. As ATD is extensively used for investigating the role of 5-HT in cognitive functions and psychiatric disorders, the potential of alternative mechanisms and possible confounding factors should be taken into account. It is suggested that caution is required when interpreting ATD effects in terms of a selective serotonergic effect.
Inherited retinal degeneration results from many different mutations in either photoreceptor-specific or nonphotoreceptor-specific genes. However, nearly all mutations lead to a common blinding phenotype that initiates with rod cell death, followed by loss of cones. In most retinal degenerations, other retinal neuron cell types survive for long periods after blindness from photoreceptor loss. One strategy to restore light responsiveness to a retina rendered blind by photoreceptor degeneration is to express light-regulated ion channels or transporters in surviving retinal neurons. Recent experiments in rodents have restored light-sensitivity by expressing melanopsin or microbial opsins either broadly throughout the retina or selectively in the inner segments of surviving cones or in bipolar cells. Here, we present an approach whereby a genetically and chemically engineered light-gated ionotropic glutamate receptor (LiGluR) is expressed selectively in retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), the longest-surviving cells in retinal blinding diseases. When expressed in the RGCs of a well-established model of retinal degeneration, the rd1 mouse, LiGluR restores light sensitivity to the RGCs, reinstates light responsiveness to the primary visual cortex, and restores both the pupillary reflex and a natural light-avoidance behavior.
Previous work established retinal expression of channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2), an algal cation channel gated by light, restored physiological and behavioral visual responses in otherwise blind rd1 mice. However, a viable ChR2-based human therapy must meet several key criteria: (i) ChR2 expression must be targeted, robust, and long-term, (ii) ChR2 must provide long-term and continuous therapeutic efficacy, and (iii) both viral vector delivery and ChR2 expression must be safe. Here, we demonstrate the development of a clinically relevant therapy for late stage retinal degeneration using ChR2. We achieved specific and stable expression of ChR2 in ON bipolar cells using a recombinant adeno-associated viral vector (rAAV) packaged in a tyrosine-mutated capsid. Targeted expression led to ChR2-driven electrophysiological ON responses in postsynaptic retinal ganglion cells and significant improvement in visually guided behavior for multiple models of blindness up to 10 months postinjection. Light levels to elicit visually guided behavioral responses were within the physiological range of cone photoreceptors. Finally, chronic ChR2 expression was nontoxic, with transgene biodistribution limited to the eye. No measurable immune or inflammatory response was observed following intraocular vector administration. Together, these data indicate that virally delivered ChR2 can provide a viable and efficacious clinical therapy for photoreceptor disease-related blindness.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is an inherited severe muscle wasting disorder with, thus far, no effective therapy. DMD causes respiratory and cardiac failure as well as muscle wastage. Among the various symptoms, respiratory insufficiency is a major cause of death in DMD patients at about 20 years of age. So, naturally, the improvement of respiratory function will extend the patient's life. We report here, for the first time, a sensitive procedure using whole-body plethysmography to monitor respiratory parameters detected in the utrophin/dystrophin double knockout mouse (dko mouse), showing quite similar systemic symptoms to human DMD including restrictive ventilatory impairment. Furthermore, we show that a highly efficient dystrophin-transduction to the dko's diaphragm--achieved by simple intraperitoneal injection of a helper-dependent adenovirus vector (HDAdv) containing the full-length dystrophin expression cassette--provided beneficial results. In spite of dystrophin expression only in the diaphragm, this focal gene transfer could result in the rescue from ventilatory impairment (increased tidal volume (TV) and improvement of compensatory hyperpnea). Our result suggests that a DMD patient's mortal ventilatory impairment may be improved via technically easy means through the intraperitoneal injection of HDAdv.
Dominantly inherited mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 are the most common cause of familial Parkinson's disease. Understanding leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 biology and pathophysiology is central to the elucidation of Parkinson's disease etiology and development of disease intervention. Recently, a number of genetic mouse models of leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 have been reported utilizing different genetic approaches. Some similarities in Parkinson's disease-related pathology emerge in these genetic models despite lack of substantial neuropathology and clinical syndromes of Parkinson's disease. The systematic characterization of these models has begun to shed light on leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 biology and pathophysiology and is expected to offer the identification and validation of drug targets. In this review, we summarize the progress of genetic leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 mouse models and discuss their utility in understanding much needed knowledge regarding early-stage (presymptomatic) disease progression, identifying drug targets, and exploring the potential to aid compound screening focused on inhibitors of kinase activity of leucine-rich repeat kinase 2.

Restless legs syndrome is a neurologic movement and sleep disorder with lifelong symptoms causing considerable morbidity. Several short-term and some long-term open-label and double-blind clinical trials have demonstrated the efficacy and safety of dopaminergic treatment in restless legs syndrome. Long-term treatment, however, is associated with the emergence of vexing long-term side effects that pose a challenge for physicians. These long-term complications can be broadly categorized as disease-related (impact on sleep and acute exacerbation of restless legs syndrome symptoms), and medication issues (augmentation, sleep attacks, impulse control disorders, addiction and dependence, site reaction, occasionally sleep apnea, fibrotic complications, and weight gain).
Fixed dystonia is a disabling disorder mainly affecting young women who develop fixed abnormal limb postures and pain after apparently minor peripheral injury. There is continued debate regarding its pathophysiology and management. We report 5 cases of fixed dystonia in patients who sought amputation of the affected limb. We place these cases in the context of previous reports of patients with healthy limbs and patients with chronic regional pain syndrome who have sought amputation. Our cases, combined with recent data regarding disorders of mental rotation in patients with fixed dystonia, as well as previous data regarding body integrity identity disorder and amputations sought by patients with chronic regional pain syndrome, raise the possibility that patients with fixed dystonia might have a deficit in body schema that predisposes them to developing fixed dystonia and drives some to seek amputation. The outcome of amputation in fixed dystonia is invariably unfavorable.
Epidermolysis bullosa associated with muscular dystrophy is a rare, autosomal recessive form of epidermolysis bullosa simplex caused by mutations in the plectin gene, PLEC1. We describe a phenotypically mild case due to compound heterozygous mutations in PLEC1 (2677_2685del and the novel mutation Q1644X). Clinical features included mild skin blistering since birth, slowly progressive and late-onset upper limb-predominant weakness, facial weakness, ptosis, incomplete ophthalmoplegia, and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.

Dopaminergic stabilizers may be conceptualized as drugs with normalizing effects on dopamine-mediated behaviours and neurochemical events. (S)-(-)-OSU6162 (OSU6162) and ACR16 are two structurally related compounds ascribed such properties, principally because of their stabilizing effects on motor activity in rodents. Reports in the literature indicate possible partial D2 receptor agonist effects using various in vitro systems. This study aimed to measure D2 receptor antagonist and agonist effects of OSU6162 and ACR16 in vivo. To address this, we have studied the effects of both compounds on prolactin secretion in drug-naive and dopamine-depleted rats; dopamine depletion was induced by pretreatment with reserpine plus -methyl-DL: -p-tyrosine. We find that OSU6162 and ACR16 both stimulate prolactin secretion in drug-naive rats with OSU6162 being considerably more potent and efficacious. Both compounds show a non-significant trend towards reversal of the increased secretion caused by dopamine depletion, whereas the D2 receptor antagonist haloperidol further increased prolactin secretion. Thus, this study suggests that OSU6162 and ACR16 act as D2 receptor antagonists under normal conditions in vivo, possibly with minor agonist effects in a state of dopamine depletion.
The interesting review from Mastroeni and colleagues highlights recent progress on epigenetic analysis of Alzheimer's disease, but it also illustrates how much we still need to do.
The sporadic form of Alzheimer disease, late onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD), is a multifactorial disease; a strong link between nutritional and genetic factors with normal aging and dementia is supported by studies on nutrition, metabolism, and neurodegeneration. Specifically, the involvement of homocysteine (HCY) and its dietary determinants (vitamins B6, B12, and folate, besides methionine) in dementia has been a topic of intense investigation. In this Commentary we would like to highlight the role of 1-carbon metabolism in epigenetics and Alzheimer's disease and evidence the co-involvement of this metabolism in amyloid and tau pathways.
Computational modeling predicts that the hippocampus plays an important role in the ability to apply previously learned information to novel problems and situations (referred to as the ability to generalize information or simply as 'transfer learning'). These predictions have been tested in humans using a computer-based task on which individuals with hippocampal damage are able to learn a series of complex discriminations with two stimulus features (shape and color), but are impaired in their ability to transfer this information to newly configured problems in which one of the features is altered. This deficit occurs despite the fact that the feature predictive of the reward (the relevant information) is not changed. The goal of the current study was to develop a mouse analog of transfer learning and to determine if this new task was sensitive to pathological changes in a mouse model of AD. We describe a task in which mice were able to learn a series of concurrent discriminations that contained two stimulus features (odor and digging media) and could transfer this learned information to new problems in which the irrelevant feature in each discrimination pair was altered. Moreover, we report age-dependent deficits specific to transfer learning in APP+PS1 mice relative to non-transgenic littermates. The robust impairment in transfer learning may be more sensitive to AD-like pathology than traditional cognitive assessments in that no deficits were observed in the APP+PS1 mice on the widely used Morris water maze task. These data describe a novel and sensitive paradigm to evaluate mnemonic decline in AD mouse models that has unique translational advantages over standard species-specific cognitive assessments (e.g., water maze for rodent and delayed paragraph recall for humans).
Alterations in cerebral cholesterol metabolism are thought to play a role in the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Liver X receptors (LXRs) are key regulators of cholesterol metabolism. The synthetic LXR activator, T0901317 has been reported to improve memory functions in animal models for AD and to reduce amyloid- (A) deposition in the brain. Here we provide evidence that long-term administration of T0901317 to aged, 21-month-old APPSLxPS1mut mice restores impaired memory. Cerebral cholesterol turnover was enhanced as indicated by the increased levels of brain cholesterol precursors and the upregulation of LXR-target genes Abca1, Abcg1, and Apoe. Unexpectedly, the improved memory functions in the APPSLxPS1mut mice after T0901317 treatment were not accompanied by a decrease in A plaque load in the cortex or hippocampus DG, CA1 or CA3. T0901317 administration also enhanced cerebral cholesterol turnover in aged C57BL/6NCrl mice, but did not further improve their memory functions. In conclusion, long-term activation of the LXR-pathway restored memory functions in aged APPSLxPS1mut mice with advanced A deposition. However the beneficial effects of T0901317 on memory in the APPSLxPS1mut mice were independent of the A plaque load in the hippocampus, but were associated with enhanced brain cholesterol turnover.
The Functional Activities Questionnaire (FAQ) and Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog) are frequently used indices of cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The goal of this study was to compare FDG-PET and clinical measurements in a large sample of elderly subjects with memory disturbance. We examined relationships between glucose metabolism in FDG-PET regions of interest (FDG-ROIs), and ADAS-cog and FAQ scores in AD and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients enrolled in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). Low glucose metabolism at baseline predicted subsequent ADAS-cog and FAQ decline. In addition, longitudinal glucose metabolism decline was associated with concurrent ADAS-cog and FAQ decline. Finally, a power analysis revealed that FDG-ROI values have greater statistical power than ADAS-cog to detect attenuation of cognitive decline in AD and MCI patients. Glucose metabolism is a sensitive measure of change in cognition and functional ability in AD and MCI, and has value in predicting future cognitive decline.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a late-onset, neurodegenerative disease for which there are currently no cures nor disease-modifying treatments. Here we report the identification of several potential anti-inflammatory targets for HD using an ex vivo model of HD that involves the acute transfection of human mutant huntingtin-based constructs into rat brain slices. This model recapitulates key components of the human disease, including the formation of intracellular huntingtin protein (HTT)-containing inclusions and the progressive neurodegeneration of striatal neurons-both occurring within the native tissue context of these neurons. Using this &quot;high-throughput biology&quot; screening platform, we conducted a hypothesis-neutral screen of a collection of drug-like compounds which identified several anti-inflammatory targets that provided neuroprotection against HTT fragment-induced neurodegeneration. The nature of these targets provide further support for non-cell autonomous mechanisms mediating significant aspects of neuropathogenesis induced by mutant HTT fragment proteins.
Mental retardation is a feature of X-linked Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) which likely results from the loss of the brain full-length (Dp427) and short C-terminal products of the dystrophin gene, such as Dp71. The loss of Dp427 or Dp71 is known to alter hippocampal glutamate-dependent synaptic transmission and plasticity in mice. Although dystrophins have a selective postsynaptic expression in brain, a putative role in retrograde regulation of transmitter release was suggested by studies in Drosophila. Here we used electron microscopy to analyze the distribution of synaptic vesicles in CA1 hippocampal axospinous non perforated-excitatory synapses of mice lacking Dp427 or Dp71 compared to control littermates. We found that the density of morphologically-docked vesicles is increased and the vesicle size is reduced in mice lacking Dp427, while in Dp71-null mice there is a decrease in the density of vesicles located in the vicinity of the active zone and an increase in the vesicle size and in the width of synaptic clefts. This is the first indication that the loss of mammalian brain dystrophins impacts on the presynaptic ultrastructural organization of central glutamatergic synapses, which may explain some of the alterations of synapse function and plasticity that contribute to intellectual disability in DMD.
Parkinson's disease (PD) has been linked to exposure to a variety of chemical (e.g., pesticides) and inflammatory agents, which may act cumulatively over time. Finding novel means of limiting pathology associated with toxin exposure would have tremendous clinical importance. To this end, we assessed whether the hematopoietic trophic cytokine, granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), would inhibit the neurodegenerative effects of the pesticide, paraquat, administered either alone or following priming with the bacterial endotoxin, lipopolysaccharide (LPS). As previously observed, paraquat provoked a modest but significant neurodegenerative effect that was markedly augmented with LPS priming. Central infusion of GM-CSF into the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) prevented the loss of SNc dopamine neurons to a degree comparable to that of glial derived neurotrophic factor. Importantly, systemic administration of GM-CSF also had neuroprotective consequences, suggesting that the trophic cytokine can cross the blood brain barrier to promote neuronal survival. Indeed, GM-CSF acted to inhibit the LPS and paraquat induced microglial response, while augmenting astrocyte immunoreactivity within the SNc. Moreover, GM-CSF blunted the paraquat induced reduction of brain derived neurotrophic factor within the hippocampus, as well as in cultured mesencephalic neurons. Although paraquat reduced mesencephalic levels of the anti-apoptotic protein, Bcl-2, GM-CSF had no effect in this regard. Hence, GM-CSF appears to affect inflammatory and/or neuroplastic factors within the SNc that may be linked to neurodegeneration, as well as in other brain regions (hippocampus), which could be important for co-morbid non-motor symptoms in PD. These data suggest that peripheral GM-CSF administration might hold promise as a treatment of PD.
Learning and memory are cognitive processes that are tightly regulated. A proper genome-environment interaction is a pre-requisite for cognitive function. Epigenetic processes are central regulators of genome-environment interactions. In line with this, it has been shown that the epigenetic machinery is essential for cognitive function. With a specific focus on histone acetylation, we will discuss recent research in the field of epigenetic mechanisms of learning and memory. We will also specifically address the role of histone acetylation in age-associated memory impairment and Alzheimer's disease and ask the question why targeting the epigenome could be a suitable strategy for neuroprotection and neuroregeneration.
Many studies of learning have demonstrated that conditioned behavior can be eliminated when previously established relations between stimuli are severed. This extinction process has been extremely important for the development of learning theories and, more recently, for delineating the neurobiological mechanisms that underlie memory. A key finding from behavioral studies of extinction is that extinction eliminates behavior without eliminating the original memory; extinguished behavior often returns with time or with a return to the context in which the original learning occurred. This persistence of the original memory after extinction creates a challenge for clinical applications that use extinction as part of a treatment intervention. Consequently, a goal of recent neurobiological research on extinction is to identify potential pharmacological targets that may result in persistent extinction. Drugs that promote epigenetic changes are particularly promising because they can result in a long-term molecular signal that, combined with the appropriate behavioral treatment, can cause persistent changes in behavior induced by extinction. We will review evidence demonstrating extinction enhancements by drugs that target epigenetic mechanisms and will describe some of the challenges that epigenetic approaches face in promoting persistent suppression of memories.
A new line of neuroscience research suggests that epigenetics may be the site of nature and nurture integration by providing the environment with a mechanism to directly influence the read-out of our genome. Epigenetic mechanisms in the brain are a series of post-translational chromatin and DNA modifications driven by external input. Given the critical hub that epigenetics appears to be, neuroscientists have come to suspect its fundamental influence on how our minds change in response to our unique environment and, in turn, how these changes can then impact our future interactions with the environment. The field of learning and memory is becoming particularly interested in understanding the cognitive influence of epigenetics. With the majority of us working with an eye toward therapeutics, the question naturally arises: &quot;Has neuroepigenetics gotten us closer to treating memory disorders and if so, where do we go from here?&quot; This review will begin with a brief exploration of recent advances in our understanding of how epigenetic mechanisms contribute to learning and memory processes that are susceptible to failure. Next the implications for disorders of cognition, such as Alzheimer's disease, will be discussed. Finally, we will use parallels from the field of cancer to speculate on where we should consider heading from here in the pursuit of therapeutics.
Apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) is implicated in caspase-independent apoptotic-like death. AIF released from mitochondria translocates to the nucleus, where it mediates some apoptotic events such as chromatin condensation and DNA degradation. Here, the role of AIF in the neuronal death was studied under physiological conditions. When we analyzed the cellular localization of AIF during cerebellar development, we found a significant increase in the number of neurons with nuclear AIF localization in an age-dependent manner. On the other hand, cerebellar granule neurons (CGN) chronically cultured in low concentration of potassium (5 mM; K5) die with apoptotic-like characteristics after five days. In the present study we found that K5 induces a caspase-dependent apoptotic-like death of CGN as well as a late nuclear translocation of AIF. When CGN death induced by K5 was carried out in the presence of a general inhibitor of caspases, there was a slight decrement of cell death, but neurons eventually died by showing apoptotic-like features such as phosphatidylserine translocation and nuclear condensation. Besides, there was a significant increment of nuclear AIF translocation. These findings support the idea that AIF could be involved in apoptotic-like death of CGN and that it could be an alternative mechanism of neuronal death during cerebellar development.
Stress in mitochondria or the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) independently causes cell death. Recently, it was reported that ER stress causes mitochondrial dysfunction via p53-upregulated modulator of apoptosis (PUMA). However, little is known regarding the mitochondria molecules that mediate ER dysfunction. The present study revealed that tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated protein 1 (TRAP1), which localizes in the mitochondria, is associated with the unfolded protein response (UPR) in the ER. TRAP1 knockdown activated the ER-resident caspase-4, which is activated by ER stress, to induce cell death in humans. However, TRAP1 knockdown cells did not show a significant increase in the level of cell death at least within 24 h after early phase of ER stress in comparison with that of the control cells. This finding could be attributed to a number of reasons. TRAP1 knockdown failed to activate caspase-9, which is activated by activated caspase-4. In addition, TRAP1 knockdown increased the basal level of GRP78/BiP expression, which protects cells, and decreased the basal level of C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP) expression, which induces cell death, even under ER stress. Thus, the present study revealed that mitochondria could be a potential regulator of the UPR in the ER through mitochondrial TRAP1.


In the present study, we performed comprehensive gene expression and gene network analyses using a DNA microarray to elucidate the molecular events responsible for the pathology of posttraumatic epilepsy at the partial seizure stage. We used an experimental posttraumatic epilepsy model of amygdalar focal FeCl(3)-injected rats and compared gene expression profiles in the hippocampus at the partial seizure stage (less than stage 3 on Racine's convulsion scale) and that of sham-operated animals. At the partial seizure stage, upregulation of phospholipase A2 (PLA2) and lipid metabolism were observed, which have been reported to be caused by brain injury and seizures in previous studies. Furthermore, significant upregulation of genes related to inflammation and the immune system was observed. These molecular changes in PLA2 and lipid metabolism may be related to seizure propagation.
In response to stimuli, secretary cells secrete a variety of signaling molecules packed in vesicles (e.g., neurotransmitters and peptide hormones) into the extracellular space by exocytosis. The vesicle secretion is often triggered by calcium ion (Ca(2+)) entered into secretary cells and achieved by the fusion of secretory vesicles with the plasma membrane. Recent accumulating evidence has indicated that members of the synaptotagmin (Syt) family play a major role in Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis, and Syt I, in particular, is now widely accepted as the major Ca(2+)-sensor for synchronous neurotransmitter release. Involvement of other Syt isoforms in Ca(2+)-dependent exocytotic events other than neurotransmitter release has also been reported, and the Syt IV isoform is of particular interest, because Syt IV has several unique features not found in Syt I (e.g., immediate early gene product induced by deporalization and postsynaptic localization). In this article, we summarize the literature on the multi-functional role of Syt IV in Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis.
Chondroitin sulfate and heparan sulfate proteoglycans are major components of the cell surface and extracellular matrix in the brain. Both chondroitin sulfate and heparan sulfate are unbranched highly sulfated polysaccharides composed of repeating disaccharide units of glucuronic acid and N-acetylgalactosamine, and glucuronic acid and N-acetylglucosamine, respectively. During their biosynthesis in the Golgi apparatus, these glycosaminoglycans are highly modified by sulfation and C5 epimerization of glucuronic acid, leading to diverse heterogeneity in structure. Their structures are strictly regulated in a cell type-specific manner during development partly by the expression control of various glycosaminoglycan-modifying enzymes. It has been considered that specific combinations of glycosaminoglycan-modifying enzymes generate specific functional microdomains in the glycosaminoglycan chains, which bind selectively with various growth factors, morphogens, axon guidance molecules and extracellular matrix proteins. Recent studies have begun to reveal that the molecular interactions mediated by such glycosaminoglycan microdomains play critical roles in the various signaling pathways essential for the development of the brain.
This is a report on the 3-day workshop &quot;The Neuroscience of Responsibility&quot; that was held in the Philosophy Department at Delft University of Technology in The Netherlands during February 11th-13th, 2010. The workshop had 25 participants from The Netherlands, Germany, Italy, UK, USA, Canada and Australia, with expertise in philosophy, neuroscience, psychology, psychiatry and law. Its aim was to identify current trends in neurolaw research related specifically to the topic of responsibility, and to foster international collaborative research on this topic. The workshop agenda was constructed by the participants at the start of each day by surveying the topics of greatest interest and relevance to participants. In what follows, we summarize (1) the questions which participants identified as most important for future research in this field, (2) the most prominent themes that emerged from the discussions, and (3) the two main international collaborative research project plans that came out of this meeting.


Background: Atrial-esophageal fistula (AEF) is a rare and early complication of radiofrequency ablation for medically refractory atrial fibrillation, but has devastating consequences when the diagnosis is delayed or difficult to make. Methods: Single case in a neurosciences critical care center. Results: A 69-year-old man with significant cardiac and neurologic medical history who underwent atrial fibrillation ablation 50 days prior to admission to the neurocritical care unit presented with acute left-sided weakness and gram-positive bacterial sepsis. This is an exceptional case discussing the need for early detection of AEF presenting with sepsis, neurologic deficit along with complicated decision-making in the neurocritical care setting. His hospital course was complicated by acute stroke, left ventricular (LV) aneurysm with thrombus, gastrointestinal (GI) bleed discovered to be from left atrial esophageal fistula, and subsequent cerebral air emboli leading to death. Conclusions: This is the most delayed presentation of AEF following atrial fibrillation ablation reported in the literature to date. We emphasize the need for awareness of this complication even after such an unexpected time-frame postprocedure as well as the unintended complications of cerebral air emboli following upper endoscopy.
Spatio-temporally organized low-frequency fluctuations (&lt;0.1 Hz), observed in BOLD fMRI signal during rest, suggest the existence of underlying network dynamics that emerge spontaneously from intrinsic brain processes. Furthermore, significant correlations between distinct anatomical regions-or functional connectivity (FC)-have led to the identification of several widely distributed resting-state networks (RSNs). This slow dynamics seems to be highly structured by anatomical connectivity but the mechanism behind it and its relationship with neural activity, particularly in the gamma frequency range, remains largely unknown. Indeed, direct measurements of neuronal activity have revealed similar large-scale correlations, particularly in slow power fluctuations of local field potential gamma frequency range oscillations. To address these questions, we investigated neural dynamics in a large-scale model of the human brain's neural activity. A key ingredient of the model was a structural brain network defined by empirically derived long-range brain connectivity together with the corresponding conduction delays. A neural population, assumed to spontaneously oscillate in the gamma frequency range, was placed at each network node. When these oscillatory units are integrated in the network, they behave as weakly coupled oscillators. The time-delayed interaction between nodes is described by the Kuramoto model of phase oscillators, a biologically-based model of coupled oscillatory systems. For a realistic setting of axonal conduction speed, we show that time-delayed network interaction leads to the emergence of slow neural activity fluctuations, whose patterns correlate significantly with the empirically measured FC. The best agreement of the simulated FC with the empirically measured FC is found for a set of parameters where subsets of nodes tend to synchronize although the network is not globally synchronized. Inside such clusters, the simulated BOLD signal between nodes is found to be correlated, instantiating the empirically observed RSNs. Between clusters, patterns of positive and negative correlations are observed, as described in experimental studies. These results are found to be robust with respect to a biologically plausible range of model parameters. In conclusion, our model suggests how resting-state neural activity can originate from the interplay between the local neural dynamics and the large-scale structure of the brain.
Diffusion imaging of post mortem brains has great potential both as a reference for brain specimens that undergo sectioning, and as a link between in vivo diffusion studies and &quot;gold standard&quot; histology/dissection. While there is a relatively mature literature on post mortem diffusion imaging of animals, human brains have proven more challenging due to their incompatibility with high-performance scanners. This study presents a method for post mortem diffusion imaging of whole, human brains using a clinical 3-Tesla scanner with a 3D segmented EPI spin-echo sequence. Results in eleven brains at 0.94  0.94  0.94 mm resolution are presented, and in a single brain at 0.73  0.73  0.73 mm resolution. Region-of-interest analysis of diffusion tensor parameters indicate that these properties are altered compared to in vivo (reduced diffusivity and anisotropy), with significant dependence on post mortem interval (time from death to fixation). Despite these alterations, diffusion tractography of several major tracts is successfully demonstrated at both resolutions. We also report novel findings of cortical anisotropy and partial volume effects.
Granger causality analyses aim to reveal the direction of influence between brain areas by analyzing temporal precedence: if a signal change in area A consistently precedes a signal change in area B, then A Granger-causes B. fMRI-based Granger causality inferences are mediated by the hemodynamic response function which can vary across brain regions. This variability might induce a bias in Granger causality analyses. Here we use simulations to investigate the effect of hemodynamic response variability on Granger causality analyses at the level of a group of twenty participants. We used a set of hemodynamic responses measured by Handwerker et al. (Neuroimage, 2004) and simulated 200 experiments in which time series with known directions of influence are convolved with these hemodynamic responses and submitted to Granger causality analysis. Results show that the average chance to find a significant Granger causality effect when no actual influence is present in the data stays well below the p-level imposed on the second level statistics. Most importantly, when the analyses reveal a significant directed influence, this direction was accurate in the vast majority of the cases. The sensitivity of the analyses however depended on the neuronal delay between the source and target regions and their relative hemodynamic delay. Influences flowing from regions to one with the same or a slower hemodynamic response function were detected in over 80% of the cases when the neuronal delay was at least 100 ms. Influences flowing to a region with a faster hemodynamic delay were detected in over 80% of the cases when delays are above 1s.
The putative mirror neuron system may either function as a strict feed-forward system or as a dynamic control system. A strict feed-forward system would predict that action observation leads to a predominantly temporalparietalpremotor flow of information in which a visual representation is transformed into motor-programs which contribute to action understanding. Instead, a dynamic feedback control system would predict that the reverse direction of information flow predominates because of a combination of inhibitory forward and excitatory inverse models. Here we test which of these conflicting predictions best matches the information flow within the putative mirror neuron system (pMNS) and between the pMNS and the rest of the brain during the observation of comparatively long naturalistic stretches of communicative gestures. We used Granger causality to test the dominant direction of influence. Our results fit the predictions of the dynamic feedback control system: we found predominantly an information flow within the pMNS from premotor to parietal and middle temporal cortices. This is more pronounced during an active guessing task than while passively reviewing the same gestures. In particular, the ventral premotor cortex sends significantly more information to other pMNS areas than it receives during active guessing than during passive observation.




Accumulating evidence suggests that cognitive processes may be regulated by glycine concentration in the local environment of glutamate N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR). The concentration of glycine is controlled, among other factors, by the glycine transporter 1 (GlyT1). While GlyT1 inhibitors are developed for a number of indications including cognitive improvement, little is known about their effects in tasks depending on prefrontal cortical function. We examined the effect of GlyT1 inhibitor SSR-504734 on cognitive flexibility assessed in the attentional set-shifting task in rats (ASST). The second goal was to elucidate whether SSR-504734 effect has been due to the compound's action at glycine/NMDAR site. Rats treated with SSR-504734 (3 and 10mg/kg, IP) required significantly less trials to criteria during extra-dimensional shift (EDs) phase of the ASST. The effect of SSR-504734 (3mg/kg) was completely prevented by the glycine/NMDAR site antagonist, L-687,414 (30mg/kg, IP) that by itself exerted no effect on cognitive flexibility. Present study demonstrates that the elevation of glycine concentration through the blockade of its reuptake facilitates cognitive flexibility. As this effect was fully blocked by glycine/NMDAR antagonist, SSR-504734-induced cognitive improvement is likely mediated through glycine action at NMDAR. It is suggested that GlyT1 inhibitors like SSR-504734 may represent a useful pharmacological approach for cognitive enhancement, especially in domains critically affected in schizophrenia.
Ultrasonic vocalizations in the 50kHz range (50kHz USVs) are emitted by rodents upon activation of positive affective states and appear to be a direct measure of internal emotional and motivational urges to seek rewarding stimuli such as drugs of abuse. Since these behavioral responses do not rely on training for expression, they can be viewed as a &quot;spontaneous&quot; measure of affective state. The goal of the present study was to monitor spontaneous USVs throughout a widely-used cocaine self-administration and reinstatement model of addiction and relapse. To gain insight into the changes in affective state across the different phases of a standard self-administration experiment, we measured 50kHz USVs in rats during cocaine self-administration and reinstatement, and compared these to sucrose self-administration and reinstatement. During cocaine self-administration, the number of 50kHz USVs increased over acquisition of self-administration and decreased during extinction. Furthermore, the number of USVs on the first day of acquisition in the cocaine experiment was positively correlated with how rapidly cocaine self-administration was acquired. These findings suggest that the initial affective response to cocaine may be a sensitive predictor of the motivational efficacy of rewarding stimuli and therefore the susceptibility to acquire self-administration of cocaine. Cue- and cocaine-induced reinstatement elevated 50kHz USVs above extinction levels. Rats trained for sucrose self-administration showed no elevation in USVs during acquisition when USVs were considered over the entire 2h session, but they did show an elevation in USVs during acquisition when considered over only the first 5min of the session. As with cocaine-induced reinstatement, sucrose-induced reinstatement produced significantly more USVs compared to the prior extinction day. Taken together, USVs may serve as a sensitive and dynamic non-invasive measure that spontaneously (i.e. without any formal reinforcement contingencies) quantifies the extent to which positive affect is elicited by rewards such as drugs of abuse.
Serotonin-1A (5-HT(1A)) receptors may play a role in schizophrenia and the effects of certain antipsychotic drugs. However, the mechanism of interaction of 5-HT(1A) receptors with brain systems involved in schizophrenia, remains unclear. Here we show that 5-HT(1A) receptor knockout mice display enhanced locomotor hyperactivity to acute treatment with amphetamine, a widely used animal model of hyperdopaminergic mechanisms in psychosis. In contrast, the effect of MK-801 on locomotor activity, modeling NMDA receptor hypoactivity, was unchanged in the knockouts. The effect of the hallucinogen 5-methoxy-N,N-dimethyltryptamine (5-MeO-DMT) was markedly reduced in 5-HT(1A) receptor knockout mice. There were no changes in apomorphine-induced disruption of PPI, a model of sensory gating deficits seen in schizophrenia. Similarly, there were no major changes in density of dopamine transporters (DAT) or dopamine D(1) or D(2) receptors which could explain the behavioural changes observed in 5-HT(1A) receptor knockout mice. These results extend our insight into the possible role of these receptors in aspects of schizophrenia. As also suggested by previous studies using agonist and antagonist drugs, 5-HT(1A) receptors may play an important role in hallucinations and to modulate dopaminergic activity in the brain.
The alpha-7 neuronal nicotinic receptor is a novel pharmacological target for psychiatric and cognitive disorders. Selective radiotracer tools for pre-clinical receptor occupancy can facilitate the interpretation of the biological actions of small molecules at a target receptor. We discovered a high affinity nicotinic alpha-7 subtype-selective ligand, AZ11637326, with physical-chemical and pharmacokinetic properties suitable for an in vivo radioligand tool. [(3)H]AZ11637326 synthesis by tritiodehalogenation of the corresponding tribromide precursor yielded a high specific activity radiotracer with high affinity alpha-7 receptor binding in the rat hippocampus determined by autoradiography (Kd=0.2nM). When [(3)H]AZ11637326 was administered to rats by intravenous bolus, rapid uptake was measured in the brain followed by a 3-4 fold greater specific binding in regions containing the alpha-7 receptor (frontal cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus and midbrain) when compared to non-target regions (striatum and cerebellum). Systemic administration of the high affinity alpha-7 receptor antagonist, methyllycaconitine (MLA), or pretreatment with alpha-7 selective agonists (AR-R17779, PyrQTC, DBCO-4-POM, and DBCO-3-POM) significantly blocked the alpha-7 specific binding of [(3)H]AZ11637326 in the rat brain. The rank order of ligand ED(50) values for in vivo alpha-7 receptor occupancy in rat hippocampus was: DBCO-4-POM&gt;DBCO-3-POMMLA&gt;PyrQTC&gt;AR-R17779. The occupancy affinity shift was consistent with in vitro binding affinity in autoradiography. Our studies established the optimal conditions for [(3)H]AZ11637326 in vivo specific binding in the rat brain and support the use of [(3)H]AZ11637326 as a pre-clinical tool for assessment of novel alpha-7 compounds in drug discovery.
Oxytocin (100ng) injected unilaterally into the ventral subiculum of the hippocampus induces penile erection episodes, which started 30min after treatment and were abolished by the prior injection of d(CH(2))(5)Tyr(Me)(2)-Orn(8)-vasotocin (2g), an oxytocin receptor antagonist, into the ventral subiculum. Oxytocin-induced penile erection occurred 15min after the increase of the concentration of extracellular dopamine in the dialysate obtained from either the nucleus accumbens or the prelimbic medial prefrontal cortex, which was also abolished by d(CH(2))(5)Tyr(Me)(2)-Orn(8)-vasotocin. An increase in extracellular glutamic acid concentration was also observed in the same dialysate obtained from the ventral tegmental area, but not from the prelimbic medial prefrontal cortex or the nucleus accumbens in which dopamine concentration was measured, 15min after the injection of oxytocin into the ventral subiculum. This effect was also abolished by the prior injection of d(CH(2))(5)Tyr(Me)(2)-Orn(8)-vasotocin into the ventral subiculum. These results confirm previous findings showing that ventral subiculum oxytocin-induced penile erection is mediated by an increase of glutamic acid neurotransmission in the ventral tegmental area. This in turn increases mesolimbic and mesocortical dopaminergic activity, releasing dopamine in the nucleus accumbens and in the prelimbic medial prefrontal cortex. These results are in line with previous studies supporting the hypothesis that the ventral subiculum participates in a complex neural circuit controlling not only penile erection and copulation, but also sexual motivation, arousal and rewarding.
Neuropathic pain is often a chronic condition, disabling and difficult to treat. Using a murine model of neuropathic pain induced by placing a polyethylene cuff around the main branch of the sciatic nerve, wehave shown that chronic treatment with -AR agonists is effective against neuropathic allodynia. -mimetics are widely used against asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and may offer an interesting option for neuropathic pain management. The most prominent adverse effects of chronic treatment with -mimetics are cardiovascular. In this study, we compared the action of low doses of the selective (2)-AR agonist terbutaline and of a high dose of the mixed (1)/(2)-AR agonist isoproterenol on cardiovascular parameters in a neuropathic pain context. Isoproterenol was used as a positive control for some heart-related changes. Cardiac functions were studied by echocardiography, hemodynamic measurements, histological analysis of fibrosis and cardiac hypertrophy, and by quantitative real time PCR analysis of atrial natriuretic peptide (Nppa), periostin (Postn), connective tissue growth factor (Ctgf) and -myosin heavy chain (Myh7). Our data show that a chronic treatment with the (2)-AR agonist terbutaline at low antiallodynic dose does not affect cardiovascular parameters, whereas the mixed (1)/(2)-AR agonist isoproterenol induces cardiac hypertrophy. These data suggest that low doses of (2)-AR agonists may provide a suitable treatment with rare side effects in neuropathic pain management. This study conducted in an animal model requires clinical confirmation in humans.
Previously, it was shown that ethanol-dependent animals display increased sensitivity to the general opioid receptor antagonist nalmefene compared to naltrexone. It was hypothesized that the dissociable effects of the two antagonists were attributable to a -opioid receptor mechanism. Nucleus accumbens dynorphin is upregulated following chronic ethanol exposure and such neuroadaptations could contribute to nalmefene's increased potency in ethanol-dependent animals. To test this hypothesis, male Wistar rats were trained to self-administer ethanol using an operant conditioning procedure. Animals were then implanted with bilateral intra-accumbens shell guide cannulae and assigned to either a chronic intermittent ethanol vapor-exposure condition (to induce dependence) or an air-exposed control group. Following a one-month exposure period, nalmefene, nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI; selective for -opioid receptors) or a combination of the selective opioid receptor antagonists CTOP and naltrindole (selective for the - and -opioid receptors, respectively) were site-specifically infused into the nucleus accumbens shell prior to ethanol self-administration sessions during acute withdrawal. Nalmefene and CTOP/naltrindole dose-dependently reduced ethanol self-administration in nondependent and dependent animals, whereas nor-BNI selectively attenuated ethanol self-administration in ethanol-dependent animals without affecting the self-administration of nondependent animals. Further analysis indentified that intra-accumbens shell nalmefene was more potent in ethanol-dependent animals and that the increased potency was attributable to a -opioid receptor mechanism. These data support the concept that dysregulation of DYN/-opioid receptor systems contributes to the excessive self-administration observed in dependent animals and suggest that pharmacotherapeutics for ethanol dependence that target -opioid receptors, in addition to - and -opioid receptors, are preferable to those that target - and -opioid receptor mechanisms alone.
Psychogenic tremor is the commonest psychogenic movement disorder, yet little is known of its pathophysiology. Given the presence of movements that appear from their physiological properties to be voluntarily produced, and yet are not experienced as such by the patients, we hypothesised that patients might have an abnormal conscious experience of volition with regard to self-generated movement. Nine patients with psychogenic tremor were asked to judge the timing of a self-paced button press relative to a clock displayed on a computer screen. In separate trials they were asked to judge the timing of their internal feeling of intention to move. These results were compared to those of healthy control participants. Patients with psychogenic tremor judged their feeling of intention to move significantly later compared to control participants. As a result, the interval between the perceived time of intention and the perceived time of action, which was highly significant in the control participants, was numerically smaller and non-significant in the patients. This study provides novel data that the sense of volition prior to movement is impaired in patients with psychogenic tremor. This fits with a pathophysiological explanation for this disorder based on an impairment of neural mechanisms that generate the conscious experience of action: actions that are voluntary in terms of their physiological origin might be experienced as involuntary.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was employed to investigate the contributions of medial temporal lobe (MTL) regions to encoding operations underpinning recollection and familiarity. Participants first studied word pairs. Words in pairs were either weakly or strongly semantically related. In a subsequent retrieval task, participants distinguished between studied pairs, unstudied pairs, and recombined pairs formed from words taken from different studied pairs. Greater activity at encoding for correct judgments to studied pairs with strong, rather than weak, semantic relationships was assumed to index processes supporting subsequent familiarity-based responding. Greater activity for correct judgments to studied pairs than for recombined pairs identified incorrectly as studied pairs was assumed to index processes contributing to recollection-based responding. Evidence that these assumptions were reasonable was obtained in independent behavioural studies, while the outcomes of these fMRI contrasts indicated links between perirhinal cortex and familiarity, and anterior hippocampus and recollection. This functional separation is consistent with models in which the hippocampus and perirhinal cortex support two separable processes that contribute to memories for verbal associations.
Auditory spatial functions, including the ability to discriminate between the positions of nearby sound sources, are subserved by a large temporo-parieto-frontal network. With the aim of determining whether and when the parietal contribution is critical for auditory spatial discrimination, we applied single pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation on the right parietal cortex 20, 80, 90 and 150 ms post-stimulus onset while participants completed a two-alternative forced choice auditory spatial discrimination task in the left or right hemispace. Our results reveal that transient TMS disruption of right parietal activity impairs spatial discrimination when applied at 20 ms post-stimulus onset for sounds presented in the left (controlateral) hemispace and at 80 ms for sounds presented in the right hemispace. We interpret our finding in terms of a critical role for controlateral temporo-parietal cortices over initial stages of the building-up of auditory spatial representation and for a right hemispheric specialization in integrating the whole auditory space over subsequent, higher-order processing stages.
Episodic autobiographical memory (ABM) comprises recollection for events that are grounded within a specific spatiotemporal context, and usually accompanied by perceptual and emotional information. The neural substrates mediating ABM retrieval are those harbouring significant pathology in semantic dementia (SD) and behavioural-variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD), the most common subtypes of FTD. Relatively little is known, however, regarding the differential patterns of contextual details during episodic ABM retrieval across these dementia syndromes. This study investigated episodic ABM retrieval under free and probed recall conditions from 4 time periods with the aim to identify disease-specific profiles of episodic ABM contextual details. Episodic ABM was measured in 25 SD and 15 bvFTD patients and their performance contrasted to that of 17 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and 19 age-matched controls. Critically, SD patients showed relatively preserved recent ABM in comparison with remote epochs. In contrast, bvFTD and AD patients showed a reduced capacity to recall specific and contextually rich ABMs across all life epochs, in both free and probed recall conditions. Analyses of the recent period (last 12 months) provided evidence for different profiles of contextual episodic details recalled in dementia syndromes. Following probing, SD patients' recall deficits emanated exclusively from compromised Emotion/Thoughts and Spatiotemporal details. In contrast, bvFTD patients were significantly impaired across all categories of contextual details whereas AD patients showed deficits for Event and Emotion/Thoughts details only. As the largest study of ABM in FTD to date, these findings emphasise the differential impairment of recent ABM contextual details contingent on the underlying disease pathology. In addition, these results point towards the importance of investigating the constituent elements of emotion processing and strategic retrieval processes as potential variables mediating recent episodic ABM retrieval.
Cognitive control processes may depend on contextual information, sometimes improving performance, but impairing performance if expectancies about forthcoming events induce pre-potent responses. The neurobiological bases of these effects are not understood. Here, we examine context-dependent variations of response control processes using the AX-CPT task with respect to the relevance of the functional serotonin 1A receptor polymorphism (5-HT1A C(-1019)G) in a sample of healthy subjects (N=90) by means of event-related potentials (ERPs). The results show that, when context information is helpful to drive behavioural performance, carriers of the -1019G allele reveal compromised cognitive control. Yet, they show enhanced task performance when strong context representations would lead to declines in behavioural control. These findings are paralleled by modulations of the (Nogo)-P3 ERP-component. These results show for the first time that, even though the -1019G allele enhances the risk to develop anxiety disorders, it also confers an advantage to its carriers in terms of better cognitive control processes in conditions where contextual information compromises cognitive control. Effects of the 5-HT1A C(-1019)G polymorphism were further modulated by anxiety sensitivity. As the functional effect of the 5-HT1A C(-1019)G polymorphism has previously been shown to be rather specific for serotonergic 1A autoreceptors in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), the results suggest that contextual modulations in cognitive control may be exerted by the DRN.
The search task of Luck, Hillyard, Mangun and Gazzaniga (1989) was optimised to test for the presence of a bilateral field advantage in the visual search capabilities of normal subjects. The modified design used geometrically regular arrays of 2, 4 or 8 items restricted to hemifields delineated by the vertical or horizontal meridian; the target, if present, appeared at one of two fixed positions per quadrant at an eccentricity of 11 deg. Group and individual performance data were analysed in terms of the slope of response time against display-size functions ('RT slope'). Averaging performance across all conditions save display mode (bilateral vs. unilateral) revealed a significant bilateral advantage in the form of a 21% increase in apparent item scanning speed for target detection; in the absence of a target, bilateral displays gave a 5% increase in speed that was not significant. Factor analysis by ANOVA confirmed this main effect of display mode, and also revealed several higher order interactions with display geometry, indicating that the bilateral advantage was masked at certain target positions by a crowding-like effect. In a numerical model of search efficiency (i.e. RT slope), bilateral advantage was parameterised by an interhemispheric 'transfer factor' (T) that governs the strength of the ipsilateral representation of distractors, and modifies the level of intrahemispheric competition with the target. The factor T was found to be higher in superior field than inferior field; this result held for the modelled data of each individual subject, as well as the group, representing a uniform tendency for the bilateral advantage to be more prominent in inferior field. In fact statistical analysis and modelling of search efficiency showed that the geometrical display factors (target polar and quadrantic location, and associated crowding effects) were all remarkably consistent across subjects. Greater variability was inferred within a fixed, decisional component of response time, with individual subjects capable of opposite hemifield biases. The results are interpretable by a guided search model of spatial attention - a first, parallel stage guiding selection by a second, serial stage - with the proviso that the first stage is relatively insular within each hemisphere. The bilateral advantage in search efficiency can then be attributed to a relative gain in target weight within the initial parallel stage, owing to a reduction in distractor competition mediated specifically by intrahemispheric circuitry. In the absence of a target there is no effective guidance, and hence no basis for a bilateral advantage to enhance search efficiency; the equivalence of scanning speed for the two display modes (bilateral and unilateral) implies a unitary second-stage process mediated via efficient interhemispheric integration.
Previous evidence has shown that active tool-use remaps agents' reaching space with far objects being perceived as reachable and graspable. To date, however, there is no evidence that tool-use observation might also be effective in reaching space remapping. The present six experiments show that not only performing but also observing tool actions may extend the representation of reaching space, useful for grasping objects. In addition, like active tool-use, tool-use observation also impacts on visual distance judgment. Interestingly, these effects only occurred when observers shared the same action potentialities with the agent, i.e., while passively holding a tool compatible with the goal and the spatial range of the observed action. The present findings demonstrate that observing someone else acting with a tool may actually shape the way we map the objects and the space around us, suggesting that such a mapping could provide us with a keystone for coordinating and integrating our actions with those of others.
In recent years it has been shown that a disorder in recognizing familiar people can be observed in patients with lesions affecting the anterior parts of the temporal lobes and that these disorders can be multi-modal, simultaneously affecting the visual, auditory and linguistic channels that allow person identification. Several authors have also shown that patients with right anterior temporal atrophy are more impaired in assessing familiarity and in retrieving person-specific semantic information from faces than from names, whereas the opposite pattern of performance can be observed in patients with left temporal lobe atrophy. Voice recognition disorders have been studied much less even despite their clinical and theoretical importance. The aim of the present review, therefore, was to compare recognition of familiar faces and voices, taking into account not only results obtained in individual patients with right anterior temporal lesions, but also those of group studies of unselected right- and left brain-damaged patients and results of experimental investigations conducted on face and voice recognition in normal subjects. Results of the review showed that: (1) voice recognition disorders are mainly due to right temporal lesions, similarly to face recognition disorders; (2) famous voice recognition disorders can be dissociated from unfamiliar voice discrimination impairments; (3) although face and voice recognition disorders tend to co-occur, they can also dissociate and in these patients there is a prevalent involvement of the right fusiform gyrus when face recognition disorders are on the foreground, and of the right superior temporal gyrus when voice recognition disorders are prominent; (4) normal subjects have greater difficulty evaluating familiarity and drawing semantic information from the voices than from the faces of celebrities. These data are at variance with models which assume that familiarity feelings may be generated at the level of person identity nodes (PINs) and that the latter may be considered as modality-free gateways to single semantic systems in which information about people is stored in an amodal format.
Novelty seeking can be a positive trait leading to creativity and innovation, but it is also related to increased risk of damaging addictive behaviour. We have assessed novelty seeking with a three armed bandit task, in which novel stimuli were occasionally introduced, replacing choice options from which the participants had been choosing. This allowed us to assess whether or not they would be prone to selecting novel stimuli. We tested 25 non impulsive patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and 27 PD patients with impulsive compulsive behaviours (ICBs). Both patient groups were examined &quot;on&quot; and &quot;off&quot; dopaminergic medication in a counterbalanced order and their behaviour was compared with 24 healthy controls. We found that PD patients with ICBs were significantly more prone to choose novel options than either non impulsive PD patients or controls, regardless of medication status. Our findings suggest that attraction to novelty is a personality trait in all PD patients with ICBs which is independent of medication status.
This behavioral study used a dual-task paradigm to compare PM performance in 35 patients with first-onset schizophrenia, 40 non-psychotic siblings and 35 healthy controls. It aimed specifically to examine the effect of schizophrenia group status on PM, the differential effect of group status on PM type, and correlations between PM and other neurocognitive functions and clinical data in first-onset schizophrenia. It also aimed to test the hypothesis that non-psychotic siblings had poorer PM performance than controls. The cohort of first-onset schizophrenia patients had relatively short illness durations (M=1.7 years). The three groups of participants were matched in terms of age, gender and years of education. Results of the study confirmed that first-onset schizophrenia status had a primary effect on PM after controlling for other neurocognitive functions. We also found that first-onset schizophrenia status did not differentially affect two different types of PM. In the first-onset schizophrenia cohort, PM was found to correlate significantly with IQ, executive functions and sustained attention. Finally, contrary to the findings of the previous study, this study did not find siblings of schizophrenia patients to have impaired PM. Taking into account the previous findings of PM in chronic schizophrenia, we concluded that schizophrenia has a primary effect on PM regardless of illness duration.
Patients with lesions in rostral prefrontal cortex (PFC) often experience problems in everyday-life situations requiring multitasking. A key cognitive component that is critical in multitasking situations is prospective memory, defined as the ability to carry out an intended action after a delay period filled with unrelated activity. The few functional imaging studies investigating prospective memory have shown consistent activation in both medial and lateral rostral PFC but also in more posterior prefrontal regions and non-frontal regions. The aim of this study was to determine regions that are necessary for prospective memory performance, using the human lesion approach. We designed an experimental paradigm allowing us to assess time-based (remembering to do something at a particular time) and event-based (remembering to do something in a particular situation) prospective memory, using two types of material, words and pictures. Time estimation tasks and tasks controlling for basic attention, inhibition and multiple instructions processing were also administered. We examined brain-behaviour relationships with a voxelwise lesion method in 45 patients with focal brain lesions and 107 control subjects using this paradigm. The results showed that lesions in the right polar prefrontal region (in Brodmann area 10) were specifically associated with a deficit in time-based prospective memory tasks for both words and pictures. This deficit could not be explained by impairments in basic attention, detection, inhibition or multiple instruction processing, and there was also no deficit in event-based prospective memory conditions. In addition to their prospective memory difficulties, these polar prefrontal patients were significantly impaired in time estimation ability compared to other patients. The same region was found to be involved using both words and pictures, suggesting that right rostral PFC plays a material nonspecific role in prospective memory. This is the first lesion study showing that rostral PFC is crucial for time-based prospective memory. The findings suggest that time-based and event-based prospective memory might be supported at least in part by distinct brain regions. Two particularly plausible explanations for the deficit rest upon a possible role for polar prefrontal structures in supporting in time estimation, and/or in retrieving an intention to act. More broadly, the results are consistent with the view that the deficit of rostral patients in multitasking situations might at least in part be explained by a deficit in prospective memory.
Impulsivity has been associated with several psychiatric disorders including drug addiction and gambling. Impulsive subjects typically have a preference for short-term over long-term rewards and make risky choices. This study used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate the neural correlates of self-rated impulsivity and venturesomeness during tasks involving delayed and risky choice. A broader sampling approach was taken by recruiting participants with behaviors that have been linked to impulsivity (gambling N=15, and recreational drug use N=10) and those without these behaviors (N=9). Selection between delayed or probabilistic rewards was associated with activation in fronto-parietal regions in line with previous research. When selecting between delayed rewards, activity within the pregenual anterior cingulate cortex and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex correlated positively with impulsivity scores while activity within the orbitofrontal cortex, subgenual anterior cingulate cortex and caudate correlated positively with venturesomeness scores. Selection between probabilistic rewards revealed no correlation between scores and regional activations. The results from this study provide targets for future research investigating the neural substrates of impulsivity. They also provide targets for the further investigation into the pathophysiology of addiction and impulse-control disorders.
The complexity of the behaviour described by the term &quot;prospective memory&quot; meant that it was not at all clear, when the earliest studies were conducted, that this would prove a fruitful area for neuroimaging study. However, a consistent relation rapidly emerged between activation in rostral prefrontal cortex (approximating Brodmann Area 10) and performance of prospective memory paradigms. This consistency has greatly increased the accumulation of findings, since each study has offered perspectives on the previous ones. Considerable help too has come from broad agreement between functional neuroimaging findings and those from other methods (e.g. human lesion studies, electrophysiology). The result has been a quite startling degree of advance given the relatively few studies that have been conducted. These findings are summarised, along with those from other brain regions, and new directions suggested. Key points are that there is a medial-lateral dissociation within rostral PFC. Some (but not all) regions of medial rostral PFC are typically more active during performance of the ongoing task only, and lateral aspects are relatively more active during conditions involving delayed intentions. Some of these rostral PFC activations seem remarkably insensitive to the form of stimulus material presented, the nature of the ongoing task, the specifics of the intention, how easy or hard the PM cue is to detect, or the intended action is to recall. However there are other regions within rostral PFC where haemodynamic changes vary with alterations in these, and other, aspects of prospective memory paradigms. It is concluded that rostral PFC most likely plays a super-ordinate role during many stages of creating, maintaining and enacting delayed intentions, which in some cases may be linked to recent evidence showing that this brain region is involved in the control of stimulus-oriented vs. stimulus-independent attending. Other key brain regions activated during prospective memory paradigms appear to be the parietal lobe, especially Brodmann Area (BA) 40 and precuneus (BA 7), and the anterior cingulate (BA 32). These regions are often co-activated with lateral rostral PFC across a wide range of tasks, not just those involving prospective memory.
We investigated neuro-cognitive mechanisms involved with coordination of attention between current task performance and future action plans in prospective memory. We developed a novel task paradigm with continuous performance of a prospective memory task, where trial intervals of prospective memory targets were systematically manipulated in a periodic cycle of expanding and contracting target intervals. We found that subjects' behaviour was significantly modulated without awareness of this temporal sequence of the targets: remembering to perform a prospective memory response to target events was more successful and faster in the expanding target interval phase, at the cost of lower and slower performance of ongoing tasks, while an opposite direction of this trade-off effect was observed in the contracting target interval phase. By using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we identified the similar trade-off effect in activations in the anterior medial prefrontal cortices (activation elevation at the target responses as well as deactivation at the ongoing responses in the expanding phase as compared with the contracting phase). The opposite direction of the trade-off was observed in the anterior cingulate cortex. These results show a clear case in which attention between current task performance and future action plans in prospective memory tasks is automatically regulated without particular task instructions or strategic control processes initiated by subjects. We suggest that medial areas of the frontal cortex specifically mediate the automatic coordination of attentional resources between current task performance and future action plans.
Inhalation of 7.5% CO(2) increases anxiety and autonomic arousal in humans, and elicits fear behavior in animals. However, it is not known whether CO(2) challenge in humans induces dysfunction in neurocognitive processes that characterize generalized anxiety, notably selective attention to environmental threat. Healthy volunteers completed an emotional antisaccade task in which they looked toward or away from (inhibited) negative and neutral stimuli during inhalation of 7.5% CO(2) and air. CO(2) inhalation increased anxiety, autonomic arousal, and erroneous eye movements toward threat on antisaccade trials. Autonomic response to CO(2) correlated with hypervigilance to threat (speed to initiate prosaccades) and reduced threat inhibition (increased orienting toward and slower orienting away from threat on antisaccade trials) independent of change in mood. Findings extend evidence that CO(2) triggers fear behavior in animals via direct innervation of a distributed fear network that mobilizes the detection of and allocation of processing resources toward environmental threat in humans.
Previous research has shown inconsistent findings regarding the relations between the functional Val158Met polymorphisms of the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene and individual differences in personality traits. This study attempts to overcome some of the weaknesses of previous research, namely, small sample sizes, clinical samples, ethnic stratification, wide age ranges, neglecting sex differences, and single measures of personality traits. A large sample (n = 556, 250 male, 306 female) of healthy Chinese college students (mean age = 20.5  1 years) was given a battery of personality scales, including the temperament and character inventory-revised, the behavioral inhibition system and behavioral approach system scale, the Beck depression inventory, and the Beck anxiety inventory. Factor analysis of the affect-related personality traits revealed two factors that corresponded to positive (PEM) and negative emotionality (NEM). We found a consistent COMT-by-sex interaction effect on affect-related personality traits. Compared with males with Met/Met alleles, males with Val/Val alleles showed significantly higher scores on NEM, but lower scores on PEM. Females, however, showed an opposite but nonsignificant pattern. Our results supported the role of the COMT gene in personality traits for males and contributed to the growing literature on sex differences in gene-behavior connections.
You are queuing at the bus stop, and notice that someone suddenly turns her walk into a run: typically, you assume that she wants to catch the bus and may want to tell the driver to wait. Faced with a sudden speed change, rather than considering it bizarre or unnatural, observers attach a meaning to it, and act consequently. In a social context, speed of a movement often bears as much significance as its form, and can be adapted to vehicle precise meanings. This pragmatic rule facilitates decoding of non-verbal messages from other individuals, but may not necessarily apply when observing one's own movements, for which intentions should be informative enough. Hence, the range of motion speeds labeled as 'natural' could be broader for other people's actions compared to one's own. We explored this possibility through a task in which human observers decided whether speed of a gesture had been artificially modified. A virtual hand was presented, which - unbeknownst to participants - moved according to the kinematics of either the observer, or another individual. Although a self/other distinction was never required, participants applied different criteria when dealing with self compared to other people's gestures, suggesting that the brain implicitly extracts identity information before any overt judgment is produced. Interestingly, observers were reluctant to labeling movements of another individual as artificial, in keeping with the hypothesis that large variations in movements' speed can vehicle social messages, and therefore are not regarded a priori as unnatural.
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) exposure leads to significant and irreversible damage to dopaminergic neurons in both mice and humans. While MPTP exposure in humans causes permanent symptoms of Parkinson's disease, MPTP treated mice will recover behaviorally over a 3-week period. This mouse specific recovery might be linked to transcriptional changes in the basal ganglia enabling mice to maintain normal motor function in spite of low striatal dopamine levels. Laser microdissection was used to isolate the subthalamic nucleus from mice 7 and 28 days following MPTP exposure. High quality RNA was recovered and expressional analysis was performed on whole mouse genome microarrays. Identified regulated transcripts were validated in a separate batch of animals using quantitative PCR. Two transcripts with a significant regulation from days 7 to 28 in the MPTP treated groups, were identified: the brain specific angiogenesis inhibitor associated protein 3 (Baiap3) and the breast carcinoma amplified sequence 1 (Bcas1). Further studies of the molecular pathways involving these two transcripts may uncover processes in the subthalamic nucleus associated with the behavioral recovery observed after MPTP exposure.
The subgranular zone (SGZ) in the dentate gyrus contains radial astrocytes, known as Type-1 or Type-B cells, which generate neuroblasts (Type-2 cells or Type-D cells) that give rise to granular neurons. Stress increases glucocorticoid levels that target SGZ and modify the proliferation and apoptosis of hippocampal cells. Yet, it is not well-known whether stress differentially affects SGZ progenitors. We investigated the effects of noise-induced stress on the rate of proliferation and apoptosis of the Type-1 cells, Type-2 cells and newly generated granular neurons in the SGZ. We exposed Balb/C mice to noise using a standardized rodents' audiogram-fitted adaptation of a human noisy environment. We measured corticosterone serum levels at different time points. Animals received BrdU injections for 3 days and sequential sacrifices were done to carry out double-immunohistochemical analyses. We found that a 24-h noise exposure did not produce adaptative response in the curve of corticosterone as compared to a 12-h noise exposure. The percentage of BrdU+/GFAP+ cells was significantly reduced in the stress group as compared to controls. A high proportion of CASP-3+/GFAP+ radial astrocytes were found in the stress group. The percentage of BrdU+/doublecortin+ cells was higher in controls than in the stress group. Interestingly, the apoptosis rate of doublecortin-expressing cells in the stress group was slightly lesser than in controls. Remarkably, we did not find significant differences in the number of BrdU+/NeuN+ and CASP-3+/NeuN+ neurons. These data indicate that stress differentially affects the rate of proliferation and apoptosis in SGZ progenitors and suggest a possible compensatory mechanism to keep the net number of granular neurons.
Oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) are one of the potential treating tools for multiple sclerosis (MS). Therefore, the cell number and differentiation of OPCs in a demyelinated spinal cord are crucial for improvement of reparative process. In the present study, we investigated whether &quot;Governor Vessel (GV)&quot; electro-acupuncture (EA) could efficiently promote increase in cell number and differentiation of OPCs into oligodendrocytes, remyelination and functional recovery in the demyelinated spinal cord. The spinal cord of adult Sprague-Dawley rats was microinjected with ethidium bromide (EB) at T10, to establish a demyelinated model. Six groups of animals were performed for the experiment. After 15 days EA treatment, neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) level and number of NG2-positive OPCs were significantly increased. Compared with the sham group, more NG2-positive OPCs were distributed between neurofilament (NF)-positive nerve fibres or closely associated with them in the lesion site and nearby tissue. In rats given longer EA treatment for 30 days, the number of adenomatous polyposis coli (APC)-positive oligodendrocytes was increased. Concomitantly, the number of newly formed myelins was increased. This was coupled by increase in endogenous oligodendrocyte involved in myelin formation. Furthermore, behavioural test and spinal cord evoked potential detection demonstrated a significant functional recovery in the EA+EB day 30 group. Our results suggest EA treatment can promote NT-3 expression, increase the cell number and differentiation of endogenous OPCs, and remyelination in the demyelinated spinal cord as well as the functional improvement of demyelinated spinal cord.
Accumulating evidence demonstrates astrocytic crucial roles in the brain, but the molecular basis underlying astrocytic intracellular protein trafficking remains to be elucidated. The present study reports the identification of novel protein, brain-derived integrating factor-1 (BDIF1), which comprises TBC (Tre-2/Bub2/Cdc16), SH3, RUN domains. The amino acid sequence putatively coding TBC domain in BDIF1 implied its potential to interact with small GTP-binding proteins (G-proteins), and further analyses by co-immunprecipitation and immunocytochemical staining demonstrated that BDIF1 bound to astrocytic gap junctional protein, connexin-43 (Cx43). Our present data shows that BDIF1 potentially functions in molecular trafficking in astrocytes.








Intracranial germinomas are rare and account for only 0.4-3.4% of primary intracranial tumors. They develop mainly in the midline structures in adolescents. The pineal gland is the most common site of this tumor. Here, we describe an unusual case of a giant primary intracranial germinoma located in the intracranial hemisphere with radiological findings that mimicked a meningioma. The clinical diagnosis of the intracranial germinoma was difficult because of its unusual clinical presentation, the location of the lesion, and atypical imaging findings. Based on this case study, we suggest that germinoma might be a possible diagnosis when a tumor of the hemispheres with dura invasion mimics meningioma, especially in young patients. Furthermore, we recommend that frozen biopsy sections should be taken routinely during surgery to aid in rapid diagnosis and effective therapy.
A 17-year-old female patient, known case of sickle cell anemia was admitted to our hospital with 10 days history of fever, vomiting, and epigastric pain. On examination, her temperature was 38C. There was a vesicular type of rash below the nipple and over the left chest involving the back. She was diagnosed as herpes zoster and was started on acyclovir with good hydration and analgesia. Three days later, she developed weakness and decreased sensation of the right leg. On the fifth day, examination revealed power of 1/5 on the right leg, and 4/5 on the left leg, there was proximal and distal increased tone and brisk reflexes and up going toe on the right side with sensory level at T4-T6. An MRI of the thoracolumbar spine showed high signal intensity at T4-T6. The CSF analysis revealed positive polymerase chain reaction for varicella zoster. She was treated with intravenous (IV) dexamethasone 4 mg, 4 times per day. After 3 days she developed left leg weakness, urine incontinence, and power in the left leg was 3/5. Reflex plantar was up going bilaterally with sensory level at the nipple, T4-T6. She was then stared on IV methylprednisolone one gm for 3 days followed by a tapering dose of prednisolone 50 mg for 2 weeks, after a week of starting medication she was able to walk. This case of transverse myelitis is related to varicella zoster infection, with sickle cell anemia, and was successfully treated with high dose IV methylprednisolone, IV acyclovir, and physiotherapy.
Paragangliomas are tumors arising in the paraganglia. Involvement of the spine is less common, and usually takes the form of intradural compression of the cauda equina. We report here a case of a 60-year-old man with recurrent and progressive pain of his sacral and perineal area, accompanied by occasional rod and perineal hypoesthesia on admission. He underwent laminectomies of the vertebral bodies S1 and S2, and an en bloc resection of the tumor. Postoperative histopathological examination revealed a paraganglioma. Postoperative staging showed no pathological abnormalities, and no tumor recurrence after one year. Even though rare, the paraganglioma of the sacral spinal canal should be considered in the differential diagnosis of tumors occurring in the spine.
Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis caused by paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria is uncommon. Our case is a 44-year-old woman who presented with a 2 day history of headaches, nausea, and seizures followed by a Todd`s paresis; she had been diagnosed as paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria for 4 years. A magnetic resonance venography revealed extensive thrombosis of the cerebral venous sinus. She received antithrombotic treatment with a good outcome. We highlight paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria as the reason for the cerebral venous sinus thrombosis. The treatment of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis caused by paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria should be individualized.
Cerebral hydatid disease is very rare, representing only 2% of all cerebral space occupying lesions. The diagnosis is usually based on a pathognomonic CT pattern. Exceptionally, the image is atypical raising suspicion of many differential diagnoses such as intracerebral infectious, vascular lesions, or tumors. We report 2 atypical cases of cerebral hydatid cysts diagnosed in a 21, and a 24-year-old woman. The CT scan results suggest oligodendroglioma in the first case and brain abscess in the second. An MRI was helpful in the diagnosis of the 2 cases. Both patients underwent successful surgery with a good outcome. The hydatid nature of the cyst was confirmed by histology in both cases.









Although the 2009 Swine flu (H1N1) pandemic has apparently been abolished, there are still lessons to be learnt. We reviewed the clinical and pathological manifestations of CNS involvement of influenza A virus infection. Neurologic disorders were most commonly seen as underlying medical conditions in swine flu, and neurological complications of the H1N1 vaccination. The major point with regard to the H1N1 pandemic is a mild disease with high contagiosity, which can have severe outcomes in those with underlying diseases including neurological ones.
This article reviews the major findings of research related to pharmacological pain therapies used in treating acute and chronic pain, it compares advantages and disadvantages of certain drugs used mainly in pain management (for example, opioids and non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs), and others that have a secondary use in pain management (for example, skeletal muscle relaxants, antidepressants, and anticonvulsants) and their intended indications. Our goal is to present accurate up-to-date applicable data on these pharmacological choices.
The authors report a case of Rathke cleft cyst presenting with severe hyponatremia. A 33-year-old man suffered sudden severe headaches, visual changes, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, and a metallic taste in his mouth. Initial laboratory values demonstrated severe hyponatremia. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a cystic lesion with questionable intracystic hemorrhage, concerning for pituitary apoplexy. Transsphenoidal decompression and drainage of the cyst confirmed the diagnosis of Rathke cleft cyst and resolved the symptoms. Postoperative follow-up studies at 6 months demonstrated normal endocrine function and no evidence of a cyst.
We review the development of neurosurgery at the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) and the emergence of MUSC as a leading academic neurosurgical center in South Carolina. Historical records from the Waring Historical Library were studied, former and current faculty members were interviewed, and the personal records of Dr Phanor J Perot were examined. Dr Frederick E Kredel was the first to perform cerebral revascularization in stroke patients using omental flaps and the first to culture glioma cells in artificial media. The MUSC Neurosurgery residency program was established in 1964 by its first formally trained neurosurgeon, Julian Youmans, MD. The first graduate of the program, Dr Russell Travis, went on to become the President of the American Association of Neurological Surgeons. In 1968, the longest serving chairman, Dr Perot, joined the department and conducted significant research in spinal cord injury, receiving a continuous, 20-year award from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. A major change in the neurosurgery program occurred in 2004 when Dr Sunil Patel accepted the chairmanship. He integrated neurosurgery, neurology, and basic neuroscience departments into a comprehensive Department of Neurosciences to provide integrated clinical care. This department now ranks second in the country in National Institutes of Health research funding. Recently, the Center for Global Health and Global Neurosurgery was established with a vision of caring for patients beyond national borders. Neurosurgery at MUSC has been influenced by Drs Kredel and Perot and the current leadership is moving forward with a uniquely integrated department with novel areas such as global neurosurgery.
The TaqIA single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), which is the most widely studied genetic polymorphism in addictions, is located at the gene that encodes the RIP kinase ANKK1 near the gene for dopamine receptor D2. The TaqIA SNP is in strong linkage disequilibrium with the SNP rs7118900, which changes the alanine at position 239 to threonine in the ANKK1 protein (Ala239/A2; Thr239/A1). In silico analysis has predicted that this polymorphic substitution creates an additional phosphorylation site in the kinase domain of ANKK1. To investigate the contribution of ANKK1 to the pathophysiology of TaqIA-associated phenotypes, we analyzed transfected HEK293T cells with the human ANKK1-kinase(Ala239) and ANKK1-kinase(Thr239) variants tagged with GFP. We observed that the ANKK1-kinase is located in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm, suggesting that there is nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of this putative signal transducer. In addition, we found that the Ala239Thr ANKK1-kinase polymorphism exhibited strong expression differences in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm at basal level and when stimulated with the dopamine agonist apomorphine. Specifically, the ANKK1-kinase(Thr239) variant showed the highest level of basal protein expression, while ANKK1-kinase(Ala239) was 0.64-fold lower. After treatment with apomorphine, ANKK1-kinase(Ala239) showed a 2.4-fold increment in protein levels, whereas a 0.67-fold reduction was observed in ANKK1-kinase(Thr239). Thus, here we provide the first evidence of functional ANKK1 differences that are marked by TaqIA and could be associated with vulnerability to addiction.
The development of molecular technologies, together with progressive sophistication of molecular imaging methods, has allowed the further elucidation of the multiple mutations and dysregulatory effects of pathways leading to oncogenesis. Acting against these pathways by specifically targeted agents represents a major challenge for current research efforts in oncology. As conventional anatomically based pharmacological endpoints may be inadequate to monitor the tumor response to these targeted treatments, the identification and use of more appropriate, noninvasive pharmacodynamic biomarkers appear to be crucial to optimize the design, dosage and schedule of these novel therapeutic approaches. An aberrant choline phospholipid metabolism and enhanced flux of glucose derivatives through glycolysis, which sustain the redirection of mitochondrial ATP to glucose phosphorylation, are two major hallmarks of cancer cells. This review focuses on the changes detected in these pathways by MRS in response to targeted treatments. The progress and limitations of our present understanding of the mechanisms underlying MRS-detected phosphocholine accumulation in cancer cells are discussed in the light of gene and protein expression and the activation of different enzymes involved in phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis and catabolism. Examples of alterations induced in the MRS choline profile of cells exposed to different agents or to tumor environmental factors are presented. Current studies aimed at the identification in cancer cells of MRS-detected pharmacodynamic markers of therapies targeted against specific conditional or constitutive cell receptor stimulation are then reviewed. Finally, the perspectives of present efforts addressed to identify enzymes of the phosphatidylcholine cycle as possible novel targets for anticancer therapy are summarized.
The influence of military service on self-assessed hearing symptoms and measured auditory function was studied as well as the efficacy of the Hearing Conservation Program (HCP) of the Swedish Armed Forces. 839 conscripts were recruited for the study at reporting to military service. They were all exposed to noise over the risk-limits from weapons and vehicles and used earmuffs and/or earplugs. Questionnaires and pure tone screening audiometry were studied at the start and the end of the military service. Retrospective information regarding audiometry at conscription before military service was included as control. The prevalence values of tinnitus were 23% before and 32% after the service and of sensitivity to noise 16% and 19% respectively. The prevalence values of hearing impairment were 6.3% at conscription, 14.5% at reporting to military service, and 24% after the training period. The incidence values of hearing decline were 3.7% during the period with no military noise exposure and 6.6% during the military service. Acoustic accident increased the risk of worsened tinnitus and sensitivity to noise four times and for a high frequency hearing decline six times. We observed elevated prevalence values of tinnitus, sensitivity to noise and hearing impairment at discharge compared to before military service. We observed an elevated risk of hearing decline during military service. Acoustic accident increased the risk of tinnitus, noise sensitivity and hearing decline. We suggest improvements regarding inclusion criteria for military service, and for education regarding the HCP.
Increasing evidence indicates that chronic exposure to environmental noise may permanently affect the central nervous system. The aim of this study was to evaluate the long-term effects of early exposure to environmental noise on the hippocampal cell proliferation of the adult male rat. Early-weaned Wistar rats were exposed for 15 days to a rats' audiogram-fitted adaptation to a noisy environment. Two months later, the rats were injected with the cellular proliferation marker 5bromodeoxiuridine (BrdU), and their brains were processed for immunohistochemical analysis. Coronal sections were immunolabeled with anti-BrdU antibodies to identify new-born cells in dentate gyrus (DG), cornu amonis areas CA1 and CA3. In addition, blood samples were obtained to evaluate corticosterone serum levels after noise exposure. All data are expressed as meanstandard deviation. For mean comparisons between groups, we used the Student t test. We found an increase in corticosterone serum levels after environmental noise exposure. Interestingly, noise-exposed rats showed a long-term reduction of proliferating cells in the hippocampal formation, as compared to controls. These findings indicate that chronic environmental noise exposure at young ages produces persistent non-auditory impairment that modifies cell proliferation in the hippocampal formation.
We evaluate the influence of different malnutrition paradigms (intra-uterine x extra-uterine) in body and brain weight, in seizure threshold and in hippocampus morphometry, in developing rats. Intra-uterine malnutrition model consisted in reduction by half of the ration offered to pregnant female; extrauterine malnutrition consisted of progressive limitation of lactation, from P2 to P15. Seizure induction was accomplished by exposure to flurothyl, at P15. At the same day animals were sacrificed. Morphometric analysis was based on hippocampal pyramidal and granular cells estimate number, through volume calculation and cellular density. Extra-uterine malnutrition significantly reduced pups body and brain weight, seizure threshold and neuronal number in CA4 region only. Intra-uterine malnutrition reduced neuronal number in CA2, CA4 and DG regions regarding well-nourished and extra-uterine malnourished animals. In CA3, CA4 and dentate gyrus, a significant cell increase was observed in groups exposed to seizures, regarding similar control groups.
On June 19 2009, everyone who knew Leon Cintra was shocked by the terrible news of the automobile accident that took his life. The feeling within the scientific community was that his passing was not only a great loss for Mexican science but also the loss of a beloved friend. He will be missed and forever remembered for his brilliant mind and noble heart. His scientific career was focused, since the beginning, on the study of protein malnutrition effects on brain morphometry, somato-sensory transmission, sleep, circadian rhythms and behavior. His findings showed that malnutrition has long lasting adverse effects on morphometry of systems involved in sleep regulation such as locus coeruleus, nucleus raphe dorsalis and susprachiasmatic nucleus, and on hippocampal circuit implicated in theta activity generation. His results on spectral analysis of electrical field potential at every 4 sec from 24-h baseline recording and 72-h of recovery sleep after total sleep deprivation or selective REM sleep deprivation demonstrated that protein malnutrition induced alterations on homeostatic as well as on circadian sleep regulation; brain oscillations and theta coherent activity between left and right hemisphere and between hippocampus and cerebral cortex are also affected by malnutrition.


Optic neuritis (ON) is an inflammatory optic nerve injury, which is strongly associated with multiple sclerosis (MS). Optical coherence tomography (OCT) has the potential to provide a reliable means of capturing axonal deficits, which can be paired to tests of visual function to provide a structural-functional paradigm of brain injury. In this respect, the eye provides a unique view into the effects of central nervous system inflammation, which may enhance the understanding of disease mechanisms that contribute to neurological disability in MS. This review addresses the published experience with OCT in the diagnosis and treatment of patients with ON and MS, and discusses the applications of OCT in ongoing clinical trials. The potential gains and limitations of spectral-domain OCT as an evolving technology and surrogate marker of axonal brain injury are also discussed.

The Modified Checklist for Autism in Toddlers (M-CHAT) has yielded elevated rates of screening failure for children born preterm or with low birthweight. We extended these findings with a detailed examination of M-CHAT items in a large sample of children born at extremely low gestational age. The sample was grouped according to children's current limitations and degree of impairment. The aim was to better understand how disabilities might influence M-CHAT scores. Fourteen participating institutions of the Extremely Low Gestational Age Newborns (ELGAN) Study prospectively collected information about 1086 infants who were born before the 28th week of gestation and had an assessment at age 24-months. The 24-month visit included a neurological assessment, the Bayley Scales of Infant Development, Second edition (BSID-II), M-CHAT and a medical history form. Outcome measures included the distribution of failed M-CHAT items among groups classified according to cerebral palsy diagnosis, gross motor function, BSID-II scores and vision or hearing impairments. M-CHAT items were failed more frequently by children with concurrently identified impairments (motor, cognitive, vision and hearing). In addition, the frequency of item failure increased with the severity of impairment. The failed M-CHAT items were often, but not consistently, related to children's specific impairments. Importantly, four of the six M-CHAT 'critical items' were commonly affected by presence and severity of concurrent impairments. The strong association between impaired sensory or motor function and M-CHAT results among extremely low gestational age children suggests that such impairments might give rise to false positive M-CHAT screening.
Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) is extensively employed in the management of neuropathic pain, but the underlying mechanisms are only partially understood. Recently, we demonstrated that the pain-relieving effect of SCS appears to involve the spinal serotonin system, and the present study aimed at identifying the types of the spinal serotonin receptors involved. Experiments were performed on rats with neuropathy produced by partial ligation of the sciatic nerve. Tactile sensitivity was assessed using von Frey filaments, and cold and heat sensitivity with cold spray and radiant heat, respectively. Selective 5-HT receptor antagonists, methiothepin (5-HT(1,6,7)), ketanserin tartrate (5-HT(2A)), TICM (5-HT(3)), SDZ-205,557 (5-HT(4)), as well as receptor agonists, -m-5-HT (5-HT(2)), m-CPBG (5-HT(3)) in per se ineffective doses, or vehicle, were administrated intrathecally 5 minutes prior to the application of SCS. Ketanserin and SDZ-205,557 significantly attenuated the suppressive effect of SCS on tactile hypersensitivity, while methiothepin and TICM were ineffective. The suppressive effect on cold hypersensitivity of SCS was counteracted by ketanserin only. None of the 5-HT receptor antagonists attenuated the suppressive effect on heat hyperalgesia of SCS. Subeffective doses of -m-5-HT and m-CPBG enhanced the suppressive effect of SCS on tactile hypersensitivity. The enhancing effect of m-CPBG was abolished by a -aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) or GABA(B) antagonist intrathecally. These results suggest that the activation of 5-HT(2A), 5-HT(3), and 5-HT(4) receptors plays an important role in SCS-induced relief of neuropathic pain. The activation of 5-HT(3) receptors appears to operate via spinal GABAergic interneurons.

Neuropathic pain (NeP) is prevalent in patients with peripheral neuropathy (PN), regardless of etiology. We sought to compare the efficacy of the cannabinoid nabilone as either monotherapy or adjuvant therapy with a first-line medication for NeP, gabapentin, in a patient population with PN-NeP. Patients diagnosed with PN-NeP were permitted to initiate monotherapy (nabilone or gabapentin) or add one of these two medications (adjuvant therapy) to their existing NeP treatment regimen in a non-randomized open-label nature. Baseline data collected included a primary outcome (visual analog scores [VAS] of pain) and secondary outcomes (quality of life [EuroQol 5 Domains and Short-Form 36] assessments and assessments of sleep [Medical Outcomes Sleep Study Scale {MOSSS}], anxiety and depression [Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale], and pain [Brief Pain Inventory]). Reassessment and modulation of dosing and/or medications occurred at 3- and 6-month intervals. Medication adverse effects and drug efficacy, as well as questionnaires, were assessed at 6 months. Matched analysis of variance testing was performed to compare 3- and 6-month scores with baseline, as well as to compare therapies at equal time points. Significant improvements in pain VAS were seen in all treatment groups at 6 months. Numerous sleep parameters within MOSSS, Brief Pain Inventory, and Short-Form 36 improved in patients receiving nabilone or gabapentin either as monotherapy or adjuvant treatment. Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale-A scores were significantly improved in all treatment groups. Sleep adequacy and the sleep problems index within the MOSSS improved in nabilone monotherapy patients in particular. The benefits of monotherapy or adjuvant therapy with nabilone appear comparable to gabapentin for management of NeP. We advocate for head-to-head randomized, double-blind studies for current therapies for NeP in order to determine potential advantages beneficial in this patient population.
When reaching movements are performed in an unusual area of work, normal subjects produce a rightward directional error. This has been considered to be caused by an impaired representation of limb configuration, which hampers the actual movement vector. Motor programming has been found to be impaired in dystonia. To understand how patients affected by idiopathic cervical dystonia (CD) perform reaching movements in an unusual area of work, we investigated 10 CD patients and 10 age-matched controls. Reaching movements on a digitized tablet were recorded both with the right arm aligned to the midline (central position) and shifted to the right (lateral position), but hidden from view. While differences in the main kinematic parameters were not affected by the position both in patients and controls, the directional error was significantly increased in dystonic patients for the lateral position. We hypothesise that an impaired integration of proprioceptive information with the motor output and egocentric spatial perception could be responsible for a greater error in spatial representation of hand location and consequently to an increased directional error in dystonic patients.
For centuries, only philosophers debated the relationship between aesthetics and morality. Recently, with advances in neuroscience, the debate has moved to include the brain and an evolved neural underpinning linking aesthetic reactions and moral judgment. Biological survival emphasizes mate selection strategies, and the ritual displays have been linked to human aesthetics in the arts, in faces, and in various daily decision making. In parallel, cultural human practices have evolved to emphasize altruism and morality. This article explores the biological background and discusses the neuroscientific evidence for shared brain pathways for aesthetics and morals.
There is evidence to suggest that alterations in neuropeptide Y (NPY) and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) contribute to the escalated voluntary ethanol intake seen following long term chronic ethanol exposure. The present study assessed whether the duration of chronic ethanol exposure and abstinence alters brain levels of NPY and CRF in adult Wistar rats. NPY-like immunoreactivity (NPY-LI) and CRF-LI were determined in the amygdala (AMYG), frontal cortex (FCTX), hippocampus (HPC) and parietal cortex (PCTX) of adult Wistar rats after chronic ethanol exposure, and 24-h and 2-weeks following withdrawal (WD). Chronic ethanol exposure consisted of either a 2-week or an 8-week ethanol vapor regimen. No change in brain levels of NPY-LI, CRF-LI and the NPY-LI/CRF-LI ratio was observed 2-weeks following ethanol exposure, whereas, 8-weeks of ethanol exposure produced a significant effect on NPY-LI expression in the AMYG and FCTX. Moreover, an 8-week ethanol vapor regimen significantly increased CRF-LI levels in the HPC and PCTX. Findings from the present study suggest that a longer duration of ethanol vapor, similar to what is required to enhance voluntary drinking, is required to produce changes in NPY-LI and CRF-LI expression in the adult rat brain.
In order to clarify the mechanisms involved in the susceptibility to GABA(A) antagonists-induced seizures in morphine dependent rats, we investigated how GABA(A) agonists modulate this vulnerability. Seizures were induced to animals by infusion of GABA(A) antagonists: pentylenetetrazole (PTZ), picrotoxin (PIC) and bicuculline (BIC). GABA(A) agonists, muscimol (MUS) and 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo [5,4-c]pyridin-3-ol (THIP), were administered intravenous (i.v.) before antagonists. Morphine-dependence significantly decreased the PTZ threshold dose (19.161.89 versus 25.741.25mg/kg) while, it had no effect on PIC induced seizures. BIC doses for both threshold and tonic-clonic seizures induction were significantly lower in morphine dependent rats (0.100.01 and 0.120.02 versus 0.250.02 and 0.390.07mg/kg respectively). In morphine-dependence, although pre-treatment with MUS significantly increased the required dose of PTZ for seizures threshold, THIP significantly decreased the required dose of PTZ for tonic-clonic convulsion. Moreover, MUS pretreatment completely recovered the effect of morphine dependency on BIC seizure activity. The results suggest that the capability of GABA(A) agonists on modulation of propensity to seizures induced by different antagonists in morphine-dependence is dissimilar. Therefore, it seems that long-term morphine alters some properties of GABA system so that the responsive rate of GABA(A) receptors not only to its antagonists, but also to its agonists will change differently.
The broad spectrum anticonvulsant topiramate modulates multiple voltage-gated and ligand-gated channels, including -aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptors. Previously, we found a strong -subunit influence on the effects of topiramate on heteromeric GABA(A) receptors. Here, we tested the hypothesis that homomeric GABA(A) receptors comprised of either (1)- or (3)-subunits will contain a functional binding site for topiramate. For comparison, we also examined the effects of pentobarbital and loreclezole which exhibit -subunit dependence as well. We expressed (1)- and (3)-homomeric receptors in Xenopus laevis oocytes and acquired electrophysiological responses using two-electrode voltage clamp techniques. Oocytes expressing -homomers were insensitive to GABA and had hyperpolarized resting membrane potentials, decreased input resistances, increased holding currents and picrotoxin-induced outward currents consistent with the expression of non-ligand-mediated, spontaneous channel openings of -homomers. Similar to picrotoxin, application of topiramate, pentobarbital and loreclezole inhibited (1)-homomers. In contrast, these compounds activated (3)-homomers. As with heteromeric receptors, topiramate and pentobarbital modulation of (1)- and (3)-homomers exhibited rebound currents indicating an open channel block or stabilization of desensitization. Interaction studies suggested competition between topiramate, loreclezole and pentobarbital for activation of (3)-homomers, whereas topiramate inhibitory actions were non-competitive with pentobarbital but competitive with loreclezole. In summary, (1)- and (3)-subunits have binding site(s) for topiramate that elicit functional effects with similarities to heteromeric receptor responses. From this foundation, contributions of residues and other subunits in binary and ternary heteromeric receptors can be explored to gain a complete understanding of topiramate actions on complex heteromeric GABA(A) receptors.
The neuropeptide Y (NPY) system--comprising of neuropeptide Y, peptide YY, pancreatic polypeptide and the corresponding Y receptors through which they act (Y1, Y2, Y4, Y5 and y6)--is well known for its role in the regulation of energy homeostasis and associated processes. Dysfunctions of the system have been implicated in human diseases such as obesity and cancer, raising the possibility that correction of the system may provide therapeutic benefits for these diseases. In addition to the regulation of appetite and satiety that has attracted most attention during the past years, insight has also been gained into the critical role of NPY in the control of energy expenditure, oxidative fuel selection and bone metabolism. Studies using conditional knockout models further shed light on the central versus peripheral, and hypothalamic versus extra-hypothalamic mechanisms of these regulatory effects of NPY. Moreover, a role of NPY family peptides and Y receptors in modulating the growth of tumours has emerged. These findings provide the basis for novel NPY system-targeted strategies to treat obesity as well as cancer. Such strategies include modifying both sides of the energy balance equation--energy intake versus energy expenditure--to achieve a greater weight/fat loss by particularly modulating peripheral Y receptor(s) to ameliorate metabolic conditions without interfering with central functions of Y receptors. In addition, targeting multiple Y receptors and/or multiple systems involved in the regulation of energy balance will have greater beneficial effects. However, long-term interference with the NPY system to target obesity or cancer related aspects needs to consider potential side effects on bone health.

Inhibition in the adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS) is mediated by -aminobutyric acid (GABA). The fast inhibitory actions of GABA are mediated by GABA type A receptors (GABA(A)Rs); they mediate both phasic and tonic inhibition in the brain and are the principle sites of action for anticonvulsant, anxiolytic, and sedative-hypnotic agents that include benzodiazepines, barbiturates, neurosteroids, and some general anesthetics. GABA(A)Rs are heteropentameric ligand-gated ion channels that are found concentrated at inhibitory postsynaptic sites where they mediate phasic inhibition and at extrasynaptic sites where they mediate tonic inhibition. The efficacy of inhibition and thus neuronal excitability is critically dependent on the accumulation of specific GABA(A)R subtypes at inhibitory synapses. Here we evaluate how neurons control the number of GABA(A)Rs on the neuronal plasma membrane together with their selective stabilization at synaptic sites. We then go on to examine the impact that these processes have on the strength of synaptic inhibition and behavior.
Evolutionary Psychology (EP) views the human mind as organized into many modules, each underpinned by psychological adaptations designed to solve problems faced by our Pleistocene ancestors. We argue that the key tenets of the established EP paradigm require modification in the light of recent findings from a number of disciplines, including human genetics, evolutionary biology, cognitive neuroscience, developmental psychology, and paleoecology. For instance, many human genes have been subject to recent selective sweeps; humans play an active, constructive role in co-directing their own development and evolution; and experimental evidence often favours a general process, rather than a modular account, of cognition. A redefined EP could use the theoretical insights of modern evolutionary biology as a rich source of hypotheses concerning the human mind, and could exploit novel methods from a variety of adjacent research fields.
In the vertebrate retina, horizontal cells generate the inhibitory surround of bipolar cells, an essential step in contrast enhancement. For the last decades, the mechanism involved in this inhibitory synaptic pathway has been a major controversy in retinal research. One hypothesis suggests that connexin hemichannels mediate this negative feedback signal; another suggests that feedback is mediated by protons. Mutant zebrafish were generated that lack connexin 55.5 hemichannels in horizontal cells. Whole cell voltage clamp recordings were made from isolated horizontal cells and cones in flat mount retinas. Light-induced feedback from horizontal cells to cones was reduced in mutants. A reduction of feedback was also found when horizontal cells were pharmacologically hyperpolarized but was absent when they were pharmacologically depolarized. Hemichannel currents in isolated horizontal cells showed a similar behavior. The hyperpolarization-induced hemichannel current was strongly reduced in the mutants while the depolarization-induced hemichannel current was not. Intracellular recordings were made from horizontal cells. Consistent with impaired feedback in the mutant, spectral opponent responses in horizontal cells were diminished in these animals. A behavioral assay revealed a lower contrast-sensitivity, illustrating the role of the horizontal cell to cone feedback pathway in contrast enhancement. Model simulations showed that the observed modifications of feedback can be accounted for by an ephaptic mechanism. A model for feedback, in which the number of connexin hemichannels is reduced to about 40%, fully predicts the specific asymmetric modification of feedback. To our knowledge, this is the first successful genetic interference in the feedback pathway from horizontal cells to cones. It provides direct evidence for an unconventional role of connexin hemichannels in the inhibitory synapse between horizontal cells and cones. This is an important step in resolving a long-standing debate about the unusual form of (ephaptic) synaptic transmission between horizontal cells and cones in the vertebrate retina.
Senile plaques composed of amyloid-beta (A) in the brain are one of the hallmarks of Alzheimer disease (AD). Removal of A from the brain is the most important therapeutic strategy for AD. The solubility of A is critical for its endocytosis, transcytosis and removal from the brain. Our recent study has found that the extracellular domain of p75NTR, the neurotrophin receptor, plays an important role in the solubility of A and might be one of the endogenous mechanisms in the regulation of A plaque formation. The physiologically shedded extracellular domain of p75NTR is able to inhibit A aggregation and diasggregate preformed A fibrils, while the full p75NTR expressed on neurites, endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells in blood-brain barrier (BBB) might initiate A endocytosis and degradation, and/or remove A from the brain via BBB. Understanding the roles of p75NTR in the solubility and clearance of A may allow targetting p75NTR as a unique opportunity to develop therapeutic drugs for the prevention and treatment of AD.
Imprinted genes are expressed in a parent-of-origin manner by epigenetic modifications that silence either the paternal or maternal allele. They are widely expressed in fetal and placental tissues and are essential for normal placental development. In general, paternally expressed genes enhance feto-placental growth while maternally expressed genes limit conceptus growth, consistent with the hypothesis that imprinting evolved in response to the conflict between parental genomes in the allocation of maternal resources to fetal growth. Using targeted deletion, uniparental duplication, loss of imprinting and transgenic approaches, imprinted genes have been shown to determine the transport capacity of the definitive mouse placenta by regulating its growth, morphology and transporter abundance. Imprinted genes in the placenta are also responsive to environmental challenges and adapt placental phenotype to the prevailing nutritional conditions, in part, by varying their epigenetic status. In addition, interplay between placental and fetal imprinted genes is important in regulating resource partitioning via the placenta both developmentally and in response to environmental factors. By balancing the opposing parental drives on resource allocation with the environmental signals of nutrient availability, imprinted genes, like the Igf2-H19 locus, may act as nutrient sensors and optimise the fetal acquisition of nutrients for growth. These genes, therefore, have a major role in the epigenetic regulation of placental phenotype with long term consequences for the developmental programming of adult health and disease.
Synapses are specialized cell-cell contacts that mediate communication between neurons. Most excitatory synapses in the brain are housed on dendritic spines, small actin-rich protrusions extending from dendrites. During development and in response to environmental stimuli, spines undergo marked changes in shape and number thought to underlie processes like learning and memory. Improper spine development, in contrast, likely impedes information processing in the brain, since spine abnormalities are associated with numerous brain disorders. Elucidating the mechanisms that regulate the formation and plasticity of spines and their resident synapses is therefore crucial to our understanding of cognition and disease. Rho-family GTPases, key regulators of the actin cytoskeleton, play essential roles in orchestrating the development and remodeling of spines and synapses. Precise spatio-temporal regulation of Rho GTPase activity is critical for their function, since aberrant Rho GTPase signaling can cause spine and synapse defects as well as cognitive impairments. Rho GTPases are activated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) and inhibited by GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs). We propose that Rho-family GEFs and GAPs provide the spatiotemporal regulation and signaling specificity necessary for proper Rho GTPase function based on the following features they possess: (i) existence of multiple GEFs and GAPs per Rho GTPase, (ii) developmentally regulated expression, (iii) discrete localization, (iv) ability to bind to and organize specific signaling networks, and (v) tightly regulated activity, perhaps involving GEF/GAP interactions. Recent studies describe several Rho-family GEFs and GAPs that uniquely contribute to spinogenesis and synaptogenesis. Here, we highlight several of these proteins and discuss how they occupy distinct biochemical niches critical for synaptic development.
Precise localization of various ion channels into proper subcellular compartments is crucial for neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission. Axonal K(+) channels that are activated by depolarization of the membrane potential participate in the repolarizing phase of the action potential, and hence regulate action potential firing patterns, which encode output signals. Moreover, some of these channels can directly control neurotransmitter release at axonal terminals by constraining local membrane excitability and limiting Ca(2+) influx. K(+) channels differ not only in biophysical and pharmacological properties, but in expression and subcellular distribution as well. Importantly, proper targeting of channel proteins is a prerequisite for electrical and chemical functions of axons. In this review, we first highlight recent studies that demonstrate different roles of axonal K(+) channels in the local regulation of axonal excitability. Next, we focus on research progress in identifying axonal targeting motifs and machinery of several different types of K(+) channels present in axons. Regulation of K(+) channel targeting and activity may underlie a novel form of neuronal plasticity. This research field can contribute to generating novel therapeutic strategies through manipulating neuronal excitability in treating neurological diseases, such as multiple sclerosis, neuropathic pain, and Alzheimer's disease.
Since its introduction in the 1980s, Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) has proven to be a versatile method to non-invasively study human brain function by reversibly altering ongoing neural processing. In addition, TMS has been explored as a therapeutic intervention in a number of neurological and neuropsychiatric conditions. However, our understanding of TMS-induced changes in neural activity patterns is still rather limited, particularly when it comes to changes in neural network dynamics beyond the cortical site directly targeted by TMS. In order to monitor both its local and remote neurophysiological effects, TMS has been combined with complementary neuroimaging methods that allow additional insights into how observed TMS effects at the behavioral level can be interpreted by taking into account the full scale of its impact throughout the brain. The current review provides a comprehensive overview of the existing multimodal TMS literature, covering studies in which TMS was combined with one of the three main neuroimaging modalities, namely Electroencephalography, Positron Emission Tomography, and functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging. Besides constituting a reflection of the status quo in this exciting multidisciplinary research field, this review additionally reveals both convergent and divergent observations across modalities that await corroboration or resolution, thereby further guiding ongoing basic research and providing useful constraints to optimize future clinical applications.


To support the well-being of the parent-infant relationship, the neuromolecular mechanisms of parental behaviors should be clarified. From neuroanatomical analyses in laboratory rats, the medial preoptic area (MPOA) has been shown to be of critical importance in parental retrieving behavior. More recently, various gene-targeted mouse strains have been found to be defective in different aspects of parental behaviors, contributing to the identification of molecules and signaling pathways required for the behavior. Therefore, the neuromolecular basis of &quot;mother love&quot; is now a fully approachable research field in modern molecular neuroscience. In this review, we will provide a summary of the required brain areas and gene for parental behavior in laboratory mice (Mus musculus) and rats (Rattus norvegicus). Basic protocols and technical considerations on studying the mechanism of parental behavior using genetically-engineered mouse strains will also be presented.

In nonhuman primates and humans, similar to other mammals, hormones are not strictly necessary for the expression of maternal behavior, but nevertheless influence variation in maternal responsiveness and parental behavior both within and between individuals. A growing number of correlational and experimental studies have indicated that high circulating estrogen concentrations during pregnancy increase maternal motivation and responsiveness to infant stimuli, while effects of prepartum or postpartum estrogens and progestogens on maternal behavior are less clear. Prolactin is thought to play a role in promoting paternal and alloparental care in primates, but little is known about the relationship between this hormone and maternal behavior. High circulating cortisol levels appear to enhance arousal and responsiveness to infant stimuli in young, relatively inexperienced female primates, but interfere with the expression of maternal behavior in older and more experienced mothers. Among neuropeptides and neurotransmitters, preliminary evidence indicates that oxytocin and endogenous opioids affect maternal attachment to infants, including maintenance of contact, grooming, and responses to separation. Brain serotonin affects anxiety and impulsivity, which in turn may affect maternal behaviors such as infant retrieval or rejection of infants' attempts to make contact with the mother. Although our understanding of the neuroendocrine correlates of primate maternal behavior has grown substantially in the last two decades, very little is known about the mechanisms underlying these effects, e.g., the extent to which these mechanisms may involve changes in perception, emotion, or cognition.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS). Increased expression of 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO), a key enzyme in the biosynthesis of leukotrienes (LTs), has been reported in MS lesions and LT levels are elevated in the cerebrospinal fluid of MS patients. To determine whether pharmacological inhibition of 5-LO attenuates demyelination, MK886, a 5-LO inhibitor, was given to mice fed with cuprizone. Gene and protein expression of 5-LO were increased at the peak of cuprizone-induced demyelination. Although MK886 did not attenuate cuprizone-induced demyelination in the corpus callosum or in the cortex, it attenuated cuprizone-induced axonal damage and motor deficits and reduced microglial activation and IL-6 production. These data suggest that during cuprizone-induced demyelination, the 5-LO pathway contributes to microglial activation and neuroinflammation and to axonal damage resulting in motor dysfunction. Thus, 5-LO inhibition may be a useful therapeutic treatment in demyelinating diseases of the CNS.



Does language comprehension depend, in part, on neural systems for action? In previous studies, motor areas of the brain were activated when people read or listened to action verbs, but it remains unclear whether such activation is functionally relevant for comprehension. In the experiments reported here, we used off-line theta-burst transcranial magnetic stimulation to investigate whether a causal relationship exists between activity in premotor cortex and action-language understanding. Right-handed participants completed a lexical decision task, in which they read verbs describing manual actions typically performed with the dominant hand (e.g., &quot;to throw,&quot; &quot;to write&quot;) and verbs describing nonmanual actions (e.g., &quot;to earn,&quot; &quot;to wander&quot;). Responses to manual-action verbs (but not to nonmanual-action verbs) were faster after stimulation of the hand area in left premotor cortex than after stimulation of the hand area in right premotor cortex. These results suggest that premotor cortex has a functional role in action-language understanding.
Professional visual searches (e.g., baggage screenings, military searches, radiological examinations) are often conducted in high-pressure environments and require focus on multiple visual targets. Yet laboratory studies of visual search tend to be conducted in emotionally neutral settings with only one possible target per display. In the experiment reported here, we looked to better emulate high-pressure search conditions by presenting searchers with arrays that contained between zero and two targets while inducing anticipatory anxiety via a threat-of-shock paradigm. Under conditions of anticipatory anxiety, dual-target performance was negatively affected, but single-target performance and time on task were unaffected. These results suggest that multiple-target searches may be a more sensitive instrument to measure the effect of environmental factors on visual cognition than single-target searches are. Further, the effect of anticipatory anxiety was modulated by individual differences in state anxiety levels of participants prior to the experiment. These results have implications for both the laboratory study of visual search and the management and assessment of professional searchers.
It has been suggested that independent bottom-up and top-down processes govern saccadic selection. However, recent findings are hard to explain in such terms. We hypothesized that differences in visual-processing time can explain these findings, and we tested this using search displays containing two deviating elements, one requiring a short processing time and one requiring a long processing time. Following short saccade latencies, the deviation requiring less processing time was selected most frequently. This bias disappeared following long saccade latencies. Our results suggest that an element that attracts eye movements following short saccade latencies does so because it is the only element processed at that time. The temporal constraints of processing visual information therefore seem to be a determining factor in saccadic selection. Thus, relative saliency is a time-dependent phenomenon.
Depression runs in families and is considered a stress-related disorder. Familial risk for depression may be transmitted via deregulated psychophysiological stress responses from parent to child. In this study, we examined the association between self-assessed lifetime parental depressive problems (PDP) and adolescent offspring' cortisol responses to a social stress test. Data were collected as part of the third assessment wave of TRAILS (TRacking Adolescents' Individual Lives Survey), a large prospective population study of Dutch adolescents. Data of 330 adolescents (mean age 16.04; 40.9% girls) who participated in a laboratory session, including a standardized performance-related social stress task (public speaking and mental arithmetic) were examined. Four saliva cortisol samples were collected before, during and after the social stress task which were analyzed with repeated measures Analysis of Variance. Lifetime parental depressive problems were assessed by self-reports from both biological parents. PDP was associated with daughter' cortisol responses (F(3,133)=3.90, p=.02), but no association was found in sons (F(3,193)=0.27, p=.78). Girls whose parents ever experienced depressive symptoms displayed a blunted cortisol response to the standardized social stress test, while girls whose parents never had such problems displayed the characteristic curvilinear response pattern. This effect was not mediated by offspring stress history (age 0-16). Analyses were corrected for smoking behaviour and adolescent depressed mood. The fact that PDP were measured by self-report questionnaires and did not reflect clinical DSM-IV diagnosis could be considered a limitation of the study.
Progesterone withdrawal has been proposed as an underlying factor in premenstrual syndrome and postpartum depression. Progesterone withdrawal induces forced swim test (FST) immobility in mice, a depression-like behavior, but the contribution of specific receptors to this effect is unclear. The role of progesterone's GABA(A) receptor-modulating metabolite allopregnanolone in depression- and anxiety-related behaviors has been extensively documented, but little attention has been paid to the role of progesterone receptors. We administered the classic progesterone receptor antagonist mifepristone (RU-38486) and the specific progesterone receptor antagonist CDB-4124 to mice that had been primed with progesterone for five days, and found that both compounds induced FST immobility reliably, robustly, and in a dose-dependent fashion. Although CDB-4124 increased FST immobility, it did not suppress initial activity in a locomotor test. These findings suggest that decreased progesterone receptor activity contributes to depression-like behavior in mice, consistent with the hypothesis that progesterone withdrawal may contribute to the symptoms of premenstrual syndrome or postpartum depression.
Elevated serum levels of S100B have proven useful as an indicator of brain-injury but have also been shown in patients diagnosed with psychiatric disorders. Recently, associations were found between variations in the S100B gene and schizophrenia as well as bipolar affective disorder. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether some of these genetic variations influence general aspects of human behaviour as portrayed by normal dimensions of personality. Two single nucleotide polymorphisms within the S100B gene, 2757C&gt;G and 5748C&gt;T, were genotyped in two population based cohorts consisting of 42-year-old women (n=270) and 51-year-old men (n=247), respectively. The two polymorphisms were analysed with respect to personality traits assessed using the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI). In men, the 2757C&gt;G polymorphism was found to significantly influence the TCI dimension self-directedness with higher scores in 2757G homozygotes. A similar tendency towards association was seen in the female cohort; however, this correlation did not remain significant after correction for multiple comparisons. Furthermore, the 5748C&gt;T polymorphism was highly associated with self-directedness in men. Self-directedness is an overall estimate of adaptive strategies to adjust behaviour to conceptual goals as well as coping strategies and is strongly correlated to general mental health and absence of personality disorder. These preliminary findings suggest that the S100B gene may be implicated not only in certain pathological brain conditions but also in processes involved in normal behaviour.





Using unfamiliar and meaningless pictographs that varied in their degree of similarity to Chinese characters, the current study tested whether the early electrophysiological response was modulated by character likeness. We measured P100 and N170 while 20 native Chinese speakers were viewing Chinese characters, drawings of objects, and pictographs. Comparisons across the three categories of stimuli showed that pictographs elicited a smaller N170 amplitude than did Chinese characters and a stronger N170 amplitude than did objects, but did not differ in the P100 amplitude from the other two categories. Within the category of pictographs, stimuli with a higher degree of character likeness elicited larger N170 amplitudes and shorter N170 peak latencies, and this effect was again not observed in P100. These results suggest that N170 is sensitive to visual stimuli's character likeness even though they are unfamiliar pictographs with no meanings or sounds.
Blockers of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) ameliorate cognitive deficits and some aspects of brain injury after whole-brain irradiation. We investigated whether treatment with the angiotensin II type 1 receptor antagonist L-158,809 at a dose that protects cognitive function after fractionated whole-brain irradiation reduced radiation-induced neuroinflammation and changes in hippocampal neurogenesis, well-characterized effects that are associated with radiation-induced brain injury. Male F344 rats received L-158,809 before, during and after a single 10-Gy dose of radiation. Expression of cytokines, angiotensin II receptors and angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 was evaluated by real-time PCR 24 h, 1 week and 12 weeks after irradiation. At the latter times, microglial density and proliferating and activated microglia were analyzed in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. Cell proliferation and neurogenesis were also quantified in the dentate subgranular zone. L-158,809 treatment modestly increased mRNA expression for Ang II receptors and TNF- but had no effect on radiation-induced effects on hippocampal microglia or neurogenesis. Thus, although L-158,809 ameliorates cognitive deficits after whole-brain irradiation, the drug did not mitigate the neuroinflammatory microglial response or rescue neurogenesis. Additional studies are required to elucidate other mechanisms of normal tissue injury that may be modulated by RAAS blockers.
Previous research investigating children with Developmental Coordination Disorder (DCD) has consistently reported increased intra- and inter-individual variability during motor skill performance. Statistically characterizing this variability is not only critical for the analysis and interpretation of behavioral data, but also may facilitate our understanding of the processes underlying DCD. Thus, the primary purpose of this research was to demonstrate the utility of a flexible statistical technique, a random coefficient model (RCM), that characterizes the increased intra- and inter-individual variability in children with and without DCD. We analyzed data from a sensorimotor adaptation task during which participants executed discrete aiming movements under conditions of rotated visual feedback. To highlight the advantages of this statistical approach, we contrasted the results from the RCM with those from a traditionally employed general linear model (GLM). The RCM revealed differences between the two groups of children that the GLM did not detect; and, characterized trajectories of change for each individual. The RCM provides researchers an opportunity to probe behavioral deficits at the individual level and may provide new insights into the behavioral heterogeneity in children with DCD.



Dysfunction of the frontal lobe is considered to be central to the pathology of schizophrenia. However, the nature of these abnormalities is unclear, in particular whether they are affected by treatment. In an earlier functional MRI study of our group we found dorsolateral prefrontal lobe (DLPFC) dysfunction to be present in medication-naive first-episode patients. In this follow-up study, we investigated whether treatment with atypical antipsychotics had an effect on DLPFC functioning, and whether (change in) DLPFC functioning was related to treatment response. Twenty-three medication-naive, first-episode male schizophrenia patients and 33 matched healthy controls were scanned at baseline and were re-scanned after 10 weeks, while performing a modified Sternberg working-memory task. We specifically investigated the effect of practice on brain activation, defined as the signal change between a novel and practiced working-memory task. After the baseline scan, patients were treated with atypical antipsychotics. Based on their symptom change after ten weeks, patients were divided into responders and non-responders We found DLPFC function did not change after 10 weeks in healthy controls or in patients who received treatment. However, while patients who responded to treatment did not differ from controls, non-responders showed a reduced practice effect in the DLPFC that was present already at baseline, which did not change after treatment. A reduced practice effect in the DLFPC at baseline was found to be predictive of poor treatment response at 10 weeks. These results suggest that prefrontal lobe dysfunction reflects a distinct neuropathological substrate in a subgroup of treatment non-responsive schizophrenia patients.

Because both the brain and craniofacial/limb features originate from the same germinal layer during early gestation, the postnatal presence of minor physical anomalies (MPAs) involving these physical features may be indicative of defects in prenatal neural migration and consequent brain abnormalities among individuals with psychosis. However, to date it is unknown what symptoms and characteristics MPAs may be associated with, or how these markers may reflect vulnerability among adolescents at high-risk for developing psychosis. This information is particularly vital for understanding susceptibility and informing etiological conceptualizations such as the neural diathesis-stress model. In this study, 50 adolescents with a prodromal syndrome were evaluated for MPAs, salivary cortisol, auditory and visual memory function, and attenuated positive, negative, and disorganized symptoms. Results indicated that the participants showing elevated MPAs (n=25) were distinguished by elevated cortisol, deficit immediate and delayed visual memory, and higher levels of disorganized prodromal symptoms when compared with those participants exhibiting a lower incidence of MPAs. This was supported by supplementary correlational analyses examining the entire sample. These findings provide preliminary support for a theory that MPAs may reflect hippocampal system vulnerability among prodromal patients.

Central amygdala (CeA) projections to hypothalamic and brain stem nuclei regulate the behavioral and physiological expression of fear, but it is unknown whether these different aspects of the fear response can be separately regulated by the CeA. We combined fluorescent retrograde tracing of CeA projections to nuclei that modulate fear-related freezing or cardiovascular responses with in vitro electrophysiological recordings and with in vivo monitoring of related behavioral and physiological parameters. CeA projections emerged from separate neuronal populations with different electrophysiological characteristics and different response properties to oxytocin. In vivo, oxytocin decreased freezing responses in fear-conditioned rats without affecting the cardiovascular response. Thus, neuropeptidergic signaling can modulate the CeA outputs through separate neuronal circuits and thereby individually steer the various aspects of the fear response.


Calcium (Ca(2+)) is a fundamental intracellular signalling molecule in neurons. Therefore, significant interest has been expressed in understanding how the dysregulation of Ca(2+) signals might impact on neuronal function and the progression of different disease states. Many previous studies have examined the role of Ca(2+) in neuronal excitotoxicity and some have started to understand how Ca(2+) dysregulation might be a cause or consequence of neurodegeneration. This review will therefore focus on the significance of Ca(2+) sensors, proteins that transduce Ca(2+) signals, in neuronal function and dysfunction. Finally, we will assess their potential role in neurodegenerative processes, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), arguing that they could serve as potential therapeutic targets.
Infection with the tick-borne spirochete, BORRELIA BURGDORFERI, affects the nervous system in well-defined ways. Accurate diagnostic tools and effective therapeutic regimens are now well established. Persistent misconceptions about (1) the role and interpretation of laboratory tests, (2) what is and is not evidence of nervous system infection, and (3) what constitutes an expected response to treatment have fostered widespread perceptions that this disease is highly controversial. Infection causes the classically described triad of meningitis, radiculoneuritis, and cranial neuritis; however, virtually every known neurologic disorder has been blamed on this infection. For most (multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer disease, Parkinson disease), evidence is scant, nonexistent, or coincidental. For some (cerebral vasculitis with stroke, optic neuritis) a few case reports suggest a rare possible causal link.


Prion protein (PrP(C) ), when associated with the secreted form of the stress-inducible protein 1 (STI1), plays an important role in neural survival, neuritogenesis, and memory formation. However, the role of the PrP(C) -STI1 complex in the physiology of neural progenitor/stem cells is unknown. In this article, we observed that neurospheres cultured from fetal forebrain of wild-type (Prnp(+/+) ) and PrP(C) -null (Prnp(0/0) ) mice were maintained for several passages without the loss of self-renewal or multipotentiality, as assessed by their continued capacity to generate neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. The homogeneous expression and colocalization of STI1 and PrP(C) suggest that they may associate and function as a complex in neurosphere-derived stem cells. The formation of neurospheres from Prnp(0/0) mice was reduced significantly when compared with their wild-type counterparts. In addition, blockade of secreted STI1, and its cell surface ligand, PrP(C) , with specific antibodies, impaired Prnp(+/+) neurosphere formation without further impairing the formation of Prnp(0/0) neurospheres. Alternatively, neurosphere formation was enhanced by recombinant STI1 application in cells expressing PrP(C) but not in cells from Prnp(0/0) mice. The STI1-PrP(C) interaction was able to stimulate cell proliferation in the neurosphere-forming assay, while no effect on cell survival or the expression of neural markers was observed. These data suggest that the STI1-PrP(C) complex may play a critical role in neural progenitor/stem cells self-renewal via the modulation of cell proliferation, leading to the control of the stemness capacity of these cells during nervous system development.
Destruction of the motor neurons will lead to loss of innervation of the somatic muscle, which has long been considered an illness with no remedy. The only possible treatment is to substitute the injured motor neurons by neurons differentiated from stem cells. It has been recently reported that embryonic stems cells can be induced to differentiate to motor neurons. However, the use of embryonic stem cells has innate problems. The ideal source of motor neurons should be the cells from the patients themselves, which have the potential to be induced to motor neurons. Our previous study demonstrated that mature astrocyte has the potential of being dedifferentiated to neural stem cell. The present study was aimed to investigate if the neural stem cells of astrocytic origin can be induced to motor neurons. The results demonstrated that neural stem cells of astrocytic origin could be induced to differentiate into motor neurons and their progenitor cells with rich harvest. Further, it has been reported that astrocytes can be readily obtained via biopsy from the cerebral cortex of the patient, rendering autologous transplantation possible. In conclusion, matured astrocytes can be induced to motor neurons and be autologously transplanted to patients suffering from motor neuron destruction.
Oestrogens regulate normal behaviour and have been implicated in modulating pathological behaviour such as obsessive compulsive disorder and neurological disorder such as Parkinsonism. Therefore, by regulating the expression of the oestrogen-synthesising enzyme, aromatase, we may identify what behaviour is regulated by oestrogen. Inhibition of aromatase either genetically or pharmacologically has been reported to induce sexual behaviour impairment, compulsive behaviour and susceptibility to neurodegeneration.
Stress activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis culminates in increased circulating corticosteroid concentrations. Stress-induced corticosteroids exert diverse actions in multiple target tissues over a broad range of timescales, ranging from rapid actions, which are induced within seconds to minutes and gene transcription independent, to slow actions, which are delayed, long lasting, and transcription dependent. Rapid corticosteroid actions in the brain include, among others, a fast negative feedback mechanism responsible for shutting down the activated HPA axis centrally. We provide a brief review of the cellular mechanisms responsible for rapid corticosteroid actions in different brain structures of the rat, including the hypothalamus, hippocampus, amygdala, and in the anterior pituitary. We propose a model for the direct feedback inhibition of the HPA axis by glucocorticoids in the hypothalamus. According to this model, glucocorticoids activate membrane glucocorticoid receptors to induce endocannabinoid synthesis in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and retrograde cannabinoid type I receptor-mediated suppression of the excitatory synaptic drive to PVN neuroendocrine cells. Rapid corticosteroid actions in the hippocampus, amygdala, and pituitary are mediated by diverse cellular mechanisms and may also contribute to the rapid negative feedback regulation of the HPA neuroendocrine axis as well as to the stress regulation of emotional and spatial memory formation.
Enhanced stress vulnerability has been implicated in the pathogenesis of affective disorders. Although both genetic (5-HTTLPR) and cognitive (neuroticism) factors are known to increase stress vulnerability, no experimental study has investigated the interaction between these two factors on psychobiological reactivity following acute stress exposure. This study used a balanced experimental design to examine the interaction between the 5-HTTLPR genotype and trait neuroticism in neuroendocrine and affective stress responses. From a large group of 771 students, 48 carriers of the short/short (S/S) allele and 48 carriers of the long/long (L/L) allele with the lowest and the highest neuroticism scores (77 females, 19 males; mean ageSD: 20.62 years) were selected and exposed to an acute psychosocial stressor. Mood was assessed before and after the stressor, and salivary cortisol concentrations were measured before and at 20, 30, and 60min after stressor onset. Acute stress increased salivary cortisol concentration regardless of either 5-HTTLPR genotype or neuroticism, but it caused a less profound negative mood change in L/L compared to S/S-allele carriers with the lowest neuroticism scores. The 5-HTTLPR genotype influences affective reactivity to acute stress conditional upon neuroticism, improving resilience to acute stress in L/L-allele carriers if they do not already possess high cognitive-affective (neuroticism) vulnerability.



Study of the chronology of criteria of dependence in alcohol dependence syndrome (ADS) can enable us to design strategies for the prevention for ADS, which takes into account primary prevention (indicated, selective, and universal prevention) approaches and aims at reducing the occurrence of ADS. The objective of this work is to study the age-wise and order-wise chronologies of International Classification of Diseases Tenth Revision Diagnostic Criteria for Research (ICD-10 DCR) dependence criteria in individuals with ADS. Consecutively admitted and consenting inpatients with ICD-10 DCR diagnosis of ADS were evaluated in a structured interview after detoxification using Semi-Structured Assessment for the Genetics of Alcoholism (SSAGA)-II. The total sample size was 81. The mean ages at the first onset of alcohol use, development of the first criterion, and ICD-10 dependence was 18.72 years (SD: 6.84), 24.33 years (SD: 9.21), and 27.51 years (SD: 9.28), respectively. In age-wise chronology, tolerance, loss of control, and craving were present in 97.53%, 80.24%, and 79%, respectively, of our study sample. In order-wise chronology, either craving (16%) or tolerance (71.6%) was present as the first criterion and the presence of craving (16%), tolerance (21%), or loss of control (18.5%) was observed as the first criterion in 55.5% of the subjects. Indicated prevention may be attempted by enquiring about craving, tolerance, and loss of control and use of anticraving medications or behavioral strategies. Selective prevention by using naltrexone for those genetically inclined and universal prevention by use of &quot;clinical&quot; labeling on alcoholic beverages can also be attempted.
Dysregulation of noradrenergic function has been implicated in a variety of psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders, including depression and Alzheimer's disease. The noradrenaline transporter (NAT) is a major target for antidepressant drugs, including reboxetine, a selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor. Therefore, the development of a radiotracer for imaging of the NAT is desirable. In this study, NKJ64, a novel iodinated analog of reboxetine, was radiolabeled and evaluated as a potential single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) radiotracer for imaging the NAT in brain. Biological evaluation of the novel radiotracer, /I-NKJ64, was carried out in rats using: in vitro ligand binding assays; in vitro and ex vivo autoradiography; in vivo biodistribution studies and ex vivo pharmacological blocking studies. I-NKJ64 displayed saturable binding with high affinity for NAT in cortical homogenates (K(D) = 4.82  0.87 nM, mean  SEM, n = 3). In vitro and ex vivo autoradiography showed the regional distribution of I-NKJ64 binding to be consistent with the known density of NAT in brain. Following i.v. injection there was rapid uptake of I-NKJ64 in brain, with maximum uptake of 2.93%  0.14% (mean  SEM, n = 3) of the injected dose. The specific to nonspecific ratio (locus coeruleus:caudate putamen) of I-NKJ64 uptake measured by ex vivo autoradiography was 2.8 at 30 min post i.v. injection. The prior administration of reboxetine significantly reduced the accumulation of I-NKJ64 in the locus coeruleus (&gt;50% blocking). The data indicate that further evaluation of I-NKJ64 in nonhuman primates is warranted in order to determine its utility as a SPECT radiotracer for imaging of NAT in brain.

Stroke in young adults is an important cause of lifelong morbidity. The aim of this study was to explore some possible admission indicator of subsequent lacunar or non-lacunar strokes. We enrolled 626 patients with the first young cerebral strokes and divided them into lacunar and non-lacunar stroke based on clinical presentation and neuroradiological findings; and the analyses were adjusted for the effects of potential confounders. Hypertension, hyperlipidemia, atrial fibrillation, cerebral vascular moyamoya malformation were significantly more frequent in non-lacunar patients than lacunar patients (respectively P=0.005, 0.048, 0.000, 0.015, 0.030). Serum BUN, Triglyceride, Cholesterol, HDL, UA, White cell count, Fibrinogen, INR and bilirubin (including Total bilirubin, Direct bilirubin, Indirect bilirubin) levels on admission were higher in non-lacunar strokes than in lacunar strokes. Serum white blood cell count (Odds Ratio 1.097; 95% Confidence Interval 1.006-1.195, P=0.035), lower high-density lipoprotein levels (defined as HDL&lt;0.9 mmol/L) (Odds Ratio 1.884; 95% Confidence Interval 1.035-3.285, P=0.038) and serum total bilirubin (Odds Ratio 1.054; 95% Confidence Interval 1.019-1.091, P=0.003) were associated with increased risk for non-lacunar stroke, whereas lacunar stroke was related to age at onset (Odds Ratio 0.929; 95% Confidence Interval 0.888-0.972, P=0.001) and SUA (Odds Ratio 0.997; 95% Confidence Interval 0.995-0.999, P=0.015). The excess risks were blood WBC, lower HDL and total bilirubin levels for non-lacunar strokes, and serum UA and age at onset for lacunar strokes in young Chinese patients.

We present a method called muscle synergy analysis, which can offer clinicians insight into both underlying neural strategies for movement and functional outcomes of muscle activity. Although neural dysfunction is central to many motor deficits, neural activity during movements is not directly measurable. Consequently, the majority of clinical tests focus on evaluating motor outputs at the behavioral and kinematic levels. However, altered behavioral or kinematic outcomes could be the result of multiple distinct neural abnormalities with very different muscle coordination patterns. Because muscle activity reflects motoneuron activity and generates the forces that produce behavioral outcomes, an analysis of muscle activity may provide a better understanding of the functional neural deficits in the impaired nervous system. Unfortunately electromyographic datasets can be large, highly variable, and difficult to interpret, precluding their clinical utility. Computational analyses can be used to extract muscle synergies from such datasets, revealing underlying patterns that may reflect different levels of neural function. These muscle synergies are hypothesized to represent motor modules recruited by the nervous system to flexibly perform biomechanical subtasks necessary for movement. For example, hemiparetic stroke patients exhibit differences in the number of muscle synergies, which may reflect disruptions in descending neural pathways and are correlated to deficits in motor function. Muscle synergy analysis may thus offer the clinician a better view of the neural structure underlying motor behaviors and how they change in motor deficits and rehabilitation. Such information could inform diagnostic tools and evidence-based interventions specifically targeted to a patient's deficits.
Sarin is a volatile nerve agent that has been used in the Tokyo subway attack. Inhalation is predicted to be the major route of exposure if sarin is used in war or terrorism. Currently available treatments are limited for effective postexposure protection against sarin under mass casualty scenario. Nasal drug delivery is a potential treatment option for mass casualty under field conditions. We evaluated the efficacy of endotracheal administration of muscarinic antagonist scopolamine, a secretion blocker which effectively crosses the blood-brain barrier for protection against sarin inhalation toxicity. Age and weight matched male Hartley guinea pigs were exposed to 677.4 mg/m or 846.5mg/m (1.2LCt) sarin by microinstillation inhalation exposure for 4min. One minute later, the animals exposed to 846.5mg/m sarin were treated with endotracheally aerosolized scopolamine (0.25mg/kg) and allowed to recover for 24h for efficacy evaluation. The results showed that treatment with scopolamine increased the survival rate from 20% to 100% observed in untreated sarin-exposed animals. Behavioral symptoms of nerve agent toxicity including, convulsions and muscular tremors were reduced in sarin-exposed animals treated with scopolamine. Sarin-induced body weight loss, decreased blood O saturation and pulse rate were returned to basal levels in scopolamine-treated animals. Increased bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) cell death due to sarin exposure was returned to normal levels after treatment with scopolamine. Taken together, these data indicate that postexposure treatment with aerosolized scopolamine prevents respiratory toxicity and protects against lethal inhalation exposure to sarin in guinea pigs.

In recent years much has been learned about how a single computational processing step is implemented in the brain. By contrast, we still have surprisingly little knowledge of the neuronal mechanisms by which multiple such operations are sequentially assembled into mental algorithms. We outline a theory of how individual neural processing steps might be combined into serial programs. We propose a hybrid neuronal device: each step involves massively parallel computation that feeds a slow and serial production system. Production selection is mediated by a system of competing accumulator neurons that extends the role of these neurons beyond the selection of a motor action. Productions change the state of sensory and mnemonic neurons and iteration of such cycles provides a basis for mental programs.
A complex brain network, centered on the hippocampus, supports episodic memories throughout their lifetimes. Classically, upon memory encoding during active behavior, hippocampal activity is dominated by theta oscillations (6-10Hz). During inactivity, hippocampal neurons burst synchronously, constituting sharp waves, which can propagate to other structures, theoretically supporting memory consolidation. This 'two-stage' model has been updated by new data from high-density electrophysiological recordings in animals that shed light on how information is encoded and exchanged between hippocampus, neocortex and subcortical structures such as the striatum. Cell assemblies (tightly related groups of cells) discharge together and synchronize across brain structures orchestrated by theta, sharp waves and slow oscillations, to encode information. This evolving dynamical schema is key to extending our understanding of memory processes.

Although the addictive influence of tobacco was recognized very early, the modern concepts of nicotine addiction have relied on knowledge of cholinergic neurotransmission and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). The discovery of the 'receptive substance' by Langley, that would turn out to be nAChRs, and 'Vagusstoff' (acetylcholine) by Loewi, coincided with an exciting time when the concept of chemical synaptic transmission was being formulated. More recently, the application of more powerful techniques and the study of animal models that replicate key features of nicotine dependence have led to important advancements in our understanding of molecular, cellular and systems mechanisms of nicotine addiction. In this review, we present a historical perspective and overview of the research that has led to our present understanding of nicotine addiction.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus is the site of the master circadian pacemaker in mammals. The individual cells of the SCN are capable of functioning independently from one another and therefore must form a cohesive circadian network through intercellular coupling. The network properties of the SCN lead to coordination of circadian rhythms among its neurons and neuronal subpopulations. There is increasing evidence for multiple interconnected oscillators within the SCN, and in this review we will highlight recent advances in our knowledge of the complex organization and function of the cellular and network-level SCN clock. Understanding the way in which synchrony is achieved between cells in the SCN will provide insight into the means by which this important nucleus orchestrates circadian rhythms throughout the organism.
Cyclic AMP (cAMP) steers the generation of basal heart beat in the sinoatrial node. It also induces sinoatrial tachycardia and increased cardiac force, elicited through activation of Gs-protein-coupled receptors (GsPCRs). Phosphodiesterases (PDEs) hydrolyse cAMP. In the heart mainly PDE3 and PDE4 would be expected to limit those functions, and the PDE isoenzymes do indeed reduce basal sinoatrial beating rate and blunt the positive inotropic effects of agonists, mediated by GsPCRs. By contrast, recent evidence shows that GsPCR-mediated sinoatrial tachycardia is not controlled by PDE1-5. A PDE-resistant cAMP pool in sinoatrial cells, generated through activation of GsPCRs, including (1)- and (2)-adrenoceptors, appears to guarantee unrestrained tachycardia during fight or flight stress.
Psychogenic polydipsia with associated hyponatremia is a potentially fatal condition observed in patients with chronic psychiatric illness, especially schizophrenia. Recognition and management of this condition are difficult, as patients are uncooperative and secretive about their water intake, but are important in terms of the associated complications. Different strategies, including involuntary fluid restriction and use of various pharmacological agents, such as demeclocycline, propranolol, captopril, and naloxone, have been used for the treatment of this condition with inconsistent results. Antipsychotics have also been used in the treatment of polydipsia; however, their role is not clear as there are reports of antipsychotics both improving and causing polydipsia. Typical antipsychotics have been associated with exacerbation of polydipsia, whereas clozapine has been associated with its improvement. The efficacy of risperidone in the treatment of this condition is controversial, as negative results have been reported. Herein we present a schizophrenia case with polydipsia and hyponatremia that was successfully treated with risperidone.
Sex differences exist in the occurrence, treatment and outcome of ischemic stroke. Compared with men, women have more stroke events and are less likely to fully recover from a stroke. Given the rapidly aging population, stroke incidence and mortality among women are projected to substantially rise by 2050. This has important public health consequences. Mitigating the burden of stroke among women will require a fundamental understanding of sex differences and sex-specific issues including cerebrovascular disease pathophysiology, treatment and outcome. An aspect of stroke treatment receiving increasing but insufficient attention involves possible interactions between estrogen levels, antiplatelet drugs and stroke outcome. Emerging evidence suggests that antiplatelet therapy may provide primary stroke protection but not primary myocardial infarction prevention in women, while the opposite may be true among men. Understanding sex-specific issues related to women who experience stroke is critical to clinicians who treat women with antiplatelet medications as part of a secondary stroke prevention regimen; however, the ideal antiplatelet medication, and dose, in women requires further research. In this article we present a conceptual framework for sex differences in antiplatelet treatment response in ischemic stroke, thrombus formation and the mediating role of estrogen, sex differences in antiplatelet treatment response in clinical trials, and sex differences in antiplatelet treatment use in ischemic stroke.


NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors are a subtype of glutamate receptor, and play an important role in both synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity. When excessively excited, NMDA receptors can cause cell death in many neuropathological scenarios such as OGD (oxygen and glucose deprivation) and brain injury. However, recent studies have revealed that under the physical and some pathological conditions, NMDA receptor could promote neuronal survival and protect neurons from damage.
With the advance of novel brain imaging technology more correlations between complex human properties and the neuronal substrate can be assessed. However, thus far, not many well-validated paradigms exist that would allow for a systematic and quantitative exploration of these phenomena. For instance, despite the rapid technological advances in the domain of mixed and virtual reality systems, a fundamental issue remains how we can define and quantify &quot;presence&quot;. A standard approach has been to use questionnaires and self-report measures. However, it has been well established that humans' capabilities to access and externalize their internal states are limited. Hence, we have investigated the question whether other less subjective measures can be devised that can corroborate subjective self-reports on presence. In particular, we have developed a quantitative recollection task that assesses the ability of human subjects (N=40) to recollect the factual structure and organization of a structured and fully controlled experience in a human accessible mixed reality space, the eXperience Induction Machine (XIM). In this structured experience - referred to as the &quot;Autodemo&quot;--a virtual guide explains the key elements and properties of XIM while the user is able to freely move around in the space. To evaluate the users' experience and the amount of factual information retained about the Autodemo, we used the ITC-SOPI questionnaire and a recall test specifically designed for the Autodemo. We found significant correlations between spatial presence and engagement factors of ITC-SOPI and recall performance. Moreover we observed an interaction with the participants' gender. Our results show that we can assess correlates of &quot;presence&quot; by focusing on other dependent measures such as those related to memory and performance. Additionally, our work exemplifies how virtual and mixed reality systems provide new ways to address fundamental questions in psychology and cognitive neuroscience.
This pilot study describes a relationship between insulin resistance and -opioid neurotransmission in limbic appetite and mood-regulating regions in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), suggesting that insulin-opioid interactions may contribute to behavioral and reproductive pathologies of PCOS. We found that [1] patients with PCOS who are insulin-resistant (n = 7) had greater limbic -opioid receptor availability (nondisplaceable binding potential) than controls (n = 5); [2] receptor availability was correlated with severity of insulin resistance; and [3] receptor availability normalized after insulin-regulating treatment.
Progranulin (PGRN) is an estrogen-inducible growth factor thought to affect multiple processes in the CNS, including brain sexual differentiation, adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus, and development of neurodegenerative diseases. However, the precise physiological functions of PGRN in individual nerve cells are not fully understood. The aim of the present study was to enhance the understanding of PGRN function in the CNS by investigating the effects of PGRN on neural progenitor cells (NPCs). We found that significant amounts of endogenous PGRN were secreted from isolated NPCs in cultures. To assess the bioactivities of endogenous and exogenous PGRN, we studied NPCs derived from wild-type mice (WT-NPCs) and PGRN-deficient mice (KO-NPCs). We found that proliferation of KO-NPCs was significantly enhanced by PGRN treatment; however, PGRN treatment apparently did not affect proliferation of WT-NPCs perhaps because of the high levels of endogenous PGRN expression. NPC death and asymmetric cellular division of KO-NPCs and WT-NPCs, which results in production of neural stem cells, astrocytes, or oligodendrocytes, were not affected by PGRN treatment. We also investigated the signaling mechanism(s) that mediate PGRN-induced NPC proliferation and found that phosphorylation of serine 9 (S9) of glycogen synthase kinase 3-beta (GSK3), which was dependent on phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) activity, was induced by PGRN treatment. In addition, a GSK3-specific inhibitor enhanced NPC proliferation. Taken together, our observations indicate that PGRN enhanced NPC proliferation, at least in part, via inducing GSK3 phosphorylation.
The balance between corticostriatal glutamate inputs and mesostriatal dopamine afferents converging onto the same postsynaptic spines of striatal medium spiny neurons in the dorsal striatum is believed to be crucial for regulating executive functions including attention.In the present study we examined the role of dopamine D(1) and glutamate N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors within the medial territory of the dorsal striatum (dm-STR) of the rat during performance of a selective attention task such as the 5-choice serial reaction time (5-CSRT) task, which incorporates a variety of measures including accuracy of visual discrimination (an index of attentional functioning), omissions, premature and perseverative responses (indices of inhibitory response control) and correct response latency (decision time). Infusion of 30 ng/side of the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist 3-(R)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) in the dm-STR decreased accuracy and increased the proportion of omission but had no effect on premature or perseverative responding or correct response latency. A lower dose of 10 ng/side CPP only affected omissions. Blockade of D(1) receptors in the dm-STR by SCH23390 (50 and 100 ng/side) had no effect on accuracy but at 100 ng/side SCH23390 decreased anticipatory responding and increased the proportion of omissions. Co-infusion of SCH23390 (50 ng/side) and CPP (10 ng/side), at individually ineffective doses, potently reduced the accuracy of visual discrimination. The effects were highly selective as no changes in response control, decision time and omissions were detected. The data suggest that the synergistic interaction of D(1) and NMDA receptors on the dendritic spines of GABA neurons within the dm-STR may represent a mechanism for the control of attention.
Pathological changes occur in areas of CNS tissue remote from inflammatory lesions in multiple sclerosis (MS) and its animal model experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE). To determine if oxidative stress is a significant contributor to this non-inflammatory pathology, cortex tissues from mice with clinical signs of EAE were examined for evidence of inflammation and oxidative stress. Histology and gene expression analysis showed little evidence of immune/inflammatory cell invasion but reductions in natural antioxidant levels and increased protein oxidation that paralleled disease severity. Two-dimensional oxyblots and mass-spectrometry-based protein fingerprinting identified glutamine synthetase (GS) as a particular target of oxidation. Oxidation of GS was associated with reductions in enzyme activity and increased glutamate/glutamine levels. The possibility that this may cause neurodegeneration through glutamate excitotoxicity is supported by evidence of increasing cortical Ca(2+) levels in cortex extracts from animals with greater disease severity. These findings indicate that oxidative stress occurs in brain areas that are not actively undergoing inflammation in EAE and that this can lead to a neurodegenerative process due to the susceptibility of GS to oxidative inactivation.
Mechanisms were studied by which prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) up-regulates Na(+) currents (INa) in medium diameter dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells that express large T-type Ca(2+) currents (type-4 DRG cells). PGE(2) or the adenylyl cyclase (AC) activator forskolin (10 M) up-regulated peak INa evoked by test potentials (TP) to -10 mV by an average of 13.5% and 21.8%, respectively. The PGE(2) and forskolin induced up-regulation of INa, evoked with TPs to -10 mV, began approximately 15-20 s after initiation of drug exposure and continued gradually over the course of 2-3 min. Both PGE(2) and forskolin significantly increased peak conductance without significantly shifting the voltage at which INa was  activated (V(a)) or  steady state inactivated. However, although V(a) was not significantly shifted, both PGE(2) and forskolin induced a proportionally greater percent increase in conductance at weak TPs to around -30 mV compared to stronger TPs to around 10 mV. The PGE(2)-induced up-regulation of INa was occluded by prior up-regulation with forskolin, and the up-regulation of INa by both PGE(2) and forskolin was blocked by Rp-cAMPs and 50 nM tetrodotoxin (TTX). In the presence of Rp-cAMPs, both PGE(2) and forskolin induced decreases in INa that peaked around 25 s following initiation of PGE(2)/forskolin application. The decrease induced by PGE(2) averaged 8.5%, which was significantly greater than the average 3.5% decrease induced by forskolin. Estimation of kinetic rate constants by fitting INa with a Markov channel state model, suggested that both PGE(2) and forskolin up-regulated INa by changing channel gating rather than by increasing channel number or unitary conductance. The data suggest that application of PGE(2) may initially induce a relatively rapid down-regulation of TTX-sensitive INa (signaling pathway uncharacterized), followed by a gradual up-regulation of INa via activation of an AC/PKA-dependent signaling pathway. The up-regulation of INa in sensory neurons with type-4 cell bodies may increase excitability and strengthen signaling, and may play some role in the allodynia and hyperalgesia associated with injury to nerves and peripheral tissues.
Heparin-binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor (HB-EGF) is a hypoxia-inducible neuroprotective protein that also stimulates proliferation of neuronal precursor cells. In this study, we investigated the possible role of HB-EGF in ischemia and reperfusion injury by measuring the changes in its mRNA expression following focal cerebral ischemia. We also examined neural damage after a middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and reperfusion in ventral forebrain specific HB-EGF knockout (KO) mice. The levels of HB-EGF mRNA in the cerebral cortex of wild-type (WT) mice were significantly increased 3-24 h after MCAO and reperfusion. Cerebral infraction in HB-EGF KO mice was aggravated at 1 day and 6 days after MCAO and reperfusion compared with WT mice. The number of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated dNTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) and an oxidative stress marker, 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) positive cells, were higher in HB-EGF KO mice than in WT mice. On the other hand, fewer bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) positive cells were found in the subventricular zone in HB-EGF KO mice compared with WT mice. These results indicate that HB-EGF may play a pivotal role in ischemia and reperfusion injury and that endogenously synthesized HB-EGF is necessary for both the neuroprotective effect and for regulation of cell proliferation in the subventricular zone.
Inhibition of microglial over-reaction and the inflammatory processes may represent a therapeutic target to alleviate the progression of neurological diseases, such as neurodegenerative diseases and stroke. Scutellarin is the major active component of Erigeron breviscapus (Vant.) Hand-Mazz, a herbal medicine in treatment of cerebrovascular diseases for a long time in the Orient. In this study, we explored the mechanisms of neuroprotection by Scutellarin, particularly its anti-inflammatory effects in microglia. We observed that Scutellarin inhibited lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced production of proinflammatory mediators such as nitric oxide (NO), tumor necrosis factor  (TNF), interleukin-1 (IL-1) and reactive oxygen species (ROS), suppressed LPS-stimulated inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), TNF, and IL-1 mRNA expression in rat primary microglia or BV-2 mouse microglial cell line. Scutellarin inhibited LPS-induced nuclear translocation and DNA binding activity of nuclear factor B (NF-B). It repressed the LPS-induced c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 phosphorylation without affecting the activity of extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK) mitogen-activated protein kinase. Moreover, Scutellarin also inhibited interferon- (IFN-)-induced NO production, iNOS mRNA expression and transcription factor signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) activation. Concomitantly, conditioned media from Scutellarin pretreated BV-2 cells significantly reduced neurotoxicity compared with conditioned media from LPS treated alone. Together, the present study reported the anti-inflammatory activity of Scutellarin in microglial cells along with their underlying molecular mechanisms, and suggested Scutellarin might have therapeutic potential for various microglia mediated neuroinflammation.
Our recent data suggest that noradrenaline (NA) regulates expression of Per1 mRNA in rat C6 cells, as a model of brain astrocytes, by two distinct NA-mediating pathways. Although C6 cells possess potential astrocyte-type characteristics, we hypothesize that astrocytes located in a distinct tissue or organ play specific roles consistent with their own unique functions in response to the surrounding environment. We have herein found in primary rat spinal astrocytes using real-time RT-PCR that NA induced robust transient increases in Per1, Cry1, Cry2 and Bmal1 mRNA expression. Cry1, Cry2 and Bmal1 expressions induced by NA were attenuated by transfection of Per1 small interference RNA (siRNA). The effect of NA on Per1 expression was partially blocked by either prazosin (a selective antagonist of 1-adrenoceptor) or ICI118551 (a selective antagonist of 2-adrenoceptor), and completely blocked by the combination of both antagonists. Treatment with H89 (a protein kinase A [PKA] inhibitor), SP600125 (a c-Jun N-terminal kinase [JNK] inhibitor), or PD98059 (an extracellular signal-regulated kinase [ERK] inhibitor), partially inhibited NA-induced Per1 mRNA expression, and the combination of these three inhibitors inhibited expression to nearly a non-stimulated level. Furthermore, NA phosphorylated not only ERK but also JNK1, an effect that was detected by western blotting. These actions were inhibited only by prazosin, and not by ICI118551. In addition, we found that NA induced phosphorylation of transcription-related proteins such as cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) and c-Jun. These phosphorylation processes were regulated through distinct pathways: CREB phosphorylation was dependent on the PKA and JNK pathways but c-Jun phosphorylation was mediated by the ERK and JNK pathways. These results suggest that Per1 plays a key role in noradrenergic regulation on clock gene expression in spinal astrocytes and activation of 1 and 2 adrenoceptors are of importance in regulation of Per1 mRNA expression via PKA/JNK-CREB and ERK/JNK-c-Jun cascades.
Numerous studies support the hypothesis that deficiency of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-1) in adults contributes to depression, but direct evidence is limited. Many psychological and pro-cognitive effects have been attributed to IGF-1, but appropriate animal models of adult-onset IGF-1 deficiency are lacking. In this study, we use a viral-mediated Cre-loxP system to knockout the Igf1 gene in either the liver, neurons of the CA1 region of the hippocampus, or both. Knockout of liver Igf1 reduced serum IGF-1 levels by 40% and hippocampal IGF-1 levels by 26%. Knockout of Igf1 in CA1 reduced hippocampal IGF-1 levels by 13%. The most severe reduction in hippocampal IGF-1 occurred in the group with knockouts in both liver and CA1 (36% reduction), and was associated with a 3.5-fold increase in immobility in the forced swim test. Reduction of either circulating or hippocampal IGF-1 levels did not alter anxiety measured in an open field and elevated plus maze, nor locomotion in the open field. Furthermore, local compensation for deficiencies in circulating IGF-1 did not occur in the hippocampus, nor were serum levels of IGF-1 upregulated in response to the moderate decline of hippocampal IGF-1 caused by the knockouts in CA1. We conclude that adult-onset IGF-1 deficiency alone is sufficient to induce a depressive phenotype in mice. Furthermore, our results suggest that individuals with low brain levels of IGF-1 are at increased risk for depression and these behavioral effects are not ameliorated by increased local IGF-1 production or transport. Our study supports the hypothesis that the natural IGF-1 decline in aging humans may contribute to geriatric depression.
The purpose of the present study was to examine whether the rostroventral portion of the medulla oblongata (RVM) exerts descending modulation on the cardiosomatic motor reflex (CMR) in rats. Capsaicin (1 g/ml, 0.2 ml) was injected into the pericardial sac as an algesic substance to induce the CMR, which was monitored via electromyogram (EMG) responses of dorsal spinotrapezius muscle to the noxious cardiac stimulus. Descending modulation of the CMR was observed by electrical or chemical stimulation of RVM. Specifically, electrical stimulation of RVM produced facilitatory, inhibitory or biphasic effects on the CMR evoked by noxious cardiac stimulation, depending on stimulation intensity. In addition, glutamate receptor activation in RVM replicated the effects of electrical stimulation. Lidocaine interruption of the ventrolateral funiculus/ventral funiculus (VLF/VF) or transection of the dorsolateral funiculus (DLF) revealed that the descending facilitatory and inhibitory influences from RVM were conveyed via the VLF/VF and DLF, respectively. Furthermore, intrathecal administration of naloxone or yohimbine partly reversed the inhibitory effect of RVM electrical stimulation, suggesting that opioid and noradrenergic systems are involved in descending RVM modulation of the CMR.
Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) in humans has been shown to affect the size of visual evoked potentials (VEPs) in a polarity-dependent way. VEPs have been widely employed in mice to study the visual system in physiological and pathological conditions and are extensively used as animal models of neurological and visual disorders. The present study was performed to evaluate whether mice VEPs could be modulated by tDCS in the same manner as in humans. We describe here the effects of 10 min tDCS (anodal, cathodal or no stimulation) on flash-VEPs in C57BL/6 mice under sevoflurane anesthesia. VEP amplitudes of the first major peak (P1) were analyzed before, at 0, 5 and 10 min after tDCS. Compared with no stimulation condition, anodal tDCS increased P1 amplitude slightly more than 25%, while cathodal stimulation had opposite effects, with a decrease of P1 amplitude by about 30%. After-effects tended to reverse toward basal levels within 10 min after tDCS. These results, suggesting polarity-dependent modulation similar to what described in humans of tDCS effects on VEPs, encourage the use of mice models to study tDCS mechanisms of action and explore therapeutic applications on neurological models of disease.
We have recently reported that long-term exposure to high frequency electromagnetic field (EMF) treatment not only prevents or reverses cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's transgenic (Tg) mice, but also improves memory in normal mice. To elucidate the possible mechanism(s) for these EMF-induced cognitive benefits, brain mitochondrial function was evaluated in aged Tg mice and non-transgenic (NT) littermates following 1 month of daily EMF exposure. In Tg mice, EMF treatment enhanced brain mitochondrial function by 50-150% across six established measures, being greatest in cognitively-important brain areas (e.g. cerebral cortex and hippocampus). EMF treatment also increased brain mitochondrial function in normal aged mice, although the enhancement was not as robust and less widespread compared to that of Tg mice. The EMF-induced enhancement of brain mitochondrial function in Tg mice was accompanied by 5-10 fold increases in soluble A1-40 within the same mitochondrial preparations. These increases in mitochondrial soluble amyloid- peptide (A) were apparently due to the ability of EMF treatment to disaggregate A oligomers, which are believed to be the form of A causative to mitochondrial dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Finally, the EMF-induced mitochondrial enhancement in both Tg and normal mice occurred through non-thermal effects because brain temperatures were either stable or decreased during/after EMF treatment. These results collectively suggest that brain mitochondrial enhancement may be a primary mechanism through which EMF treatment provides cognitive benefit to both Tg and NT mice. Especially in the context that mitochondrial dysfunction is an early and prominent characteristic of Alzheimer's pathogenesis, EMF treatment could have profound value in the disease's prevention and treatment through intervention at the mitochondrial level.
The reconsolidation hypothesis proposes that a previously consolidated memory recalled by a reminder enters an unstable state (memory labilization) during which it is transiently sensitive to disruption. Although this process has been shown in very diverse species and types of memories, including human declarative memory, elucidating the role of this process is still an open challenge. The hypothesis that reconsolidation allows the incorporation of new information has recently been demonstrated in humans. However, the findings show that, during the reconsolidation phase, memory retention can be increased by pharmacological modulation or real life events in animals have not been found in humans yet. In order to evaluate this, we used a paradigm of human declarative memory whose reminder structure allows us to differentiate between a retrieved labile memory state and a retrieved but non-labile state. Volunteers learned an association between five cue-syllables and their respective response-syllables. 6 days later, the paired-associate memory was reactivated by exposing the subjects to the reminder, and then they received a mild stressor, cold pressor stress (CPS). Poor memory performance was found at both the time of memory reactivation (day 6 after training) and at testing of all groups that were designed as controls (day 7). Conversely, robust memory performance was shown at testing when the CPS administration was concurrent with the retrieved-labile memory state. Results from the present study reveal that a naturalistic mild stressor can enhance reconsolidation, improving the long-term expression of this declarative memory. This finding might have significant implications for the comprehension of memory persistence and memory expression, and add new evidence in order to understand the adaptive meaning of the reconsolidation process.
Significant increases in levels of cholesterol and cholesterol oxidation products are detected in the hippocampus undergoing degeneration after excitotoxicity induced by the potent glutamate analog, kainate (KA), but until now, it is unclear whether the cholesterol is in the free or esterified form. The present study was carried out to examine the expression of the enzyme involved in cholesteryl ester biosynthesis, acyl-coenzyme A: cholesterol acyltransferase (ACAT) and cholesteryl esters after KA excitotoxicity. A 1000-fold greater basal mRNA level of ACAT1 than ACAT2 was detected in the normal brain. ACAT1 mRNA and protein were upregulated in the hippocampus at 1 and 2 weeks after KA injections, at a time of glial reaction. Immunohistochemistry showed ACAT1 labeling of oligodendrocytes in the white matter and axon terminals in hippocampal CA fields of normal rats, and loss of staining in neurons but increased immunoreactivity of oligodendrocytes, in areas affected by KA. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analyses confirmed previous observations of a marked increase in level of total cholesterol and cholesterol oxidation products, whilst nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy showed significant increases in cholesteryl ester species in the degenerating hippocampus. Upregulation of ACAT1 expression was detected in OLN93 oligodendrocytes after KA treatment, and increased expression was prevented by an antioxidant or free radical scavenger in vitro. This suggests that ACAT1 expression may be induced by oxidative stress. Together, our results show elevated ACAT1 expression and increased cholesteryl esters after KA excitotoxicity. Further studies are necessary to determine a possible role of ACAT1 in acute and chronic neurodegenerative diseases.
Chronic widespread pain, such as observed in irritable bowel (IBS) and fibromyalgia (FMS) syndrome, are markedly affected by stress. While such forms of stress-induced hyperalgesia are generally considered manifestations of &quot;central sensitization,&quot; recent studies in patients with IBS and FMS suggest an additional, peripheral contribution. To examine the effect of stress on muscle nociceptor function, we evaluated activity in nociceptors innervating the gastrocnemius muscle in an animal model of chronic widespread pain, water avoidance stress, in the rat. This stressor, which produces mechanical hyperalgesia in skeletal muscle produced a significant decrease (34%) in mechanical threshold of muscle nociceptors and a marked, two-fold increase in the number of action potentials produced by a prolonged (60 s) fixed intensity suprathreshold 10 g stimulus. Stress also induced an increase in conduction velocity from 1.25 m/s to 2.09 m/s, and increased variability in neuronal activity. Given that these changes, each of at least moderate magnitude, would be expected to enhance nociceptor activity, it is likely that, taken together, they contribute to the enhanced nociception observed in this model of stress-induced chronic widespread pain.
Late-phase long-term depression (L-LTD) in middle-aged mice has been difficult to achieve and maintain. Here we report an electrically induced, homosynaptic, input-specific form of LTD that could be stably maintained for at least 4 h in the CA1 area of hippocampal slices of 10-14 months old mice. This form of L-LTD was similar in magnitude in aged, middle-aged and young mice and was blocked by high concentrations of broad-spectrum N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonists such as d(-)-2-amino-5-phospho-pentanoic acid (d-AP5) and (R)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP). Extracellular and whole cell recordings revealed a decreased sensitivity to d-AP5 with age, without any differences in NMDAR conductance between the age groups tested. This L-LTD could be inhibited neither by common doses of NMDA-subunit specific antagonists like zinc, ifenprodil and Ro-25-6981, nor by various co-applications of these compounds. In addition to the lack of any GluN2 subunit bias, L-LTD did not show any discernible involvement of L-type voltage-gated calcium channels. In conclusion, our results do not support any specific role of NMDAR subunits in LTD.
The cerebellar cortex has a fundamental parasagittal organization that is reflected in the physiological responses of Purkinje cells, afferent and efferent connections, and the expression of several molecular markers. The most thoroughly studied of these molecular markers is zebrin II (ZII; a.k.a. aldolase C). ZII is differentially expressed in Purkinje cells, resulting in a pattern of sagittal stripes of high expression interdigitated with stripes of little or no expression. In this study, we examined the expression of the calcium binding protein parvalbumin (PV) in the cerebellum of several avian species (pigeons, hummingbirds, zebra finches) and compared it to the expression of ZII. We found that PV immunoreactivity was distributed across the cerebellar cortex such that there were sagittal stripes of PV immunopositive (PV+) Purkinje cells alternating with PV immunonegative (PV-) Purkinje cells. Although most Purkinje cells in the anterior lobe were PV+, there were several thin (i.e. only a few Purkinje cells wide) PV- stripes spanning the folia. In the posterior lobe, PV+ and PV- stripes were also apparent, but the PV- stripes were much wider than in the anterior lobe. In sections processed for both ZII and PV, the expression was generally complementary: PV+ stripes were ZII-, and vice-versa. This complementary expression was most apparent in folia II-IV and VIII-IXcd. The complementary expression was not, however, absolute; some Purkinje cells co-expressed PV and ZII whereas others lacked both. These novel findings relate to the complex neurochemical organization of the cerebellum, and are likely important to issues regarding cerebellar plasticity.
In the latero-anterior hypothalamus (LAH) increased glutamate and vasopressin (AVP) activity facilitate anabolic androgenic steroid (AAS)-induced offensive aggression. In addition, adolescent AAS treatment increases the strength of glutamate-mediated connections between the LAH and the brain nucleus of stria terminalis (BNST). The current set of studies used male Syrian hamsters exposed to AAS during adolescence to examine whether increased glutamate-mediated stimulation of the BNST is dependent on LAH-AVP signaling and whether this neural pathway modulates adolescent AAS-induced offensive aggression. In the first set of AAS-treated animals offensive aggression was measured following blockade of glutamate activity within the BNST using NBQX. Then, in a second group of AAS-treated animals aggression levels were examined following simultaneous blockade of LAH-AVP activity using Manning compound and stimulation of BNST glutamate using AMPA. Lastly, the number of AVP fibers in apposition to glutamate cells was examined in AAS and control animals, using double-label immunofluorescence. The results showed that administration of NBQX into the BNST dose-dependently reduced aggressive behavior in AAS-treated animals. Further, the current results replicated previous findings showing that blockade of LAH-AVP significantly reduces aggressive behavior in AAS-treated animals. In these animals stimulation of BNST-AMPA receptors had a linear effect on aggression, where the smallest dose exacerbated the inhibitory effect of the V1a antagonist, the medium dose had no effect and the highest dose recuperated aggression to control levels. Finally when compared with control animals, AAS treatment produced a significant increase in the number of AVP fibers in apposition to LAH-glutamate cells. Overall, these results identify the BNST as a key brain region involved in aggression control and provide strong evidence suggesting that AVPergic-mediated stimulation of BNST-glutamate is a possible mechanism that facilitates aggression expression in adolescent AAS-treated animals.
In treatment trials for major depressive disorder (MDD), early symptom improvement is predictive of eventual clinical response. Clinical response may also be predicted by elevated pretreatment theta (4-7Hz) current density in the rostral anterior cingulate (rACC) and medial orbitofrontal cortex (mOFC). We investigated the relationship between pretreatment EEG and early improvement in predicting clinical outcome in 72 MDD subjects across three placebo-controlled treatment trials. Subjects were randomized to receive fluoxetine, venlafaxine, or placebo. Theta current density in the rACC and mOFC was computed with Low-Resolution Brain Electromagnetic Tomography (LORETA). An analysis of covariance examining week-8 Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HamD) percent change, showed a significant effect of week-2HamD percent change, and a significant three-way interaction of week-2HamD percent changetreatmentrACC. Medication subjects with robust early improvement showed almost no relationship between rACC theta current density and final clinical outcome. However, in subjects with little early improvement, rACC activity showed a strong relationship with clinical outcome. The model examining the mOFC showed a trend in the three-way interaction. A combination of pretreatment rACC activity and early symptom improvement may be useful for predicting treatment response.
The objectives of the study are to report the 20-week base rate of violent behaviour in the community among a general psychiatric patient population from Stockholm and to establish the validity of a violence risk assessment software program, Classification of Violence Risk (COVR), in a European setting. Three hundred and thirty one patients at two psychiatric hospitals in Stockholm were interviewed upon discharge. Telephone interviews with the patients and collaterals were conducted 10 and 20 weeks later. The violent behaviour was also measured through a national criminal register. The allocation of patients into different risk groups according to COVR software was compared with the occurrence of actual acts of violence during the follow-up. The base rate of violent behaviour was 5.7% and a ROC-analysis showed that the AUC for COVR was 0.77. Since there were few patients in the high risk groups, the 95% confidence interval for the proportion of violent patients was wide. The base rate of violent behaviour is relatively low in Sweden and prediction is therefore difficult. The predictive validity of COVR software is comparable to other risk assessment tools.
This study examined the relationship between cholesterol levels and impulsivity in a large sample of patients with mood symptoms. Three hundred and one patients with mood, anxiety, and personality disorders completed a battery of psychometric scales including the Barratt Impulsiveness Scale-Version 11 (BIS-11) and the Profile of Mood States (POMS). On the same day of psychometric assessment, blood samples were analyzed for total cholesterol (TC) and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). Statistical analysis controlling for the confounding effects of age, gender, diagnosis, and current mood symptoms showed that lower TC levels were associated with increased attentional impulsivity. There was a weak linear correlation between TC and attentional impulsivity across the entire range of TC levels (110-295mg/dL) but a highly significant difference between participants with TC levels lower than 165mg/dL and the rest of the sample. The current study adds to the growing body of evidence pointing to the association between serum cholesterol and mental health. Considering that attentional impulsivity is a demonstrated risk factor for suicide, patients presenting with low cholesterol and mood symptoms may warrant increased clinical attention and surveillance.
Current research on empathy for pain emphasizes the overlap in the neural response between the first-hand experience of pain and its perception in others. However, recent studies suggest that the perception of the pain of others may reflect the processing of a threat or negative arousal rather than an automatic pro-social response. It can thus be suggested that pain processing of other-related, but not self-related, information could imply danger rather than empathy, due to the possible threat represented in the expressions of others (especially if associated with pain stimuli). To test this hypothesis, two experiments considering subliminal stimuli were designed. In Experiment 1, neutral and semantic pain expressions previously primed with own or other faces were presented to participants. When other-face priming was used, only the detection of semantic pain expressions was facilitated. In Experiment 2, pictures with pain and neutral scenarios previously used in ERP and fMRI research were used in a categorization task. Those pictures were primed with own or other faces following the same procedure as in Experiment 1 while ERPs were recorded. Early (N1) and late (P3) cortical responses between pain and no-pain were modulated only in the other-face priming condition. These results support the threat value of pain hypothesis and suggest the necessity for the inclusion of own- versus other-related information in future empathy for pain research.
Arginine-vasopressin (AVP), corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and urocortin 1 (Ucn1) play a role in the stress response. The CRF-producing paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), oval bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTov) and central amygdala (CeA), and the Ucn1-expressing non-preganglionic Edinger-Westphal nucleus (npEW) all possess AVP receptors. We hypothesized that AVP is involved in the response of these four brain centers to acute physiological (ether) stress. To test this hypothesis, we studied AVP-deficient Brattleboro (BB) rats using quantitative immunocytochemistry. First, we showed that non-stressed wild-type (WT) and BB rats did not differ from each other in Fos contents, indicating similar (immediate early) gene expression activity, but that in BB rats CRF contents were lower in the PVN and higher in the CeA. Second, we found that stress induced Fos response in the PVN, CeA and npEW with strengths different for each center, but similar for BB and WT rats. Finally, no effects of stress on CRF and Ucn1 contents were seen in the WT rat brain, but in BB rats stress increased CRF contents in the PVN, and the CeA revealed more CRF in stressed BB than in WT rats. On the basis of these results we propose that during acute stress AVP interacts with, especially, the PVN and the CeA, to change their rates of biosynthesis and/or release of CRF.

It is commonly accepted that reward is an effective motivator of behavior, but little is known about potential costs resulting from reward associations. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate the neural underpinnings of such reward-related performance-disrupting effects in a reward-modulated Stroop task in humans. While reward associations in the task-relevant dimension (i.e., ink color) facilitated performance, behavioral detriments were found when the task-irrelevant dimension (i.e., word meaning) implicitly referred to reward-predictive ink colors. Neurally, only relevant reward associations invoked a typical reward-anticipation response in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), which was in turn predictive of behavioral facilitation. In contrast, irrelevant reward associations increased activity in a medial prefrontal motor-control-related region, namely the presupplementary motor area (pre-SMA), which likely reflects the preemption and inhibition of automatic response tendencies that are amplified by irrelevant reward-related words. This view was further supported by a positive relationship between pre-SMA activity and pronounced response slowing in trials containing reward-related as compared with reward-unrelated incongruent words. Importantly, the distinct neural processes related to the beneficial and detrimental behavioral effects of reward associations appeared to arise from preferential-coding mechanisms in visual-processing areas that were shared by the two stimulus dimensions, suggesting a transfer of reward-related saliency to the irrelevant dimension, but with highly differential behavioral and neural ramifications. More generally, the data demonstrate that even entirely irrelevant reward associations can influence stimulus-processing and response-selection pathways relatively automatically, thereby representing an important flipside of reward-driven performance enhancements.
Alterations in dendrite branching and morphology are present in many neurodegenerative diseases. These variations disrupt postsynaptic transmission and affect neuronal communication. Thus, it is important to understand the molecular mechanisms that regulate dendritogenesis and how they go awry during disease states. Previously, our laboratory showed that cypin, a mammalian guanine deaminase, increases dendrite number when overexpressed and decreases dendrite number when knocked down in cultured hippocampal neurons. Here, we report that exposure to brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), an important mediator of dendrite arborization, for 72 h but not for 24 h or less increases cypin mRNA and protein levels in rat hippocampal neurons. BDNF signals through cypin to regulate dendrite number, since knocking down cypin blocks the effects of BDNF. Furthermore, BDNF increases cypin levels via mitogen-activated protein kinase and transcription-dependent signaling pathways. Moreover, the cypin promoter region contains putative conserved cAMP response element (CRE) regions, which we found can be recognized and activated by CRE-binding protein (CREB). In addition, exposure of the neurons to BDNF increased CREB binding to the cypin promoter and, in line with these data, expression of a dominant negative form of CREB blocked BDNF-promoted increases in cypin protein levels and proximal dendrite branches. Together, these studies suggest that BDNF increases neuronal cypin expression by the activation of CREB, increasing cypin transcription leading to increased protein expression, thus identifying a novel pathway by which BDNF shapes the dendrite network.
Acid-sensing ion channel (ASIC) subunits associate to form homomeric or heteromeric proton-gated ion channels in neurons throughout the nervous system. The ASIC1a subunit plays an important role in establishing the kinetics of proton-gated currents in the CNS, and activation of ASIC1a homomeric channels induces neuronal death after local acidosis that accompanies cerebral ischemia. The ASIC2b subunit is expressed in the brain in a pattern that overlaps ASIC1a, yet the contribution of ASIC2b has remained elusive. We find that coexpression of ASIC2b with ASIC1a in Xenopus oocytes results in novel proton-gated currents with properties distinct from ASIC1a homomeric channels. In particular, ASIC2b/1a heteromeric channels are inhibited by the nonselective potassium channel blockers tetraethylammonium and barium. In addition, steady-state desensitization is induced at more basic pH values, and Big Dynorphin sensitivity is enhanced in these unique heteromeric channels. Cultured hippocampal neurons show proton-gated currents consistent with ASIC2b contribution, and these currents are lacking in neurons from mice with an ACCN1 (ASIC2) gene disruption. Finally, we find that these ASIC2b/1a heteromeric channels contribute to acidosis-induced neuronal death. Together, our results show that ASIC2b confers unique properties to heteromeric channels in central neurons. Furthermore, these data indicate that ASIC2, like ASIC1, plays a role in acidosis-induced neuronal death and implicate the ASIC2b/1a subtype as a novel pharmacological target to prevent neuronal injury after stroke.
The detection of novel and therefore potentially behavioral relevant stimuli is of fundamental importance for animals. In the auditory system, stimulus-specific adaptation (SSA) resulting in stronger responses to rare compared with frequent stimuli was proposed as such a novelty detection mechanism. SSA is a now well established phenomenon found at different levels along the mammalian auditory pathway. It depends on various stimulus features, such as deviant probability, and may be an essential mechanism underlying perception of changes in sound statistics. We recorded neuronal responses from the ventral part of the medial geniculate body (vMGB) in Mongolian gerbils to determine details of the adaptation process that might indicate underlying neuronal mechanisms. Neurons in the vMGB exhibited a median spike rate change of 15.4% attributable to a fast habituation to the frequently presented standard stimulus. Accordingly, the main habituation effect could also be induced by the repetition of a few uniform tonal stimuli. The degree of habituation was frequency-specific, and comparison across simultaneously recorded units indicated that adaptation effects were apparently topographically organized. At the population level, stronger habituation effects were on average associated with the border regions of the frequency response areas. Finally, the pharmacological inactivation of the auditory cortex demonstrated that SSA in the vMGB is mainly regulated by the corticofugal system. Hence, these results indicate a more general function of SSA in the processing and analysis of auditory information than the term novelty detection suggests.
Large-scale neuronal networks integrating several cortical areas mediate the complex functions of the brain such as sensorimotor integration. Little is known about the functional development of these networks and the maturational processes by which distant networks become functionally connected. We addressed this question in the postnatal rat sensorimotor system. Using epicranial multielectrode grids that span most of the cortical surface and intracortical electrodes, we show that sensory evoked cortical responses continuously maturate throughout the first 3 weeks with the strongest developmental changes occurring in a very short time around postnatal day 13 (P13). Before P13, whisker stimulation evokes slow, initially surface-negative activity restricted mostly to the lateral parietal area of the contralateral hemisphere. In a narrow time window of 48 h around P13, a new early, sharp surface-positive component emerges that coincides with subsequent propagation of activity to sensory and motor areas of both hemispheres. Our data show that this new component developing at the end of the second week corresponds principally to functional maturation of the supragranular cortical layers and appears to be crucial for the functional associations in the large-scale sensorimotor cortical network. It goes along with the onset of whisking behavior, as well as major synaptic and functional changes within the S1 cortex that are known to develop during this period.
Retrograde synaptic signaling by endocannabinoids (eCBs) is a widespread mechanism for activity-dependent inhibition of synaptic strength in the brain. Although prevalent, the conditions for eliciting eCB-mediated synaptic depression vary among brain circuits. As yet, relatively little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying this variation, although the initial signaling events are likely dictated by postsynaptic proteins. SAP90/PSD-95-associated proteins (SAPAPs) are a family of postsynaptic proteins unique to excitatory synapses. Using Sapap3 knock-out (KO) mice, we find that, in the absence of SAPAP3, striatal medium spiny neuron (MSN) excitatory synapses exhibit eCB-mediated synaptic depression under conditions that do not normally activate this process. The anomalous synaptic plasticity requires type 5 metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR5s), which we find are dysregulated in Sapap3 KO MSNs. Both surface expression and activity of mGluR5s are increased in Sapap3 KO MSNs, suggesting that enhanced mGluR5 activity may drive the anomalous synaptic plasticity. In direct support of this possibility, we find that, in wild-type (WT) MSNs, pharmacological enhancement of mGluR5 by a positive allosteric modulator is sufficient to reproduce the increased synaptic depression seen in Sapap3 KO MSNs. The same pharmacologic treatment, however, fails to elicit further depression in KO MSNs. Under conditions that are sufficient to engage eCB-mediated synaptic depression in WT MSNs, Sapap3 deletion does not alter the magnitude of the response. These results identify a role for SAPAP3 in the regulation of postsynaptic mGluRs and eCB-mediated synaptic plasticity. SAPAPs, through their effect on mGluR activity, may serve as regulatory molecules gating the threshold for inducing eCB-mediated synaptic plasticity.
A major tool in understanding how the brain processes information is the analysis of neuronal output at each hierarchical level along the pathway of signal propagation. Theta rhythm and head directionality are the two main signals found across all levels of Papez's circuit, which supports episodic memory formation. Here, we provide evidence that the functional interaction between both signals occurs at a subcortical level. We show that there is population of head direction cells (39%) in rat anteroventral thalamic nucleus that exhibit rhythmic spiking in the theta range. This class of units, termed HD-by-theta (head direction-by-theta) cells, discharged predominantly in spike trains at theta frequency (6-12 Hz). The highest degree of theta rhythmicity was evident when the animal was heading/facing in the preferred direction, expressed by the Gaussian peak of the directional tuning curve. The theta-rhythmic mode of spiking was closely related to the firing activity of local theta-bursting cells. We also found that 32% of anteroventral theta-bursting cells displayed a head-directional modulation of their spiking. This crossover between theta and head-directional signals indicates that anterior thalamus integrates information related to heading and movement, and may therefore actively modulate hippocampo-dencephalic information processing.
The human brain exhibits remarkable interindividual variability in cortical architecture. Despite extensive evidence for the behavioral consequences of such anatomical variability in individual cortical regions, it is unclear whether and how different cortical regions covary in morphology. Using a novel approach that combined noninvasive cortical functional mapping with whole-brain voxel-based morphometric analyses, we investigated the anatomical relationship between the functionally mapped visual cortices and other cortical structures in healthy humans. We found a striking anticorrelation between the gray matter volume of primary visual cortex and that of anterior prefrontal cortex, independent from individual differences in overall brain volume. Notably, this negative correlation formed along anatomically separate pathways, as the dorsal and ventral parts of primary visual cortex showed focal anticorrelation with the dorsolateral and ventromedial parts of anterior prefrontal cortex, respectively. Moreover, a similar inverse correlation was found between primary auditory cortex and anterior prefrontal cortex, but no anatomical relationship was observed between other visual cortices and anterior prefrontal cortex. Together, these findings indicate that an anatomical trade-off exists between primary sensory cortices and anterior prefrontal cortex as a possible general principle of human cortical organization. This new discovery challenges the traditional view that the sizes of different brain areas simply scale with overall brain size and suggests the existence of shared genetic or developmental factors that contributes to the formation of anatomically and functionally distant cortical regions.

Apoptosis, or programmed cell death, is a conserved and highly regulated pathway by which cells die. Apoptosis can be triggered when cells encounter a wide range of cytotoxic stresses. These insults initiate signaling cascades that ultimately cause the release of cytochrome c from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to the cytoplasm. The release of cytochrome c from mitochondria is a key event that triggers the rapid activation of caspases, the key cellular proteases which ultimately execute cell death. The pathway of apoptosis is regulated at points upstream and downstream of cytochrome c release from mitochondria. In order to study the post-mitochondrial regulation of caspase activation, many investigators have turned to direct cytoplasmic microinjection of holocytochrome c (heme-attached) protein into cells. Cytochrome c is normally localized to the mitochondria where attachment of a heme group is necessary to enable it to activate apoptosis. Therefore, to directly activate caspases, it is necessary to inject the holocytochrome c protein instead of its cDNA, because while the expression of cytochrome c from cDNA constructs will result in mitochondrial targeting and heme attachment, it will be sequestered from cytosolic caspases. Thus, the direct cytosolic microinjection of purified heme-attached cytochrome c protein is a useful tool to mimic mitochondrial cytochrome c release and apoptosis without the use of toxic insults which cause cellular and mitochondrial damage. In this article, we describe a method for the microinjection of cytochrome c protein into cells, using mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and primary sympathetic neurons as examples. While this protocol focuses on the injection of cytochrome c for investigations of apoptosis, the techniques shown here can also be easily adapted for microinjection of other proteins of interest.

The basolateral amygdala (BLA) has a crucial role in emotional learning irrespective of valence. The BLA projection to the nucleus accumbens (NAc) is thought to modulate cue-triggered motivated behaviours, but our understanding of the interaction between these two brain regions has been limited by the inability to manipulate neural-circuit elements of this pathway selectively during behaviour. To circumvent this limitation, we used in vivo optogenetic stimulation or inhibition of glutamatergic fibres from the BLA to the NAc, coupled with intracranial pharmacology and ex vivo electrophysiology. Here we show that optical stimulation of the pathway from the BLA to the NAc in mice reinforces behavioural responding to earn additional optical stimulation of these synaptic inputs. Optical stimulation of these glutamatergic fibres required intra-NAc dopamine D1-type receptor signalling, but not D2-type receptor signalling. Brief optical inhibition of fibres from the BLA to the NAc reduced cue-evoked intake of sucrose, demonstrating an important role of this specific pathway in controlling naturally occurring reward-related behaviour. Moreover, although optical stimulation of glutamatergic fibres from the medial prefrontal cortex to the NAc also elicited reliable excitatory synaptic responses, optical self-stimulation behaviour was not observed by activation of this pathway. These data indicate that whereas the BLA is important for processing both positive and negative affect, the glutamatergic pathway from the BLA to the NAc, in conjunction with dopamine signalling in the NAc, promotes motivated behavioural responding. Thus, optogenetic manipulation of anatomically distinct synaptic inputs to the NAc reveals functionally distinct properties of these inputs in controlling reward-seeking behaviours.
Over the past twenty years, neuroscience has changed our understanding of placebo analgesia. Often perceived by researchers as a response bias adding noise to the assessment of efficacy, in the patients' view, it is associated with charlatanism. The origin of the word, qualifying a patient's response to &quot;please&quot; the doctor, did not help its rightful appreciation. However, today the placebo analgesia is considered as a psychobiological phenomenon. Thanks to pharmacological manipulations and the development of functional brain imaging, the neural circuitry involved in this effect as well as the role of endorphins and dopamine have been identified. This article describes our current knowledge about this fascinating phenomenon: a psychological modulation can lead to a biological effect.
Nitric oxide (NO) is an unstable signalling molecule synthesized de novo mainly from L-arginine by NO synthase (NOS) enzymes. Nitrite reduction can also produce NO, predominantly within body fluids (for example, saliva, sweat and blood plasma) and under extreme hypoxic and acidic conditions. It remains unknown if intracellular canonical signalling pathways regulate nitrite-dependent NO production. Here we examine NO production in the skin, a hypoxic tissue enriched in nitrites wherein NO has important roles in wound healing and other biological processes. We show that activation of TRPV3, a heat-activated transient receptor potential ion channel expressed in keratinocytes, induces NO production via a nitrite-dependent pathway. TRPV3 and nitrite are involved in keratinocyte migration in vitro and in wound healing and thermosensory behaviours in vivo. Our study demonstrates that activation of an ion channel can induce NOS-independent NO production in keratinocytes.
Recent evidence indicates that the processing of a stimulus can be influenced by preceding patterns of brain activity. Here we examine whether prestimulus oscillatory brain activity can influence the ability to retrieve episodic memories. Neural activity in the theta-frequency band (4-8 Hz) was enhanced before presentation of test items which elicited accurate recollection of contextual details of the prior study episode (&quot;source retrieval&quot;), relative to trials for which item recognition was successful but source retrieval failed. Poststimulus theta activity was also related to source retrieval, and the magnitude of poststimulus theta was predicted by the magnitude of the prestimulus theta effects. The results suggest that ongoing neural processes occurring before stimulus onset might play a critical role in readying the brain for successful memory retrieval.
After an acute central nervous system injury, axonal regeneration is limited as the result of a lack of neuronal intrinsic competence and the presence of extrinsic inhibitory signals. The injury fragments the myelin neuronal insulating layer, releasing extrinsic inhibitory molecules to signal through the neuronal membrane-bound Nogo receptor (NgR) complex. In this paper, we show that a neuronal transcriptional pathway can interfere with extrinsic inhibitory myelin-dependent signaling, thereby promoting neurite outgrowth. Specifically, retinoic acid (RA), acting through the RA receptor  (RAR-), inhibited myelin-activated NgR signaling through the transcriptional repression of the NgR complex member Lingo-1. We show that suppression of Lingo-1 was required for RA-RAR- to counteract extrinsic inhibition of neurite outgrowth. Furthermore, we confirm in vivo that RA treatment after a dorsal column overhemisection injury inhibited Lingo-1 expression, specifically through RAR-. Our findings identify a novel link between RA-RAR--dependent proaxonal outgrowth and inhibitory NgR complex-dependent signaling, potentially allowing for the development of molecular strategies to enhance axonal regeneration after a central nervous system injury.
There are currently no predictive methods to identify patients who suffered an initial brain injury and are at high risk of developing chronic epilepsy. Consequently, treatments aimed at epilepsy prevention that would target the underlying epileptogenic process are neither available nor being developed. After a brain injury or any other initial precipitating event (IPE) to the development of epilepsy, pathological changes may occur in forms of inflammation, damage in the blood brain barrier, neuron loss, gliosis, axon sprouting, etc., in multiple brain areas. Recent studies provide connections between various kinds of brain pathology and alterations in the peripheral blood transcriptome. In this review we discuss the possibility of using peripheral blood transcriptome biomarkers for the detection of epileptogenesis and consequently, subjects at high risk of developing epilepsy.
CNS injuries such as trauma, stroke, viral infection, febrile seizures, status epilepticus occurring either in infancy or during a lifetime are considered common risk factors for developing epilepsy. Long term CNS inflammation develops rapidly after these events, suggesting that a pro-inflammatory state in the brain might play a role in the development of the epileptic process. This hypothesis is corroborated by two main lines of evidence: (1) the upregulation of pro-inflammatory signals during epileptogenesis in brain areas of seizure onset/generalization; (2) pharmacological targeting of specific pro-inflammatory pathways after status epilepticus or in kindling shows antiepileptogenic effects. The mechanisms by which pro-inflammatory molecules might favor the establishment of chronic neuronal network hyperexcitability involve both rapid, non-transcriptional effects on glutamate and GABA receptors, and transcriptional activation of genes involved in synaptic plasticity. This emerging evidence predicts that pharmacological interventions targeting brain inflammation might provide a key to new antiepileptic drug design.
Epilepsy is a common disorder with a major negative impact on patient quality of life, yet treatment so far is directed mainly at blocking the symptoms-epileptic seizures, not the underlying cause. In recent years, investigation of epilepsy development or epileptogenesis has yielded new insights into potential therapies that may ultimately prevent epilepsy before it starts. In this special issue of Neuroscience Letters the latest advances in the field are brought together, summarizing: (1) important animal models in both primary and secondary epilepsies, (2) promising biomarkers for monitoring epileptogenesis, (3) cellular and molecular mechanisms which may serve as viable targets for therapy, and (4) translational approaches to human clinical trials. Bringing together these intriguing new approaches to treating epilepsy as a preventable disorder will hopefully soon make symptomatic treatment of epilepsy unnecessary in most patients.
Although the great increase in interest in the placebo phenomenon was spurred by the clinical implications of its use, the progressive elucidation of the neurobiological and pharmacological mechanisms underlying the placebo effect also helps cast new light on the relationship between mind (and brain) and body, a topic of foremost philosophical importance but also a major medical issue in light of the complex interactions between the brain on the one hand and body functions on the other. While the concept of placebo can be a general one, with a broad definition generally applicable to many different contexts, the description of the cerebral processes called into action in specific situations can vary widely. In this paper, examples will be given where physiological or pathological conditions are altered following the administration of an inert substance or verbal instructions tailored to induce expectation of a change, and explanations will be offered with details on neurotransmitter changes and neural pathways activated. As an instance of how placebo effects can extend beyond the clinical setting, data in the physical performance domain and implications for sport competitions will also be presented and discussed.
The emergence of the Gttingen minipig in research of topics such as neuroscience, toxicology, diabetes, obesity, and experimental surgery reflects the close resemblance of these animals to human anatomy and physiology (1-6).The size of the Gttingen minipig permits the use of surgical equipment and advanced imaging modalities similar to those used in humans (6-8). The aim of this instructional video is to increase the awareness on the value of minipigs in biomedical research, by demonstrating how to perform tracheal intubation, transurethral bladder catheterization, femoral artery and vein catheterization, as well as transcardial perfusion. Endotracheal Intubation should be performed whenever a minipig undergoes general anesthesia, because it maintains a patent airway, permits assisted ventilation and protects the airways from aspirates. Transurethral bladder catheterization can provide useful information about about hydration state as well as renal and cardiovascular function during long surgical procedures. Furthermore, urinary catheterization can prevent contamination of delicate medico-technical equipment and painful bladder extension which may harm the animal and unnecessarily influence the experiment due to increased vagal tone and altered physiological parameters. Arterial and venous catheterization is useful for obtaining repeated blood samples and monitoring various physiological parameters. Catheterization of femoral vessels is preferable to catheterization of the neck vessels for ease of access, when performing experiments involving frame-based stereotaxic neurosurgery and brain imaging. When performing vessel catheterization in survival studies, strict aseptic technique must be employed to avoid infections(6). Transcardial perfusion is the most effective fixation method, and yields preeminent results when preparing minipig organs for histology and histochemistry(2,9). For more information about anesthesia, surgery and experimental techniques in swine in general we refer to Swindle 2007. Supplementary information about premedication and induction of anesthesia, assisted ventilation, analgesia, pre- and postoperative care of Gttingen minipigs are available via the internet at http://www.minipigs.com(10). For extensive information about porcine anatomy we refer to Nickel et al. Vol. 1-5(11).
The rapid growth of the literature on neuroimaging in humans has led to major advances in our understanding of human brain function but has also made it increasingly difficult to aggregate and synthesize neuroimaging findings. Here we describe and validate an automated brain-mapping framework that uses text-mining, meta-analysis and machine-learning techniques to generate a large database of mappings between neural and cognitive states. We show that our approach can be used to automatically conduct large-scale, high-quality neuroimaging meta-analyses, address long-standing inferential problems in the neuroimaging literature and support accurate 'decoding' of broad cognitive states from brain activity in both entire studies and individual human subjects. Collectively, our results have validated a powerful and generative framework for synthesizing human neuroimaging data on an unprecedented scale.
The individual functional properties and spatial arrangement of afferent synaptic inputs on dendrites have a critical role in the processing of information by neurons in the mammalian brain. Although recent work has identified visually-evoked local dendritic calcium signals in the rodent visual cortex, sensory-evoked signalling on the level of dendritic spines, corresponding to individual afferent excitatory synapses, remains unexplored. Here we used a new variant of high-resolution two-photon imaging to detect sensory-evoked calcium transients in single dendritic spines of mouse cortical neurons in vivo. Calcium signals evoked by sound stimulation required the activation of NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors. Active spines are widely distributed on basal and apical dendrites and pure-tone stimulation at different frequencies revealed both narrowly and widely tuned spines. Notably, spines tuned for different frequencies were highly interspersed on the same dendrites: even neighbouring spines were mostly tuned to different frequencies. Thus, our results demonstrate that NMDA-receptor-dependent single-spine synaptic inputs to the same dendrite are highly heterogeneous. Furthermore, our study opens the way for in vivo mapping of functionally defined afferent sensory inputs with single-synapse resolution.
We have previously reported that N-desmethylclozapine (NDMC), a major clozapine metabolite, acts as a -opioid receptor agonist. Here, we show that in different cellular systems NDMC regulates protein kinase B/Akt (Akt) signaling through the activation of -opioid receptors. In Chinese hamster ovary cells transfected with the human -opioid receptor (CHO/DOR), NDMC induced a time- and concentration-dependent phosphorylation of Akt at Thr308 and glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) at Ser9 and these effects were fully blocked by the -opioid receptor antagonist naltrindole. NDMC-induced Akt and GSK-3 phosphorylations were completely prevented by pertussis toxin, the Src tyrosine kinase inhibitor PP2 and the selective insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor tyrphostin AG 1024. NDMC stimulated IGF-I receptor  subunit tyrosine phosphorylation and this effect was prevented by either naltrindole or PP2. Blockade of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) , but not PI3K, suppressed NDMC-induced Akt and GSK-3 phosphorylation, whereas inhibition of Akt curtailed the stimulation of GSK-3 phosphorylation. In rat nucleus accumbens, NDMC induced Akt and GSK-3 phosphorylation either in vitro or in vivo and these effects were prevented by naltrindole. NDMC also regulated Akt and GSK-3 phosphorylation through -opioid receptors in NG108-15 cells. In these cells NDMC counteracted oxidative stress-induced apoptosis and the effect was lost following PI3K inhibition. These data demonstrate that in different cell systems NDMC can stimulate Akt signaling by activating Gi/Go-coupled -opioid receptors, which, at least in CHO/DOR cells, regulate PI3K through Src-dependent transactivation of the IGF-I receptor, and indicate that through this mechanism NDMC can exert neuroprotective effects.
Crucial to our everyday social functioning is an ability to interpret the behaviors of others. This process involves a rapid understanding of what a given action is not only in a physical sense (e.g., a precision grip around the stem of a wine glass) but also in a semantic sense (e.g., an invitation to &quot;cheers&quot;). The functional properties of fronto-parietal mirror neurons (MNs), which respond to both observed and executed actions, have been a topic of much debate in the cognitive neuroscience literature. The controversy surrounds the role of the &quot;mirror neuron system&quot; in action understanding: do MNs allow us to comprehend others' actions by allowing us to internally represent their behaviors or do they simply activate a direct motor representation of the perceived act without recourse to its meaning? This review outlines evidence from both human and primate literatures, indicating the importance of end-goals in action representations within the motor system and their predominance in influencing action plans. We integrate this evidence with recent views regarding the complex and dynamic nature of the mirror neuron system and its ability to respond to broad motor outcomes.
Demyelinating diseases are characterized by an extensive loss of oligodendrocytes and myelin sheaths from axolemma. These neurological disorders are a common cause of disability in young adults, but so far, there is no effective treatment against them. It has been suggested that neural stem cells (NSCs) may play an important role in brain repair therapies. NSCs in the adult subventricular zone (SVZ), also known as Type-B cells, are multipotential cells that can self-renew and give rise to neurons and glia. Recent findings have shown that cells derived from SVZ Type-B cells actively respond to epidermal-growth-factor (EGF) stimulation becoming highly migratory and proliferative. Interestingly, a subpopulation of these EGF-activated cells expresses markers of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs). When EGF administration is removed, SVZ-derived OPCs differentiate into myelinating and pre-myelinating oligodendrocytes in the white matter tracts of corpus callosum, fimbria fornix and striatum. In the presence of a demyelinating lesion, OPCs derived from EGF-stimulated SVZ progenitors contribute to myelin repair. Given their high migratory potential and their ability to differentiate into myelin-forming cells, SVZ NSCs represent an important endogenous source of OPCs for preserving the oligodendrocyte population in the white matter and for the repair of demyelinating injuries.
The vestibular system provides the brain with sensory signals about three-dimensional head rotations and translations. These signals are important for postural and oculomotor control, as well as for spatial and bodily perception and cognition, and they are subtended by pathways running from the vestibular nuclei to the thalamus, cerebellum and the &quot;vestibular cortex.&quot; The present review summarizes current knowledge on the anatomy of the thalamocortical vestibular system and discusses data from electrophysiology and neuroanatomy in animals by comparing them with data from neuroimagery and neurology in humans. Multiple thalamic nuclei are involved in vestibular processing, including the ventroposterior complex, the ventroanterior-ventrolateral complex, the intralaminar nuclei and the posterior nuclear group (medial and lateral geniculate nuclei, pulvinar). These nuclei contain multisensory neurons that process and relay vestibular, proprioceptive and visual signals to the vestibular cortex. In non-human primates, the parieto-insular vestibular cortex (PIVC) has been proposed as the core vestibular region. Yet, vestibular responses have also been recorded in the somatosensory cortex (area 2v, 3av), intraparietal sulcus, posterior parietal cortex (area 7), area MST, frontal cortex, cingulum and hippocampus. We analyze the location of the corresponding regions in humans, and especially the human PIVC, by reviewing neuroimaging and clinical work. The widespread vestibular projections to the multimodal human PIVC, somatosensory cortex, area MST, intraparietal sulcus and hippocampus explain the large influence of vestibular signals on self-motion perception, spatial navigation, internal models of gravity, one's body perception and bodily self-consciousness.
The purpose of this article is to review the recent developments of abnormal mitochondrial dynamics, mitochondrial fragmentation, and neuronal damage in neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The GTPase family of proteins, including fission proteins, dynamin related protein 1 (Drp1), mitochondrial fission 1 (Fis1), and fusion proteins (Mfn1, Mfn2 and Opa1) are essential to maintain mitochondrial fission and fusion balance, and to provide necessary adenosine triphosphate to neurons. Among these, Drp1 is involved in several important aspects of mitochondria, including shape, size, distribution, remodeling, and maintenance of mitochondria in mammalian cells. In addition, recent advancements in molecular, cellular, electron microscopy, and confocal imaging studies revealed that Drp1 is associated with several cellular functions, including mitochondrial and peroxisomal fragmentation, phosphorylation, SUMOylation, ubiquitination, and cell death. In the last two decades, tremendous progress has been made in researching mitochondrial dynamics, in yeast, worms, and mammalian cells; and this research has provided evidence linking Drp1 to neurodegenerative diseases. Researchers in the neurodegenerative disease field are beginning to recognize the possible involvement of Drp1 in causing mitochondrial fragmentation and abnormal mitochondrial dynamics in neurodegenerative diseases. This article summarizes research findings relating Drp1 to mitochondrial fission and fusion, in yeast, worms, and mammals. Based on findings from the Reddy laboratory and others', we propose that mutant proteins of neurodegenerative diseases, including AD, PD, HD, and ALS, interact with Drp1, activate mitochondrial fission machinery, fragment mitochondria excessively, and impair mitochondrial transport and mitochondrial dynamics, ultimately causing mitochondrial dysfunction and neuronal damage.
Digital reconstruction of neuronal morphology is a powerful technique for investigating the nervous system. This process consists of tracing the axonal and dendritic arbors of neurons imaged by optical microscopy into a geometrical format suitable for quantitative analysis and computational modeling. Algorithmic automation of neuronal tracing promises to increase the speed, accuracy, and reproducibility of morphological reconstructions. Together with recent breakthroughs in cellular imaging and accelerating progress in optical microscopy, automated reconstruction of neuronal morphology will play a central role in the development of high throughput screening and the acquisition of connectomic data. Yet, despite continuous advances in image processing algorithms, to date manual tracing remains the overwhelming choice for digitizing neuronal morphology. We summarize the issues involved in automated reconstruction, overview the available techniques, and provide a realistic assessment of future perspectives.
INAD is a scaffolding protein that regulates signaling in Drosophila photoreceptors. One of its PDZ domains, PDZ5, cycles between reduced and oxidized forms in response to light, but it is unclear how light affects its redox potential. Through biochemical and structural studies, we show that the redox potential of PDZ5 is allosterically regulated by its interaction with another INAD domain, PDZ4. Whereas isolated PDZ5 is stable in the oxidized state, formation of a PDZ45 &quot;supramodule&quot; locks PDZ5 inthe reduced state by raising the redox potential ofits Cys606/Cys645 disulfide bond by 330mV. Acidification, potentially mediated via light and PLC-mediated hydrolysis of PIP(2), disrupts the interaction between PDZ4 and PDZ5, leading to PDZ5 oxidation and dissociation from the TRP Ca(2+) channel, a key component of fly visual signaling. These results show that scaffolding proteins can actively modulate the intrinsic redox potentials of their disulfide bonds to exert regulatory roles in signaling.
The NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is a key transcriptional regulator of antioxidant defense and detoxification. To directly monitor stabilization of Nrf2, we fused its Neh2 domain, responsible for the interaction with its nucleocytoplasmic regulator, Keap1, to firefly luciferase (Neh2-luciferase). We show that Neh2 domain is sufficient for recognition, ubiquitination, and proteasomal degradation of Neh2-luciferase fusion protein. The Neh2-luc reporter system allows direct monitoring of the adaptive response to redox stress and classification of drugs based on the time course of reporter activation. The reporter was used to screen the Spectrum library of 2000 biologically active compounds to identify activators of Nrf2. The most robust and yet nontoxic Nrf2 activators found--nordihydroguaiaretic acid, fisetin, and gedunin--induced astrocyte-dependent neuroprotection from oxidative stress via an Nrf2-dependent mechanism.
The functional characterization of genes expressed during mammalian retinal development remains a significant challenge. Gene targeting to generate constitutive or conditional loss of function knockouts remains cost and labor intensive, as well as time consuming. Adding to these challenges, retina expressed genes may have essential roles outside the retina leading to unintended confounds when using a knockout approach. Furthermore, the ability to ectopically express a gene in a gain of function experiment can be extremely valuable when attempting to identify a role in cell fate specification and/or terminal differentiation. We present a method for the rapid and efficient incorporation of DNA plasmids into the neonatal mouse retina by electroporation. The application of short electrical impulses above a certain field strength results in a transient increase in plasma membrane permeability, facilitating the transfer of material across the membrane (1,2,3,4). Groundbreaking work demonstrated that electroporation could be utilized as a method of gene transfer into mammalian cells by inducing the formation of hydrophilic plasma membrane pores allowing the passage of highly charged DNA through the lipid bilayer (5). Continuous technical development has resulted in the viability of electroporation as a method for in vivo gene transfer in multiple mouse tissues including the retina, the method for which is described herein (6, 7, 8, 9, 10). DNA solution is injected into the subretinal space so that DNA is placed between the retinal pigmented epithelium and retina of the neonatal (P0) mouse and electrical pulses are applied using a tweezer electrode. The lateral placement of the eyes in the mouse allows for the easy orientation of the tweezer electrode to the necessary negative pole-DNA-retina-positive pole alignment. Extensive incorporation and expression of transferred genes can be identified by postnatal day 2 (P2). Due to the lack of significant lateral migration of cells in the retina, electroporated and non-electroporated regions are generated. Non-electroporated regions may serve as internal histological controls where appropriate. Retinal electroporation can be used to express a gene under a ubiquitous promoter, such as CAG, or to disrupt gene function using shRNA constructs or Cre-recombinase. More targeted expression can be achieved by designing constructs with cell specific gene promoters. Visualization of electroporated cells is achieved using bicistronic constructs expressing GFP or by co-electroporating a GFP expression construct. Furthermore, multiple constructs may be electroporated for the study of combinatorial gene effects or simultaneous gain and loss of function of different genes. Retinal electroporation may also be utilized for the analysis of genomic cis-regulatory elements by generating appropriate expression constructs and deletion mutants. Such experiments can be used to identify cis-regulatory regions sufficient or required for cell specific gene expression (11). Potential experiments are limited only by construct availability.

Movement disorders are a heterogeneous group of neurological conditions, few of which have been classically described as bona fide hereditary illnesses (Huntington's chorea, for instance). Most are considered to be either sporadic or to feature varying degrees of familial aggregation (parkinsonism and dystonia). In the late twentieth century, Mendelian monogenic mutations were found for movement disorders with a clear and consistent family history. Although important, these findings apply only to very rare forms of movement disorders. Already in the twenty-first century, and taking advantage of the modern developments in genetics and molecular biology, growing attention is being paid to the complex genetics of movement disorders. The search for risk genetic variants (polymorphisms) in large cohorts and the identification of different risk variants across different populations and ethnic groups are under way, with the most relevant findings to date corresponding to recent genome wide association studies in Parkinson's disease. These new approaches focusing on risk variants may enable the design of screening tests for early or even preclinical disease, and the identification of likely therapeutic targets.
Species have been adapted to specific niches optimizing survival and reproduction; however, urbanization by humans has dramatically altered natural habitats. Artificial light at night (LAN), termed 'light pollution', is an often overlooked, yet increasing disruptor of habitats, which perturbs physiological processes that rely on precise light information. For example, LAN alters the timing of reproduction and activity in some species, which decreases the odds of successful breeding and increases the threat of predation for these individuals, leading to reduced fitness. LAN also suppresses immune function, an important proxy for survival. To investigate the impact of LAN in a species naive to light pollution in its native habitat, immune function was examined in Siberian hamsters derived from wild-caught stock. After four weeks exposure to dim LAN, immune responses to three different challenges were assessed: (i) delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH), (ii) lipopolysaccharide-induced fever, and (iii) bactericide activity of blood. LAN suppressed DTH response and reduced bactericide activity of blood after lipopolysaccharide treatment, in addition to altering daily patterns of locomotor activity, suggesting that human encroachment on habitats via night-time lighting may inadvertently compromise immune function and ultimately fitness.
Whether iron deposition is an epiphenomenon of the multiple sclerosis (MS) disease process or may play a primary role in triggering inflammation and disease development remains unclear at this time, and should be studied at the early stages of disease pathogenesis. However, it is difficult to study the relationship between iron deposition and inflammation in early MS due to the delay between the onset of symptoms and diagnosis, and the poor availability of tissue specimens. In a recent article published in BMC Neuroscience, Williams et al. investigated the relationship between inflammation and iron deposition using an original animal model labeled as &quot;cerebral experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis&quot;, which develops CNS perivascular iron deposits. However, the relative contribution of iron deposition vs. inflammation in the pathogenesis and progression of MS remains unknown. Further studies should establish the association between inflammation, reduced blood flow, iron deposition, microglia activation and neurodegeneration. Creating a representative animal model that can study independently such relationship will be the key factor in this endeavor.
After axotomy of embryonic hippocampal neurons in vitro, some of the axotomized axons lose their identity, and new axons arise and grow. This axotomy-induced axonogenesis requires importin, suggesting that some injury-induced signals are transported via axons to elicit axonogenesis after axotomy. In this study, we show that STAT3 is activated in response to axotomy. Because STAT3 was co-immunoprecipitated with importin  in the axotomized neurons, we suggest that STAT3 is retrogradely transported as molecular cargo of importin / heterodimers. Indeed, inhibition of importin  binding with STAT3 resulted in the attenuation of axonogenesis. Silencing STAT3 blocked the axonogenesis, demonstrating that STAT3 is necessary for axotomy-induced axonogenesis. Furthermore, the overexpression of STAT3 enhanced axotomy-induced axonogenesis. Taken together, these results demonstrate that activation and retrograde transport of STAT3 in injured axons have key roles in the axotomy-induced axonogenesis of hippocampal neurons.
Efficient memory formation relies on the establishment of functional hippocampal circuits. It has been proposed that synaptic connections are refined by neural activity to form functional brain circuitry. However, it is not known whether and how hippocampal connections are refined by neural activity in vivo. Using a mouse genetic system in which restricted populations of neurons in the hippocampal circuit are inactivated, we show that inactive axons are eliminated after they develop through a competition with active axons. Remarkably, in the dentate gyrus, which undergoes neurogenesis throughout life, axon refinement is achieved by a competition between mature and young neurons. These results demonstrate that activity-dependent competition plays multiple roles in the establishment of functional memory circuits in vivo.
The existence of neuron-specific endocytic protein isoforms raises questions about their importance for specialized neuronal functions. Dynamin, a GTPase implicated in the fission reaction of endocytosis, is encoded by three genes, two of which, dynamin 1 and 3, are highly expressed in neurons. We show that dynamin 3, thought to play a predominantly postsynaptic role, has a major presynaptic function. Although lack of dynamin 3 does not produce an overt phenotype in mice, it worsens the dynamin 1 KO phenotype, leading to perinatal lethality and a more severe defect in activity-dependent synaptic vesicle endocytosis. Thus, dynamin 1 and 3, which together account for the overwhelming majority of brain dynamin, cooperate in supporting optimal rates of synaptic vesicle endocytosis. Persistence of synaptic transmission in their absence indicates that if dynamin plays essential functions in neurons, such functions can be achieved by the very low levels of dynamin 2.
Two articles in this issue of Neuron (Eichner etal. and Clark etal.) attack the problem of explaining how neuronal hardware in Drosophila implements the Reichardt motion detector, one of the most famous computational models in neuroscience, which has proven intractable up to now.
Hippocampal place fields, the local regions of activity recorded from place cells in exploring rodents, can undergo large changes in relative location during remapping. This process would appear to require some form of modulated global input. Grid-cell responses recorded from layer II of medial entorhinal cortex in rats have been observed to realign concurrently with hippocampal remapping, making them a candidate input source. However, this realignment occurs coherently across colocalized ensembles of grid cells (Fyhn et al., 2007). The hypothesized entorhinal contribution to remapping depends on whether this coherence extends to all grid cells, which is currently unknown. We study whether dividing grid cells into small numbers of independently realigning modules can both account for this localized coherence and allow for hippocampal remapping. To do this, we construct a model in which place-cell responses arise from network competition mediated by global inhibition. We show that these simulated responses approximate the sparsity and spatial specificity of hippocampal activity while fully representing a virtual environment without learning. Place-field locations and the set of active place cells in one environment can be independently rearranged by changes to the underlying grid-cell inputs. We introduce new measures of remapping to assess the effectiveness of grid-cell modularity and to compare shift realignments with other geometric transformations of grid-cell responses. Complete hippocampal remapping is possible with a small number of shifting grid modules, indicating that entorhinal realignment may be able to generate place-field randomization despite substantial coherence.
The gamma frequencies of the local field potential (LFP) provide a physiological correlate for numerous perceptual and cognitive phenomena and have been proposed to play a role in cortical function. Understanding the spatial extent of gamma and its relationship to spiking activity is critical for interpreting this signal and elucidating its function, but previous studies have provided widely disparate views of these properties. We addressed these issues by simultaneously recording LFPs and spiking activity using microelectrode arrays implanted in the primary visual cortex of macaque monkeys. We find that the spatial extent of gamma and its relationship to local spiking activity is stimulus dependent. Small gratings, and those masked with noise, induce a broadband increase in spectral power. This signal is tuned similarly to spiking activity and has limited spatial coherence. Large gratings, however, induce a gamma rhythm characterized by a distinctive spectral &quot;bump,&quot; which is coherent across widely separated sites. This signal is well tuned, but its stimulus preference is similar across millimeters of cortex. The preference of this global gamma rhythm is sensitive to adaptation, in a manner consistent with its magnifying a bias in the neuronal representation of visual stimuli. Gamma thus arises from two sources that reflect different spatial scales of neural ensemble activity. Our results show that there is not a single, fixed ensemble contributing to gamma and that the selectivity of gamma cannot be used to infer its spatial extent.
Converging evidence supports the hypothesis that an anterolateral processing pathway mediates sound identification in auditory cortex, analogous to the role of the ventral cortical pathway in visual object recognition. Studies in nonhuman primates have characterized the anterolateral auditory pathway as a processing hierarchy, composed of three anatomically and physiologically distinct initial stages: core, belt, and parabelt. In humans, potential homologs of these regions have been identified anatomically, but reliable and complete functional distinctions between them have yet to be established. Because the anatomical locations of these fields vary across subjects, investigations of potential homologs between monkeys and humans require these fields to be defined in single subjects. Using functional MRI, we presented three classes of sounds (tones, band-passed noise bursts, and conspecific vocalizations), equivalent to those used in previous monkey studies. In each individual subject, three regions showing functional similarities to macaque core, belt, and parabelt were readily identified. Furthermore, the relative sizes and locations of these regions were consistent with those reported in human anatomical studies. Our results demonstrate that the functional organization of the anterolateral processing pathway in humans is largely consistent with that of nonhuman primates. Because our scanning sessions last only 15 min/subject, they can be run in conjunction with other scans. This will enable future studies to characterize functional modules in human auditory cortex at a level of detail previously possible only in visual cortex. Furthermore, the approach of using identical schemes in both humans and monkeys will aid with establishing potential homologies between them.
Most theories of attention propose that we maintain attentional templates in visual working memory to control what information is selected. In the present study, we directly tested this proposal by measuring the contralateral-delay activity (CDA) of human event-related potentials during visual search tasks in which the target is cued on each trial. Here we show that the CDA can be used to measure the maintenance of attentional templates in visual working memory while processing complex visual scenes. In addition, this method allowed us to directly observe the shift from working memory to long-term memory representations controlling attention as learning occurred and experience accrued searching for the same target object. Our findings provide definitive support for several critical proposals made in theories of attention, learning, and automaticity.
Defining the neural and neurochemical substrates of response inhibition is of crucial importance for the study and treatment of pathologies characterized by impulsivity such as attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and addiction. The stop-signal task (SST) is one of the most popular paradigms used to study the speed and efficacy of inhibitory processes in humans and other animals. Here we investigated the effect of temporarily inactivating different prefrontal subregions in the rat by means of muscimol microinfusions on SST performance. We found that dorsomedial prefrontal cortical areas are important for inhibiting an already initiated response. We also investigated the possible neural substrates of the selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor atomoxetine via its local microinfusion into different subregions of the rat prefrontal cortex. Our results show that both orbitofrontal and dorsal prelimbic cortices mediate the beneficial effects of atomoxetine on SST performance. To assess the neurochemical specificity of these effects, we infused the 2-adrenergic agonist guanfacine and the D(1)/D(2) antagonist -flupenthixol in dorsal prelimbic cortex to interfere with noradrenergic and dopaminergic neurotransmission, respectively. Guanfacine, which modulates noradrenergic neurotransmission, selectively impaired stopping, whereas blocking dopaminergic receptors by -flupenthixol infusion prolonged go reaction time only, confirming the important role of noradrenergic neurotransmission in response inhibition. These results show that, similar to humans, distinct networks play important roles during SST performance in the rat and that they are differentially modulated by noradrenergic and dopaminergic neurotransmission. This study advances our understanding of the neuroanatomical and neurochemical determinants of impulsivity, which are relevant for a range of psychiatric disorders.
We show that simple assumptions about neural processing lead to a model of interval timing as a temporal integration process, in which a noisy firing-rate representation of time rises linearly on average toward a response threshold over the course of an interval. Our assumptions include: that neural spike trains are approximately independent Poisson processes, that correlations among them can be largely cancelled by balancing excitation and inhibition, that neural populations can act as integrators, and that the objective of timed behavior is maximal accuracy and minimal variance. The model accounts for a variety of physiological and behavioral findings in rodents, monkeys, and humans, including ramping firing rates between the onset of reward-predicting cues and the receipt of delayed rewards, and universally scale-invariant response time distributions in interval timing tasks. It furthermore makes specific, well-supported predictions about the skewness of these distributions, a feature of timing data that is usually ignored. The model also incorporates a rapid (potentially one-shot) duration-learning procedure. Human behavioral data support the learning rule's predictions regarding learning speed in sequences of timed responses. These results suggest that simple, integration-based models should play as prominent a role in interval timing theory as they do in theories of perceptual decision making, and that a common neural mechanism may underlie both types of behavior.
Neurons in the rat hippocampus signal current location by firing in restricted areas called place fields. During goal-directed tasks in mazes, place fields can also encode past and future positions through journey-dependent activity, which could guide hippocampus-dependent behavior and underlie other temporally extended memories, such as autobiographical recollections. The relevance of journey-dependent activity for hippocampal-dependent memory, however, is not well understood. To further investigate the relationship between hippocampal journey-dependent activity and memory, we compared neural firing in rats performing two mnemonically distinct but behaviorally identical tasks in the plus maze: a hippocampus-dependent spatial navigation task and a hippocampus-independent cue response task. While place, prospective, and retrospective coding reflected temporally extended behavioral episodes in both tasks, memory strategy altered coding differently before and after the choice point. Before the choice point, when discriminative selection of memory strategy was critical, a switch between the tasks elicited a change in a field's coding category, so that a field that signaled current location in one task coded pending journeys in the other task. After the choice point, however, when memory strategy became irrelevant, the fields preserved coding categories across tasks, so that the same field consistently signaled either current location or the recent journeys. Additionally, on the start arm, firing rates were affected at comparable levels by task and journey; on the goal arm, firing rates predominantly encoded journey. The data demonstrate a direct link between journey-dependent coding and memory and suggest that episodes are encoded by both population and firing rate coding.
Based on earlier gene expression and chromatin array data, we identified the protein, dishevelled (DVL)-2, as being regulated in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key brain reward region, in the mouse social defeat model of depression. Here, we validate these findings by showing that DVL2 mRNA and protein levels are downregulated in NAc of mice susceptible to social defeat stress, effects not seen in resilient mice. Other DVL isoforms, DVL1 and DVL3, show similar patterns of regulation. Downregulation of DVL was also demonstrated in the NAc of depressed humans examined postmortem. Interestingly, several members of the WNT (Wingless)-DVL signaling cascade, including phospho-GSK3 (glycogen synthase kinase-3), also show significant downregulation in the NAc of susceptible, but not resilient, mice, demonstrating concerted regulation of this pathway in the NAc due to social defeat stress. By using viral-mediated gene transfer to overexpress a dominant-negative mutant of DVL in NAc, or by using a pharmacological inhibitor of DVL administered into this brain region, we show that blockade of DVL function renders mice more susceptible to social defeat stress and promotes depression-like behavior in other assays. Similar prodepression-like effects were induced upon overexpressing GSK3 in the NAc, while overexpressing a dominant-negative mutant of GSK3 promoted resilience to social defeat stress. These findings are consistent with the knowledge that downregulation of DVL and phospho-GSK3 reflects an increase in GSK3 activity. These studies reveal a novel role for the DVL-GSK3 signaling pathway, acting within the brain's reward circuitry, in regulating susceptibility to chronic stress.
More than half of the world's population now lives in cities, making the creation of a healthy urban environment a major policy priority. Cities have both health risks and benefits, but mental health is negatively affected: mood and anxiety disorders are more prevalent in city dwellers and the incidence of schizophrenia is strongly increased in people born and raised in cities. Although these findings have been widely attributed to the urban social environment, the neural processes that could mediate such associations are unknown. Here we show, using functional magnetic resonance imaging in three independent experiments, that urban upbringing and city living have dissociable impacts on social evaluative stress processing in humans. Current city living was associated with increased amygdala activity, whereas urban upbringing affected the perigenual anterior cingulate cortex, a key region for regulation of amygdala activity, negative affect and stress. These findings were regionally and behaviourally specific, as no other brain structures were affected and no urbanicity effect was seen during control experiments invoking cognitive processing without stress. Our results identify distinct neural mechanisms for an established environmental risk factor, link the urban environment for the first time to social stress processing, suggest that brain regions differ in vulnerability to this risk factor across the lifespan, and indicate that experimental interrogation of epidemiological associations is a promising strategy in social neuroscience.

Cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) peptides are neurotransmitters with important roles in drug abuse. The increase of CART expression in the brain induced by psychostimulants is associated with changes of behavior in addicted animals. We expressed and purified the single-chain variable fragments antibody (scFv) against CART55-102, and observed the effect of CART scFv on the expression of cocaine-induced behavior sensitization in mice. Results showed that the titer of CART scFv was 1.6 g/ml. Single administration of CART scFv (intraperitoneal 0.04, 0.2, and 1 mg/kg) reduced the increasing locomotor activity induced by chronic cocaine intake in mice (P&lt;0.05-0.01), but failed to affect the locomotor activity of naive mice. These results suggested that CART scFv may be a potential therapeutic tool to treat drug abuse.
The astroglial EAAT2 glutamate transporter is essential for clearing glutamate in the central nervous system and protecting against excitotoxicity. It is implicated in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, the most common type of motor neurone disease) where less EAAT2 is found, possibly involving aberrant intron 7 retention transcripts. We report adenine/inosine RNA editing at a novel site in intron 7 of EAAT2 pre-mRNA that appears to activate a cryptic alternative polyadenylation site, generating intron 7 retention transcripts. This polyadenylation site includes two overlapping polyadenylation signals opposite the editing site in a strong stem-loop, which is highly conserved in primates. In pre-mRNA, we observed variable editing levels at this site, which were significantly higher in spinal cord (p=0.001) and motor cortex (p=0.005) from ALS patients, but not in cerebellum, demonstrating specificity for clinically relevant regions. By contrast, incomplete mRNA molecules polyadenylated in intron 7 are always completely edited. Cell culture experiments confirm this strong correlation between editing and polyadenylation in intron 7, strongly suggesting activation of the alternative polyadenylation site by editing. Prediction of inosine base-pairing from published data suggests that RNA editing releases the polyadenylation signals from the stem-loop, providing a plausible mechanism. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of RNA editing activating an alternative polyadenylation signal.
The transcription factor CCAAT enhancer binding protein (C/EBP) is a key regulator of inflammation and immune responses, and recent studies suggest it is involved in inflammatory processes in the nervous system. We generated a transgenic reporter mouse model, carrying the luciferase (luc) gene under the transcriptional control of C/EBP, for visualising C/EBP activity in vivo. Real-time bioluminescence imaging reflecting C/EBP activity was performed in an acute inflammation model, after systemic administration of lipopolysaccharides (LPS), in C/EBP-luc mice. A striking activity of C/EBP was imaged predominantly in the brain of living C/EBP-luc mice in response to LPS, showing for the first time in vivo that C/EBP mediates the brain response to inflammation. Furthermore, dexamethasone, a potent anti-inflammatory agent, diminished the LPS-induced C/EBP activity demonstrating the physiological regulation of bioluminescence intensity in the brain of C/EBP-luc mice. Our results implicate that C/EBP reporter mice have the potential to be a valuable tool for studies on the mechanisms of brain inflammation in vivo and for the noninvasive preclinical evaluation of therapeutic agents targeting neuroinflammatory diseases.
An immune challenge during the neonatal period can significantly affect the development of the nervous and immune systems, such that long-term abnormalities in immune function and behavior persist into adulthood. Given that immune activation and individual cytokines have been linked to the etiology of many developmental neuropsychiatric disorders, a complete characterization of the neonatal immune response within the brain is warranted. In this study, rats were treated peripherally on postnatal day (P) 4 with either a live Escherichia coli (E. coli) infection or lipopolysaccharide (LPS), two common models of neonatal immune activation. Inflammatory gene expression was measured within the hippocampus 2 and 24h later. We determined that E. coli and LPS produce very distinct inflammatory profiles within the brain. Infection with E. coli produced a robust, yet relatively IL-1 pathway focused activation of the neonatal immune system within the brain, while LPS produced a very broad and robust immune response within the brain. This analysis also identified common inflammatory genes up-regulated by both E. coli and LPS treatment.


Whether animals experience human-like emotions is controversial and of immense societal concern [1-3]. Because animals cannot provide subjective reports of how they feel, emotional state can only be inferred using physiological, cognitive, and behavioral measures [4-8]. In humans, negative feelings are reliably correlated with pessimistic cognitive biases, defined as the increased expectation of bad outcomes [9-11]. Recently, mammals [12-16] and birds [17-20] with poor welfare have also been found to display pessimistic-like decision making, but cognitive biases have not thus far been explored in invertebrates. Here, we ask whether honeybees display a pessimistic cognitive bias when they are subjected to an anxiety-like state induced by vigorous shaking designed to simulate a predatory attack. We show for the first time that agitated bees are more likely to classify ambiguous stimuli as predicting punishment. Shaken bees also have lower levels of hemolymph dopamine, octopamine, and serotonin. In demonstrating state-dependent modulation of categorization in bees, and thereby a cognitive component of emotion, we show that the bees' response to a negatively valenced event has more in common with that of vertebrates than previously thought. This finding reinforces the use of cognitive bias as a measure of negative emotional states across species and suggests that honeybees could be regarded as exhibiting emotions.
It is often assumed that similar behaviors in related species are produced by similar neural mechanisms. To test this, we examined the neuronal basis of a simple swimming behavior in two nudibranchs (Mollusca, Opisthobranchia), Melibe leonina and Dendronotus iris. The side-to-side swimming movements of Dendronotus [1] strongly resemble those of Melibe [2, 3]. In Melibe, it was previously shown that the central pattern generator (CPG) for swimming is composed of two bilaterally symmetric pairs of identified interneurons, swim interneuron 1 (Si1) and swim interneuron 2 (Si2), which are electrically coupled ipsilaterally and mutually inhibit both contralateral counterparts [2, 4]. We identified homologs of Si1 and Si2 in Dendronotus. (Henceforth, homologous neurons in each species will be distinguished by the subscripts (Den) and (Mel).) We found that Si2(Den) and Si2(Mel) play similar roles in generating the swim motor pattern. However, unlike Si1(Mel), Si1(Den) was not part of the swim CPG, was not strongly coupled to the ipsilateral Si2(Den), and did not inhibit the contralateral neurons. Thus, species differences exist in the neuronal organization of the swim CPGs despite the similarity of the behaviors. Therefore, similarity in species-typical behavior is not necessarily predictive of common neural mechanisms, even for homologous neurons in closely related species.
Here we attempted to clarify the role of dopamine signaling in reward seeking. In Experiment 1, we assessed the effects of the dopamine D(1)/D(2) receptor antagonist flupenthixol (0.5 mg/kg i.p.) on Pavlovian incentive motivation and found that flupenthixol blocked the ability of a conditioned stimulus to enhance both goal approach and instrumental performance (Pavlovian-to-instrumental transfer). In Experiment 2 we assessed the effects of flupenthixol on reward palatability during post-training noncontingent re-exposure to the sucrose reward in either a control 3-h or novel 23-h food-deprived state. Flupenthixol, although effective in blocking the Pavlovian goal approach, was without effect on palatability or the increase in reward palatability induced by the upshift in motivational state. This noncontingent re-exposure provided an opportunity for instrumental incentive learning, the process by which rats encode the value of a reward for use in updating reward-seeking actions. Flupenthixol administered prior to the instrumental incentive learning opportunity did not affect the increase in subsequent off-drug reward-seeking actions induced by that experience. These data suggest that although dopamine signaling is necessary for Pavlovian incentive motivation, it is not necessary for changes in reward experience, or for the instrumental incentive learning process that translates this experience into the incentive value used to drive reward-seeking actions, and provide further evidence that Pavlovian and instrumental incentive learning processes are dissociable.
We studied two groups of adult macaque monkeys to determine the time course of adult neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. In the first group, six adult monkeys (Macaca mulatta) received a single injection of the thymidine analog BrdU (75 mg/kg), which is incorporated into replicating DNA and serves as a marker for new cell birth. Brain tissue was collected 48 h, 2 wk, and 6 wk after BrdU injection to examine the initial stages of neurogenesis. Because mature neurons were not evident at 6 wk, we examined tissue collected over a longer time course in a second study. In this study, eight monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) who were subjects in a separate exercise study received 10 weekly injections of BrdU (75 mg/kg), and brain tissue was collected at 16 and 28 wk from the first injection. Based on the timing of expression of neuronal cell markers (III-tubulin, doublecortin, NeuN), the extent of dendritic arborization, and acquisition of mature cell body morphology, we show that granule cell maturation in the dentate gyrus of a nonhuman primate is protracted over a minimum of a 6-mo time period, more than 6 times longer than in rodents. The lengthened time course for new cell maturation in nonhuman primates may be appropriate for preservation of neural plasticity over their longer life span and is relevant to our understanding of antidepressant and other therapies that have been linked to neurogenesis in humans.
