Intelligent agents balance speed of responding withaccuracy of deciding. Stochastic accumulator models commonly explain this speed-accuracy tradeoff by strategic adjustment of response threshold. Several laboratories identify specific neurons in prefrontal and parietal cortex with this accumulation process, yet no neurophysiological correlates of speed-accuracy tradeoff have been described. We trained macaque monkeys to trade speed for accuracy on cue during visual search and recorded the activity of neurons in the frontal eye field. Unpredicted by any model, we discovered that speed-accuracy tradeoff is accomplished through several distinct adjustments. Visually responsive neurons modulated baseline firing rate, sensory gain, and the duration of perceptual processing. Movement neurons triggered responses with activity modulated in a direction opposite of model predictions. Thus, current stochastic accumulator models provide an incomplete description of the neural processes accomplishing speed-accuracy tradeoffs. The diversity of neural mechanisms was reconciled with the accumulator framework through an integrated accumulator model constrained by requirements of the motor system.
Kainate receptors (KARs) play a key role in the regulation of synaptic networks. Here, we show that zinc, a cation released at a subset of glutamatergic synapses, potentiates glutamate currents mediated by homomeric and heteromeric KARs containing GluK3 at 10-100M concentrations, whereas it inhibits other KAR subtypes. Potentiation of GluK3 currents is mainly due to reduced desensitization, as shown by kinetic analysis and desensitization mutants. Crystallographic and mutation analyses revealed that a specific zinc binding site is formed at the base of the ligand binding domain (LBD) dimer interface by a GluK3-specific aspartate (Asp759), together with two conserved residues, His762 and Asp730, the latter located on the partner subunit. In addition, we propose that tetrameric GluK2/GluK3 receptors are likely assembled as pairs of heterodimeric LBDs. Therefore, zinc binding stabilizes the labile GluK3 dimer interface, slows desensitization, and potentiates currents, providing a mechanism for KAR potentiation at glutamatergic synapses.
Rhythmic neural network activity patterns are defining features of sleep, but interdependencies between limbic and cortical oscillations at different frequencies and their functional roles have not been fully resolved. This is particularly important given evidence linking abnormal sleep architecture and memory consolidation in psychiatric diseases. Using EEG, local field potential (LFP), and unit recordings in rats, we show that anteroposterior propagation of neocortical slow-waves coordinates timing of hippocampal ripples and prefrontal cortical spindles during NREM sleep. This coordination is selectivelydisrupted in a rat neurodevelopmental model of schizophrenia: fragmented NREM sleep and impaired slow-wave propagation in the model culminate in deficient ripple-spindle coordination and disrupted spike timing, potentially as a consequence of interneuronal abnormalities reflected by reduced parvalbumin expression. These data further define the interrelationships among slow-wave, spindle, and ripple events, indicating that sleep disturbances may be associated with state-dependent decoupling of hippocampal and cortical circuits in psychiatric diseases.
Direction selectivity in the retina is mediated by direction-selective ganglion cells. These cells are part of a circuit in which they are asymmetrically wired to inhibitory neurons. Thus, they respond strongly to an image moving in the preferred direction and weakly to an image moving in the opposite (null) direction. Here, we demonstrate that adaptation with short visual stimulation of a direction-selective ganglion cell using drifting gratings can reverse this cell's directional preference by 180. This reversal is robust, long lasting, and independent of the animal's age. Our findings indicate that, even within circuits that are hardwired, the computation of direction can be altered by dynamic circuit mechanisms that are guided by visual stimulation.
Retinogenesis is a developmental process that involves the sequential formation of neurons and glia from retinal progenitors. Once retinogenesis is completed, Mller glial cells can be stimulated to differentiate into neuronal lineages and constitute a retina-intrinsic source of neural progenitors. The identification of the intrinsic and extrinsic factors that control proliferation and differentiation of Mller cells or retinal progenitors is needed in order to fully define their potential therapeutic use in regenerative approaches. Here we determined the response of retinal progenitors derived from Mller glia primary cell cultures to GABA-activated signal transduction cascades. Using Western blot analysis, immunocytochemistry and calcium imaging we found that GABA induces an increase of the number of progenitor cells that present spontaneous intracellular calcium transients as well as their frequency, which involve the participation of L-type voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs). This process correlates with the activation of transcription factor CREB through Ser33 phosphorylation and the induction of expression of the early neuronal markers NeuroD1 and III-tubulin. GABA-mediated CREB phosphorylation was rapid and sustained and the pharmacological blockade of CREB activity inhibited the effect of GABA on NeuroD1 expression. Furthermore, consistent with the role of CREB as a histone acetyltransferase recruiter, we demonstrate that GABA induces the modification of histone H4 acetylation pattern in these cells suggesting that epigenetic alterations participate in the differentiation process. Our results support the notion that postnatal retinal progenitors derived from Mller glia primary cell cultures respond to GABA through the same molecular pathway previously characterized in hippocampal progenitors and developing neurons. We speculate that the induction of GABA receptor signaling could represent a novel strategy to enhance neural versus glial specification from these cells through genetic and epigenetic mechanisms.
Neurotrophins like brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) promote the migration of subsets of neural progenitor cells. The mechanism by which motility is increased and the functional properties of BDNF-responsive cells are not very well known. We have used the neurosphere model, combining time-lapse microscopy, immunocytochemistry, and Ca(2+) imaging, to study the effect of BDNF on parameters such as motility and neurotransmitter responsiveness of migrating neural progenitors. At the initiation of differentiation thick glial glutamate-aspartate transporter (GLAST)-positive radial processes emerged from the neurosphere, followed by the exit of neuron-like cells. The neuron-like cells moved outside the radial processes in a phasic manner with intermittent surges of motility and stationary periods. BDNF increased the number and promoted the progress of the neuron-like cells by prolonging surges and decreasing the length of stationary phases. The average rate of cellular movement during surges was unaffected by BDNF. BDNF also caused a several fold increase in positive staining for tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB) receptors and neuronal markers such as Calbindin, microtubule-associated protein-2 (MAP-2), and neuron-specific nuclear protein (NeuN) in cells outside the radial network. Calcium imaging allowed for further characterization of the BDNF-responsive cell population. Kainate-responsive cells, denoting the expression of AMPA/kainate receptors, dominated in the outer migration layers while cells responding to (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) via metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) dominated in the inner migration layers. BDNF did not appreciably affect the distribution of these cells but promoted the redistribution of a small subpopulation (about 20%) of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)- and GABA-responsive cells to the outermost layers of migration. The results demonstrate that BDNF does not affect cell motility per se but alters the phasic behavior of cell movement by promoting periods of high motility in a defined subpopulation of cells which give a robust Ca(2+) response to NMDA and GABA.
Associative learning can enable cues from the environment to stimulate feeding in the absence of physiological hunger. How learned cues are integrated with the homeostatic regulatory system is unknown. Here we examined whether the underlying mechanism involves the hypothalamic orexigenic neuropeptide regulators orexin/hypocretin (ORX) and melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH). We used a Pavlovian conditioning procedure to train food-restricted rats to associate a discrete cue, a tone, with food pellets distinct from their regular lab chow diet. Rats in the conditioned group (Paired) received presentations of a tone immediately prior to food delivery, while the rats in the control group (Unpaired) received random presentations of the same number of tones and food pellets. After conditioning rats were allowed ad libitum access to lab chow for at least 10days before testing. At test sated rats were presented with the tones in their home cages, and then one group was allowed to consume food pellets, while another group was left undisturbed until sacrifice for Fos induction analysis. The tone cue stimulated food consumption in this setting; rats in the Paired group consumed larger amounts of food pellets than rats in the Unpaired group. To examine Fos induction we processed the brain tissue using fluorescent immunohistochemistry methods for combined detection of Fos and characterization of ORX and MCH neurons. We found a greater percentage of ORX and Fos double-labeled neurons in the Paired compared to the Unpaired condition, specifically in the perifornical area. In contrast, there were very few MCH neurons with Fos induction in both the Paired and Unpaired conditions. Thus, the food-cue selectively induced Fos in ORX but not in MCH neurons. These results suggest a role for ORX in cue-induced feeding that occurs in the absence of physiological hunger.
Previous studies have shown that the amygdala plays a key role in the modulation of uncontrollable stress effect on hippocampal long-term potentiation and memory in rats. This study aimed to determine the effects of selective neurotoxic lesions of the basolateral amygdala (BLA) on stress-induced glucocorticoid receptor (GR) translocation and alteration of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinases (pERK) in the hippocampus. Intrinsic neurons of the BLA in rats were destroyed using N-methyl-d-aspartate and the rats were subjected to uncontrollable stress induced by restraint and electrical tail shocks. Western blot analyses showed that stress-induced GR translocation occurred in both rats with sham-operated surgery and rats with BLA lesions. As in the Western blot analyses, immunohistological analyses revealed stress-induced reduction of GR expression in CA1 and dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampi in control rats and rats with BLA lesions. In addition, the Western blot analyses showed that, in response to stress, the levels of hippocampal pERK were reduced in the sham-operated controls, but not in the rats with BLA lesions. Interestingly, the immunohistological analyses showed that BLA lesions prevented the stress-induced reductions in hippocampal pERK levels, only in the DG. These results suggested that the amygdala modulates stress-induced cognitive impairments by regulating the ERK signaling pathway in the hippocampus.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) induces plasticity within the lumbar spinal circuits thereby improving locomotor recovery in spinal cord-injured animals. We examined whether lumbar spinal cord motor neurons and other ventral horn cells of spinally transected (ST) rats were stimulated to produce BDNF mRNA in response to treadmill training. Rats received complete spinal cord transections as neonates (n=20) and one month later, received four weeks of either a low (100 steps/training session; n=10) or high (1000 steps/training session; n=10) amount of robotic-assisted treadmill training. Using combined non-radioactive in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical techniques, we found BDNF mRNA expression in heat shock protein 27-labeled motor neurons and in non-motor neuron cells was greater after 1000 steps/training session compared to the 100 steps/training session and was similar to BDNF mRNA labeling in untrained Intact rats. In addition, there were significantly more motor neurons that contained BDNF mRNA labeling within processes in the ST rats that received the higher amount of treadmill training. These findings suggested that motor neurons and other ventral horn cells in ST rats synthesized BDNF in response to treadmill training. The findings support a mechanism by which postsynaptic release of BDNF from motor neurons contributed to synaptic plasticity.
We propose a novel reduced-order neuronal network modeling framework that includes an enhanced firing rate model and a corresponding synaptic calcium-based synaptic learning rule. Specifically, we propose enhancements to the Wilson-Cowan firing-rate neuron model that permit full spike-frequency adaptation seen in biological lateral amygdala (LA) neurons, while being sufficiently general to accommodate other spike-frequency patterns. We also report a technique to incorporate calcium-dependent plasticity in the synapses of the network using a regression scheme to link firing rate to postsynaptic calcium. Together, the single-cell model and the synaptic learning scheme constitute a general framework to develop computationally efficient neuronal networks that employ biologically realistic synaptic learning. The reduced-order modeling framework was validated using a previously reported biophysical conductance-based neuronal network model of a rodent LA that modeled features of Pavlovian conditioning and extinction of auditory fear (Li et al., 2009). The framework was then used to develop a larger LA network model to investigate the roles of tone and shock distributions and of intrinsic connectivity in auditory fear learning. The model suggested combinations of tone and shock densities that would provide experimental estimates of tone responsive and conditioned cell proportions. Furthermore, it provided several insights including how intrinsic connectivity might help distribute sensory inputs to produce conditioned responses in cells that do not directly receive both tone and shock inputs, and how a balance between potentiation of excitation and inhibition prevents stimulus generalization during fear learning.
Human and animal model studies have linked brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) with the etiology of anxiety disorders. This pleiotropic neurotrophin and its receptor, TrkB, promote neuronal survival, differentiation and synaptic plasticity. Here we interrogated the role of BDNF in serotonergic neurotransmission in the basolateral amygdala (BLA), a limbic brain region associated with the neurobiology of anxiety. We found that both GABAergic and pyramidal projection neurons in the wild-type BLA contained TrkB receptors. Examination of BDNF(2L/2LCk-Cre) mutant mice with brain-selective depletion of BDNF revealed mild decreases in serotonin content in the BLA. Notably, whole cell recordings in BLA pyramidal cells uncovered significant alterations in 5-HT(2)-mediated regulation of GABAergic and glutamatergic transmission in BDNF(2L/2LCk-Cre) mutant mice that result in a hyperexcitable circuit. These changes were associated with decreased expression of 5-HT(2) receptors. Collectively, the results indicate a required role of BDNF in serotonin transmission in the BLA. Furthermore, they suggest a mechanism underlying the reported increase in anxiety-like behavior elicited by perturbed BDNF signaling.
In two related experiments, neurotoxic lesions were placed in the anterior thalamic nuclei of adult rats. The rats were then trained on behavioral tasks, immediately followed by the immunohistochemical measurement of molecules linked to neural plasticity. These measurements were made in limbic sites including the retrosplenial cortex, the hippocampal formation, and parahippocampal areas. In Experiment 1, rats with unilateral anterior thalamic lesions explored either novel or familiar objects prior to analysis of the immediate-early gene zif268. The lesions reduced zif268 activity in the granular retrosplenial cortex and postsubiculum. Exploring novel objects resulted in local changes of hippocampal zif268, but this change was not moderated by anterior thalamic lesions. In Experiment 2, rats that had received either bilateral anterior thalamic lesions or control surgeries were exposed to novel room cues while running in the arms of a radial maze. In addition to zif268, measurements of c-AMP response element binding protein (CREB), phosphorylated CREB (pCREB), and growth associated protein43 (GAP-43) were made. As before, anterior thalamic lesions reduced zif268 in retrosplenial cortex and postsubiculum, but there were also reductions of pCREB in granular retrosplenial cortex. Again, the hippocampus did not show lesion-induced changes in zif268, but there were differential effects on CREB and pCREB consistent with reduced levels of hippocampal CREB phosphorylation following anterior thalamic damage. No changes in GAP-43 were detected. The results not only point to changes in several limbic sites (retrosplenial cortex and hippocampus) following anterior thalamic damage, but also indicate that these changes include decreased levels of pCREB. As pCREB is required for neuronal plasticity, partly because of its regulation of immediate early-gene expression, the present findings reinforce the concept of an 'extended hippocampal system' in which hippocampal function is dependent on distal sites such as the anterior thalamic nuclei.
We have recorded, for the first time, in non-anesthetized, head-restrained mice, a total of 339 single units in and around the laterodorsal (LDT) and sublaterodorsal (SubLDT) tegmental nuclei, which are located, respectively, in, or beneath, the periaqueductal gray and contain cholinergic neurons. The recordings were made during the complete wake-sleep cycle including wakefulness (W), slow-wave sleep (SWS), and paradoxical (or rapid eye movement) sleep (PS). The tegmental neurons displayed either a biphasic narrow or triphasic broad action potential. Seventy-six LDT or SubLDT neurons characterized by their triphasic long-duration action potentials were judged to be cholinergic and this was verified in anesthetized mice using neurobiotin juxtacellular labeling combined with choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry of the recorded cell. The 76 presumed cholinergic neurons discharged tonically at the highest rate during W and PS (W/PS-active neurons) as either single isolated spikes or clusters of two to five spikes, and 26 of them discharged selectively during W and PS, these W/PS-selective neurons being found mainly in the SubLDT. The clustering discharge was particularly prominent during PS, when it was associated with an obvious phasic change in the cortical electroencephalogram (EEG), and during waking periods, when it was accompanied by abrupt body movements. During the transition from sleep to waking, the cholinergic W/PS-selective neurons and the LDT or SubLDT noncholinergic W-selective neurons showed firing before the onset of W, while, at the transition from waking to sleep, they ceased firing before sleep onset. At the transition from SWS to PS, all the cholinergic neurons exhibited a significant increase in discharge rate before the onset of PS. The present study in mice supports the view that cholinergic and noncholinergic LDT and SubLDT neurons play an important role in tonic and phasic processes of arousal and cortical EEG activation occurring during W or PS, as well as in the sleep/waking switch.
Stimulation of neurons in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (PAG) produces antinociception as well as cardiovascular depressor responses that are mediated in part by pontine noradrenergic neurons. A previous report using light microscopy has described a pathway from neurons in the ventrolateral PAG to noradrenergic neurons in the A5 cell group that may mediate these effects. The present study used anterograde tracing and electron microscopic analysis to provide more definitive evidence that neurons in the ventrolateral PAG form synapses with noradrenergic and non-catecholaminergic A5 neurons in Sasco Sprague-Dawley rats. Deposits of anterograde tracer, biotinylated dextran amine, into the rat ventrolateral PAG labeled a significant number of axons in the region of the rostral subdivision of the A5 cell group, and a relatively lower number in the caudal A5 cell group. Electron microscopic analysis of anterogradely-labeled terminals in both rostral (n=127) and caudal (n=70) regions of the A5 cell group indicated that approximately 10% of these form synapses with noradrenergic dendrites. In rostral sections, about 31% of these were symmetric synapses, 19% were asymmetric synapses, and 50% were membrane appositions without clear synaptic specializations. In caudal sections, about 22% were symmetric synapses, and the remaining 78% were appositions. In both rostral and caudal subdivisions of the A5, nearly 40% of the anterogradely-labeled terminals formed synapses with non-catecholaminergic dendrites, and about 45% formed axoaxonic synapses. These results provide direct evidence for a monosynaptic pathway from neurons in the ventrolateral PAG to noradrenergic and non-catecholaminergic neurons in the A5 cell group. Further studies should evaluate if this established monosynaptic pathway may contribute to the cardiovascular depressor effects or the analgesia produced by the activation of neurons in the ventrolateral PAG.
DYT1 dystonia is a dominantly inherited, disabling neurological disorder with low penetrance that is caused by the deletion of a glutamic acid (E) in the protein torsinA. We previously showed that torsinA(wt) is degraded through macroautophagy while torsinA(E) is targeted to the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway (UPP). The different catabolism of torsinA(wt) and (E) potentially modulates torsinA(wt):torsinA(E) stoichiometry. Therefore, gaining a mechanistic understanding on how the protein quality control machinery clears torsinA(E) in neurons may uncover important regulatory steps in disease pathogenesis. Here, we asked whether F-box/G-domain protein 1 (FBG1), a ubiquitin ligase known to degrade neuronal glycoproteins, is implicated in the degradation of torsinA(E) by the UPP. In a first set of studies completed in cultured cells, we show that FBG1 interacts with and influences the steady-state levels of torsinA(wt) and (E). Interestingly, FBG1 achieves this effect promoting the degradation of torsinA not only through the UPP, but also by macroautophagy. To determine the potential clinical significance of these findings, we asked if eliminating expression of Fbg1 triggers a motor phenotype in torsinA(E) knock in (KI) mice, a model of non-manifesting DYT1 mutation carriers. We detected differences in spontaneous locomotion between aged torsinA(E) KI-Fbg1 knock out and control mice. Furthermore, neuronal levels of torsinA were unaltered in Fbg1 null mice, indicating that redundant systems likely compensate in vivo for the absence of this ubiquitin ligase. In summary, our studies support a non-essential role for FBG1 on the degradation of torsinA and uncover a novel link of FBG1 to the autophagy pathway.
Activation of neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptors in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) can facilitate pain transmission in conditions such as inflammation, and thereby contribute to hyperalgesia. Since blockade of NK-1 receptors in the RVM can attenuate hyperalgesia produced by prolonged inflammation, we examined the role of NK-1 receptors in changes of response properties of RVM neurons following four days of hind paw inflammation with complete Freund's adjuvant. Recordings were made from functionally identified ON, OFF and NEUTRAL cells in the RVM. Spontaneous activity and responses evoked by a series of mechanical (10, 15, 26, 60, 100, and 180 g) and heat (34-50 C) stimuli applied to the inflamed and non-inflamed hind paws were determined before and at 15 and 60 min after injection of the NK-1-antagonist L-733,060 or vehicle into the RVM. Prolonged inflammation did not alter the proportions of functionally-identified ON, OFF and NEUTRAL cells. ON cells exhibited enhanced responses to mechanical (60-100g) and heat (48-50 C) stimuli applied to the inflamed paw, which were attenuated by L-733,060 but not by vehicle. Inhibitory responses of OFF cells evoked by mechanical stimuli applied to the inflamed paw were also inhibited by L-733,060, but responses evoked by stimulation of the contralateral paw were increased. Heat-evoked responses of OFF cells were not altered by L-733,060. Also, neither L-733,060 nor vehicle altered spontaneous ongoing discharge rate of RVM neurons. These data indicate that NK-1 receptors modulate excitability of ON cells which contribute to both mechanical and heat hyperalgesia, whereas NK-1 modulation of OFF cells contributes to mechanical hyperalgesia during prolonged inflammation.
After trauma brain injury, a large number of cells die, releasing neurotoxic chemicals into the extracellular medium, decreasing cellular glutathione levels and increasing reactive oxygen species that affect cell survival and provoke an enlargement of the initial lesion. Alpha-lipoic acid is a potent antioxidant commonly used as a treatment of many degenerative diseases such as multiple sclerosis or diabetic neuropathy. Herein, the antioxidant effects of lipoic acid treatment after brain cryo-injury in rat have been studied, as well as cell survival, proliferation in the injured area, gliogenesis and angiogenesis. Thus, it is shown that newborn cells, mostly corresponded with blood vessels and glial cells, colonized the damaged area 15 days after the lesion. However, lipoic acid was able to stimulate the synthesis of glutathione, decrease cell death, promote angiogenesis and decrease the glial scar formation. All those facts allow the formation of new neural tissue. In view of the results herein, lipoic acid might be a plausible pharmacological treatment after brain injury, acting as a neuroprotective agent of the neural tissue, promoting angiogenesis and reducing the glial scar formation. These findings open new possibilities for restorative strategies after brain injury, stroke or related disorders.
Retinal bipolar cells and ganglion cells are known to possess voltage-gated T-type Ca(2+) channels. Previous electrophysiological recording studies suggested that there is differential expression of different T-type Ca(2+) channel 1 subunits among bipolar cells. The detailed expression patterns of the individual T-type Ca(2+) channel subunits in the retina, however, remain unknown. In this study, we examined the expression of the Ca(V)3.2 Ca(2+) channel 1 subunit in the mouse retina using immunohistochemical analysis and patch-clamp recordings together with a Ca(V)3.2 knock out (KO) mouse line. The specificity of a Ca(V)3.2 Ca(2+) channel antibody was first confirmed in recombinant T-type Ca(2+) channels expressed in human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells and in Ca(V)3.2 KO mice. Our immunohistochemical analysis indicates that the Ca(V)3.2 antibody labels a subgroup of type-3 cone bipolar cells (CBCs), the PKAII-immunopositive type-3 CBCs. The labeling was observed throughout the cell including dendrites and axon terminals. Our patch-clamp recording results further demonstrate that Ca(V)3.2 Ca(2+) channels contribute to the T-type Ca(2+) current in a subpopulation of type-3 CBCs. The findings of this study provide new insights into understanding the functional roles of T-type Ca(2+) channels in retinal processing.
In order to better understand and treat neuropathic pain, scientific study must use methods that can assess pain processing at the cortical level where pain is truly perceived. Operant behavior paradigms can accomplish this. We used an operant task to evaluate changes following chronic constriction injury to the trigeminal nerves. We also relate these behavioral changes to immunohistochemistry of transient receptor potential channels vanilloid 1 and melastatin 8 (TRPV1 and TRPM8) in the trigeminal ganglia. Following nerve injury, successful performance of the operant task was reduced and aversive behaviors were observed with 10 and 37 C stimulation, indicating cold allodynia and mechanical allodynia respectively. In contrast, while aversive behaviors were observed with 48 C stimulation, successful performance of the operant task was not substantially hindered following injury. These behavioral changes were accompanied by an increase in TRPV1 positive cells and an increased intensity of TRPM8 staining at 2 weeks post-injury, when cold allodynia is maximal. These findings suggest that the incorporation of operant behavioral assessment in the study of pain may provide insight into the relationship among peripheral changes, motivational drive, and pain. Understanding this relationship will allow us to better treat and prevent chronic neuropathic pain.
Drinking alcohol in moderation is often considered a health-conscious behavior, associated with improved cardiovascular and brain health. However, &quot;moderate&quot; amounts of alcohol include drinking 3-4 alcohol beverages in a day, which is closer to binge drinking and may do more harm than good. Here we examined how daily drinking of moderate-high alcohol alters the production of new neurons in the adult hippocampus. Male and female adult Sprague-Dawley rats were provided free access to a liquid replacement diet that was supplemented with either 4% ethanol or Maltodextrin for a period of 2 weeks. Proliferating cells were labeled with 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) and the number of BrdU-positive cells in the hippocampus was assessed after the final day of drinking. A subset of rats was also exposed to a motor skill or associative learning task to examine the functional effects of alcohol consumption. The drinking regime resulted in an average blood alcohol concentration of approximately 0.08%, which is comparable to the human legal driving limit in many countries. This level of intoxication did not impair motor skill learning or function in either sex, nor did the alcohol consumption disrupt associative learning 2 days after drinking. Therefore, moderate alcohol consumption did not disrupt basic sensory, motor or learning processes. However, the number of cells produced in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus was reduced by nearly 40%. Thus, even moderate consumption of alcohol for a relatively short period of time can have profound effects on structural plasticity in the adult brain.
This work compares the effects on brain stimulation reward (BSR) when combining D2 dopamine receptor and AMPA glutamate receptor manipulations in the sublenticular central extended amygdala (SLEAc) and the nucleus accumbens shell (NAc shell). Thirty-seven male Long Evans rats received medial forebrain bundle (MFB) stimulation electrodes and bilateral injection guide cannulae aimed at either the SLEAc or the NAc shell. The rate-frequency paradigm was used to assess drug-induced changes in stimulation reward effectiveness and in response rate following 0.5 l infusions of 0.50 g of 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide (NBQX) (AMPA receptor antagonist), 10.0 g of quinpirole (D2 receptor agonist), 0.25 g of AMPA (AMPA receptor agonist), 3.0 g of eticlopride (D2 receptor antagonist), 0.50 g of NBQX with 10.0 g of quinpirole, and 0.25 g of AMPA with 3.0 g of eticlopride. The drugs were injected both ipsi- and contralateral to the stimulation site. AMPA blockade and D2 stimulation synergized to reduce BSR's reward efficacy when directed at the SLEAc contralateral to the stimulation site whereas changes in reward efficacy were primarily D2-dependent following injections into the ipsilateral SLEAc. When injected into the NAc shell the drugs had only one significant effect on the frequency required to maintain half-maximal responding: injections of NBQX with quinpirole ipsilateral to the stimulation site increased required frequency significantly more than did injections of saline. Contrary to expectations, stimulating AMPA receptors with and without co-blockade of D2 receptors also decreased the stimulation's reward efficacy, although these effects may reflect general behavioral disruption more than effects on reward per se. These results indicate a role for the SLEAc in BSR and also suggest that SLEAc neurons ipsi- and contralateral to the stimulated MFB play their roles in BSR through different mechanisms.
Animals exposed to phencyclidine (PCP) during the neonatal period have fewer GABAergic interneurons in the corticolimbic area, including the hippocampus, and exhibit abnormal behaviors after attaining maturation that correspond with schizophrenic symptoms. Since a lack of inhibitory interneurons in the hippocampus has also been reported in postmortem studies of patients with schizophrenia, the deficit may induce abnormal activity of hippocampal neurons that underlies pathological states in schizophrenia. However, it remains unclear how PCP treatment during the neonatal period affects the discharge activity of hippocampal neurons in adulthood. In the current study, single unit responses of hippocampal CA3 neurons to paired auditory clicks were recorded in freely moving mice repeatedly injected with PCP or saline during the neonatal period. The recorded neurons were classified into two subpopulations, narrow-spike neurons and broad-spike neurons, based on the spike width. The spontaneous discharge rate was higher in the narrow-spike neurons than in the broad-spike neurons, indicating that the narrow-spike neurons correspond with hippocampal inhibitory neurons. The proportion of narrow-spike neurons was significantly smaller in neonatally PCP-treated mice than in saline-treated mice. The broad-spike neurons that exhibited a response magnitude to the second click as large as that to the first click (E/E-type response) showed longer response duration to the paired clicks in PCP-treated mice than in the saline-treated mice. Further, the number of neurons with E/E-type response was higher in the PCP-treated mice than in the saline-treated mice. Finally, the attenuation of an auditory-evoked potential component, N40, to the second click (sensory gating) was blunted in the PCP-treated mice when compared with that in the saline-treated mice. These results suggest that the neonatal administration of PCP induced a deficit of inhibitory interneurons and altered discharge activity of neurons in the hippocampal CA3 region to the paired clicks, thereby inducing the deficit in sensory gating.
PreBtzinger complex (preBtC) neurons in the brainstem underlie respiratory rhythm generation in vitro. As a result of network interactions, preBtC neurons burst synchronously to produce rhythmic premotor inspiratory activity. Each inspiratory neuron has a characteristic 10-20 mV, 0.3-0.8 s synchronous depolarization known as the inspiratory drive potential or inspiratory envelope, topped by action potentials (APs). Mechanisms involving Ca(2+) fluxes have been proposed to underlie the initiation of the inspiratory drive potential. An important source of intracellular Ca(2+) is the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in which active Ca(2+) sequestration is mediated by a class of transporters termed sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) ATPases (SERCAs). We aim to test the hypothesis that disruption of Ca(2+) sequestration into the ER affects respiratory rhythm generation. We examined the effect of inhibiting SERCA on respiratory rhythm generation in an in vitro slice preparation. Bath application of the potent SERCA inhibitors thapsigargin or cyclopiazonic acid (CPA) for up to 90 min did not significantly affect the period or amplitude of respiratory-related motor output or integral and duration of inspiratory drive in preBtC neurons. We promoted the depletion of intracellular Ca(2+) stores by a transient bath application of 30 mM K(+) (high K(+)) in the continuous presence of thapsigargin or CPA. After washing out the high K(+), respiratory rhythm period and amplitude returned to baseline values. These results show that after inhibition of SERCA and depletion of intracellular Ca(2+) stores, respiratory rhythm remains substantially the same, suggesting that this source of Ca(2+) does not significantly contribute to rhythm generation in the preBtC in vitro.
Vestibulospinal reflexes elicited by head displacement become appropriate for body stabilization owing to the integration of neck input by the cerebellar anterior vermis. Due to this integration, the preferred direction of spinal motoneurons' responses to animal tilt rotates by the same angle and by the same direction as the head over the body, which makes it dependent on the direction of body displacement rather than on head displacement. It is known that the cerebellar control of spinal motoneurons involves the reticular formation. Since the preferred directions of corticocerebellar units' responses to animal tilt are tuned by neck rotation, as occuring in spinal motoneurons, we investigated whether a similar tuning can be observed also in the intermediate station of reticular formation. In anaesthetized rats, the activity of neurons in the medullary reticular formation was recorded during wobble of the whole animal at 0.156 Hz, a stimulus that tilted the animal's head by a constant amplitude (5), in a direction rotating clockwise or counter clockwise over the horizontal plane. The response gain and the direction of tilt eliciting the maximal activity were evaluated with the head and body axes aligned and during a maintained body-to-head displacement of 5-20 over the horizontal plane, in either direction. We found that the neck displacement modified the response gain and/or the average activity of most of the responsive neurons. Rotation of the response direction was observed only in a minor percentage of the recorded neurons. The modifications of reticular neurons' responses were different from those observed in the P-cells of the cerebellar anterior vermis, which rarely showed gain and activity changes and often exhibited a rotation of their response directions. In conclusion, reticular neurons take part in the neck tuning of vestibulospinal reflexes by transforming a head-driven sensory input into a body-centred postural response. The present findings prompt re-evaluation of the role played by the reticular neurons and the cerebellum in vestibulospinal reflexes.
Motor learning adjusts movement size and direction to keep movements accurate. A useful model of motor learning, saccade adaptation, uses intra-saccade target movement to make saccades seem inaccurate and elicit adaptive changes in saccades. In the most studied saccade adaptation procedure, which we call short-term saccade adaptation (STSA), monkeys decrease or increase the size of their saccades by tracking 1000-2000 adapting target movements in a single saccade session. STSA elicits rapid changes of limited size and duration. Larger, more persistent reduction in saccade size results from adapting saccades daily for 19 days, a procedure that we call long-term saccade adaptation (LTSA). LTSA mimics the demands of rehabilitation more closely than does STSA and, unlike STSA, produces changes that could maintain long-term accuracy. Previous work describes LTSA that reduces saccade size in monkeys. Though convenient to study, size-decreasing LTSA is not a good model for rehabilitation because few injuries necessitate making movements smaller. Here we characterize size-increasing LTSA and compare it, in the same monkeys, to size-reducing LTSA. We found that size-increasing LTSA can double saccade gain in 21 days, and is slower than size-decreasing LTSA. In contrast to a single size-decreasing STSA, a single size-increasing STSA does not prevent additional saccade size increase at the normal rate when a monkey continues to track adapting target movements. We conclude that size-increasing LTSA is slower than size-decreasing LTSA but can make larger changes in saccade size. Size-increasing and size-decreasing LTSA use distinct mechanisms with different performance characteristics.
Microcirculatory dysfunction may contribute to delayed cerebral ischemia after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Using a prechiasmatic injection model, this study investigated ultrastructural changes in microvessels in brain parenchyma to determine the nature of the microthromboemboli, the involvement of nitric oxide (NO) and P-selectin in their formation, and relationship to brain injury after SAH. Brains were examined by electron microscopy (EM) and immunohistochemistry. EM demonstrated that mice with SAH had significantly more arterioles filled with lesions consistent with microthrombi (in cortex, 20  5 for SAH, 8  4 saline-injected and 2.4  0.2 for sham). SAH animals also had more constriction of arterioles. The concentration of NO was lower in mice with SAH (44  9 for sham, 46  20 for saline-injected and 24  11 for SAH). The number of microthrombi correlated with the number of apoptotic neuronal cells (R(2)=0.80 in cortex). Cell membrane P-selectin increased in the endothelium of arterioles in mice with SAH (11.4  0.7 for SAH, 6.8  0.9 for sham and 6.1  0.9 for saline-injected controls). This correlated with decreased NO in the brain. In conclusion, SAH causes microthrombosis and constriction of arterioles, which correlates with neuronal cell death. Increased P-selectin and decreased NO suggest a mechanism for microthrombosis and arteriolar constriction.
Glutamate homeostasis and microglia activation play an important role in the development and maintenance of neuropathic pain. So far, there has been insufficient data on the relationship between glutamate transporters and cytokines in neuropathic pain. This investigation was designed to evaluate the interaction between co-administration of ceftriaxone, a specific GLT1 activator and minocycline, a specific microglia inhibitor, on the mechanical and cold allodynia of chronic constriction injury model (CCI) in rats. Moreover, alteration of the spinal concentration of proinflammatory cytokines, tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) was studied. Ceftriaxone (100, 150 and 200mg/kg, i.p.) and minocycline (25, 50 and 100mg/kg, i.p.) were administered either alone or in combination for 7 days. Gabapentin (100mg/kg, i.p.) was selected as a reference drug. Behavioral evaluations were performed 1 day before and on days 3, 5, 7, 10 and 14 after surgery. Each of drugs produced a dose-dependent reversal of the neuropathic pain behaviors. Area under the curve (AUC) of combination therapy revealed that minocycline potentiated cold and mechanical antiallodynic effects of ceftriaxone. TNF- and IL-1 increased in the spinal cord of CCI animals on days 3, 7 and 14 post-surgery. Production of studied cytokines was significantly attenuated after treatment with ceftriaxone alone and in combination with minocycline compared with control group. It is suggested that combination of these classes of drugs would be a promising approach for treatment of chronic neuropathic pain.
Valproate (VPA) is an anticonvulsant and mood-stabilizing drug. It is a broad-spectrum histone deacetylase inhibitor with neuroprotective effects. We investigated whether VPA reduces retinal neuronal death induced by optic nerve crush (ONC). To evaluate further VPA-mediated neuroprotection on retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), another histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, sodium butyrate (SB) was compared with VPA. Adult male Wistar rats were subjected to ONC injury. VPA and SB were administered subcutaneously 1 day prior to ONC until sacrifice 14 days later. RGC density was counted using hematoxylin and eosin (H&amp;E) staining of the retinal section and retrograde labeling with FluoroGold. Retinal function was evaluated by electroretinography (ERG) after ONC. Immunofluorescence of activated caspase-3 in ganglion cell layer (GCL) and the detection of bcl-2 mRNA expression in the retina were used to evaluate apoptosis of retinal cells. In addition, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in retinas was measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Western blot was used to analyze histone H3 acetylation, the protein kinase B (Akt) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk) phosphorylation levels, and tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB) levels. The transcriptional activation of the BDNF gene was analyzed by measuring the levels of acetylation or methylation of histone H3 using chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. The RGC density in the VPA and SB treated-groups were significantly higher as compared with those of the corresponding vehicle group following ONC. VPA and SB suppressed reductions in a- and b-wave amplitudes of the ERG and attenuated the activation of caspase-3 in the RGCs, which was accompanied by upregulation in Akt and Erk phosphorylation in the retina. Furthermore, VPA upregulated levels of bcl-2, BDNF, TrkB in the retina post-injury. VPA and SB treatment resulted in the hyperacetylation of histone H3K14, attenuated histone H3K9 hypermethylation in the BDNF promoter, and promoted transcriptional activity. These results demonstrate that VPA appears to protect RGCs from ONC by inhibiting neuronal apoptosis possibly via the activation of BDNF-TrkB signaling and HDAC inhibition.
Mathematical models are increasingly important in biology, and testability is becoming a critical issue. One limitation is that one model simulation tests a parameter set representing one instance of the biological counterpart, whereas biological systems are heterogeneous in their properties and behavior, and a model often is fitted to represent an ideal average. This is also true for models of a cell's electrical activity; even within a narrowly defined population there can be considerable variation in electrophysiological phenotype. Here, we describe a computational experimental approach for parameterizing a model of the electrical activity of a cell in real time. We combine the inexpensive parallel computational power of a programmable graphics processing unit with the flexibility of the dynamic clamp method. The approach involves 1), recording a cell's electrical activity, 2), parameterizing a model to the recording, 3), generating predictions, and 4), testing the predictions on the same cell used for the calibration. We demonstrate the experimental feasibility of our approach using a cell line (GH4C1). These cells are electrically active, and they display tonic spiking or bursting. We use our approach to predict parameter changes that can convert one pattern to the other.
Hypothalamic RIP-expressing neurons regulate energy balance, but the precise neural pathways and neurotransmitters mediating this effect remain undetermined. Kong etal. (2012) now demonstrate that RIP neurons regulate energy expenditure and BAT thermogenesis predominantly via a GABAergic arcuate-paraventricular-hindbrain pathway.
Although the human brain may have evolutionarily adapted to face-to-face communication, other modes of communication, e.g., telephone and e-mail, increasingly dominate our modern daily life. This study examined the neural difference between face-to-face communication and other types of communication by simultaneously measuring two brains using a hyperscanning approach. The results showed a significant increase in the neural synchronization in the left inferior frontal cortex during a face-to-face dialog between partners but none during a back-to-back dialog, a face-to-face monologue, or a back-to-back monologue. Moreover, the neural synchronization between partners during the face-to-face dialog resulted primarily from the direct interactions between the partners, including multimodal sensory information integration and turn-taking behavior. The communicating behavior during the face-to-face dialog could be predicted accurately based on the neural synchronization level. These results suggest that face-to-face communication, particularly dialog, has special neural features that other types of communication do not have and that the neural synchronization between partners may underlie successful face-to-face communication.
We often have to make risky decisions between alternatives with outcomes that can be better or worse than the outcomes of safer alternatives. Although previous studies have implicated various brain regions in risky decision making, it remains unknown which regions are crucial for balancing whether to take a risk or play it safe. Here, we focused on the anterior insular cortex (AIC), the causal involvement of which in risky decision making is still unclear, although human imaging studies have reported AIC activation in various gambling tasks. We investigated the effects of temporarily inactivating the AIC on rats' risk preference in two types of gambling tasks, one in which risk arose in reward amount and one in which it arose in reward delay. As a control within the same subjects, we inactivated the adjacent orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), which is well known to affect risk preference. In both gambling tasks, AIC inactivation decreased risk preference whereas OFC inactivation increased it. In risk-free control situations, AIC and OFC inactivations did not affect decision making. These results suggest that the AIC is causally involved in risky decision making and promotes risk taking. The AIC and OFC may be crucial for the opposing motives of whether to take a risk or avoid it.
Many cells in both the central visual system and other sensory systems exhibit a center surround organization in their receptive field, where the response to a centrally placed stimulus is modified when a surrounding area is also stimulated. This can follow from laterally directed connections in the local circuit at the level of the cell in question but could also involve more complex interactions. In the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), the cells relaying the retinal input display a concentric, center surround organization that in part follows from the similar organization characterizing the retinal cells providing their input. However, local thalamic inhibitory interneurons also play a role, and as we examine here, feedback from the visual cortex too. Here, we show in the primate (macaque) that spatially organized cortical feedback provides a clear and differential influence serving to enhance both responses to stimulation within the center of the receptive field and the ability of the nonclassical surround mechanism to attenuate this. In short, both center and surround mechanisms are influenced by the feedback. This dynamically sharpens the spatial focus of the receptive field and introduces nonlinearities from the cortical mechanism into the LGN.
An important question in neuroscience is how the activity from spatially distributed cortical representations is integrated and processed together. In this study, we used a new approach to investigate the integration of distributed cortical activity. We used microstimulation to directly activate pairs of sites in primary visual cortex of rhesus monkeys. The sites were activated either singly or jointly, and the monkeys were trained to behaviorally report detection of the activation of either cortical site. We compared the detection performance with predictions from two different mathematical models of signal combination. Our data show that, at cortical separations &lt;1 mm, signal integration is well described as a linear combination (d' summation) of individual site activity. At larger separations, signal integration is better described as a maximum operation on the site signals. We compare our neurophysiological findings to existing psychophysical data and suggest the intriguing possibility that cortical activity originating at spatial separations greater than 1 mm is processed as if by parallel, independent circuits whose signals can be compared against each other but not summed. This in turn implies that there is a strong constraint to the kinds of computations the brain can perform with spatially distributed cortical activity.
The level and integrity of glutamate transmission during critical periods of postnatal development plays an important role in the refinement of pyramidal neuron dendritic arbor, synaptic plasticity, and cognition. Presently, it is not clear how excitatory transmission via the two predominant isoforms of the vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT1 and VGLUT2) participate in this process. To assess a neurodevelopmental role for VGLUT2 in pyramidal neuron maturation, we generated recombinant VGLUT2 knock-out mice and inactivated VGLUT2 throughout development using Emx1-Cre(+/+) knock-in mice. We show that VGLUT2 deficiency in corticolimbic circuits results in reduced evoked glutamate transmission, release probability, and LTD at hippocampal CA3-CA1 synapses during a formative developmental period (postnatal days 11-14). In adults, we find a marked reduction in the amount of dendritic arbor across the span of the dendritic tree of CA1 pyramidal neurons and reduced long-term potentiation and levels of synaptic markers spinophilin and VGLUT1. Loss of dendritic arbor is accompanied by corresponding reductions in the number of dendritic spines, suggesting widespread alterations in synaptic connectivity. Conditional VGLUT2 knock-out mice exhibit increased open-field exploratory activity yet impaired spatial learning and memory, endophenotypes similar to those of NMDA receptor knock-down mice. Remarkably, the impairment in learning can be partially restored by selectively increasing NMDA receptor-mediated glutamate transmission in adult mice by prolonged treatment with d-serine and a d-amino acid oxidase inhibitor. Our data indicate that VGLUT2 expression is pivotal to the proper development of mature pyramidal neuronal architecture and plasticity, and that such glutamatergic deficiency leads to cognitive malfunction as observed in several neurodevelopmental psychiatric disorders.
Although clinical and experimental observations indicate that the optic nerve head (ONH) is a major site of axon degeneration in glaucoma, the mechanisms by which local retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons are injured and damage spreads among axons remain poorly defined. Using a laser-induced ocular hypertension (LIOH) mouse model of glaucoma, we found that within 48 h of intraocular pressure elevation, RGC axon segments within the ONH exhibited ectopic accumulation and colocalization of multiple components of the glutamatergic presynaptic machinery including the vesicular glutamate transporter VGLUT2, several synaptic vesicle marker proteins, glutamate, the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor complex and active zone cytomatrix components, as well as ultrastructurally identified, synaptophysin-containing vesicles. Ectopic vesicle exocytosis and glutamate release were detected in acute preparations of the LIOH ONH. Immunolocalization and analysis using the ionotropic receptor channel-permeant cation agmatine indicated that ONH axon segments and glia expressed glutamate receptors, and these receptors were more active after LIOH compared with controls. Pharmacological antagonism of glutamate receptors and neuronal activity resulted in increased RGC axon sparing in vivo. Furthermore, in vivo RGC-specific genetic disruption of the vesicular glutamate transporter VGLUT2 or the obligatory NMDA receptor subunit NR1 promoted axon survival in experimental glaucoma. As the inhibition of ectopic glutamate vesicular release or glutamate receptivity can independently modify the severity of RGC axon loss, synaptic release mechanisms may provide useful therapeutic entry points into glaucomatous axon degeneration.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) pain is a debilitating chronic condition that is severe and unrelenting. Despite decades of extensive research, the neuropathological mechanisms responsible for the development of this devastating condition remain largely unknown, hindering our ability to develop effective treatments. Because several lines of evidence implicate abnormalities of the thalamus and cortex in the etiology of SCI pain, we hypothesized that SCI pain results from abnormal functional connectivity of brain areas heavily implicated in pain processing. We performed a longitudinal study in a rat model of SCI (SCI group, n = 8; sham-operated group, n = 6) and acquired resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging scans before spinal surgery and 3, 7, 14, and 21 (SCI only) days after surgery in the same animals. Functional connectivity was decreased between the ventroposterior lateral thalamus (VPL) and primary somatosensory cortex (S1) 7 d after SCI. This reduction preceded an increase in connectivity between S1 and other cortical areas involved in nociceptive processing. In addition, VPL had increased connectivity to contralateral thalamus at 7 and 14 d after injury. The temporal pattern of the increase in functional connectivity within the thalamus and between cortical areas (particularly S1 and retrosplenial cortex) had a striking resemblance to the temporal pattern for the development of a &quot;below-level&quot; mechanical hypersensitivity in the same animals. Our findings suggest that below-level hypersensitivity is associated with functional disconnection (asynchrony) between the thalamus and cortical areas involved in nociceptive processing.
After transplantation, individual stem cell-derived neurons can functionally integrate into the host CNS; however, evidence that neurons derived from transplanted human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) can drive endogenous neuronal network activity in CNS tissue is still lacking. Here, using multielectrode array recordings, we report activation of high-frequency oscillations in the  and  ranges (10-100 Hz) in the host hippocampal network via targeted optogenetic stimulation of transplanted hESC-derived neurons.
Fear is an emotional response to danger that is highly conserved throughout evolution because it is critical for survival. Accordingly, episodic memory for fearful locations is widely studied using contextual fear conditioning, a hippocampus-dependent task (Kim and Fanselow, 1992; Phillips and LeDoux, 1992). The hippocampus has been implicated in episodic emotional memory and is thought to integrate emotional stimuli within a spatial framework. Physiological evidence supporting the role of the hippocampus in contextual fear indicates that pyramidal cells in this region, which fire in specific locations as an animal moves through an environment, shift their preferred firing locations shortly after the presentation of an aversive stimulus (Moita et al., 2004). However, the long-term physiological mechanisms through which emotional memories are encoded by the hippocampus are unknown. Here we show that during and directly after a fearful experience, new hippocampal representations are established and persist in the long term. We recorded from the same place cells in mouse hippocampal area CA1 over several days during predator odor contextual fear conditioning and found that a subset of cells changed their preferred firing locations in response to the fearful stimulus. Furthermore, the newly formed representations of the fearful context stabilized in the long term. Our results demonstrate that place cells respond to the presence of an aversive stimulus, modify their firing patterns during emotional learning, and stabilize a long-term spatial representation in response to a fearful encounter. The persistent nature of these representations may contribute to the enduring quality of emotional memories.
Although fear directs adaptive behavioral responses, how aversive cues recruit motivational neural circuitry is poorly understood. Specifically, while it is known that dopamine (DA) transmission within the nucleus accumbens (NAc) is imperative for mediating appetitive motivated behaviors, its role in aversive behavior is controversial. It has been proposed that divergent phasic DA transmission following aversive events may correspond to segregated mesolimbic dopamine pathways; however, this prediction has never been tested. Here, we used fast-scan cyclic voltammetry to examine real-time DA transmission within NAc core and shell projection systems in response to a fear-evoking cue. In male Sprague Dawley rats, we first demonstrate that a fear cue results in decreased DA transmission within the NAc core, but increased transmission within the NAc shell. We examined whether these changes in DA transmission could be attributed to modulation of phasic transmission evoked by cue presentation. We found that cue presentation decreased the probability of phasic DA release in the core, while the same cue enhanced the amplitude of release events in the NAc shell. We further characterized the relationship between freezing and both changes in DA as well as local pH. Although we found that both analytes were significantly correlated with freezing in the NAc across the session, changes in DA were not strictly associated with freezing while basic pH shifts in the core more consistently followed behavioral expression. Together, these results provide the first real-time neurochemical evidence that aversive cues differentially modulate distinct DA projection systems.
A conserved feature of sound processing across species is the presence of multiple auditory cortical fields with topographically organized responses to sound frequency. Current organizational schemes propose that the ventral division of the medial geniculate body (MGBv) is a single functionally homogenous structure that provides the primary source of input to all neighboring frequency-organized cortical fields. These schemes fail to account for the contribution of MGBv to functional diversity between frequency-organized cortical fields. Here, we report response property differences for two auditory fields in the rat, and find they have nonoverlapping sources of thalamic input from the MGBv that are distinguished by the gene expression for type 1 vesicular glutamate transporter. These data challenge widely accepted organizational schemes and demonstrate a genetic plurality in the ascending glutamatergic pathways to frequency-organized auditory cortex.
Certain mutations within the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway, most notably those affecting the tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC), lead to aberrant activation of mTOR and result in a high incidence of epilepsy in humans and animal models. Although hyperactivation of mTOR has been strongly linked to the development of epilepsy and, conversely, inhibition of mTOR by rapamycin treatment is protective against seizures in several models, the downstream epileptic mechanisms have remained elusive. Autophagy, a catabolic process that plays a vital role in cellular homeostasis by mediating the turnover of cytoplasmic constituents, is negatively regulated by mTOR. Here we demonstrate that autophagy is suppressed in brain tissues of forebrain-specific conditional TSC1 and phosphatase and tensin homlog knock-out mice, both of which display aberrant mTOR activation and seizures. In addition, we also discovered that autophagy is suppressed in the brains of human TSC patients. Moreover, conditional deletion of Atg7, an essential regulator of autophagy, in mouse forebrain neurons is sufficient to promote development of spontaneous seizures. Thus, our study suggests that impaired autophagy contributes to epileptogenesis, which may be of interest as a potential therapeutic target for epilepsy treatment and/or prevention.
Humans frequently make real-world decisions based on rapid evaluations of minimal information; for example, should we talk to an attractive stranger at a party? Little is known, however, about how the brain makes rapid evaluations with real and immediate social consequences. To address this question, we scanned participants with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while they viewed photos of individuals that they subsequently met at real-life &quot;speed-dating&quot; events. Neural activity in two areas of dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (DMPFC), paracingulate cortex, and rostromedial prefrontal cortex (RMPFC) was predictive of whether each individual would be ultimately pursued for a romantic relationship or rejected. Activity in these areas was attributable to two distinct components of romantic evaluation: either consensus judgments about physical beauty (paracingulate cortex) or individualized preferences based on a partner's perceived personality (RMPFC). These data identify novel computational roles for these regions of the DMPFC in even very rapid social evaluations. Even a first glance, then, can accurately predict romantic desire, but that glance involves a mix of physical and psychological judgments that depend on specific regions of DMPFC.

Arterial spin labeling (ASL) can be implemented by combining different labeling schemes and readout sequences. In this study, the performance of 2D and 3D single-shot pulsed-continuous ASL (pCASL) sequences was assessed in a group of young healthy volunteers undergoing a baseline perfusion and a functional study with a sensory-motor activation paradigm. The evaluated sequences were 2D echo-planar imaging (2D EPI), 3D single-shot fast spin-echo with in-plane spiral readout (3D FSE spiral), and 3D single-shot gradient-and-spin-echo (3D GRASE). The 3D sequences were implemented with and without the addition of an optimized background suppression (BS) scheme. Labeling efficiency, signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), and gray matter (GM) to white matter (WM) contrast ratio were assessed in baseline perfusion measurements. 3D acquisitions without BS yielded 2-fold increments in spatial SNR, but no change in temporal SNR. The addition of BS to the 3D sequences yielded a 3-fold temporal SNR increase compared to the unsuppressed sequences. 2D EPI provided better GM-to-WM contrast ratio than the 3D sequences. The analysis of functional data at the subject level showed a 3-fold increase in statistical power for the BS 3D sequences, although the improvement was attenuated at the group level. 3D without BS did not increase the maximum t-values, however, it yielded larger activation clusters than 2D. These results demonstrate that BS 3D single-shot imaging sequences improve the performance of pCASL in baseline and activation studies, particularly for individual subject analyses where the improvement in temporal SNR translates into markedly enhanced power for task activation detection.
Professional ball game players report the feeling of the ball 'slowing-down' before hitting it. Because effective motor preparation is critical in achieving such expert motor performance, these anecdotal comments imply that the subjective passage of time may be influenced by preparation for action. Previous reports of temporal illusions associated with action generally emphasize compensation for suppressed sensory signals that accompany motor commands. Here, we show that the time is perceived slowed-down during preparation of a ballistic reaching movement before action, involving enhancement of sensory processing. Preparing for a reaching movement increased perceived duration of a visual stimulus. This effect was tightly linked to action preparation, because the amount of temporal dilation increased with the information about the upcoming movement. Furthermore, we showed a reduction of perceived frequency for flickering stimuli and an enhanced detection of rapidly presented letters during action preparation, suggesting increased temporal resolution of visual perception during action preparation. We propose that the temporal dilation during action preparation reflects the function of the brain to maximize the capacity of sensory information-acquisition prior to execution of a ballistic movement. This strategy might facilitate changing or inhibiting the planned action in response to last-minute changes in the external environment.

Larval zebrafish lacking eyes and pineal organ show elevated activity levels and undirected light-seeking behaviour upon loss of illumination. This behaviour, termed dark photokinesis, is mediated by hypothalamic deep brain photoreceptors expressing melanopsin.
A new study in mice reveals that an apparently innate behavior, suckling, is triggered not by a classical pheromone but by the pup learning the complex signature odor of its mother.

Spontaneous activity in the sensory periphery drives infant brain activity and is thought to contribute to the formation of retinotopic and somatotopic maps. In infant rats during active (or REM) sleep, brainstem-generated spontaneous activity triggers hundreds of thousands of skeletal muscle twitches each day; sensory feedback from the resulting limb movements is a primary activator of forebrain activity. The rodent whisker system, with its precise isomorphic mapping of individual whiskers to discrete brain areas, has been a key contributor to our understanding of somatotopic maps and developmental plasticity. But although whisker movements are controlled by dedicated skeletal muscles, spontaneous whisker activity has not been entertained as a contributing factor to the development of this system. Here we report in 3- to 6-day-old rats that whiskers twitch rapidly and asynchronously during active sleep; furthermore, neurons in whisker thalamus exhibit bursts of activity that are tightly associated with twitches but occur infrequently during waking. Finally, we observed barrel-specific cortical activity during periods of twitching. This is the first report of self-generated, sleep-related twitches in the developing whisker system, a sensorimotor system that is unique for the precision with which it can be experimentally manipulated. The discovery of whisker twitching will allow us to attain a better understanding of the contributions of peripheral sensory activity to somatosensory integration and plasticity in the developing nervous system.
Although most research on human facial attractiveness has used front-facing two-dimensional (2D) images, our primary visual experience with faces is in three dimensions. Because face coding in the human visual system is viewpoint-specific, faces may be processed differently from different angles. Thus, results from perceptual studies using front-facing 2D facial images may not be generalizable to other viewpoints. We used rotating three-dimensional (3D) images of women's faces to test whether men's attractiveness ratings of women's faces from 2D and 3D images differed. We found a significant positive correlation between men's judgments of women's facial attractiveness from 2D and 3D images (r = 0.707), suggesting that attractiveness judgments from 2D images are valid and provide similar information about women's attractiveness as do 3D images. We also found that women's faces were rated significantly more attractive in 3D images than in 2D images. Our study verifies a novel method using 3D facial images, which may be important for future research on viewpoint-specific social perception. This method may also be valuable for the accurate measurement and assessment of facial characteristics such as averageness, identity, attractiveness, and emotional expression.
A new approach to trace the dynamic patterns of task-based functional connectivity, by combining signal segmentation, dynamic time warping (DTW), and Quality Threshold (QT) clustering techniques, is presented. Electroencephalography (EEG) signals of 5 healthy subjects were recorded as they performed an auditory oddball and a visual modified oddball tasks. To capture the dynamic patterns of functional connectivity during the execution of each task, EEG signals are segmented into durations that correspond to the temporal windows of previously well-studied event-related potentials (ERPs). For each temporal window, DTW is employed to measure the functional similarities among channels. Unlike commonly used temporal similarity measures, such as cross correlation, DTW compares time series by taking into consideration that their alignment properties may vary in time. QT clustering analysis is then used to automatically identify the functionally connected regions in each temporal window. For each task, the proposed approach was able to establish a unique sequence of dynamic pattern (observed in all 5 subjects) for brain functional connectivity.
Linking regional metabolic changes with fluctuations in the local electromagnetic fields directly on the surface of the human cerebral cortex is of tremendous importance for a better understanding of detailed brain processes. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and intra-cranial electro-encephalography (iEEG) measure two technically unrelated but spatially and temporally complementary sets of functional descriptions of human brain activity. In order to allow fine-grained spatio-temporal human brain mapping at the population-level, an effective comparative framework for the cortex-based inter-subject analysis of iEEG and fMRI data sets is needed. We combined fMRI and iEEG recordings of the same patients with epilepsy during alternated intervals of passive movie viewing and music listening to explore the degree of local spatial correspondence and temporal coupling between blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) fMRI changes and iEEG spectral power modulations across the cortical surface after cortex-based inter-subject alignment. To this purpose, we applied a simple model of the iEEG activity spread around each electrode location and the cortex-based inter-subject alignment procedure to transform discrete iEEG measurements into cortically distributed group patterns by establishing a fine anatomic correspondence of many iEEG cortical sites across multiple subjects. Our results demonstrate the feasibility of a multi-modal inter-subject cortex-based distributed analysis for combining iEEG and fMRI data sets acquired from multiple subjects with the same experimental paradigm but with different iEEG electrode coverage. The proposed iEEG-fMRI framework allows for improved group statistics in a common anatomical space and preserves the dynamic link between the temporal features of the two modalities.


Cooperative activation of actin-myosin interaction by tropomyosin (Tm) is central to regulation of contraction in muscle cells and cellular and intracellular movements in nonmuscle cells. The steric blocking model of muscle regulation proposed 40 y ago has been substantiated at both the kinetic and structural levels. Even with atomic resolution structures of the major players, how Tm binds and is designed for regulatory function has remained a mystery. Here we show that a set of periodically distributed evolutionarily conserved surface residues of Tm is required for cooperative regulation of actomyosin. Based on our results, we propose a model of Tm on a structure of actin-Tm-myosin in the &quot;open&quot; (on) state showing potential electrostatic interactions of the residues with both actin and myosin. The sites alternate with a second set of conserved surface residues that are important for actin binding in the inhibitory state in the absence of myosin. The transition from the closed to open states requires the sites identified here, even when troponin + Ca(2+) is present. The evolutionarily conserved residues are important for actomyosin regulation, a universal function of Tm that has a common structural basis and mechanism.
Hydrocarbon pheromones on the cuticle of Drosophila melanogaster modulate the complex courtship behavior of males. Recently, three members of the degenerin/epithelial Na+ channel (DEG/ENaC) family of sodium channel subunits, Ppk25, Ppk23, and Ppk29 (also known as Nope), have been shown to function in gustatory perception of courtship-modulating contact pheromones. All three proteins are required for the activation of male courtship by female pheromones. Specific interactions between two of them have been demonstrated in cultured cells, suggesting that, in a subset of cells where they are coexpressed, these three subunits function within a common heterotrimeric DEG/ENaC channel. Such a DEG/ENaC channel may be gated by pheromones, either directly or indirectly, or alternatively may control the excitability of pheromone-sensing cells. In addition, these studies identify taste neurons that respond specifically to courtship-modulating pheromones and mediate their effects on male behavior. Two types of pheromone-sensing taste neurons, F and M cells, have been defined on the basis of their specific response to either female or male pheromones. These reports set the stage for the dissection of the molecular and cellular mechanisms that mediate gustatory detection of contact pheromones.
Biologic sex and gonadal hormones matter in human aging and diseases of aging such as Alzheimer's - and the importance of studying their influences relates directly to human health. The goal of this article is to review the literature to date on sex and hormones in mouse models of Alzheimer's disease (AD) with an exclusive focus on interpreting the relevance of findings to the human condition. To this end, we highlight advances in AD and in sex and hormone biology, discuss what these advances mean for merging the two fields, review the current mouse model literature, raise major unresolved questions, and offer a research framework that incorporates human reproductive aging for future studies aimed at translational discoveries in this important area. Unraveling human relevant pathways in sex and hormone-based biology may ultimately pave the way to novel and urgently needed treatments for AD and other neurodegenerative diseases.

In a recent trial investigating the effectiveness of speech and language therapy versus a control intervention in poststroke aphasia, patient outcome improved equally in both groups. However, flaws in the study relating to design of the control intervention, inadequate therapy 'dose', and the interpretation of null results should be highlighted.
Natural history of multiple sclerosis includes phases of relapse, remission and insidious progression. New data show that sustained improvements in disease, defined by reductions in EDSS scores, occur independent of relapses almost half as frequently as disease worsening. This finding might facilitate research into the biological processes involved in disease improvement.

The aim of the present study was to determine the effects of fat- and sugar-rich diets in utero and during the pre-weaning period on bodyweight and responses to drugs of abuse. In Exp. 1, dams were fed a balanced control diet or high-fat diet (HFD), and female offspring were cross-fostered to dams consuming the balanced diet. The HFD-exposed offspring, compared to controls, were heavier in body weight, had increased circulating triglyceride levels, and consumed more alcohol and HFD in adulthood. In Exp. 2, dams were fed standard chow alone or standard chow plus a 16% high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS) or 10% sucrose solution. Sets of offspring from each group were cross-fostered to dams in the other groups, allowing for the effects of HFCS or sucrose exposure during the gestational period or pre-weaning period to be determined. The offspring (both female and male) exposed to HFCS or sucrose in utero had higher body weights in adulthood and exhibited increased alcohol intake as shown in female offspring and increased amphetamine-induced locomotor activity as shown in males. Exposure to HFCS or sucrose only during the pre-weaning period had a similar effect of increasing amphetamine-induced locomotor activity in males, but produced no change in circulating triglycerides or alcohol intake. Collectively, these data suggest that prenatal as well as pre-weaning exposure to fat- and sugar-rich diets, in addition to increasing body weight, can affect responses to drugs of abuse.
It has been suggested that the weight loss seen in individuals who receive Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery may be due, at least in part, to changes in patient food selection, and that this change may stem from effects of the operation on the sense of taste. In this review, we evaluate the literature examining postoperative changes in food intake and food choice. While some evidence suggests that gastric bypass leads to altered food selection and taste perceptions, a clear picture regarding these changes remains to be elucidated and is blurred by inconsistencies, which may be rooted in the diverse subject pools within and between studies as well as in the indirect measures used to assess ingestive behavior. We argue that complementing current assessment tools with more direct measures of intake, food selection, and taste-related behavior might help provide some clarity and also facilitate translation between findings from animal models, in which similar measures are available, and clinical research.
In skeletal muscle, Mitsugumin 53 (MG53), also known as muscle-specific tripartite motif 72, reportedly interacts with dysferlin to regulate membrane repair. To better understand the interactions between dysferlin and MG53, we conducted immunoprecipitation (IP) and pull-down assays. Based on IP assays, the C2A domain in dysferlin associated with MG53. MG53 reportedly exists as a monomer, a homodimer, or an oligomer, depending on the redox state. Based on pull-down assays, wild-type dysferlin associated with MG53 dimers in a Ca2+-dependent manner, but MG53 oligomers associated with both wild-type and C2A-mutant dysferlin in a Ca2+-independent manner. In pull-down assays, a pathogenic missense mutation in the C2A domain (W52R-C2A) inhibited the association between dysferlin and MG53 dimers, but another missense mutation (V67D-C2A) altered the calcium sensitivity of the association between the C2A domain and MG53 dimers. In contrast to the multimers, the MG53 monomers did not interact with wild-type or C2A mutant dysferlin in pull-down assays. These results indicated that the C2A domain in dysferlin is important for the Ca2+-dependent association with MG53 dimers and that dysferlin may associate with MG53 dimers in response to the influx of Ca2+ that occurs during membrane injury. To examine the biological role of the association between dysferlin and MG53, we co-expressed EGFP-dysferlin with RFP-tagged wild-type MG53 or RFP-tagged mutant MG53 (RFP-C242A-MG53) in mouse skeletal muscle, and observed molecular behavior during sarcolemmal repair; it has been reported that the C242A-MG53 mutant forms dimers, but not oligomers. In response to membrane wounding, dysferlin accumulated at the injury site within 1 second; this dysferlin accumulation was followed by the accumulation of wild-type MG53. However, accumulation of RFP-C242A MG53 at the wounded site was impaired relative to that of RFP-wild-type MG53. Co-transfection of RFP-C242A MG53 inhibited the recruitment of dysferlin to the sarcolemmal injury site. We also examined the molecular behavior of GFP-wild-type MG53 during sarcolemmal repair in dysferlin-deficient mice which show progressive muscular dystrophy, and found that GFP-MG53 accumulated at the wound similar to wild-type mice. Our data indicate that the coordination between dysferlin and MG53 plays an important role in efficient sarcolemmal repair.
Cyclophosphamide (CYP) induces an interstitial cystitis-like inflammation. The resulting bladder dysfunction has been associated with increased release of adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP), structural bladder wall changes and contractile impairment. Due to the inflammatory modulatory effects of purines it was presently wondered if pre-treatment with P1 and P2 purinoceptor antagonists affect the CYP-induced alterations. Rats were pre-treated with saline or antagonists for five days, and 60 h before the in vitro functional examination the rats were administered either saline or CYP. Histological examination revealed CYP-induced bladder wall thickening largely depending on submucosal enlargement, mast cell invasion of the detrusor muscle, increase in muscarinic M5 receptor expression and macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) occurrence in large parts of the urothelium. Functionally, methacholine- and ATP-evoked contractions were smaller in urinary bladders from CYP-treated rats. Pre-treatment with the P2 purinoceptor antagonist suramin and the P1A2B antagonist PSB1115 did not to any great extent affect the CYP-induced changes. The P1A1 antagonist DPCPX, however, abolished the difference of methacholine-evoked contractions between saline- and CYP-treated rats. ATP-evoked contractions were reduced in control after the DPCPX pre-treatment, but not in cystitis. The functional observations for DPCPX were supported by its suppression of CYP-induced submucosal thickening, muscarinic M5 receptor expression and, possibly, detrusor mast cell infiltration and the spread of urothelial MIF occurrence. Thus, P1A1 is an important pro-inflammatory receptor in the acute CYP-induced cystitis and a P1A1 blockade during the initial phase may suppress CYP-induced cystitis. P1A1 purinoceptors seem to regulate contractility in healthy and in inflamed rat urinary bladders.
Investigations of autonomic nervous system biomarkers in autism have been sparse relative to its prevalence. Recent studies of children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) have increasingly drawn correlations between autonomic findings and psychosocial behavior. Studies of heart rate variability, pupil size, salivary alpha-amylase, and electrodermal responsiveness have shown that children with ASD differ from normally developing children in their autonomic responsiveness to visualizing human faces and other mental tasks. While some results have conflicted, much of the data appears to support the theory of a hypersympathetic state in autism insufficiently attenuated by vagal parasympathetic influences. To what degree these differences in autonomic physiology might influence cognitive processing and behavior rather than simply being epiphenomena of a pervasive disorder of brain development is as yet unclear.
Previously, we demonstrated that electrical stimulation of the superior ovarian nerve in rats reduces the ovarian estradiol secretion rate. In the present study, we examined the effect of noxious mechanical afferent stimulation (pinching) of a hindpaw on the ovarian estradiol secretion rate in rats. The rats were anesthetized on the day of estrus, and the ovarian venous blood was collected intermittently. The secretion rate of estradiol from the ovary was calculated from differences in the estradiol concentration between ovarian venous plasma and systemic arterial blood plasma, and from the flow rate of ovarian venous plasma. Pinching stimulation of a hindpaw for 5 min decreased the estradiol secretion rate from the ovary. A significant reduction of the estradiol secretion rate began at 5 min after the end of the stimulation and lasted for 20 min. The minimum decrease in estradiol secretion rate was 71.1  14.0% of the prestimulus basal values at 15 min after the stimulation ended. The decrease responses of the ovarian estradiol secretion rate were abolished by bilateral severance of the superior ovarian nerves. The efferent activity of the superior ovarian nerves was increased following hindpaw pinching. After spinal transection at the second cervical level, the increased response of the superior ovarian nerve activity by hindpaw pinching was abolished. These results indicate that noxious mechanical stimulation of a hindpaw decreases the estradiol secretion rate from the ovary, and that the response is due to reflex activation of ovarian sympathetic nerves, mediated by supraspinal structures.

The axon/dendrite specification collapsin response mediator protein-2 (CRMP-2) bidirectionally regulates N-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels (CaV2.2). But how cyclin dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5)-mediated phosphorylation of CRMP-2 affects its interaction/regulation with CaV2.2 is unknown. CRMP-2-mediated enhancement of currents via CaV2.2 was not observed with a Cdk5 phospho-null CRMP-2-S522A mutant or in cells expressing an inactive Cdk5. Concomitant knockdown of endogenous CRMP2 and overexpression of CRMP2-S522A mutant refractory to knockdown phenocopied the reduction in Ca(2+) influx while the Rho kinase CRMP2-T555A mutant was ineffective. Cdk5-phosphorylated CRMP-2 had increased association with CaV2.2. These results identify an important role for Cdk5 in CRMP2-mediated CaV2.2 regulation.
Membrane proteins serve crucial signaling and transport functions, yet relatively little is known about their structures in membrane environments or how lipids interact with these proteins. For voltage-activated ion channels, X-ray structures suggest that the mobile voltage-sensing S4 helix would be exposed to the membrane, and functional studies reveal that lipid modification can profoundly alter channel activity. Here, we use solid-state NMR to investigate structural interactions of lipids and water with S1-S4 voltage-sensing domains and to explore whether lipids influence the structure of the protein. Our results demonstrate that S1-S4 domains exhibit extensive interactions with lipids and that these domains are heavily hydrated when embedded in a membrane. We also find evidence for preferential interactions of anionic lipids with S1-S4 domains and that these interactions have lifetimes on the timescale of  10(-3)s. Arg residues within S1-S4 domains are well hydrated and are positioned in close proximity to lipids, exhibiting local interactions with both lipid headgroups and acyl chains. Comparative studies with a positively charged lipid lacking a phosphodiester group reveal that this lipid modification has only modest effects on the structure and hydration of S1-S4 domains. Taken together, our results demonstrate that Arg residues in S1-S4 voltage-sensing domains reside in close proximity to the hydrophobic interior of the membrane yet are well hydrated, a requirement for carrying charge and driving protein motions in response to changes in membrane voltage.

The combination of optogenetics and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is referred to as opto-fMRI. Optogenetics utilises genetic engineering to introduce light sensitive actuator proteins into cells. Functional MRI (fMRI) is a specialist form of magnetic resonance imaging concerned with imaging changes in blood flow and oxygenation, linked to regional variation in metabolic activity, in the brain. This study describes a methodological concern regarding the effects of light delivery into the brain for the purposes of opto-fMRI. We show that blue light delivery to the nave rat brain causes profound fMRI responses, despite the absence of optogenetic activation. We demonstrate that these fMRI responses are dependent upon laser power and show that the laser causes significant heating. We identify how heating impacts upon the MR signal causing NMR frequency shifts, and T1 and T2* changes. This study brings attention to a possible confounder which must be taken into account when opto-fMRI experiments are designed.
While brain imaging and electrophysiology play a central role in neuroscience research and in the evaluation of neurological disorders, a single noninvasive modality that offers both high spatial and temporal resolution is currently not available. Here we show in an acute epilepsy rat model that photoacoustic tomography (PAT) can noninvasively track seizure brain dynamics with both high spatial and temporal resolution, and at a depth that is clinically relevant. The noninvasive yet whole surface and depth capabilities of the PAT system allowed us to actually see what is happening during ictogenesis in terms of seizure onset and spread. Both seizure onset and propagation were tomographically detected at a spatial resolution of 150m and a temporal resolution of 300ms, respectively. The current study lends support to the theory that seizure onset and spread involves a rich interplay between multiple cortical and subcortical brain areas during the onset and spread of epileptic seizures. Dynamical changes of vasculature during epileptiform events were also detected with high spatiotemporal resolution. Together, these findings suggest that PAT represents a powerful tool for noninvasively mapping seizure onset and propagation patterns, and the 'functional' connectivity within epileptic brain networks.

It is clearly important that clinicians have appropriate assessment and management pathways when working in clinical settings where illnesses associated with cognitive impairment may impair both mobility and safety, such as memory clinics and medical services dealing with older people. However, in wider terms, particularly in terms of an understanding of the impact of cognitive function on the whole population of older drivers, it is critical that debate on cognitive function and driving is adequately informed by the sciences of gerontology and public health, embraces a broad definition of cognitive function which recognizes both the gains and losses of ageing, recognizes the barriers and disruptive influences which may skew scientific debate, and frames such a discourse in terms of an appropriate balance between mobility and safety.
Hepatic encephalopathy is a common neuropsychiatric complication of acute and chronic liver failure. Whether brain structures with strategic positions in the interface of blood-brain barriers such as the circumventricular organs are involved in hepatic encephalopathy is not yet established. Among the circumventricular organs, the subcommissural organ secretes a glycoprotein known as Reissner's fiber, which condenses and forms an ever-growing thread-like structure into the cerebrospinal fluid. In the present work we describe the Reissner's fiber material within the subcommissural organ and its serotoninergic innervation in an animal model of chronic hepatic encephalopathy following bile duct ligation in experimental rats. The study involved immunohistochemical techniques with antibodies against Reissner's fiber and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT). Four weeks after surgical bile duct ligation, a significant rise of Reissner's fiber immunoreactivity was observed in all subcommissural organ areas compared with controls. Moreover, significant Reissner's fiber immunoreactive materials within the ependyma and inside the parenchyma close to the ventricular borders were also seen in bile duct ligated rats, but not in control rats. Increased Reissner's fiber material in bile duct ligated rats seems to be related to a reduction of 5-HT innervation of the subcommissural organ, the ventricular borders and the nucleus of origin, the dorsal raphe nucleus. Our data describe alterations of the subcommissural organ/Reissner's fiber material and the subcommissural organ 5-HT innervation probably due to a general 5-HT deficit in bile duct ligated rats.


Alzheimer's disease (AD) can be classified based on the relative density of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) in the hippocampus and association cortices into three subtypes: typical AD, hippocampal-sparing AD (HpSp AD), and limbic-predominant AD (LP AD). AD subtypes not only have pathologic, but also demographic, clinical, and genetic differences. Neurofibrillary tangle-predominant dementia (NFTD), a disorder with NFTs relatively restricted to limbic structures, shares this feature with LP AD raising the possibility that NFTD is a variant of AD. The objective criteria for pathologic diagnosis of NFTD are not available. A goal of this study was to design a mathematical algorithm that could diagnose NFTD from NFT and senile plaque (SP) counts in hippocampus and association cortices, analogous to that used to subtype AD. Moreover, we aimed to compare pathologic, demographic, clinical, and genetic features of NFTD (n = 18) with LP AD (n = 19), as well as the other AD subtypes, typical AD (n = 52) and HpSp AD (n = 17). Using digital microscopy, we confirmed that burden of phospho-tau (CP13) and of an NFT conformational epitope (Ab39) correlated with NFT densities and showed expected patterns across AD subtypes. HpSp AD had the highest and LP AD had the lowest burden of cortical CP13 and Ab39 immunoreactivity. On the other hand, cortical -amyloid burden did not significantly differ between AD subtypes. Semi-quantitative assessment of SPs in the basal ganglia did show HpSp AD to have significantly more frequent presence of SPs compared to typical AD, which was more frequent than LP AD. Compared to LP AD, NFTD had an older age at disease onset and shorter disease duration, as well as lower Braak NFT stage. NFTs and SPs on thioflavin-S fluorescent microscopy, as well as CP13, Ab39, and A immunoreactivities were very low in the frontal cortex of NFTD, differentiating NFTD from AD subtypes, including LP AD. MAPT H1H1 genotype frequency was high (~70 %) in NFTD and LP AD, and similar to typical AD, while APOE 4 carrier state was low in NFTD. While it shares clinical similarities with regard to female sex predominance, onset in advanced age, and a slow cognitive decline, NFTD has significant pathologic differences from LP AD, suggesting that it may not merely be a variant of AD.
The mucopolysaccharidoses (MPS) are a group of rare lysosomal storage disorders characterized by the accumulation of glycosaminoglycans in several tissues and organs. This accumulation results in an array of clinical manifestations and premature death in severe cases. Ocular problems are very common in children with MPS and may involve the cornea, sclera, trabecular meshwork, retina, optic nerve and also the posterior visual pathways. The aims of this study are to give an overview of ocular problems in MPS and to provide clinical guidelines for paediatric ophthalmologists for early diagnosis and management of ocular manifestations in children with MPS. Diagnostic problems may arise in children with severe corneal clouding, hampering visualization of the fundus. Intraocular pressures may be falsely high, even leading to suspicion and unnecessary pressure-lowering treatment. Simple interventions such as the use of prescription glasses or photochromatic glasses can considerably improve quality of life in children with MPS.

Three experiments investigated how perceptual, structural, and lexical cues affect structural choices during English transitive sentence production. Participants described transitive events under combinations of visual cueing of attention (toward either agent or patient) and structural priming with and without semantic match between the notional verb in the prime and the target event. Speakers had a stronger preference for passive-voice sentences (1) when their attention was directed to the patient, (2) upon reading a passive-voice prime, and (3) when the verb in the prime matched the target event. The verb-match effect was the by-product of an interaction between visual cueing and verb match: the increase in the proportion of passive-voice responses with matching verbs was limited to the agent-cued condition. Persistence of visual cueing effects in the presence of both structural and lexical cues suggests a strong coupling between referent-directed visual attention and Subject assignment in a spoken sentence.
Increased drug availability can precipitate a rapid escalation of drug consumption in both vulnerable humans and laboratory animals. Drug intake escalation is observed across a broad spectrum of drugs of abuse, including stimulants, opiates, ethanol and phencyclidine. Whether and to what extent the processes underlying escalated levels of drug intake vary across different substances is poorly understood. The present study sought to address this question in rats self-administering both cocaine and heroin-two addictive drugs with both common and different neurobiological effects. In experiment 1, we determined how cocaine intake is initially related to heroin intake in non-escalated rats with a limited access to both drugs. In experiment 2, two groups of rats were initially allowed to self-administer either cocaine or heroin for 1 hour per day and then after behavioral stabilization, for 6 hours per day to precipitate drug intake escalation. In each group, dose-injection functions for cocaine and heroin self-administration were generated. In experiment 1, regardless of the dose, rats with a high intake of one drug did not necessarily have a high intake of the alternate drug. In experiment 2, escalated levels of heroin or cocaine self-administration did not generalize to the other drug. This outcome was confirmed in a third drug substitution experiment following different access lengths to cocaine self-administration (i.e. 1, 4 and 8 hours). The processes underlying spontaneous and escalated drug overconsumption appear thus to vary across different drugs of abuse. More research should be devoted in the future to these differences.
Systemic infusions of the orexigenic peptide ghrelin (GHR) increase dopamine levels within the nucleus accumbens and augment cocaine-stimulated locomotion and conditioned place preference in rats; observations that suggest an important role for GHR and GHR receptors (GHR-Rs) in drug reinforcement. In the present studies, we examined the development of cocaine locomotor sensitization in rats, sustaining either pharmacologic antagonism or genetic ablation of GHR-Rs. In a pharmacologic study, adult male rats were injected (i.p.) with either 0, 3 or 6 mg/kg JMV 2959 (a GHR-R1 receptor antagonist), and 20 minutes later, with either vehicle or 10 mg/kg cocaine HCl on each of 7 consecutive days. Rats pretreated with JMV 2959 showed significantly attenuated cocaine-induced hyperlocomotion. In a second study, adult wild-type (WT) or mutant rats sustaining ENU-induced knockout of GHR-R [GHR-R ((-/-) )] received daily injections (i.p.) of vehicle (0.9% saline) or 10.0 mg/kg cocaine HCl for 14 successive days. GHR-R null rats treated repeatedly with cocaine showed diminished development of cocaine locomotor sensitization relative to WT rats treated with cocaine. To verify the lack of GHR-R function in the GHR-R ((-/-) ) rats, a separate feeding experiment was conducted in which WT rats, but not GHR-R ((-/-) ) rats, were noted to eat more after a systemic injection of 15 nmol GHR than after vehicle. These results suggest that GHR-R activity is required for the induction of locomotor sensitization to cocaine and complement an emerging literature implicating central GHR systems in drug reward. GHR is an orexigenic gut peptide that is transported across the blood-brain barrier and interacts with GHR-Rs located on ventral tegmental dopamine neurons.
The aim of this study was to compare two methods to conduct CGAS rater training. A total of 648 raters were randomized to training (CD or seminar), and rated five cases before and 12 months after training. The ICC at baseline/end of study was 0.71/0.78 (seminar), 0.76/0.78 (CD), and 0.67/0.79 (comparison). There were no differences in training effect in terms of agreement with expert ratings, which speaks in favor of using the less resource-demanding CD. However, the effect was modest in both groups, and untrained comparison group improved of the same order of magnitude, which proposes more extensive training.




Prenatal ethanol exposure disrupts cortical neurite initiation and outgrowth, but prior studies have reported both ethanol-dependent growth promotion and inhibition. To resolve this ambiguity and better approximate in vivo conditions, we quantitatively analyzed neuronal morphology using a new, whole hemisphere explant model. In this model, Layer 6 (L6) cortical neurons migrate, laminate and extend neurites in an organotypic fashion. To selectively label L6 neurons, we performed ex utero electroporation of a GFP expression construct at embryonic day 13 and allowed the explants to develop for 2 days in vitro. Explants were exposed to (400 mg/dL) ethanol for either 4 or 24 h prior to fixation. Complete 3-D reconstructions were made of &gt;80 GFP-positive neurons in each experimental condition. Acute responses to ethanol exposure included compaction of the Golgi apparatus accompanied by elaboration of supernumerary primary apical neurites, as well as a modest (15%) increase in higher order apical neurite length. With longer exposure time, ethanol exposure leads to a consistent, significant disorientation of the cell (cell body, primary apical neurite, and Golgi) with respect to the pial surface. The effects on cellular orientation were accompanied by decreased expression of cytoskeletal elements, microtubule-associated protein 2 and F-actin. These findings indicate that upon exposure to ethanol, developing L6 neurons manifest disruptions in Golgi apparatus and cytoskeletal elements which may in turn trigger selective and significant perturbations to primary neurite formation and neuronal polarity.
The present series of experiments examined affective properties of a moderate dose of ethanol using the conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm in ethanol-nave, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. The apparatus and the procedure used were both unbiased. In Experiment 1, rats were given four 30 min conditioning sessions with 1.5 g/kg ethanol (i.p.) or an equivalent volume of saline on the paired side. Animals were found to demonstrate CPP to the ethanol-paired side, an unexpected finding at this relatively high dose in rats. To replicate this finding, and to examine the possibility of non-associative conditioning, an unpaired control group was included in Experiment 2. Once again, rats showed a CPP to the side paired with ethanol relative to either control group. Given that testing in an unfamiliar environment typically results in elevated levels of anxiety and that animals in Experiments 1 and 2 were not exposed to the apparatus prior to conditioning, Experiment 3 was conducted to examine the potential role of context unfamiliarity for induction of ethanol CPP in this test situation by varying whether animals were exposed to the apparatus prior to conditioning. In this study, pre-exposure to the CPP apparatus was found to eliminate the CPP to ethanol observed in rats who were not familiarized with the apparatus. Collectively, these studies demonstrate that ethanol-nave rats can find ethanol reinforcing as indexed by the CPP test, and provide some evidence for the conditions under which this uncommon finding is observed.
Ocular allergy includes several clinically different conditions that can be considered as hypersensitivity disorders of the ocular surface. The classification of these conditions is complex, and their epidemiology has not been adequately studied because of the lack of unequivocal nomenclature. Ocular allergy symptoms are often, but not always, associated with other allergic manifestations, mostly rhinitis. However, specific ocular allergic diseases need to be recognized and managed by a team that includes both an ophthalmologist and an allergist. The diagnosis of ocular allergy is usually based on clinical history and signs and symptoms, with the support of in vivo and in vitro tests when the identification of the specific allergic sensitization is required for patient management. The aims of this Task Force Report are (i) to unify the nomenclature and classification of ocular allergy, by combining the ophthalmology and allergy Allergic Rhinitis and its Impact on Asthma criteria; (ii) to describe current methods of diagnosis; (iii) to summarize the therapeutic options for the management of ocular allergic inflammation.
Two sets of research criteria for Alzheimer's disease are now available: those published by an International Working Group in 2007, and the recommendations published by the National Institute on Aging and the Alzheimer's Association (NIA-AA) in 2011. They both provide guidelines for the diagnosis of asymptomatic and symptomatic Alzheimer's disease. The coexistence of two sets of criteria for the same disorder raises the question of which set of criteria should be preferred. A comparison of the criteria revealed differences in approach, terminology, and use of cognitive markers and biomarkers. Most persons who meet the International Working Group criteria will also meet the NIA-AA criteria and vice versa. However, the NIA-AA criteria allow for a subclassification of persons based on biomarker results within each diagnostic category. Further research is needed to validate the criteria. Modifications are likely to be made before the criteria can be used in daily practice.





The need for Locus-Specific Databases, with disease-specific experts and curators, is an essential ingredient in a process to enable the benefits of the advances in sequencing and mutational analysis to be realized across the genome. Next generation sequencing provides both astounding opportunities and challenges, especially for genetic counsellors. An approach coordinated at a genome wide, international level, supported by well-organized disease-specific respected organizations is a model most likely to be successful, but committed resourceful professionals working in local poorly resourced environments can make valuable contributions that can grow. Bioinformatic tools to sift and integrate multiple domains of information are being developed, and play a major part in meeting the challenges. Regulation of providers, including a requirement for them to submit mutational information to central databases, also should assist to reach the goals needed to realize the opportunities. There is also a need to agree on governance of Locus-Specific Databases (LSDBs) at an international level, and for adequate international funding to support this need, to ensure humanity reaps the benefits of the current molecular genetic revolution. The Human Variome Project offers this, working also with the other major initiatives with similar objectives. This report concludes with Recommendations for the Human Variome Project stemming from the presentations and discussions at the meeting.

Meningiomas are primary tumors of the central nervous system composed of both neoplastic and other infiltrating cells. We determined the cellular composition of 51 meningioma samples by multiparameter flow cytometric (MFC) immunophenotyping and investigated the potential relationship between mRNA and protein expression levels of neoplastic cells. For immunophenotypic, morphologic, and cytogenetic characterization of individual cell populations, a large panel of markers was used together with phagocytic/endocytic functional assays and MFC sorting. Overall, our results revealed coexistence of CD45(-) neoplastic cells and CD45(+) immune infiltrating cells in all meningiomas. Infiltrating cells included tissue macrophages, with an HLA-DR(+)CD14(+)CD45(+)CD68(+)CD16(-/+)CD33(-/+) phenotype and high phagocytic/endocytic activity, and a small proportion of cytotoxic lymphocytes (mostly T CD8(+) and natural killer cells). Tumor cells expressed multiple cell adhesion proteins, tetraspanins, HLA-I/HLA-DR molecules, complement regulatory proteins, cell surface ectoenzymes, and growth factor receptors. Noteworthy, the relationship between mRNA and protein levels was variable, depending on the proteins evaluated and the level of infiltration by immune cells. In summary, our results indicate that MFC immunophenotyping provides a reliable tool for the characterization of the patterns of protein expression of different cell populations coexisting in meningioma samples, with a more accurate measure of gene expression profiles of tumor cells at the functional/protein level than conventional mRNA microarray, independently of the degree of infiltration of the tumor by immune cells.
Postganglionic sympathetic neurons in the prevertebral ganglia (PVG) provide ongoing inhibitory tone to the gastrointestinal tract and receive innervation from mechanosensory intestinofugal afferent neurons primarily located in the colon and rectum. This study tests the hypothesis that colitis alters the excitability of PVG neurons. Intracellular recording techniques were used to evaluate changes in the electrical properties of inferior mesenteric ganglion (IMG) neurons in the trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS) and acetic acid models of guinea pig colitis. Visceromotor IMG neurons were hyperexcitable 12 and 24 h, but not 6 h, post-TNBS during &quot;acute&quot; inflammation. Hyperexcitability persisted at 6 days post-TNBS during &quot;chronic&quot; inflammation, as well as at 56 days post-TNBS when colitis had resolved. In contrast, there was only a modest decrease in the current required to elicit an action potential at 24 h after acetic acid administration. Vasomotor neurons from inflamed preparations exhibited normal excitability. The excitatory effects of XE-991, a blocker of the channel that contributes to the M-type potassium current, and heteropodatoxin-2, a blocker of the channel that contributes to the A-type potassium current, were unchanged in TNBS-inflamed preparations, suggesting that these currents did not contribute to hyperexcitability. Riluzole, an inhibitor of persistent sodium currents, caused tonic visceromotor neurons to accommodate to sustained current pulses, regardless of the inflammatory state of the preparation, and restored a normal rheobase in neurons from TNBS-inflamed preparations but did not alter the rheobase of control preparations, suggesting that enhanced activity of voltage-gated sodium channels may contribute to colitis-induced hyperexcitability. Collectively, these data indicate that enhanced sympathetic drive as a result of hyperexcitable visceromotor neurons may contribute to small bowel dysfunction during colitis.
Chorioamnionitis and antenatal corticosteroids mature the fetal lung functionally but disrupt late-gestation lung development. Because Sonic Hedgehog (Shh) signaling is a major pathway directing lung development, we hypothesized that chorioamnionitis and antenatal corticosteroids modulated Shh signaling, resulting in an altered fetal lung structure. Time-mated ewes with singleton ovine fetuses received an intra-amniotic injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and/or maternal intramuscular betamethasone 7 and/or 14 days before delivery at 120 days gestational age (GA) (term = 150 days GA). Intra-amniotic LPS exposure decreased Shh mRNA levels and Gli1 protein expression, which was counteracted by both betamethasone pre- or posttreatment. mRNA and protein levels of fibroblast growth factor 10 and bone morphogenetic protein 4, which are important mediators of lung development, increased 2-fold and 3.5-fold, respectively, 14 days after LPS exposure. Both 7-day and 14-day exposure to LPS changed the mRNA levels of elastin (ELN) and collagen type I alpha 1 (Col1A1) and 2 (Col1A2), which resulted in fewer elastin foci and increased collagen type I deposition in the alveolar septa. Corticosteroid posttreatment prevented the decrease in ELN mRNA and increased elastin foci and decreased collagen type I deposition in the fetal lung. In conclusion, fetal lung exposure to LPS was accompanied by changes in key modulators of lung development resulting in abnormal lung structure. Betamethasone treatment partially prevented the changes in developmental processes and lung structure. This study provides new insights into clinically relevant prenatal exposures and fetal lung development.
Recent clinical studies have demonstrated that a single subpsychotomimetic dose of ketamine, an ionotropic glutamatergic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, produces a rapid antidepressant response in patients with major depressive disorder, with effects lasting up to 2 weeks. Despite enthusiasm about this unexpected efficacy of ketamine, its widespread use as a fast-acting antidepressant in routine clinical settings is curtailed by its abuse potential as well as possible psychotomimetic effects. However, the ability of ketamine to produce a rapid and long-lasting antidepressant response in patients with depression provides a unique opportunity for investigation of mechanisms that mediate these clinically relevant behavioral effects. From a mechanistic perspective, it is easy to imagine how activation of NMDA receptors may trigger cellular and behavioral responses; it is relatively more difficult, however, to envision how transient blockade of one of the key pathways for neuronal communication produces a persistent beneficial effect. The authors discuss recent work linking ketamine's mechanism of action to homeostatic synaptic plasticity processes activated after suppression of NMDA-mediated glutamatergic neurotransmission. They focus on their recent work demonstrating that ketamine-mediated blockade of NMDA receptors at rest deactivates eukaryotic elongation factor 2 (eEF2) kinase, resulting in reduced eEF2 phosphorylation and desuppression of rapid dendritic protein translation, including BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic factor), which then contributes to synaptic plasticity mechanisms that mediate longterm effects of the drug. The authors also explore possible molecular strategies to target spontaneous neurotransmitter release selectively to help uncover novel presynaptic avenues for the development of fast-acting antidepressants and possibly psychoactive compounds with effectiveness against other neuropsychiatric disorders.
Although skin picking has been documented in the medical literature since the 19th century, only now is it receiving serious consideration as a DSM psychiatric disorder in discussions for DSM-5. Recent community prevalence studies suggest that skin picking disorder appears to be as common as many other psychiatric disorders, with reported prevalences ranging from 1.4% to 5.4%. Clinical evaluation of patients with skin picking disorder entails a broad physical and psychiatric examination, encouraging an interdisciplinary approach to evaluation and treatment. Approaches to treatment should include cognitive-behavioral therapy (including habit reversal or acceptance-enhanced behavior therapy) and medication (serotonin reuptake inhibitors, N-acetylcysteine, or naltrexone). Based on clinical experience and research findings, the authors recommend several management approaches to skin picking disorder.
Acute lung injury (ALI) induced by systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) is characterized by deterioration in pulmonary function and leukocyte-associated lung inflammation. Actin fragment (F-actin) reorganization is required for leukocyte activation, adhesion, and transcription of inflammatory factors. We tested the hypothesis that F-actin plays a central role in SIRS-induced ALI. ALI was produced in a rat model with extracorporeal circulation. Cytochalasin B (CB) pretreatment to block F-actin reorganization improved oxygenation and reduced BAL inflammatory factors and pulmonary neutrophil sequestration, but did not reduce the adhesive molecules of blood leukocytes. We challenged blood neutrophils with TNF- in vitro to explore the underlying mechanisms. Upon activation, neutrophils became polarized and formed a protrusive leading edge, with an aggregation of CD11b molecules. This effect could be blocked by CB, leading to reduced neutrophil adhesion. In addition, after LPS challenge, we observed F-actin reorganization and the up-regulation of inflammatory factors in pulmonary monocytes, which could also be blocked by CB pretreatment. F-actin reorganization initiates lung inflammation via increased blood neutrophil adhesion and migration, and by the production of inflammatory factors by pulmonary monocytes. Thus, blocking F-actin reorganization may potentially prevent and treat SIRS-induced ALI.

Presents a short biography of one of the winners of the American Psychological Association's Award for Distinguished Scientific Early Career Contributions to Psychology. The 2012 winner is Angela J. Grippo for her creative contributions in investigating the association between depression and cardiovascular disease in preclinical animal models. Using sophisticated behavioral and neuroscience methods, Grippo found changes in sympathetic tone, immune system activation, and serotonin levels, as well as increased susceptibility to life-threatening arrhythmias, in a rodent model of depression, changes similar to those observed in humans with depression and heart disease. Her research illustrates how animal models of physiology and behavior advance understanding of the connections among depression, stress, and physical disease in humans. Grippo's Award citation and a selected bibliography are also presented here.
Presents Daniel L. Schacter as one of the winners of the American Psychological Association's Award for Distinguished Scientific Contributions (2012). Daniel L. Schacter's major theoretical and empirical contributions include groundbreaking research on the psychological and neural foundations of implicit and explicit memory, memory distortions and errors, and prospective episodic thought. He has propelled the field of cognitive neuroscience, first through studies of patients suffering anterograde amnesia and subsequently through functional brain imaging studies. A citation, biography, and selected bibliography are presented here.
A potential role for D-amino acids in motor neuron disease/amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is emerging. D-Serine, which is an activator/co-agonist at the N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor subtype, is elevated both in spinal cord from sporadic cases of ALS and in an animal model of ALS. Furthermore, we have shown that a mutation in D-amino acid oxidase (DAO), an enzyme strongly localized to spinal cord motor neurons and brain stem motor nuclei, is associated with familial ALS. DAO plays an important role in regulating levels of D-serine, and its function is impaired by the presence of this mutation and this may contribute to the pathogenic process in ALS. In sporadic ALS cases, elevated D-serine may arise from induction of serine racemase, its synthetic enzyme, caused by cell stress and inflammatory processes thought to contribute to disease progression. Both these abnormalities in D-serine metabolism lead to an increase in synaptic D-serine which may contribute to disease pathogenesis.
Far from our initial view of D-amino acids as being limited to invertebrates, they are now considered active molecules at synapses of mammalian central and peripheral nervous systems, capable of modulating synaptic communication within neuronal networks. In particular, experimental data accumulated in the last few decades show that through the regulation of glutamatergic neurotransmission, D-serine influences the functional plasticity of cerebral circuitry throughout life. In addition, the modulation of NMDA-R-dependent signalling by D-aspartate has been demonstrated by pharmacological studies and after the targeted deletion of the D-aspartate-degrading enzyme. Considering the major contribution of the glutamatergic system to a wide range of neurological disorders such as schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, an improved understanding of the mechanisms of D-amino-acid-dependent neuromodulation will certainly offer new insights for the development of relevant strategies to treat these neurological diseases.
Sedation for the mechanically-ventilated, brain-injured patient remains challenging. The purpose of this pilot study was to compare the cerebral physiologic effects of sedation with propofol versus dexmedetomidine in mechanically-ventilated, brain-injured patients. Using a randomised, crossover, unblinded clinical trial, we enrolled patients with severe brain injury (Glasgow Coma Score 8) from traumatic injury, subarachnoid haemorrhage or intracerebral haemorrhage undergoing multimodal monitoring (intracranial pressure, brain temperature, oximetry and microdialysis). Patients received an infusion of either propofol or dexmedetomidine for six hours and then a crossover for the subsequent six hours after sufficient washout/in. Clinical and physiological measurements were recorded hourly. In eight patients, (four traumatic injury, three subarachnoid haemorrhage and one intracerebral haemorrhage), the mean dose of propofol used was 25.5 g/kg/minute while the mean dose of dexmedetomidine was 0.54 g/kg/hour. All subjects were effectively sedated to a goal of Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale -2 and Bispectral Index of 50-70 throughout the study period. We did not observe any statistically significant differences between the groups in systemic or cerebral physiologic metrics. Though differences were noted in cerebral metabolic substrates (lactate/pyruvate ratio), none were statistically significant. In our pilot cohort, dexmedetomidine and propofol appear equally effective in sedating severely brain-injured patients and neither is associated with adverse physiological effects as measured by multimodal monitoring. Larger long-term studies are required to determine whether clinically favourable benefits demonstrated in the medical critical care setting also apply to this patient population.
Online lectures have been used in lieu of live lectures in our gross anatomy and embryology course for the past eight years. We examined patterns of online lecture use by our students and related that use to academic entry measures, gender and examination performance. Detailed access records identified by student were available from server logs. Total views per page of lecture material increased over the first six years, then decreased markedly between years seven and eight, possibly due to the recent availability of alternate forms of lecture audio. Lecture use peaked in midafternoon and again in the evening, although some use was seen at all hours. Usage was highest at midweek and lowest on Fridays as might be expected. Individual student's use varied widely from rates equivalent to less than one viewing/page to more than three viewings per page. Overall use by male students was greater than that of females and gender-specific differences in the daily pattern were seen. Lecture use was correlated to the Medical College Admission Test() (MCAT()) Verbal Reasoning and Physical Sciences scores but not to composite MCAT scores or undergraduate grade point average. Overall use appeared to be driven by scheduled team-based learning (TBL) sessions and major examinations. Specific subsets of lecture material were most often viewed before related TBL sessions and again during review for examinations. A small but significant correlation between lecture use and examination and course performance was seen, specifically in the male student population. These findings, along with earlier observations, suggest that varied use of online lectures is attributable to multiple factors.

A male advantage in spatial abilities is predicted to evolve in species where males rely on expansion of home territory to locate dispersed mates during the breeding season. We sought to examine mechanistic underpinnings of this evolved trait by comparing spatial navigational abilities in two species of Peromyscus that employ widely different reproductive strategies. Males and females from outbred stocks of deer mice (P. maniculatus bairdii) in which males engage in territorial expansion and mate search and California mice (P. californicus insignis), in which males do not, were administered tasks that assessed spatial learning and memory, and activity and exploratory behaviours. The maze employed for these studies included four spatial cues that could be used to aid in locating 1 of 12 potential escape holes. As predicted, male deer mice outperformed conspecific females and California mice males in maze performance and memory, and this difference appeared to be due to extent to which animals used spatial cues to guide maze navigation. Consistent with territorial expansion as a component of competition for mates, male deer mice were more active and engaged in more exploratory and less anxiety-related behaviours than conspecific females and California mice males. The results have implications for understanding and studying the cognitive and behavioural mechanisms that have evolved through male-male competition that involves territorial expansion and mate search.
In honeybees, the conditioning of the proboscis extension response (PER) has provided a powerful tool to explore the mechanisms underlying olfactory learning and memory. Unfortunately, PER conditioning does not work well for visual stimuli in intact honeybees, and performance is improved only after antennal amputation, thus limiting the analysis of visual learning and multimodal integration. Here, we study visual learning using the PER protocol in harnessed bumblebees, which exhibit high levels of odor learning under restrained conditions. We trained bumblebees in a differential task in which two colors differed in their rewarding values. We recorded learning performance as well as response latency and accuracy. Bumblebees rapidly learned the task and discriminated the colors within the first two trials. However, performance varied between combinations of colors and was higher when blue or violet was associated with a high reward. Overall, accuracy and speed were negatively associated, but both components increased during acquisition. We conclude that PER conditioning is a good tool to study visual learning, using Bombus impatiens as a model, opening new possibilities to analyze the proximate mechanisms of visual learning and memory, as well as the process of multimodal integration and decision-making.
Coordinated reset neuromodulation consists of the application of consecutive brief high-frequency pulse trains through the different contacts of the stimulation electrode. In theoretical studies, by achieving unlearning of abnormal connectivity between neurons, coordinated reset neuromodulation reduces pathological synchronization, a hallmark feature of Parkinson's disease pathophysiology. Here we show that coordinated reset neuromodulation of the subthalamic nucleus has both acute and sustained long-lasting aftereffects on motor function in parkinsonian nonhuman primates. Long-lasting aftereffects were not observed with classical deep brain stimulation. These observations encourage further development of coordinated reset neuromodulation for treating motor symptoms in Parkinson disease patients.

Over the past 2 decades, functional imaging techniques have become commonplace in the study of brain disease. Nevertheless, very few validated analytical methods have been developed specifically to identify and measure systems-level abnormalities in living patients. Network approaches are particularly relevant for translational research in the neurodegenerative disorders, which often involve stereotyped abnormalities in brain organization. In recent years, spatial covariance mapping, a multivariate analytical tool applied mainly to metabolic images acquired in the resting state, has provided a useful means of objectively assessing brain disorders at the network level. By quantifying network activity in individual subjects on a scan-by-scan basis, this technique makes it possible to objectively assess disease progression and the response to treatment on a system-wide basis. To illustrate the utility of network imaging in neurological research, we review recent applications of this approach in the study of Parkinson disease and related movement disorders. Novel uses of the technique are discussed, including the prediction of cognitive responses to dopaminergic therapy, evaluation of the effects of placebo treatment on network activity, assessment of preclinical disease progression, and the use of automated pattern-based algorithms to enhance diagnostic accuracy.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) diagnosis still depends on the triad of clinical, imaging and neuropsychological testing. The development of accurate, easy to use and inexpensive biological markers for AD is a long-standing aspiration for researchers and the medical community. Here we describe some of the recent advances in the field of biomarkers, both in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and in peripheral blood.




Changes in sustained attention, attentional selectivity, and attentional capacity were examined in a sample of 113 participants between the ages of 12 and 75. To measure sustained attention, we employed the sustained-attention-to-response task (Robertson, Manly, Andrade, Baddeley, &amp; Yiend, Neuropsychologia 35:747-58, 1997), a short continuous-performance test designed to capture fluctuations in sustained attention. To measure attentional selectivity and capacity, we employed a paradigm based on the theory of visual attention (Bundesen, Psychological Review 97:523-547, 1990), which enabled the estimation of parameters related to attentional selection, perceptual threshold, visual short-term memory capacity, and processing capacity. We found evidence of age-related decline in each of the measured variables, but the declines varied markedly in terms of magnitude and lifespan trajectory. Variables relating to attentional capacity showed declines of very large effect sizes, while variables relating to attentional selectivity and sustained attention showed declines of medium to large effect sizes, suggesting that attentional control is relatively preserved in older adults. The variables relating to sustained attention followed a U-shaped, curvilinear trend, and the variables relating to attentional selectivity and capacity showed linear decline from early adulthood, providing further support for the differentiation of attentional functions.
The visual system has developed to transform an undifferentiated and continuous flow of information into discrete and manageable representations, and this ability rests primarily on the uninterrupted nature of the input. Here we explore the impact of altering how visual information is accumulated over time by assessing how intermittent vision influences memory retention. Previous work has shown that intermittent, or stroboscopic, visual training (i.e., practicing while only experiencing snapshots of vision) can enhance visual-motor control and visual cognition, yet many questions remain unanswered about the mechanisms that are altered. In the present study, we used a partial-report memory paradigm to assess the possible changes in visual memory following training under stroboscopic conditions. In Experiment 1, the memory task was completed before and immediately after a training phase, wherein participants engaged in physical activities (e.g., playing catch) while wearing either specialized stroboscopic eyewear or transparent control eyewear. In Experiment 2, an additional group of participants underwent the same stroboscopic protocol but were delayed 24h between training and assessment, so as to measure retention. In comparison to the control group, both stroboscopic groups (immediate and delayed retest) revealed enhanced retention of information in short-term memory, leading to better recall at longer stimulus-to-cue delays (640-2,560ms). These results demonstrate that training under stroboscopic conditions has the capacity to enhance some aspects of visual memory, that these faculties generalize beyond the specific tasks that were trained, and that trained improvements can be maintained for at least a day.
The autophagy-lysosome system is essential for muscle cell homeostasis and its dysfunction has been linked to muscle disorders that are typically distinguished by massive autophagic buildup. Among them, glycogen storage disease type II (GSDII) is characterized by the presence of large glycogen-filled lysosomes in the skeletal muscle, due to a defect in the lysosomal enzyme acid -glucosidase (GAA). The accumulation of autophagosomes is believed to be detrimental for myofiber function. However, the role of autophagy in the pathogenesis of GSDII is still unclear. To address this issue we monitored autophagy in muscle biopsies and myotubes of early and late-onset GSDII patients at different time points of disease progression. Moreover we also analyzed muscles from patients treated with enzyme replacement therapy (ERT). Our data suggest that autophagy is a protective mechanism that is required for myofiber survival in late-onset forms of GSDII. Importantly, our findings suggest that a normal autophagy flux is important for a correct maturation of GAA and for the uptake of recombinant human GAA. In conclusion, autophagy failure plays an important role in GSDII disease progression, and the development of new drugs to restore the autophagic flux should be considered to improve ERT efficacy.
T cells are essential for defense of the host against invading pathogens. Antigen activation of the T cell receptor (TCR) is required for generation of an adaptive immune response. Several groups have observed that blocking autophagy augments T cell activation, but the molecular basis of this finding has remained elusive. The adaptor protein BCL10 transmits activating signals from the TCR to NFKB1-RELA/NFB, a transcription factor that is critical for T cell proliferation and function. We recently reported that a TCR-dependent autophagy mechanism selectively targets and degrades BCL10. We found that BCL10 autophagy requires BCL10 K63-polyubiquitination and subsequent binding to the autophagy adaptor SQSTM1/p62. Blocking either one of these processes inhibits BCL10 degradation. Protecting BCL10 from autophagic degradation, either by pharmacological or genetic inhibition of autophagy, results in increased activation of NFKB1-RELA. By demonstrating the mechanism of autophagic uptake and degradation of BCL10, our study has revealed a key mechanism by which selective autophagy controls T cell activation. Here, we discuss the implications of our findings and explore possible directions for future research.
How can adverse experiences in early life, such as maltreatment, exert such powerful negative effects on health decades later? The answer may lie in changes to DNA. New research suggests that exposure to stress can accelerate the erosion of DNA segments called telomeres. Shorter telomere length correlates with chronological age and also disease morbidity and mortality. Thus, telomere erosion is a potential mechanism linking childhood stress to health problems later in life. However, an array of mechanistic, methodological, and basic biological questions must be addressed in order to translate telomere discoveries into clinical applications for monitoring health and predicting disease risk. This paper covers the current state of the science and lays out new research directions.


Neural stem cells (NSCs) have the capacity to differentiate into neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. Accordingly, NSCs hold great promise in drug screening and treatment of several common diseases. However, a major obstacle in applied stem cell research is the limitation of synthetic matrices for culturing stem cells. The objective of this study was to evaluate the suitability of recombinant spider silk (4RepCT) matrices for growth of NSCs. NSCs isolated from the cerebral cortices of mid-gestation rat embryos were cultured on either 4RepCT matrices or conventional poly-L-ornithine and fibronectin (P + F) coated polystyrene plates. From 48 h of culture, no significant differences in cell proliferation or viability were detected in NSC cultures on 4RepCT compared to control matrices (polystyrene plates coated with P + F). The NSCs retained an undifferentiated state, displaying low or no staining for markers of differentiated cells. Upon stimulation NSCs grown on 4RepCT differentiated efficiently into neuronal and astrocytic cells to virtually the same degree as control cultures, but a slightly less efficient oligodendrocyte differentiation was noted. We suggest that recombinant spider silk matrices provide a functional microenvironment and represent a useful tool for the development of new strategies in neural stem cell research.
This work describes the identification of a novel class of octahydrobenzo[f]quinolines as dopamine D(3)-selective full agonists. We developed a facile method that utilizes Suzuki coupling for easy incorporations of various substituted pendant rings into the scaffold. A small focused library of octahydrobenzo[f]quinolines 5 was synthesized, and these compounds demonstrated at least 14-fold D(2)-like selectivity over D(1) in native porcine striatal tissue. Furthermore, n-propyl analog 5f was found to be a high affinity (K(i)=1.1 nM) D(3) dopamine full agonist with 145-fold selectivity over the D(2) receptor and about 840-fold selectivity over the D(1) receptor.
Dissociated primary neuron culture has been the most widely used model systems for neuroscience research. Most of these primary neurons are cultured on adhesion matrix-coated surface to provide a proper environment for cell anchorage under serum-free conditions. In this study, we provide an alternative technique to promote the adhesions of these neurons using aurintricarboxylic acid (ATA), a nonpeptide compound, without surface manipulations. We first demonstrated that ATA could promote Chinese hamster ovary cell attachment and proliferation in serum-free medium in a dosage-dependent manner. We later showed that ATA significantly enhanced the attachment of the retinoic acid differentiated P19 mouse embryonal carcinoma (P19) neurons, with an optimal concentration around 30 g/mL. A similar result was seen in primary hippocampal neurons, with an optimal ATA concentration around 15 g/mL. Further morphological assessments revealed that the average neurite length and neuronal polarization were almost identical to that obtained using a conventional method with poly-L-lysine surface. The advantages of using the ATA treatment technique for immunochemical analysis are discussed.






Chronic pain affects approximately 20% of people worldwide and places a large economic and social burden on society. Despite the availability of a range of analgesics, this condition is inadequately treated, with complete alleviation of symptoms rarely occurring. In the past 30 years, the voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs) have been recognized as potential targets for analgesic development. Although the majority of the research has been focused on Ca(v) 2.2 in particular, other VGCC subtypes such as Ca(v) 3.2 have recently come to the forefront of analgesic research. Venom peptides from marine cone snails have been proven to be a valuable tool in neuroscience, playing a major role in the identification and characterization of VGCC subtypes and producing the first conotoxin-based drug on the market, the -conotoxin, ziconotide. This peptide potently and selectively inhibits Ca(v) 2.2, resulting in analgesia in chronic pain states. However, this drug is only available via intrathecal administration, and adverse effects and a narrow therapeutic window have limited its use in the clinic. Other Ca(v) 2.2 inhibitors are currently in development and offer the promise of an improved route of administration and safety profile. This review assesses the potential of targeting VGCCs for analgesic development, with a main focus on conotoxins that block Ca(v) 2.2 and the developments made to transform them into therapeutics.



Concomitant consumption of caffeine with recreational psychostimulant drugs of abuse can provoke severe acute adverse reactions in addition to longer term consequences. The mechanisms by which caffeine increases the toxicity of psychostimulants include changes in body temperature regulation, cardiotoxicity and lowering of the seizure threshold. Caffeine also influences the stimulatory, discriminative and reinforcing effects of psychostimulant drugs. In this review, we consider our current understanding of such caffeine-related drug interactions, placing a particular emphasis on an adverse interaction between caffeine and the substituted amphetamine, 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, 'ecstasy'), which has been most recently described and characterized. Co-administration of caffeine profoundly enhances the acute toxicity of MDMA in rats, as manifested by high core body temperature, tachycardia and increased mortality. In addition, co-administration of caffeine enhances the long-term serotonergic neurotoxicity induced by MDMA. Observations to date support an interactive model of drug-induced toxicity comprising MDMA-related enhancement of dopamine release coupled to a caffeine-mediated antagonism of adenosine receptors in addition to inhibition of PDE. These experiments are reviewed together with reports of caffeine-related drug interactions with cocaine, d-amphetamine and ephedrine where similar mechanisms are implicated. Understanding the underlying mechanisms will guide appropriate intervention strategies for the management of severe reactions and potential for increased drug-related toxicity, resulting from concomitant caffeine consumption.



Recent reports of autoantibodies that bind to neuronal surface receptors or synaptic proteins have defined treatable forms of autoimmune encephalitis. Despite these developments, many cases of encephalitis remain unexplained. We have previously described a basal ganglia encephalitis with dominant movement and psychiatric disease, and proposed an autoimmune aetiology. Given the role of dopamine and dopamine receptors in the control of movement and behaviour, we hypothesized that patients with basal ganglia encephalitis and other putative autoimmune basal ganglia disorders harboured serum autoantibodies against important dopamine surface proteins. Basal ganglia encephalitis sera immunolabelled live surface cultured neurons that have high expression of dopamine surface proteins. To detect autoantibodies, we performed flow cytometry cell-based assays using human embryonic kidney cells to express surface antigens. Twelve of 17 children (aged 0.4-15 years, nine males) with basal ganglia encephalitis had elevated immunoglobulin G to extracellular dopamine-2 receptor, compared with 0/67 controls. Immunofluorescence on wild-type mouse brain showed that basal ganglia encephalitis sera immunolabelled microtubule-associated protein 2-positive neurons in striatum and also in cultured striatal neurons, whereas the immunolabelling was significantly decreased in dopamine-2 receptor knock-out brains. Immunocytochemistry confirmed that immunoreactivity localized to the surface of dopamine-2 receptor-transfected cells. Immunoabsorption of basal ganglia encephalitis sera on dopamine-2 receptor-transfected human embryonic kidney cells decreased immunolabelling of dopamine-2 receptor-transfected human embryonic kidney cells, neurons and wild-type mouse brain. Using a similar flow cytometry cell-based assay, we found no elevated immunoglobulin G binding to dopamine 1, 3 or 5 receptor, dopamine transporter or N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor. The 12 dopamine-2 receptor antibody-positive patients with encephalitis had movement disorders characterized by parkinsonism, dystonia and chorea. In addition, the patients had psychiatric disturbance with emotional lability, attention deficit and psychosis. Brain magnetic resonance imaging showed lesions localized to the basal ganglia in 50% of the patients. Elevated dopamine-2 receptor immunoglobulin G was also found in 10/30 patients with Sydenham's chorea, 0/22 patients with paediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infection and 4/44 patients with Tourette's syndrome. No dopamine-1 receptor immunoglobulin G was detected in any disease or control groups. We conclude that assessment of dopamine-2 receptor antibodies can help define autoimmune movement and psychiatric disorders.
The molecular diagnosis of mitochondrial disorders still remains elusive in a large proportion of patients, but advances in next generation sequencing are significantly improving our chances to detect mutations even in sporadic patients. Syndromes associated with mitochondrial DNA multiple deletions are caused by different molecular defects resulting in a wide spectrum of predominantly adult-onset clinical presentations, ranging from progressive external ophthalmoplegia to multi-systemic disorders of variable severity. The mutations underlying these conditions remain undisclosed in half of the affected subjects. We applied next-generation sequencing of known mitochondrial targets (MitoExome) to probands presenting with adult-onset mitochondrial myopathy and harbouring mitochondrial DNA multiple deletions in skeletal muscle. We identified autosomal recessive mutations in the DGUOK gene (encoding mitochondrial deoxyguanosine kinase), which has previously been associated with an infantile hepatocerebral form of mitochondrial DNA depletion. Mutations in DGUOK occurred in five independent subjects, representing 5.6% of our cohort of patients with mitochondrial DNA multiple deletions, and impaired both muscle DGUOK activity and protein stability. Clinical presentations were variable, including mitochondrial myopathy with or without progressive external ophthalmoplegia, recurrent rhabdomyolysis in a young female who had received a liver transplant at 9 months of age and adult-onset lower motor neuron syndrome with mild cognitive impairment. These findings reinforce the concept that mutations in genes involved in deoxyribonucleotide metabolism can cause diverse clinical phenotypes and suggest that DGUOK should be screened in patients harbouring mitochondrial DNA deletions in skeletal muscle.
The functional significance of adult neural stem and progenitor cells in hippocampal-dependent learning and memory has been well documented. Although adult neural stem and progenitor cells in the subventricular zone are known to migrate to, maintain and reorganize the olfactory bulb, it is less clear whether they are functionally required for other processes. Using a conditional transgenic mouse model, selective ablation of adult neural stem and progenitor cells in the subventricular zone induced a dramatic increase in morbidity and mortality of central nervous system disorders characterized by excitotoxicity-induced cell death accompanied by reactive inflammation, such as 4-aminopyridine-induced epilepsy and ischaemic stroke. To test the role of subventricular zone adult neural stem and progenitor cells in protecting central nervous system tissue from glutamatergic excitotoxicity, neurophysiological recordings of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents from single medium spiny striatal neurons were measured on acute brain slices. Indeed, lipopolysaccharide-stimulated, but not unstimulated, subventricular zone adult neural stem and progenitor cells reverted the increased frequency and duration of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents by secreting the endocannabinod arachidonoyl ethanolamide, a molecule that regulates glutamatergic tone through type 1 cannabinoid receptor (CB(1)) binding. In vivo restoration of cannabinoid levels, either by administration of the type 1 cannabinoid receptor agonist HU210 or the inhibitor of the principal catabolic enzyme fatty acid amide hydrolase, URB597, completely reverted the increased morbidity and mortality of adult neural stem and progenitor cell-ablated mice suffering from epilepsy and ischaemic stroke. Our results provide the first evidence that adult neural stem and progenitor cells located within the subventricular zone exert an 'innate' homeostatic regulatory role by protecting striatal neurons from glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity.
Left-sided spatial neglect is a common neurological syndrome following right-hemispheric stroke. The presence of spatial neglect is a powerful predictor of poor rehabilitation outcome. In one influential account of spatial neglect, interhemispheric inhibition is impaired and leads to a pathological hyperactivity in the contralesional hemisphere, resulting in a biased attentional allocation towards the right hemifield. Inhibitory transcranial magnetic stimulation can reduce the hyperactivity of the contralesional, intact hemisphere and thereby improve spatial neglect symptoms. However, it is not known whether this improvement is also relevant to the activities of daily living during spontaneous behaviour. The primary aim of the present study was to investigate whether the repeated application of continuous theta burst stimulation trains could ameliorate spatial neglect on a quantitative measure of the activities of daily living during spontaneous behaviour. We applied the Catherine Bergego Scale, a standardized observation questionnaire that can validly and reliably detect the presence and severity of spatial neglect during the activities of daily living. Eight trains of continuous theta burst stimulation were applied over two consecutive days on the contralesional, left posterior parietal cortex in patients suffering from subacute left spatial neglect, in a randomized, double-blind, sham-controlled design, which also included a control group of neglect patients without stimulation. The results showed a 37% improvement in the spontaneous everyday behaviour of the neglect patients after the repeated application of continuous theta burst stimulation. Remarkably, the improvement persisted for at least 3 weeks after stimulation. The amelioration of spatial neglect symptoms in the activities of daily living was also generally accompanied by significantly better performance in the neuropsychological tests. No significant amelioration in symptoms was observed after sham stimulation or in the control group without stimulation. These results provide Class I evidence that continuous theta burst stimulation is a viable add-on therapy in neglect rehabilitation that facilitates recovery of normal everyday behaviour.
This article provides a neurobiological account of symptoms that have been called 'hysterical', 'psychogenic' or 'medically unexplained', which we will call functional motor and sensory symptoms. We use a neurobiologically informed model of hierarchical Bayesian inference in the brain to explain functional motor and sensory symptoms in terms of perception and action arising from inference based on prior beliefs and sensory information. This explanation exploits the key balance between prior beliefs and sensory evidence that is mediated by (body focused) attention, symptom expectations, physical and emotional experiences and beliefs about illness. Crucially, this furnishes an explanation at three different levels: (i) underlying neuromodulatory (synaptic) mechanisms; (ii) cognitive and experiential processes (attention and attribution of agency); and (iii) formal computations that underlie perceptual inference (representation of uncertainty or precision). Our explanation involves primary and secondary failures of inference; the primary failure is the (autonomous) emergence of a percept or belief that is held with undue certainty (precision) following top-down attentional modulation of synaptic gain. This belief can constitute a sensory percept (or its absence) or induce movement (or its absence). The secondary failure of inference is when the ensuing percept (and any somatosensory consequences) is falsely inferred to be a symptom to explain why its content was not predicted by the source of attentional modulation. This account accommodates several fundamental observations about functional motor and sensory symptoms, including: (i) their induction and maintenance by attention; (ii) their modification by expectation, prior experience and cultural beliefs and (iii) their involuntary and symptomatic nature.
The ability to distinguish a figure from its background is crucial for visual perception. To date, it remains unresolved where and how in the visual system different stages of figure-ground segregation emerge. Neural correlates of figure border detection have consistently been found in early visual cortex (V1/V2). However, areas V1/V2 have also been frequently associated with later stages of figure-ground segregation (such as border ownership or surface segregation). To causally link activity in early visual cortex to different stages of figure-ground segregation, we briefly disrupted activity in areas V1/V2 at various moments in time using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Prior to stimulation we presented stimuli that made it possible to differentiate between figure border detection and surface segregation. We concurrently recorded electroencephalographic (EEG) signals to examine how neural correlates of figure-ground segregation were affected by TMS. Results show that disruption of V1/V2 in an early time window (96-119 msec) affected detection of figure stimuli and affected neural correlates of figure border detection, border ownership, and surface segregation. TMS applied in a relatively late time window (236-259 msec) selectively deteriorated performance associated with surface segregation. We conclude that areas V1/V2 are not only essential in an early stage of figure-ground segregation when figure borders are detected, but subsequently causally contribute to more sophisticated stages of figure-ground segregation such as surface segregation.
Existing evidence suggests that reward and attentional networks function in concert and that activation in one system influences the other in a reciprocal fashion; however, the nature of these influences remains poorly understood. We therefore developed a three-component task to assess the interaction effects of reward anticipation and conflict resolution on the behavioral performance and the activation of brain reward and attentional systems. Sixteen healthy adult volunteers aged 21-45 years were scanned with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while performing the task. A two-way repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) with cue (reward vs. non-reward) and target (congruent vs. incongruent) as within-subjects factors was used to test for main and interaction effects. Neural responses to anticipation, conflict, and reward outcomes were tested. Behaviorally there were main effects of both reward cue and target congruency on reaction time. Neuroimaging results showed that reward anticipation and expected reward outcomes activated components of the attentional networks, including the inferior parietal and occipital cortices, whereas surprising non-rewards activated the frontoinsular cortex bilaterally and deactivated the ventral striatum. In turn, conflict activated a broad network associated with cognitive control and motor functions. Interaction effects showed decreased activity in the thalamus, anterior cingulated gyrus, and middle frontal gyrus bilaterally when difficult conflict trials (e.g., incongruent targets) were preceded by reward cues; in contrast, the ventral striatum and orbitofrontal cortex showed greater activation during congruent targets preceded by reward cues. These results suggest that reward anticipation is associated with lower activation in attentional networks, possibly due to increased processing efficiency, whereas more difficult, conflict trials are associated with lower activity in regions of the reward system, possibly because such trials are experienced as less rewarding.
Nitric oxide (NO) and the C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP) exert their action via stimulation of the cyclic GMP (cGMP)-signaling pathway, which includes the activation of cGMP-dependent protein kinases (PKG). The present report shows that the activation of PKG by local application of 8-bromo-cGMP in the caudate-putamen reduced the expression of the epigenetic markers, methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) and histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2), in dopaminergic projection areas of cocaine-treated rats. An effect of lesser amplitude was observed when rats were not injected with cocaine. We also studied the effect of PKG overexpression by injecting a plasmid vector containing the human PKG-I cDNA in either the caudate-putamen or the ventral tegmental area. Injection in the caudate-putamen reduced the epigenetic parameters with higher amplitude than the cGMP analog. The effect was abolished by the injection of a selective PKG inhibitor, confirming that it was due to PKG-dependent phosphorylation. As MeCP2 and HDAC2 modulate dynamic functions in the adult brain such as memory formation and synaptic plasticity, the downregulation of expression by PKG suggests that the cGMP pathway affects cognitive processes through a mechanism that comprises the MeCP2/HDAC2 complex and the subsequent control of gene silencing.
Opioids, such as morphine, induce potent analgesia and are the gold standard for the treatment of acute pain. However, opioids also activate glia, inducing pro-inflammatory cytokine and chemokine production, which counter-regulates the analgesic properties of classical opioid receptor activation. It is not known how long these adverse pro-inflammatory effects last or whether prior morphine could sensitize the central nervous system (CNS) such that responses to a subsequent injury/inflammation would be exacerbated. Here, multiple models of inflammation or injury were induced two days after morphine (5mg/kg b.i.d., five days , s.c.) to test the generality of morphine sensitization of later pain. Prior repeated morphine potentiated the duration of allodynia from peripheral inflammatory challenges (complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) into either hind paw skin or masseter muscle) and from peripheral neuropathy (mild chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve). Spinal cord and trigeminal nucleus caudalis mRNAs were analyzed to identify whether repeated morphine was sufficient to alter CNS expression of pro-inflammatory response genes, measured two days after cessation of treatment. Prior morphine elevated IL-1 mRNA at both sites, MHC-II and TLR4 in the trigeminal nucleus caudalis but not spinal cord, but not glial activation markers at either site. Finally, in order to identify whether morphine sensitized pro-inflammatory cytokine release, spinal cord was isolated two days after morphine dosing for five days , and slices stimulated ex vivo with lipopolysaccharide. The morphine significantly induced TNF protein release. Therefore, repeated morphine is able to sensitize subsequent CNS responses to immune challenges.

Childhood absence epilepsy (CAE) has been associated with executive functions and attention deficits. To clarify the issue of neurocognitive impairments in CAE, we investigated whether specific executive functions and attention deficit patterns were present in a well-defined group of children with CAE who were taking valproic acid. Participants included 15 children with CAE and 15 healthy controls aged 8-15 years and matched for sex, age and IQ. We compared the performances of the two groups in the following neuropsychological domains: planning and problem solving (TOL), verbal fluency (FAS and CAT), verbal short-term memory (DSF), verbal working memory (DSB), visuospatial memory (Corsi Block Tapping Test) and sustained and divided attention (TMT-A and TMT-B). No differences were found between the two groups on measures of intellectual functioning, verbal short-term memory and visuospatial memory. By contrast, significant differences were found in total time of planning task, phonological and category fluency and sustained and divided attention. Future studies that systematically examine different aspects of attention and executive functions are needed to outline a clear and specific neuropsychological profile in CAE.
Our goal was to characterize the effects of intensive aphasia therapy on the N400, an electrophysiological index of lexical-semantic processing. Immediately before and after 4 weeks of intensive speech-language therapy, people with aphasia performed a task in which they had to determine whether spoken words were a 'match' or a 'mismatch' to pictures of objects. Pre-therapy, people with aphasia exhibited an N400 mismatch effect that started over right hemisphere electrodes. Post-therapy, gains were seen in clinical measures of language ability, and the onset of the N400 was left-lateralized. No changes in the scalp distribution of the N400 were observed in healthy controls tested twice over the same 4 week interval. Since the distribution of the N400 after aphasia therapy differed from that of healthy controls, we conclude that it reflects the engagement of compensatory neural mechanisms for language processing rather than a return to a &quot;normal&quot; pattern of brain activation.
Neuropathic pain syndromes are clinically characterized by spontaneous pain and evoked pain (hyperalgesia and allodynia). The optimal treatment approach for neuropathic pain is still under development because of the complex pathological mechanisms underlying this type of pain. The spinal cord is an important gateway thorough which peripheral pain signals are transmitted to the brain, and sensitization of the spinal neurons is one of the important mechanisms underlying neuropathic pain. Central sensitization represents enhancement of the function of neuronal circuits in nociceptive pathways and is a manifestation of the remarkable plasticity of the somatosensory nervous system after nerve injury. This review highlights the pathological features of central sensitization, which develops because of (1) injury-induced abnormal inputs from primary afferents, (2) increase in the excitability of dorsal horn neurons, and (3) activated glial cell-derived signals.
Like amyloid beta (A) oligomers, tau aggregates are increasingly recognized as potential key toxic intermediates in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and as therapeutic targets. P-tau co-localizes with A in cortical AD synapses and may contribute to synapse dysfunction and loss. Flow cytometry analysis of synaptosomes from AD compared with aged cognitively normal cortex demonstrates increased immunolabeling for three p-tau antibodies (AT8, PHF-1 and pS422), indicating phosphorylation at multiple tau epitopes. Sequential extraction experiments show increased soluble p-tau in AD synapses, but a sizable pool of p-tau requires detergent solubilization, suggesting endosomal/lysosomal localization. P-tau is co-localized with A in individual synaptosomes in dual labeling experiments, and flow cytometry sorting of A-positive synaptosomes from an AD case reveals a marked enrichment of p-tau aggregates. The p-tau enrichment, a 76-fold increase over the initial homogenate, is consistent with sequestration of p-tau in internal synaptic compartments. Western analysis of a series of AD and normal cases shows SDS-stable tau oligomers in the dimer/trimer size range in AD samples. These results indicate that widespread synaptic p-tau pathology accompanies A accumulations in surviving synaptic terminals, particularly in late-stage AD.
The present study examined whether capsaicin (CAP), an agonist of transient receptor potential vanilloid subtype 1 (TRPV1) can prevent 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+))-induced dopaminergic (DA) neuronal death in the substantia nigra (SN). Unilateral injection of MPP(+) into the median forebrain bundle of rat brain resulted in a significant loss of nigral DA neurons, assessed by tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunostaining. In parallel, activation of microglia, visualized by OX-42 and OX-6 immunostaining were also observed in the SN, where degeneration of nigral neurons was found. By contrast, MPP(+) neurotoxicity was partially inhibited by co-treatment with MPP(+) and CAP. Interestingly, CAP significantly decreased not only immunoreactivity of OX-42 and OX-6 but also production of microglia-derived reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the SN of MPP(+)-treated rats. In experiments designed to further verify effectiveness of CAP against microglia-derived neurotoxicity, CAP inhibited ROS production and blocked MPP(+)-induced death of DA neurons in co-cultures of mesencephalic neurons and microglia, but not in microglia-free, neuron-enriched mesencephalic cultures. This beneficial effect was reversed by capsazepine, an antagonist of TRPV1, expressed in microglia, indicating TRPV1 involvement. Our data demonstrate for the first time that CAP may inhibit microglial activation-mediated oxidative stress via TRPV1, suggesting that CAP and its analogs may have therapeutic value by inhibiting microglial activation and/or ROS generation that occurs in Parkinson's disease.
In Part I, neuroscience collaborators with the Nazis were discussed, and in Part II, neuroscience resistors were discussed. In Part III, we discuss the tragedy regarding european neuroscientists who became victims of the Nazi onslaught on non-Aryan doctors. Some of these unfortunate neuroscientists survived Nazi concentration camps, but most were murdered. We discuss the circumstances and environment which stripped these neuroscientists of their profession, then of their personal rights and freedom, and then of their lives. We include a background analysis of anti-Semitism and Nazism in their various countries, then discuss in depth seven exemplary neuroscientist Holocaust victims; including Germans Ludwig Pick, Arthur Simons, and Raphael Weichbrodt, Austrians Alexander Spitzer and Viktor Frankl, and Poles Lucja Frey and Wladyslaw Sterling. by recognizing and remembering these victims of neuroscience, we pay homage and do not allow humanity to forget, lest this dark period in history ever repeat itself.
Adult subventricular zone neurogenesis is an important process in most mammals. However, whether it persists in humans is highly debated. Recent work by Sanai and colleagues provides a major step in settling this debate. Using histological approaches, they demonstrated an active subventricular zone with limited neurogenesis in humans as well as discovered a new migratory route.
After central nervous system (CNS) insults, such as spinal cord injury or traumatic brain injury, neurons encounter a complex microenvironment where mechanisms that promote regeneration compete with inhibitory processes. Sprouting and axonal re-growth are key components of functional recovery, but are often counteracted by inhibitory molecules. Several strategies are being pursued whereby these inhibitory molecules are either being neutralized with blocking antibodies, with enzymatic degradation or downstream signaling events are being interfered with. Two recent studies ( 1) (,) ( 2) show that activating integrin signaling in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons renders them able to overcome inhibitory signals, and could possibly lead to new strategies to improve neuronal regeneration.
Information processing within neural circuits depends largely on the dynamic interactions between the principal cells and inhibitory interneurons. It is further determined by the efficacy of synaptic transmission between individual circuit elements, which is in turn tightly regulated by changes in network activity to allow for numerous adaptations to occur at a single synapse. Intracellular calcium (Ca2+) is a crucial factor in the regulation of synaptic efficacy in neuronal networks. Evidence from high-resolution imaging studies has revealed the intricacies of how Ca2+ signalling is organised in the dendrites of different cell types. Inhibitory interneurons exhibit a variety of postsynaptic Ca2+ mechanisms, which are recruited by distinct activity patterns and are responsible for the formation of functionally segregated dendritic Ca2+ microdomains. Furthermore, postsynaptic Ca2+ signals in these cells not only contribute to the induction of synaptic plasticity but also may themselves undergo different forms of plastic modifications, depending on the activity level. This compartmentalised regulation of postsynaptic Ca2+ signalling may have a significant impact on the induction of synaptic plasticity and on single-interneuron and network computations.
Genome-wide association studies have identified a number of genes associated with human body weight. While some of these genes are large fields within obesity research, such as MC4R, POMC, FTO and BDNF, the majority do not have a clearly defined functional role explaining why they may affect body weight. Here, we searched biological databases and discovered 33 additional genes associated with human obesity (CADM2, GIPR, GPCR5B, LRP1B, NEGR1, NRXN3, SH2B1, FANCL, GNPDA2, HMGCR, MAP2K5, NUDT3, PRKD1, QPCTL, TNNI3K, MTCH2, DNAJC27, SLC39A8, MTIF3, RPL27A, SEC16B, ETV5, HMGA1, TFAP2B, TUB, ZNF608, FAIM2, KCTD15, LINGO2, POC5, PTBP2, TMEM18, TMEM160). We find that the majority have orthologues in distant species, such as D. melanogaster and C. elegans, suggesting that they are important for the biology of most bilateral species. Intriguingly, signalling cascade genes and transcription factors are enriched among these obesity genes, and several of the genes show properties that could be useful for potential drug discovery. In this review, we demonstrate how information from several distant model species, interactomics and signalling pathway analysis represents an important way to better understand the functional diversity of the surprisingly high number of molecules that seem to be important for human obesity.
A review is provided of the two neuroscience sessions entitled &quot;Stress Responses in the Nervous System&quot; that were presented at the ninth Cell Stress Society International Workshop on the &quot;Molecular Biology of the Stress Response&quot; held in Port Alegre, Brazil, May 27-30, 2012. The sessions were organized and chaired by Ian R. Brown (Toronto, Canada) and Maria Estela Andrs (Santiago, Chile).
p53 family members have been implicated in regulation of genomic integrity and apoptosis in a variety of tissues. The Drosophila family member, Dmp53, primarily functions to regulate apoptosis in developing and regenerating tissues but loss of function mutants are viable and fertile. Dmp53 exhibits a striking expression pattern in the male germline with high levels found in nuclear bodies in pre-meiotic germ cells. The localisation of Dmp53 to nuclear bodies is dependent upon Dmp53 complexes being able to bind DNA, and although dmp53 mutants do not affect germline stem cell (GSC) maintenance or differentiation, GSCs are sensitive to overexpression of Dmp53 but maturing spermatogonia are not. Dmp53 thus has differential effects depending upon the stage of male germline maturation.
Cathodal transcranial direct current stimulation (c-tDCS) can reduce excitability of neurons in primary motor cortex (M1) and may facilitate motor recovery after stroke. However, little is known about the neurophysiological effects of tDCS on proximal upper limb function. We hypothesized that suppression of contralesional M1 (cM1) excitability would produce neurophysiological effects that depended on the severity of upper limb impairment. Twelve patients with varying upper limb impairment after subcortical stroke were assessed on clinical scales of upper limb spasticity, impairment, and function. Magnetic resonance imaging was used to determine lesion size and fractional anisotropy (FA) within the posterior limbs of the internal capsules indicative of corticospinal tract integrity. Excitability within paretic M1 biceps brachii representation was determined from motor-evoked potentials during selective isometric tasks, after cM1 sham stimulation and after c-tDCS. These neurophysiological data indicate that c-tDCS improved selective proximal upper limb control for mildly impaired patients and worsened it for moderate to severely impaired patients. The direction of the neurophysiological after effects of c-tDCS was strongly related to upper limb spasticity, impairment, function, and FA asymmetry between the posterior limbs of the internal capsules. These results indicate systematic variation of cM1 for proximal upper limb control after stroke and that suppression of cM1 excitability is not a &quot;one size fits all&quot; approach.
During the morphogenesis of neocortex, newborn neurons undergo radial migration from the ventricular zone toward the surface of the cortical plate to form an &quot;inside-out&quot; lamina structure. The spatiotemporal signals that control this stereotyped radial migration remain elusive. Here, we report that a recently identified Robo family member Robo4 (Magic Roundabout), which was considered to be solely expressed in endothelial cells, is expressed in developing brain and regulates the radial migration of newborn neurons in neocortex. Downregulation of Robo4 expression in cortical newborn neurons by using in utero electroporation, with either specific siRNAs in wild-type rodents or with Cre recombinase in floxed-robo4 mutant mice, led to severe defects in the radial migration of newborn neurons with misorientation of these neurons. Moreover, newborn neurons transfected with Robo4 siRNAs exhibited significantly lower motility in a transwell migration assay (Boyden chamber) in the absence of Slit and significantly higher sensitivity to the repulsive effect of Slit in both transwell migration assay and growth cone collapse assay. Overall, our results showed an important role of Robo4 in the regulation of cortical radial migration through Slit-dependent and -independent mechanisms.
Studies of cognitive and neural aging have recently provided evidence of a shift from an early- to late-onset cognitive control strategy, linked with temporally extended activity in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). It has been uncertain, however, whether this age-related shift is unique to PFC and executive control tasks or whether the functional location might vary depending on the particular cognitive processes that are altered. The present study tested whether an early-to-late shift in aging (ELSA) might emerge in the medial temporal lobes (MTL) during a protracted context memory task comprising both anticipatory cue (retrieval preparation) and retrieval probe (retrieval completion) phases. First, we found reduced MTL activity in older adults during the early retrieval preparation phase coupled with increased MTL activity during the late retrieval completion phase. Second, we found that functional connectivity between MTL and PFC regions was higher during retrieval preparation in young adults but higher during retrieval completion in older adults, suggesting an important interactive relationship between the ELSA pattern in MTL and PFC. Taken together, these results critically suggest that aging results in temporally lagged activity even in regions not typically associated with cognitive control, such as the MTL.
Oscillatory activity is modulated by sensory stimulation but can also fluctuate in the absence of sensory input. Recent studies have demonstrated that such fluctuations of oscillatory activity can have substantial influence on the perception of subsequent stimuli. In the present study, we employed a simultaneity task in the somatosensory domain to study the role of prestimulus oscillatory activity on the temporal perception of 2 events. Subjects received electrical stimulations of the left and right index finger with varying stimulus onset asynchronies (SOAs) and reported their subjective perception of simultaneity, while brain activity was recorded with magnetoencephalography. With intermediate SOAs (30 and 45 ms), subjects frequently misperceived the stimulation as simultaneously. We compared neuronal oscillatory power in these conditions and found that power in the high beta band (20 to 40 Hz) in primary and secondary somatosensory cortex prior to the electrical stimulation predicted subjects' reports of simultaneity. Additionally, prestimulus alpha-band power influenced perception in the condition SOA 45 ms. Our results indicate that fluctuations of ongoing oscillatory activity in the beta and alpha bands shape subjective perception of physically identical stimulation.
The behavioral and neurofunctional consequences of blindness often include performance enhancements and recruitment of occipital regions for nonvisual tasks. How the neuroanatomical changes resulting from this sensory loss relate to these functional changes is, however, less clear. Previous studies using cortical thickness (CT) measures have shown thicker occipital cortex in early-blind (EB) individuals compared with sighted controls. We hypothesized that this finding reflects the crossmodal plasticity often observed in blind individuals and thus could reflect behavioral adaptations. To address this issue, CT measures in blind (early and late) and sighted subjects were obtained along with several auditory behavioral measures in an attempt to relate behavioral and neuroanatomical changes. Group contrasts confirmed previous results in showing thicker occipital cortex in the EB. Regression analyses between CT measures across the whole brain of all blind individuals with the behavioral scores from 2 tasks in which EB subjects were superior (pitch and melody discrimination) showed that CT of occipital areas was directly related to behavioral enhancements. These findings constitute a compelling demonstration that anatomical changes in occipital areas are directly related to heightened behavioral abilities in the blind and hence support the idea that these anatomical features reflect adaptive compensatory plasticity.

Na(V)1.5 is a mechanosensitive voltage-gated Na(+) channel encoded by the gene SCN5A, expressed in cardiac myocytes and required for phase 0 of the cardiac action potential (AP). In the cardiomyocyte, ranolazine inhibits depolarizing Na(+) current and delayed rectifier (I(Kr)) currents. Recently, ranolazine was also shown to be an inhibitor of Na(V)1.5 mechanosensitivity. Stretch also accelerates the firing frequency of the SA node, and fluid shear stress increases the beating rate of cultured cardiomyocytes in vitro. However, no cultured cell platform exists currently for examination of spontaneous electrical activity in response to mechanical stimulation. In the present study, flow of solution over atrial myocyte-derived HL-1 cultured cells was used to study shear stress mechanosensitivity of Na(+) current and spontaneous, endogenous rhythmic action potentials. In voltage-clamped HL-1 cells, bath flow increased peak Na(+) current by 14  5%. In current-clamped cells, bath flow increased the frequency and decay rate of AP by 27  12% and 18  4%, respectively. Ranolazine blocked both responses to shear stress. This study suggests that cultured HL-1 cells are a viable in vitro model for detailed study of the effects of mechanical stimulation on spontaneous cardiac action potentials. Inhibition of the frequency and decay rate of action potentials in HL-1 cells are potential mechanisms behind the antiarrhythmic effect of ranolazine.
Recently published work and emerging research efforts have suggested that the olfactory system is intimately linked with the endocrine systems that regulate or modify energy balance. Although much attention has been focused on the parallels between taste transduction and neuroendocrine controls of digestion due to the novel discovery of taste receptors and molecular components shared by the tongue and gut, the equivalent body of knowledge that has accumulated for the olfactory system, has largely been overlooked. During regular cycles of food intake or disorders of endocrine function, olfaction is modulated in response to changing levels of various molecules, such as ghrelin, orexins, neuropeptide Y, insulin, leptin, and cholecystokinin. In view of the worldwide health concern regarding the rising incidence of diabetes, obesity, and related metabolic disorders, we present a comprehensive review that addresses the current knowledge of hormonal modulation of olfactory perception and how disruption of hormonal signaling in the olfactory system can affect energy homeostasis.


Researching the origin of the terms that we use to identify neuroanatomical structures is a helpful and fascinating exercise. It can provide neuroscientists with a better insight and understanding of the macroscopic anatomy of the cranium and its contents. It can also help the novice to this discipline to become acquainted with structures whose three dimensional anatomy is often difficult to appreciate. The purpose of this article was to investigate the etymology of some of the terms referring to the macroscopic anatomical structures of the skull and the intracranial cavity. We observed how each name unravels an interesting story, sometimes linked to mythological creatures, other times to the shape of animals or objects and tools of everyday life. We conclude that even without a deep knowledge of the Greek, Latin, or Arabic language, learning who described a particular structure and how they decided to name it, makes the study of neuroanatomy more complete and fulfilling.
Preterm newborns, particularly very low birth weight newborns, frequently experience intermittent hypotension and/or hypoperfusion. Organ perfusion is largely distinct from systemic hypotension, suggesting that changes in underlying vascular tone are the major determinants of perfusion. Preterm fetuses have a remarkable anaerobic tolerance and ability to survive major insults with no or limited injury, balanced by relative immaturity of key autonomic responses. Exposure to hypoxia-ischaemia and infection trigger complex changes in vascular tone that evolve over many days and there is evidence that these are centrally controlled and linked, in part, with underlying organ metabolism. Hypoperfusion frequently occurs after hypoxia-ischaemia without organ injury occurring. Hypoxia-ischaemia, infection and many clinical interventions, such as steroid therapy and ventilation, can interact to increase or decrease the risk of brain injury.


Nuclear factor  B (NF-B) is involved in the pathogenesis of a number of neurodegenerative disorders with neuroinflammation. In order to clarify the role of NF-B in ALS, immunohistochemical studies with an antibody that recognizes the p65 subunit of NF-B were performed on the spinal anterior horn of 4 patients with sporadic ALS (sALS), 1 patient with optineurin-mutated ALS (OPTN-ALS), and 3 normal controls (NC). In patients with sALS or OPTN-ALS, the expression pattern of NF-B was altered when compared to that of NC; NF-B immunoreactivity tended to be absent from neuronal nucleus and was increased in microglia. The down-regulation of NF-B in neuronal nucleus might contribute to a loss of neuroprotection, or neurons with nuclear NF-B might be lost immediately after its activation. The microglial induction of NF-B might contribute to neuroinflammation. In conclusion, NF-B signaling pathway could have a key role in the pathomechanism of ALS.






Cortical development is a complex process that involves many events including proliferation, cell cycle exit and differentiation that need to be appropriately synchronized. Neural stem cells (NSCs) isolated from embryonic cortex are characterized by their ability of self-renewal under continued maintenance of multipotency. Cell cycle progression and arrest during development is regulated by numerous factors, including cyclins, cyclin dependent kinases and their inhibitors. In this study, we exogenously expressed the homeodomain transcription factor Pitx2, usually expressed in postmitotic progenitors and neurons of the embryonic cortex, in NSCs with low expression of endogenous Pitx2. We found that Pitx2 expression induced a rapid decrease in proliferation associated with an accumulation of NSCs in G1 phase. A search for potential cell cycle inhibitors responsible for such cell cycle exit of NSCs revealed that Pitx2 expression caused a rapid and dramatic (20-fold) increase in expression of the cell cycle inhibitor p21 (WAF1/Cip1). In addition, Pitx2 bound directly to the p21 promoter as assessed by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) in NSCs. Surprisingly, Pitx2 expression was not associated with an increase in differentiation markers, but instead the expression of nestin, associated with undifferentiated NSCs, was maintained. Our results suggest that Pitx2 promotes p21 expression and induces cell cycle exit in neural progenitors.
Antipsychotics are the mainstay of treatment for patients with schizophrenia. However, these medications only work if they are taken and perhaps work best if they are taken for longer periods of time than seen in typical research trials. Here we explore the idea of &quot;time as drug&quot; by reviewing the data showing the potential benefits of long-term antipsychotic use. We also discuss the utility of depot antipsychotic formulations for improving the chances of attaining long-term therapeutic results.
Epidemiological studies have revealed striking associations between several distinct behavioral/personality traits and drug addiction, with a large emphasis on the sensation-seeking trait and the associated impulsive dimension of personality. However, in human studies, it is difficult to identify whether personality/behavioral traits actually contribute to increased vulnerability to drug addiction or reflect psychobiological adaptations to chronic drug exposure. Here we show how animal models, including the first multi-symptomatic model of addiction in the rat, have contributed to a better understanding of the relationships between different subdimensions of the sensation-seeking trait and different stages of the development of cocaine addiction, from vulnerability to initiation of cocaine self-administration to the transition to compulsive drug intake. We argue that sensation seeking predicts vulnerability to use cocaine, whereas novelty seeking, akin to high impulsivity, predicts instead vulnerability to shift from controlled to compulsive cocaine use, that is, addiction.
Optogenetic strategies for perturbation of neural circuit function have begun to revolutionize systems neuroscience. Whereas optogenetics has proven to be a powerful approach for studying neural systems, the tools to conduct these experiments are still continuously evolving. Here we briefly summarize available hardware and reagents that can be used for studying behaviors related to reward and addiction. In addition, we discuss recent studies in which these strategies have been applied to study neural circuit function in brain slices as well as awake and behaving animals. Collectively, this work serves as a brief introduction to optogenetic techniques and highlights how these tools can be applied to elucidate the neural circuits that underlie reward processing and addiction.
Filopodia are dynamic, actin-rich finger-like structures that protrude from the cell membrane and play important roles in cell migration and neurite initiation and outgrowth. The insulin receptor substrate protein of 53 kDa (IRSp53) and the mammalian Diaphanous members of the formin family of proteins (mDia) are two key players in the formation of filopodia and neurites. IRSp53 is an adaptor protein that acts at the membrane:actin interface, coupling membrane deformation with F-actin polymerization. mDia formin proteins, instead, can nucleate and polymerize linear actin filaments. Emerging genetic and biochemical evidence indicate that there are multiple and independent pathways leading to filopodium and neurite formation, but the precise molecular components of these pathways remain ill-defined. We recently identified the PDZ domain-containing protein LIN7 as a novel regulator of IRSp53. We further showed that the association between these two proteins is required to promote the formation of filopodia and neurites independently from mDia formin proteins, highlighting novel mechanisms of filopodia and neurite formation.
Neurons have unique challenges relative to other cell types. Unlike most other cells, neurons must remain healthy and functional throughout the lifespan of an animal. Premature neuronal loss underlies many age-related neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer and Parkinson Diseases. Despite previous research aimed at understanding the mechanisms of age-related neurodegenerative diseases, little is known about the mechanisms that allow neurons to remain functional for the lifetime of a healthy animal. Understanding these cellular and biochemical processes is essential to promote healthful aging and reduce the severity of neurodegenerative disease. Here we discuss our recent identification of neuron-specific proteins that regulate endosome fusion events and the role of endosomes in maintaining healthy neurons.

Research looking at specific memory aberrations in the schizophrenia has primarily focused on their phenomenology using standardized semantic laboratory tasks. However, no study has investigated to what extent such aberrations have consequences for everyday episodic memories using more realistic false memory paradigms. Using a false memory paradigm where participants are presented with misleading suggestive information (Gudjonsson Suggestibility Scale), we investigated the susceptibility of patients with schizophrenia (n = 21) and healthy controls (n = 18) to post hoc misleading information acceptance and compliance. Patients with schizophrenia exhibited an increased susceptibility to go along with misleading suggestive items. Furthermore, they showed an increased tendency to change answers under conditions of social pressure. Underscoring previous findings on memory aberrations in schizophrenia, patients with schizophrenia had reduced levels of correct recognition (ie, true memory) relative to healthy controls. The effects remained stable when controlling for specific mediating variables such as symptom severity and intelligence in patients with schizophrenia. These findings are a first indication that social pressure and misleading information may impair source memory for everyday episodic memories in schizophrenia, and such impairment has clear consequences for treatment issues and forensic practice.

Electrical stimulation of the human cortex typically elicits positive sensorimotor effects. However, many neurosurgical studies have also reported negative motor areas (NMAs) in which stimulation produces inhibition of ongoing movement. The neurocognitive implications of these studies have not been systematically explored. Here we review the neurosurgical literature on NMAs and link this to cognitive mechanisms of inhibition and their role in voluntary control of action. In particular, we discuss the functional validity of NMAs. We contest the sceptical view that negative effects following stimulation merely reflect disruption of positive motor areas. Instead, we suggest that NMAs may produce an inhibitory mechanism under ecologically valid conditions.
The concept of reserve can be conceived as differences in the ability to compensate for pathology by recruiting additional or alternative networks. The purpose of this study was to examine whether certain cognitive systems may compensate for the effect of CSF amyloid beta 42 (A42) and total tau (T-tau) on other cognitive systems. Five hundred and nine participants underwent neuropsychological examination and lumbar puncture. Multiple regression was performed with interaction terms to test whether a cognitive system reduced the impact of CSF pathology on other systems. All cognitive systems except speed and visuospatial functions were associated with reduced effects of T-tau and A42 on semantic memory, working memory and visuospatial abilities. The burden of A42 was reduced more often than that of T-tau. Our results suggest that most cognitive systems may be beneficial to maintenance of cognitive performance despite CSF burden. The results support the notion of cognitive reserve.
Structural brain changes precede cognitive and clinical symptoms in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We aimed to examine the gray and white matter tissue changes in individuals with memory decline over a 12-year period, who might be at risk for AD. The participants were selected from the longitudinal Maastricht Aging Study based on their scores on the verbal word learning task. A group with profound memory decline over a 12-year period (n = 20) was identified and matched with a group that did not meet this criterion (n = 20). All of the participants underwent MRI scanning. Diffusion tensor imaging and cortical thickness analyses were performed to investigate the white and gray matter differences respectively. We found decreased white matter integrity in the memory decline group compared to the control group in frontal and parietal brain regions and in several cortico-cortical and cortico-subcortical tracts. Cortical thinning in the memory decline group was found in frontal, parietal, medial temporal and occipital areas. These results showed similarities with the structural brain changes observed in early AD. Thus, not only may cognitive changes be detected years before the clinical diagnosis, but typical gray and white matter changes appear to be present in older people with memory decline as well. This suggests that a combination of cognitive decline and structural brain changes might be an ideal biomarker for AD pathogenesis.





Human induced pluripotent stem cells (HIPSC) have tremendous value as a source of autologous cells for cellular transplantation in the treatment of degenerative diseases. The protocols described here address methods for large-scale genetic modification of HIPSCs. The first is an optimized method for transfecting HIPSCs cultured in feeder-free conditions. The second method allows nucleofection of trypsinized HIPSCs at an optimal cell density. Both methods enable robust generation of stable HIPSC transfectants within two weeks. Our protocols are highly reproducible and do not require optimization for individual HIPSC and human embryonic stem cell (HESC) lines.


Somites form by an iterative process from unsegmented, presomitic mesoderm (PSM). Notch pathway components, such as deltaC (dlc) have been shown to play a role in this process, while the T-box transcription factors Ntla and Tbx16 regulate somite formation upstream of this by controlling supply and movement of cells into the PSM during gastrulation and tailbud outgrowth. In this work, we report that Ntla and Tbx16 play a more explicit role in segmentation by directly regulating dlc expression. In addition we describe a cis-regulatory module (CRM) upstream of dlc that drives expression of a reporter in the tailbud, PSM and somites during somitogenesis. This CRM is bound by both Ntla and Tbx16 at a cluster of T-box binding sites, which are required in combination for activation of the CRM.

The ability of axons to project correctly to the target is essential for the formation of complex neural networks. The intrinsic regulation of this process is still unclear. Here, we show that POU domain motif 3 (Pdm3) is required in ring (R) neurons to control precise axon targeting to the Drosophila ellipsoid body (EB). Pdm3 is expressed in neurons of the central nervous system in larvae and adults and required for the normal development of the EB of the central complex in the adult brain. The normal EB structure is abolished in pdm3 mutants, and this phenotype is rescued by pdm3 expression in R neurons, suggesting that the defect in axonal targeting of R neurons is the major cause in EB malformation in pdm3 mutants. We show that cell fate determination, dendritic arborization, and initial axon projection of R neurons are normal while the axonal targeting to the EB is defective in pdm3 mutants.
Changes in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) dopamine receptor expression and in mPFC projections to the nucleus accumbens in adolescence suggest that there may be age differences in the regulation of drug-related behavior by the mPFC. The age-specific role of prelimbic D1 dopamine receptors on amphetamine-induced locomotor activity was investigated. In experiment 1, rats aged postnatal day 30 (P30), P45, and P75, corresponding to early and late adolescence and adulthood, were given an injection of D1 and D2 antagonists into the prelimbic mPFC before a systemic injection of 1.5 mg/kg of amphetamine and locomotor activity was recorded. In experiment 2, effects of intra-prelimbic injections of a D1 agonist and antagonist on locomotor activity produced by a lower dose (0.5 mg/kg) of amphetamine were investigated. D2 receptor antagonist did not alter amphetamine-induced activity, whereas the D1 receptor antagonist reduced activity produced by 1.5 mg/kg of amphetamine more in P30 than in P45 and P75 rats. In addition, D1 agonist enhanced the locomotor activating effects of 0.5 mg/kg of amphetamine in adolescent rats and decreased activity in adult rats. These results suggest that insufficient activation of mPFC D1 receptors may underlie the reduced activity at the low dose of amphetamine in early adolescent compared to adult rats.
Sleep is maximal during early postnatal life when rapid and extensive synapse remodeling occurs. It remains unknown whether and how sleep affects synapse development and plasticity. Using transcranial two-photon microscopy, we examined the formation and elimination of fluorescently labeled dendritic spines and filopodia of Layer 5 pyramidal neurons in the barrel cortex of 3-week-old mice during wakefulness and sleep. We observed high turnover of dendritic protrusions over 2 h in both wake and sleep states. The formation rate of dendritic spines or filopodia over 2 h was comparable between the two states. The elimination rate of dendritic spines or filopodia was lower during 2-h wakefulness than during 2-h sleep. Similar results were observed on dendritic protrusion dynamics over 12-h light/dark cycle when mice spent more time asleep or awake. The substantial remodeling of dendritic protrusions during the sleep state supports the notion that sleep plays an important role in the development and plasticity of synaptic connections in the mouse cortex.
The recent introduction of the induced pluripotent stem cell technology has made possible the derivation of neuronal cells from somatic cells obtained from human individuals. This in turn has opened new areas of investigation that can potentially bridge the gap between neuroscience and psychopathology. For the first time we can study the cell biology and genetics of neurons derived from any individual. Furthermore, by recapitulating in vitro the developmental steps whereby stem cells give rise to neuronal cells, we can now hope to understand factors that control typical and atypical development. We can begin to explore how human genes and their variants are transcribed into messenger RNAs within developing neurons and how these gene transcripts control the biology of developing cells. Thus, human-induced pluripotent stem cells have the potential to uncover not only what aspects of development are uniquely human but also variations in the series of events necessary for normal human brain development that predispose to psychopathology.
Spatial cognition and memory are critical cognitive skills underlying foraging behaviors for all primates. While the emergence of these skills has been the focus of much research on human children, little is known about ontogenetic patterns shaping spatial cognition in other species. Comparative developmental studies of nonhuman apes can illuminate which aspects of human spatial development are shared with other primates, versus which aspects are unique to our lineage. Here we present three studies examining spatial memory development in our closest living relatives, chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and bonobos (P. paniscus). We first compared memory in a naturalistic foraging task where apes had to recall the location of resources hidden in a large outdoor enclosure with a variety of landmarks (Studies 1 and 2). We then compared older apes using a matched memory choice paradigm (Study 3). We found that chimpanzees exhibited more accurate spatial memory than bonobos across contexts, supporting predictions from these species' different feeding ecologies. Furthermore, chimpanzees - but not bonobos - showed developmental improvements in spatial memory, indicating that bonobos exhibit cognitive paedomorphism (delays in developmental timing) in their spatial abilities relative to chimpanzees. Together, these results indicate that the development of spatial memory may differ even between closely related species. Moreover, changes in the spatial domain can emerge during nonhuman ape ontogeny, much like some changes seen in human children.
Macrophages are multifunctional immune cells that may either drive or modulate disease pathogenesis depending on their activation phenotype. Autoimmune type 1 diabetes (T1D) is a chronic proinflammatory condition characterized by unresolved destruction of pancreatic islets. Adoptive cell transfer of macrophages with immunosuppressive properties represents a novel immunotherapy for treatment of such chronic autoimmune diseases. We used a panel of cytokines and other stimuli to discern the most effective regimen for in vitro induction of immunosuppressive macrophages (M2r) and determined interleukin (IL)-4/IL-10/transforming growth factor- (TGF-) to be optimal. M2r cells expressed programmed cell death 1 ligand-2, fragment crystallizable region  receptor IIb, IL-10, and TGF-, had a potent deactivating effect on proinflammatory lipopolysaccharide/interferon--stimulated macrophages, and significantly suppressed T-cell proliferation. Clinical therapeutic efficacy was assessed after adoptive transfer in NOD T1D mice, and after a single transfer of M2r macrophages, &gt;80% of treated NOD mice were protected against T1D for at least 3 months, even when transfer was conducted just prior to clinical onset. Fluorescent imaging analyses revealed that adoptively transferred M2r macrophages specifically homed to the inflamed pancreas, promoting -cell survival. We suggest that M2r macrophage therapy represents a novel intervention that stops ongoing autoimmune T1D and may have relevance in a clinical setting.
In September of 2011, the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD), the International Rett Syndrome Foundation (IRSF) and the Rett Syndrome Research Trust (RSRT) convened a workshop involving a broad cross-section of basic scientists, clinicians and representatives from the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the pharmaceutical industry and private foundations to assess the state of the art in animal studies of Rett syndrome (RTT). The aim of the workshop was to identify crucial knowledge gaps and to suggest scientific priorities and best practices for the use of animal models in preclinical evaluation of potential new RTT therapeutics. This review summarizes outcomes from the workshop and extensive follow-up discussions among participants, and includes: (1) a comprehensive summary of the physiological and behavioral phenotypes of RTT mouse models to date, and areas in which further phenotypic analyses are required to enhance the utility of these models for translational studies; (2) discussion of the impact of genetic differences among mouse models, and methodological differences among laboratories, on the expression and analysis, respectively, of phenotypic traits; and (3) definitions of the standards that the community of RTT researchers can implement for rigorous preclinical study design and transparent reporting to ensure that decisions to initiate costly clinical trials are grounded in reliable preclinical data.
Treatment options for schizophrenia that address all symptom categories (positive, negative, and cognitive) are lacking. Novel compounds that regulate signaling by the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain, glutamate, are emerging as a novel approach for the treatment of this disorder. Currently available medications ameliorate positive symptoms but do not have efficacy in reducing negative symptoms or cognitive disturbances. It is possible that agents that target glutamatergic signaling in the CNS could have efficacy in reducing all major symptom clusters, providing a more comprehensive treatment strategy, and also avoiding some of the adverse effects that are seen with currently available treatments. Three major approaches for targeting glutamate signaling are now advancing in preclinical and clinical development. First are inhibitors for a transporter for glycine termed GlyT1. Glycine is a co-agonist with glutamate for a specific subtype of glutamate receptor, termed the NMDA receptor, which is thought to be critically involved in brain circuits that are disrupted in schizophrenia patients. Inhibiting GlyT1 increases glycine levels and can selectively increase NMDA receptor signaling. Another promising approach is to increase activity of another family of glutamate receptors, termed metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGlus), which play important modulatory roles in brain circuits that are thought to be disrupted in schizophrenia patients. Activation of the group I (mGlu5) and the group II (mGlu2 and mGlu3) mGlus is hypothesized to normalize the disruption of aberrant signaling in these circuits. Novel drug-like molecules that increase activity of these receptors have robust efficacy in animal models that predict efficacy in treatment of schizophrenia. Early clinical studies provide some support for potential utility of these targets in reducing symptoms in schizophrenia patients. Clinical studies that are underway will provide further insights into the potential utility of these compounds in the treatment of multiple symptom domains in schizophrenia patients.

Huntington's disease (HD) is a progressive and fatal neurodegenerative disease, and the most common inherited CAG repeat disorder. A polyglutamine expansion in the N-terminus of the huntingtin protein (HTT) leads to protein misfolding and downstream pathogenic processes culminating in widespread functional impairment and neurodegeneration in the striatum, cortex and other brain areas. To date, only symptomatic treatments are available that address motor, psychiatric and cognitive deficits. Here we review recent strategies for developing disease-modifying therapies designed to limit or abolish the pathogenic activities of the primary molecular target in HD, the mutant HTT protein itself.



This article examines the issue of cultural competence in qualitative cross-cultural mental health research. Conducting qualitative research on mental health and illness requires the researchers to acquire sensitivity to different cultures and develop the skills of cultural competence. We outline the main aims and steps of implementation when incorporating concepts of cultural competence into a qualitative research study. We present a case scenario from studies on women's depression in 3 ethnic groups (Fars, Kurd and Turk) in the Islamic Republic of Iran. The article presents a brief overview of the Campinha-Bacote model and addresses the 5 major constructs of cultural competence as they were applied in the 3 phases of the research process.
Prostaglandins (PGs) are ubiquitous membrane-derived, lipid-signaling molecules with wide ranging effects throughout the body. In the brain, PGE(2) is the key regulator of fever after inflammation but is also implicated in neural development and synaptic plasticity. The steroid hormone estradiol is also a key regulator of neural development and synaptic plasticity. Recently, we showed that administering cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitors to block PGE(2) production increased the total length of Purkinje cell dendrites, the number of dendritic spines, and the level of spinophilin protein, which is enriched in dendritic spines. Correspondingly, PGE(2) administration into the cerebellum decreased spinophilin protein content. We now report that PGE(2) stimulates estradiol synthesis in the immature rat cerebellum via enhanced activity of the aromatase enzyme. Treatment with cyclooxygenase inhibitors reduced cerebellar aromatase activity and estradiol content whereas PGE(2) administration increased both. Treatment with either PGE(2) or estradiol stunted Purkinje neuron dendritic length and complexity and produced a corresponding reduction in spinophilin content. Treatment with formestane to inhibit aromatase activity led to excessive sprouting of the dendritic tree, whereas elevated estradiol had the opposite effect. Electrophysiological measurements from Purkinje neurons revealed novel sex differences in input resistance and membrane capacitance that were abolished by estradiol exposure, whereas a sex difference in the amplitude of the afterhyperpolarization after an action potential was not. Correlated changes in action potential threshold suggest that prolonged alterations in neuronal firing activity could be a consequence of increased estradiol content during the second week of life. These findings reveal a previously unappreciated role for PG-stimulated steroidogenesis in the developing brain and a new potential route for inflammation-mediated disruption of neuronal maturation.
RCAN1 is a chromosome 21 gene that controls secretion in endocrine cells, regulates mitochondrial function, and is sensitive to oxidative stress. Regulator of calcineurin 1 (RCAN1) is also an endogenous inhibitor of the protein phosphatase calcineurin, the inhibition of which leads to hypoinsulinemia and diabetes in humans and mice. However, the presence or the role of RCAN1 in insulin-secreting -cells and its potential role in the pathogenesis of diabetes is unknown. Hence, the aim of this study is to investigate the presence of RCAN1 in -cells and identify its role in -cell function. RCAN1 is expressed in mouse islets and in the cytosol of pancreatic -cells. We find RCAN1 is a glucose-responsive gene with a 1.5-fold increase in expression observed in pancreatic islets in response to chronic hyperglycemia. The overexpression of the human RCAN1.1 isoform in mice under the regulation of its endogenous promoter causes diabetes, age-associated hyperglycemia, reduced glucose tolerance, hypoinsulinemia, loss of -cells, reduced -cell insulin secretion, aberrant mitochondrial reactive oxygen species production, and the down-regulation of key -cell genes. Our data therefore identifies a novel molecular link between the overexpression of RCAN1 and -cell dysfunction. The glucose-responsive nature of RCAN1 provides a potential mechanism of action associated with the -cell dysfunction observed in diabetes.
KNDy (kisspeptin/neurokinin B/dynorphin) neurons of the arcuate nucleus (ARC) appear to mediate the negative feedback actions of estradiol and are thought to be key regulators of pulsatile LH secretion. In the ewe, KNDy neurons may also be involved with the positive feedback actions of estradiol (E(2)) to induce the LH surge, but the role of kisspeptin neurons in the preoptic area (POA) remains unclear. The goal of this study was to identify which population(s) of kisspeptin neurons is (are) activated during the LH surge and in response to the removal of E(2)-negative feedback, using Fos as an index of neuronal activation. Dual-label immunocytochemistry for kisspeptin and Fos was performed on sections containing the ARC and POA from ewes during the luteal phase of the estrous cycle, or before or after the onset of the LH surge (experiment 1), and from ovary-intact, short-term (24 h) and long-term (&gt;30 d) ovariectomized (OVX) ewes in anestrus (experiment 2). The percentage of kisspeptin neurons expressing Fos in both the ARC and POA was significantly higher during the LH surge. In contrast, the percentage of kisspeptin/Fos colocalization was significantly increased in the ARC, but not POA, after both short- and long-term E(2) withdrawal. Thus, POA kisspeptin neurons in the sheep are activated during, and appear to contribute to, E(2)-positive feedback, whereas ARC kisspeptin (KNDy) neurons are activated during both surge and pulsatile modes of secretion and likely play a role in mediating both positive and negative feedback actions of E(2) on GnRH secretion in the ewe.
The accumulation of -amyloid protein (A) is a key risk factor in the development of Alzheimer's disease. The ovarian sex steroid hormones 17-estradiol (E(2)) and progesterone (P(4)) have been shown to regulate A accumulation, although the underlying mechanism(s) remain to be fully elucidated. In this study, we investigate the effects of E(2) and P(4) treatment on the expression levels of A clearance factors including insulin-degrading enzyme, neprilysin, endothelin-converting enzyme 1 and 2, angiotensin-converting enzyme, and transthyretin, both in primary neuron cultures and female rat brains. Our results show that E(2) and P(4) affect the expression levels of several A clearance factors in dose- and time-dependent manners. Most notably, expression of insulin-degrading enzyme is significantly increased by both hormones in cultured neurons and in vivo and is inversely associated with the soluble A levels in vivo. These findings further define sex steroid hormone actions involved in regulation of A, a relationship potentially important to therapeutic approaches aimed at reducing risk of Alzheimer's disease.
This paper describes a free energy principle that tries to explain the ability of biological systems to resist a natural tendency to disorder. It appeals to circular causality of the sort found in synergetic formulations of self-organization (e.g., the slaving principle) and models of coupled dynamical systems, using nonlinear Fokker Planck equations. Here, circular causality is induced by separating the states of a random dynamical system into external and internal states, where external states are subject to random fluctuations and internal states are not. This reduces the problem to finding some (deterministic) dynamics of the internal states that ensure the system visits a limited number of external states; in other words, the measure of its (random) attracting set, or the Shannon entropy of the external states is small. We motivate a solution using a principle of least action based on variational free energy (from statistical physics) and establish the conditions under which it is formally equivalent to the information bottleneck method. This approach has proved useful in understanding the functional architecture of the brain. The generality of variational free energy minimisation and corresponding information theoretic formulations may speak to interesting applications beyond the neurosciences; e.g., in molecular or evolutionary biology.
The aim of this novel research was to determine the toxic burden of increased elements in water resources on the inhabitant wild animals (squirrels, turtles, bats), using particle induced x-ray emission (PIXE) and histopathological approaches. PIXE analysis of skin, muscle, lung, liver and kidney revealed significant increase in Al, Cl, Fe, Mg, Mn, Si and V. Moreover, data clearly reflect a significant (P &lt; 0.001) deposition of toxic elements (Al, Cl, Fe and K) in the lung producing interstitial/proliferative pneumonitis, intra-alveolar hemorrhages, and thickening of alveolar capillary walls. The results obtained from the liver samples emphasized that majority of the animals were intoxicated with Cl, Mg, S, Si and V, which have produced profound deterioration and swelling of the hepatocytes. Likewise, histopathology of the kidney sections spotlighted severe nephritis and degenerative changes, which could be associated with the elevated amount of Al, Cl and Mg. This data undoubtedly provide relevant information on the heavy burden of toxic elements and their pathological outcomes in wild animals and highlight their potential risks for human exposure. Thus, the information provided is critical for developing effective strategies in dealing with health hazards associated with elemental exposures.
Nimodipine, a calcium antagonist, has been shown to increase the detoxification of soman. In this study the cerebral microcirculatory effects of nimodipine and the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor soman was studied. Anaesthetised rats were administered nimodipine, 10 mg kg(-1) or vehicle intra-peritoneally, and 1h later exposed to 45 g kg(-1) soman intravenously. The regional blood flows were measured using the microsphere method. Nimodipine and soman markedly increased the cerebral blood flow (CBF) and reduced the vascular resistance. Total CBF increased by 146% after nimodipine and by 105% after soman administration. Combined administration of nimodipine and soman caused additional but not fully additive effects on CBF and vascular resistance, indicating possible different mechanisms of the two agents. A part of the nimodipine induced increased detoxification after AChE-inhibition may be associated with this cerebral vasodilation.
The protection of the brain from blood-borne toxins, proteins, and cells is critical to the brain's normal function. Accordingly, a compromise in the blood-brain barrier (BBB) function accompanies many neurologic disorders, and is tightly associated with brain inflammatory processes initiated by both infiltrating leukocytes from the blood, and activation of glial cells. Those inflammatory processes contribute to determining the severity and prognosis of numerous neurologic disorders, and can both cause, and result from BBB dysfunction. In this review we examine the role of BBB and inflammatory responses, in particular activation of transforming grown factor  (TGF) signaling, in epilepsy, stroke, and Parkinson's disease.




The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is located within a unique anatomic interface and has functional ramifications to most of the brain and blood cells. In the past, the BBB was considered a pharmacokinetic impediment to antiepileptic drug penetration into the brain; nowadays it is becoming increasingly evident that targeting of the damaged or dysfunctional BBB may represent a therapeutic approach to reduce seizure burden. Several studies have investigated the mechanisms linking the onset and sustainment of seizures to BBB dysfunction. These studies have shown that the BBB is at the crossroad of a multifactorial pathophysiologic process that involves changes in brain milieu, altered neuroglial physiology, development of brain inflammation, leukocyte-endothelial interactions, faulty angiogenesis, and hemodynamic changes leading to energy mismatch. A number of knowledge gaps, conflicting points of view, and discordance between clinical and experimental data currently characterize this field of neuroscience. As more pieces are added to this puzzle, it is apparent that each mechanism needs to be validated in an appropriate clinical context. We now offer a BBB-centric view of seizure disorders, linking several aspects of seizures and epilepsy physiopathology to BBB dysfunction. We have reviewed the therapeutic, antiseizure effect of drugs that promote BBB repair. We also present BBB neuroimaging as a tool to correlate BBB restoration to seizure mitigation. Add-on cerebrovascular drug could be of efficacy in reducing seizure burden when used in association with neuronal antiepileptic drugs.
Voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs) are integral membrane proteins. They are essential for normal neurologic function and are, currently, the most common recognized cause of genetic epilepsy. This review summarizes the neurobiology of VGSCs, their association with different epilepsy syndromes, and the ways in which we can experimentally interrogate their function. The most important sodium channel subunit of relevance to epilepsy is SCN1A, in which over 650 genetic variants have been discovered. SCN1A mutations are associated with a variety of epilepsy syndromes; the more severe syndromes are associated with truncation or complete loss of function of the protein. SCN2A is another important subtype associated with epilepsy syndromes, across a range of severe and less severe epilepsies. This subtype is localized primarily to excitatory neurons, and mutations have a range of functional effects on the channel. SCN8A is the other main adult subtype found in the brain and has recently emerged as an epilepsy gene, with the first human mutation discovered in a severe epilepsy syndrome. Mutations in the accessory  subunits, thought to modulate trafficking and function of the  subunits, have also been associated with epilepsy. Genome sequencing is continuing to become more affordable, and as such, the amount of incoming genetic data is continuing to increase. Current experimental approaches have struggled to keep pace with functional analysis of these mutations, and it has proved difficult to build associations between disease severity and the precise effect on channel function. These mutations have been interrogated with a range of experimental approaches, from in vitro, in vivo, to in silico. In vitro techniques will prove useful to scan mutations on a larger scale, particularly with the advance of high-throughput automated patch-clamp techniques. In vivo models enable investigation of mutation in the context of whole brains with connected networks and more closely model the human condition. In silico models can help us incorporate the impact of multiple genetic factors and investigate epistatic interactions and beyond.
The antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) introduced during the past two decades have provided several benefits: they offered new treatment options for symptomatic treatment of seizures, improved ease of use and tolerability, and lowered risk for hypersensitivity reactions and detrimental drug-drug interactions. These drugs, however, neither attenuated the problem of drug-refractory epilepsy nor proved capable of preventing or curing the disease. Therefore, new preclinical screening strategies are needed to identify AEDs that target these unmet medical needs. New therapies may derive from novel targets identified on the basis of existing hypotheses for drug-refractory epilepsy and the biology of epileptogenesis; from research on genetics, transcriptomics, and epigenetics; and from mechanisms relevant for other therapy areas. Novel targets should be explored using new preclinical screening strategies, and new technologies should be used to develop medium- to high-throughput screening models. In vivo testing of novel drugs should be performed in models mimicking relevant aspects of drug refractory epilepsy and/or epileptogenesis. To minimize the high attrition rate associated with drug development, which arises mainly from a failure to demonstrate sufficient clinical efficacy of new treatments, it is important to define integrated strategies for preclinical screening and experimental trial design. An important tool will be the discovery and implementation of relevant biomarkers that will facilitate a continuum of proof-of-concept approaches during early clinical testing to rapidly confirm or reject preclinical findings, and thereby lower the risk of the overall development effort. In this review, we overview some of the issues related to these topics and provide examples of new approaches that we hope will be more successful than those used in the past.

Outpatient short-term video-electroencephalographic monitoring (OVEM) is recognized as a useful tool in the diagnosis of epilepsy and other paroxysmal disorders. The aim of this retrospective study was to determine the diagnostic yield of OVEM. We analyzed 175 OVEM records of adults (111 females and 64 males) referred over a period of 5 years. The mean length of recording was 3.8 h. The highest yield was found in psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES) (37.1%), followed by interictal epileptiform discharges (17.2%), and epileptic seizures (6.9%). The provisional diagnosis was epilepsy in 77.7% and PNES in 22.3% before the test. Outpatient short-term video-electroencephalographic monitoring changed the pre-test diagnosis in 30.9% of patients. Outpatient short-term video-electroencephalographic monitoring is a useful diagnostic test for PNES. It has a higher yield for PNES than epilepsy.
This study aimed to investigate the effect of low frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) guided as to localization and effect by continuous EEG on a super-refractory status epilepticus unresponsive to conventional treatment for 44 days including repeated deep sedation. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation was delivered for one-hour sessions to the most active of two EEG foci for 8 days. From the third day of stimulation, the EEG pathology markedly decreased in parallel to clinical improvement. The patient could be weaned off the respirator, transferred to an ordinary ward then to a rehabilitation clinic. This is the first report of a positive outcome of rTMS treatment in super-refractory status epilepticus. In the context of refractory partial status epilepticus, neuromodulation through rTMS is a safe treatment option. If performed along the lines herein described, it may also be more efficient than conventional treatment. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation may be an underused treatment option for status epilepticus.
Homocysteine (Hcy) is a sulfur-containing, nonprotein amino acid reversibly formed and secreted during metabolism of methionine. Elevated total Hcy levels (hyper-tHcy) have been associated with cardiovascular disease in multiple large-scale epidemiologic studies and, in particular, patients with epilepsy exhibit elevated plasma tHcy levels more frequently than the general population caused by polymorphisms in the MTHFR gene and chronic treatment with older antiepileptic drugs. Folic acid alone or folic acid combined with other B-vitamins have all been shown to reduce tHcy concentration in patients on chronic treatment with antiepileptic drugs, however, which is the most appropriate supplementation scheme of folic acid and/or B-vitamins in patients with epilepsy still remains matter of debate. We review the latest findings on the role of supra-physiological tHcy concentrations as vascular risk factor in patients with epilepsy and discuss the possible role played by folate and other B-vitamins supplementation in epileptic patient with hyper-tHcy.
Rufinamide is a new antiepileptic drug approved as add-on treatment in Lennox-Gastaut syndrome from the age of 4 years, and for the treatment of focal seizures in adults and adolescents. The aim of this prospective study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of add-on Rufinamide in the treatment of childhood focal drug resistant epilepsy. We recruited 70 patients for a prospective, add-on, open-label study. Inclusion criteria were: 3 years of age or more; focal drug resistant epilepsy despite the use of three previous AEDs; use of at least one other AED, but no more than three at baseline; more than one seizure per month in the previous 6 months. Rufinamide efficacy was observed up to 12 months of follow-up, with a total responder rate of 38.57%. We found the best results in focal epilepsies due to structural/metabolic etiology (42.6%). The responder rate was similar for focal seizures with secondary generalization, simple focal seizures other than myoclonic jerks, and complex partial seizures. Response to Rufinamide was not related to the age. Our experience suggests that Rufinamide can be effective in reducing focal seizure frequency in children with drug resistant epilepsy, and that it can be considered as a safe drug.
Salvage laryngectomy carries a high risk of post-operative infection with reported rates of 40-61%. The purpose of this study was to analyse infections in our own patients and review the potential impact of our current antibiotic prophylaxis (AP). A retrospective analysis of infection in 26 consecutive patients between 2000 and 2010 undergoing salvage total laryngectomy (SL) following recurrent laryngeal cancer after failed radiotherapy or chemo-radiation was undertaken. The antibiotic prophylaxis was intravenous teicoplanin, cefuroxime and metronidazole at induction and for the following 24h. Infection was defined by Tabet and Johnson's grade 5, categorized as pharyngocutaneous fistula. Fifteen patients (58%) developed a post-operative wound infection, which occurred on average at 12days after surgery. Univariate analysis demonstrated three risk variables that had a significant correlation with infection: alcohol consumption (p=0.01), cN stage of tumour (p&lt;0.01), and pre-operative albumin levels &lt;3.2g/L (p=0.012). There was a trend, though not significant, for increased infection in patients with high or low BMIs. The most common organisms isolated from clinical samples from infected patients were methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus MRSA (43%), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (36%), Serratia marcescens, Proteus mirabilis and Enterococcus faecalis (7% each). All these organisms are typical hospital-acquired pathogens. Pseudomonas and Serratia were not covered by the prophylactic regime we used. The current antibiotic regime following SL is inadequate as the rate of infection is high. It would therefore seem logical to trial a separate antibiotic protocol of AP for patients undergoing SL that would include an extended course of antibiotics after the standard prophylaxis. In addition, infection rates may also be reduced by improving the metabolic state of patients pre-operatively by multi-disciplinary action. Steps should also be taken to reduce cross-infection with nosocomial pathogens in these patients. Other aspects of surgical management should be also taken in consideration.
Although fluoxetine is useful in the treatment of major depression, 30-40% of the patients do not respond to therapy. The response seems to be influenced by certain genes which are involved in the drug's pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics. The present study reviews the literature on genetic contributions to fluoxetine response in children and adults, and concludes that the different polymorphisms of CYP2D6 and CYP2C9 may influence the blood concentrations of fluoxetine. If the childhood dose is adjusted for weight, differences between children and adults are unlikely. As regards the genes that influence the drug's pharmacodynamics, polymorphisms of SLC6A4, HTR1A and MAO-A seem to be involved in the response to fluoxetine, while the genes COMT, CRHR1, PDEA1, PDEA11 GSK3B and serpin-1 also seem to play a role. Comparison of different studies reveals that the results are not always consistent, probably due to methodological differences. Other factors such as gender or ethnicity may also influence treatment response.
The aims of this paper were to develop an internet-based support and coaching model for young people with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and/or attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and to validate the model. A user-centred design was applied to develop a model for internet-based support and coaching, where individuals received 8-week support via internet (chat). The model was validated by 10 individuals, 15-26years of age, with ASD and/or ADHD. Self-report questionnaires [Sense of Coherence (SOC), the Rosenberg Self Esteem Scale, the Manchester Short Assessment of Quality of Life, Montgomery sberg Depression Rating Scale, and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale] were distributed before and after intervention. A structured interview regarding the quality of the model, the Patient perspective of Care and Rehabilitation process (POCR), was used after the intervention. The validation showed significant improvement of SOC, self-esteem and subjective Quality of Life at follow-up and the majority perceived high fulfilment/importance on the POCR. In conclusion, The model can be an important complement to other interventions for young people with ASD and/or ADHD.

Although placebos have repeatedly been shown to increase physical performance and endurance, much less is known about the effect of their negative counterpart, nocebos. Here, we employ negative suggestions and a sham electrical stimulation as a nocebo conditioning procedure in healthy subjects performing a leg extension exercise to total exhaustion. Using two different protocols, we analyze the contribution of expectation alone or the combination of conditioning and expectation to the nocebo effect evaluated as the change of work performed and rate of perceived exertion. We find that it is possible to negatively modulate the physical performance in both cases, and we argue that this effect can effectively offset the outcome of training programs.
On ten top-level Kenyan marathon runners (KA) plus nine European controls (EC, equivalent to KA), we measured maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max) and the energy cost of running (Cr) on track during training camps at moderate altitude, to better understand the KA dominance in the marathon. At each incremental running speed, steady-state oxygen consumption (VO2) was measured by telemetric metabolic cart, and lactate by electro-enzymatic method. The speed requiring VO2 = VO2max provided the maximal aerobic velocity (max). The energy cost of running was calculated by dividing net VO2 by the corresponding speed. The speed at lactate threshold ((AN)) was computed from individual L(b) versus speed curves. The sustainable VO2max fraction (Fd) at (AN) (F(AN)) was computed dividing nu(AN) by max. The Fd for the marathon (Fmar) was determined as Fmar = 0.92 F(AN). Overall, VO2max (64.9  5.8 vs. 63.9  3.7 ml kg(-1) min(-1)), max (5.55  0.30 vs. 5.41  0.29 m s(-1)) and Cr (3.64  0.28 vs. 3.63  0.31 J kg(-1) m(-1)) resulted the same in KA as in EC. In both groups, Cr increased linearly with the square of speed. F(AN) was 0.896  0.054 in KA and 0.909  0.068 in EC; Fmar was 0.825  0.050 in KA and 0.836  0.062 in EC (NS). Accounting for altitude, running speed predictions from present data are close to actual running performances, if F(AN) instead of Fmar is taken as index of Fd. In conclusion, both KA and EC did not have a very high VO2max, but had extremely high Fd, and low Cr, equal between them. The dominance of KA over EC cannot be explained on energetic grounds.

Lines of evidence indicate that both the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (vlPFC) (areas 45/12) and dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) (rostral F2 in area 6) are crucially involved in conditional visuomotor behavior, in which it is required to determine an action based on an associated visual object. However, virtually no direct projections appear to exist between the vlPFC and PMd. In the present study, to elucidate possible multisynaptic networks linking the vlPFC to the PMd, we performed a series of neuroanatomical tract-tracing experiments in macaque monkeys. First, we identified cortical areas that send projection fibers directly to the PMd by injecting Fast Blue into the PMd. Considerable retrograde labeling occurred in the dorsal prefrontal cortex (dPFC) (areas 46d/9/8B/8Ad), dorsomedial motor cortex (dmMC) (F7 and presupplementary motor area), rostral cingulate motor area, and ventral premotor cortex (F5 and area 44), whereas the vlPFC was virtually devoid of neuronal labeling. Second, we injected the rabies virus, a retrograde transneuronal tracer, into the PMd. At 3 days after the rabies injections, second-order neurons were labeled in the vlPFC (mainly area 45), indicating that the vlPFC disynaptically projects to the PMd. Finally, to determine areas that connect the vlPFC to the PMd indirectly, we carried out an anterograde/retrograde dual-labeling experiment in single monkeys. By examining the distribution of axon terminals labeled from the vlPFC and cell bodies labeled from the PMd, we found overlapping labels in the dPFC and dmMC. These results indicate that the vlPFC outflow is directed toward the PMd in a multisynaptic fashion through the dPFC and/or dmMC.
Neuropathic pain (NP) often presents with comorbidities, including depression and anxiety. The amygdala is involved in the processing of mood disorders, fear, and the emotional-affective components of pain. Hemispheric lateralization of pain processing in the amygdala has recently been brought to light because, independently of the side of the peripheral injury, the right central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) showed higher neuronal activity than the left in models of inflammatory pain. Although the CeA has been called the 'nociceptive amygdala', because of its high content of nociceptive neurones, little is known about changes in its neuronal function in vivo, under NP conditions. Herein, we quantified CeA spontaneous and evoked activity in rats subjected to spinal nerve ligation (SNL), under isoflurane anaesthesia, following application of mechanical and thermal stimuli to widespread body areas. We found that spontaneous and stimulus-evoked neuronal activity was higher in the left CeA at 2 and 6 days after SNL induction and declined afterwards, whereas activity in the right CeA became dominant at 14 days after surgery, independently of the side of surgery. We also observed that systemic injection of pregabalin, which is widely used in patients with NP, reduced CeA spontaneous and stimulus-evoked neuronal activity. Overall, we observed that peripheral nerve injury produced asymmetric plasticity in ongoing and evoked activity in the left and right CeA. Remarkably, at 14 days after SNL induction, enhanced evoked activity in the right CeA persisted compared to short-term increases in activity in the left CeA. The plasticity found in ongoing and evoked activity was inhibited by pregabalin.

Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a leading genetic cause of epilepsy. TSC-associated epilepsy generally begins during the first year of life, and is associated with neurodevelopmental and cognitive problems. Management is challenging and seizures tend to persist in a large proportion of patients despite pharmacological and surgical treatment. This report summarizes the clinical recommendations for the management of TSC-associated epilepsy made by a panel of European experts in March 2012. Current treatment options and outstanding questions are outlined.

Head to head trials have been proposed as an alternative to the ethical and methodological concerns related to placebo-controlled trials. While those studies may be particularly informative from the clinical and cost-effectiveness point-of-view, avoiding placebo poses several regulatory concerns: for superiority designs, the choice of the trial population, outcomes, dose and escalation of the comparator, as well as the comparator itself may be an issue; for non-inferiority studies, issues related to uncertain assay sensitivity and exposure of large samples to potentially ineffective or unsafe drugs make them inappropriate, in the absence of a previous positive superiority trial, for regulatory purposes. The inclusion of active comparators in regulatory trials should not be seen as an alternative, but as a useful complement to the information that can be obtained from placebo-controlled studies.


In the present work we studied synaptic protein concentrations in relation to behavioral performance. Long-Evans rats, aged 22-23 months, were classified for individual expression of place memory in the Morris water maze, in reference to young adults. Two main subgroups of aged rats were established: the Aged cognitively Unimpaired (AU) had search accuracy within the range (percent of time in training sector within mean  2 SEM) of young rats and the Aged cognitively Impaired (AI) rats had search accuracy below this range. Samples from the hippocampus and frontal cortex of all the AI, AU and young rats were analyzed for the expression of postsynaptic protein PSD-95 by Image J analysis of immunohistochemical data and by Western blots. PSD-95 expression was unchanged in the hippocampus, but, together with synaptophysin, was significantly increased in the frontal cortex of the AI rats. A significant correlation between individual accuracy (time spent in the training zone) and PSD-95 expression was observed in the aged group. No significant effect of age or PSD-95 expression was observed in the learning of a new position. All together, these data suggest that increased expression of PSD-95 in the frontal cortex of aged rats co-occurs with cognitive impairment that might be linked to functional alterations extending over frontal networks.
A reliable animal model of facial nerve (FN) injury forms the basis for effective scientific studies of injury and repair of the FN. Currently, rodents are the most widely used animal model for such studies, most of which adopt a postauricular incision approach. However, it is difficult to carry out the procedure on perinatal rodents owing to characteristics of anatomy and the direction of incision. Based on anatomical studies on the extracranial segment of the FN in mice, we established a FN axotomy model by using a subauricular incision (SI) approach. The effect and the outcome of the FN transection were evaluated by electrophysiology, behavioral assessment and histological observation in 20 healthy four-week-old BALB/c mice. Favorable results were obtained in all of the mice and none died during the operation or subsequent observation period. Compared with the classic postauricular incision approach, the SI approach possesses multiple advantages including easier access, more satisfactory exposure of the FN trunk, minimal invasion and providing a larger operation field, which would be critical for those studies on the rodent in early development or delicate surgical manipulations.
Adolescence is a transition period that is assumed to be characterized by increased sensitivity to reward. While there is growing research on reward processing in adolescents, investigations into the engagement of brain regions under different reward-related conditions in one sample of healthy adolescents, especially in a target age group, are missing. We aimed to identify brain regions preferentially activated in a reaction time task (monetary incentive delay (MID) task) and a simple guessing task (SGT) in a sample of 14-year-old adolescents (N=54) using two commonly used reward paradigms. Functional magnetic resonance imaging was employed during the MID with big versus small versus no win conditions and the SGT with big versus small win and big versus small loss conditions. Analyses focused on changes in blood oxygen level-dependent contrasts during reward and punishment processing in anticipation and feedback phases. We found clear magnitude-sensitive response in reward-related brain regions such as the ventral striatum during anticipation in the MID task, but not in the SGT. This was also true for reaction times. The feedback phase showed clear reward-related, but magnitude-independent, response patterns, for example in the anterior cingulate cortex, in both tasks. Our findings highlight neural and behavioral response patterns engaged in two different reward paradigms in one sample of 14-year-old healthy adolescents and might be important for reference in future studies investigating reward and punishment processing in a target age group.
Action inhibition is an important part of everyday human behaviour. Most previous studies of action inhibition have focussed on stop-signals. Here, we consider the case where participants themselves decide to inhibit, or not inhibit, a prepotent action. Participants received electric stimulation that elicited an itchy feeling on the wrist. If they made a hand withdrawal movement, this would interrupt the stimulation, and halt the itch. In a factorial design, participants were given external instructions to withdraw their hand when they felt the itch, or to inhibit the natural withdrawal response, and bear the itch. In another condition, they were asked to internally choose between withdrawal and inhibition of withdrawal. Event-related potentials revealed differences between processing of the sensory consequences of internally decided and externally-instructed action and inhibition decisions. Specifically, potentials evoked by itchy stimuli were enhanced in internally decided inhibition trials, as compared to externally instructed inhibition trials. In contrast, processing of itchy stimuli was reduced in internally decided action trials, as compared to externally instructed action trials. These results show that internal decisions lead to different perceptual processing of the consequences of action and inhibition and suggest that features of decision processes can be measured via their consequences.
Following unilateral lesion of the primary motor cortex, the reorganization of callosal projections from the intact hemisphere to the ipsilesional premotor cortex (PM) was investigated in 7 adult macaque monkeys, in absence of treatment (control; n=4) or treated with function blocking antibodies against the neurite growth inhibitory protein Nogo-A (n=3). After functional recovery, though incomplete, the tracer biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) was injected in the ipsilesional PM. Retrogradely labelled neurons were plotted in the intact hemisphere and their number was normalized with respect to the volume of the core of BDA injection sites. (1) The callosal projections to PM in the controls originate mainly from homotypic PM areas and, but to a somewhat lesser extent, from the mesial cortex (cingulate and supplementary motor areas). (2) In the lesioned anti-Nogo-A antibody-treated monkeys, the normalized number of callosal retrogradely labelled neurons was up to several folds higher than in controls, especially in the homotypic PM areas. (3) Except one control with a small lesion and a limited, transient deficit, the anti-Nogo-A antibody-treated monkeys recovered to nearly baseline levels of performance (73-90%), in contrast to persistent deficits in the control monkeys. These results are consistent with a sprouting and/or sparing of callosal axons promoted by the anti-Nogo-A antibody treatment after lesion of the primary motor cortex, as compared to untreated monkeys.
The reach-to-eat movement is a natural act in which an object or food item is grasped and brought to the mouth. It is one of the earliest forelimb behaviours displayed by human infants, who bring almost all grasped objects to the mouth, and is used daily by adults. In adults, there is a tight coupling between visual attention and the advance phase of the reach-to-eat movement. The target is visually engaged just as hand advance is initiated and visually disengaged just as the target is grasped. This coupling of vision and hand advance suggests that advance is mediated by visual attention and withdrawal by somatosensation. The present study examined when the tight coupling between visual attention and the advance phase of the movement develops in infancy. In a longitudinal study, eight infants, aged 6-12months, and 20 adults reached for familiar inanimate objects and food items. Visual gaze, hand movement and hand accuracy were measured using frame-by-frame video scoring and 2D kinematic analysis. The study found that the youngest infants (6-8months) visually engaged the target well before initiating a reaching movement and continued to fixate on the target after it was grasped and as it was brought to the mouth. Between 10 and 12months of age, infants began to visually engage the target just as the reaching movement was initiated and visually disengaged the target as it was grasped, as did the adults. Over the same developmental time period, the infants developed rotatory hand shaping movements, precision grasping, and improved targeting accuracy both for grasping the object and placing it into the mouth. The results suggest that visual guidance of advance and somatosensory guidance of withdrawal develop together and in concert with hand movement ability and skill.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays an important role in learning, memory, and brain plasticity. Humans with a val66met polymorphism in the BDNF gene have reduced levels of BDNF and alterations in motor learning and short-term cortical plasticity. In the current study, we sought to further explore the role of BDNF in motor learning by testing human subjects on a visuomotor adaptation task. In experiment 1, 21 subjects with the polymorphism (val/met) and 21 matched controls (val/val) were tested during learning, short-term retention (45min), long-term retention (24h), and de-adaptation of a 60 visuomotor deviation. We measured both mean error as well as rate of adaptation during each session. There was no difference in mean error between groups; however, val/met subjects had a reduced rate of adaptation during learning as well as during long-term retention, but not short-term retention or de-adaptation. In experiment 2, 12val/met and 12val/val subjects were tested on a larger 80 deviation, revealing a more pronounced difference in mean error during adaptation than the 60 deviation. These results suggest that BDNF may play an important role in visuomotor adaptive processes in the human.
Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE) is a heritable disorder characterized by mineralization of connective tissue, which leads to pathology in eye, skin and blood vessels. The disease is caused by mutations in ABCC6. To learn more about PXE eye pathology, we analyzed Bruch's membrane (BM) of the eye of an Abcc6 knockout mouse. With age, BM differences between Abcc6-/- and wild type mice became apparent. At two years of age, von Kossa staining indicated clear calcification of BM in Abcc6-/- mice, and not in healthy controls. Electron microscopy revealed BM changes as early as at 10 months of age: Fibrous structures with abnormal high electron-density were present in the central layers of BM of Abcc6-/- mice. EDX (Energy Dispersive X-ray) analysis demonstrated that these structures contained elevated levels of Ca, P and O. Since some of these electron-dense structures showed a banding pattern with periodicity of about 50 nm, they most likely represent calcified collagen fibers. Immunoelectron microscopy showed that the calcified structures were positive for collagen III. Remarkably, the elastic layer of BM appeared to have a normal ultrastructure, even in 2.5 year old Abcc6-/- mice. Our results suggest that Abcc6 deficiency in the mouse causes calcification of BM. While PXE is considered to affect primarily the elastic fibers, we found predominantly mineralization of collagen fibers.
The risk of dementia is increased in people with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). This review gives an update on the relation between T2DM and specific dementia subtypes - i.e. Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia - and underlying pathologies. We will show that while epidemiological studies link T2DM to Alzheimer's disease as well as vascular dementia, neuropathological studies attribute the increased dementia risk in T2DM patients primarily to vascular lesions in the brain. Risk factors for dementia among patients with T2DM are also addressed. Currently, there is evidence that microvascular complications, atherosclerosis and severe hypoglycemic events increase dementia risk. However, for a more complete understanding of risk factors for dementia in T2DM a life time perspective is needed. This should identify which individuals are at increased risk, what are vulnerable periods in life, and what are windows of opportunity for treatment. Currently, there are no DM specific treatments for dementia, but we will review observations from clinical trials that tried to prevent cognitive decline through intensified glycemic control and address other clinical implications of the association between T2DM and dementia.
Although the precise culprit in the etiopathogenesis of Alzheimer disease (AD) is still obscure, defective mitochondria functioning has been proposed to be an upstream event in AD. Mitochondria fulfill a number of essential cellular functions, and it is recognized that the strict regulation of the structure, function and turnover of these organelles is an immutable control node for the maintenance of neuronal and vascular homeostasis. Extensive research in postmortem brain tissue from AD subjects, and AD animal and cellular models revealed that mitochondria undergo multiple malfunctions during the course of this disease. The present review summarizes the current views on how mitochondria are implicated in both AD-related neuronal and cerebrovascular degeneration. The understanding of the mitochondrial mechanisms underlying AD pathology is critical to design more effective strategies to halt or delay disease progression.
Rats exposed to the odor of a predator or to the elevated plus maze express fear behaviors without a prior exposure to either stimulus. The expression of innate fear provides for an ideal model of anxiety which can aid in the elucidation of brain circuits involved in anxiety-related behaviors. The current experiments compared activation of neuropeptide-containing neuronal populations in the amygdala of rats exposed to either the elevated plus maze (EPM; 5 min) versus home cage controls, or predator ferret odor versus butyric acid, or no odor (30 min). Sections of the brains were prepared for dual-labeled immunohistochemistry and counts of c-Fos co-localized with somatostatin (SOM) or neuropeptide Y (NPY) were made in the basolateral (BLA), central (CEA), medial (MEA) nuclei of the amygdala. Ferret odor and butyric acid exposure significantly decreased the percentage of SOM-positive neurons also immunoreactive for c-Fos in the anterior BLA compared to controls, whereas EPM exposure yielded a significant increase in the activation of SOM-positive neurons versus home cage controls. In the CEA, ferret odor and butyric exposure significantly decreased the percentage of SOM-positive neurons also immunoreactive for c-Fos compared to no-odor controls whereas EPM exposure yielded no change versus controls. In the MEA, both ferret odor exposure and EPM exposure resulted in increased SOM co-localized with c-Fos compared to control groups whereas NPY co-localized with c-Fos occurred following ferret odor exposure, but not EPM exposure. These results indicate that phenotypically distinct neuronal populations of the amygdala are differentially activated following exposure to different anxiogenic stimuli. These studies further elucidate the fundamental neurocircuitry of anxiety and could possibly explain the differential behavioral effects of predator versus novelty-induced stress.
The loss or injury of neurons associated with oxidative and nitrosative redox stress plays an important role in the onset of various neurodegenerative diseases. Specifically, nitric oxide (NO), can affect neuronal survival through a process called S-nitrosylation, by which the NO group undergoes a redox reaction with specific protein thiols. This in turn can lead to the accumulation of misfolded proteins, which generally form aggregates in Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and other neurodegenerative diseases. Evidence suggests that S-nitrosylation can also impair mitochondrial function and lead to excessive fission of mitochondria and consequent bioenergetic compromise via effects on the activity of the fission protein dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp1). This insult leads to synaptic dysfunction and loss. Additionally, high levels of NO can S-nitrosylate a number of aberrant targets involved in neuronal survival pathways, including the antiapoptotic protein XIAP, inhibiting its ability to prevent apoptosis.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an incurable neurodegenerative disease characterized by abnormal motor movements, personality changes, and early death. HD is caused by a mutation in the IT-15 gene that expands abnormally the number of CAG nucleotide repeats. As a result, the translated protein huntingtin contains disease-causing expansions of glutamines (polyQ) that make it prone to misfold and aggregate. While the gene and mutations that cause HD are known, the mechanisms underlying HD pathogenesis are not. Here we will review the state of knowledge of HD, focusing especially on a hallmark pathological feature-intracellular aggregates of mutant Htt called inclusion bodies (IBs). We will describe the role of IBs in the disease. We speculate that IB formation could be just one component of a broader coping response triggered by misfolded Htt whose efficacy may depend on the extent to which it clears toxic forms of mutant Htt. We will describe how IB formation might be regulated and which factors could determine different coping responses in different subsets of neurons. A differential regulation of IB formation as a function of the cellular context could, eventually, explain part of the neuronal vulnerability observed in HD.
Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is released from working skeletal muscle during exercise. We investigated the acute and the long-term beneficial effects of IL-6 on exercise-induced glucose uptake in skeletal muscle and insulin sensitivity. The acute effect on exercise-induced glucose uptake was measured in IL-6-deficient (IL-6(-/-)) mice and wild-type control animals using a tracer technique. There was no difference in serum disappearance of (3)[H]2-deoxyglucose after a single bout of exercise between IL-6(-/-) and wild-type mice (13565  426 versus 14343  1309 d.p.m. min ml(-1), P = 0.5). The glucose uptake rate in the extensor digitorum longus muscle was, however, lower in IL-6(-/-) compared with wild-type mice (398  44 versus 657  41 nmol g(-1) min(-1), P &lt; 0.01). In a long-term study, we monitored insulin sensitivity, serum retinol-binding protein-4 (RBP-4) levels, running activity, food intake, body weight and body composition in IL-6(-/-) and wild-type mice on a high-fat diet (HFD), with or without access to running wheels. In sedentary IL-6(-/-) and wild-type mice, the HFD decreased insulin sensitivity (glucose area under the concentration-time curve increased about 20% during an insulin tolerance test, P &lt; 0.05 for both genotypes versus baseline) and led to a 30% increase in serum RBP-4 levels (P &lt; 0.01 for both genotypes versus baseline). Wild-type mice with access to running wheels were protected against these effects of the HFD and maintained their baseline insulin sensitivity and serum RBP-4 levels. In contrast, IL-6(-/-) mice did not benefit from running to the same extent as wild-type animals. The IL-6(-/-) mice with access to running wheels had a similar decrease in insulin sensitivity to their sedentary littermates (glucose area under the concentration-time curve during an insulin tolerance test in runners versus sedentary IL-6(-/-) HFD mice, 312  14 versus 340  22 mmol min l(-1), P = 0.4) and displayed a 14% increase in serum RBP-4 compared with baseline levels (P &lt; 0.01). Our results indicate that endogenous IL-6 contributes to the exercise-induced increase in insulin sensitivity, but plays only a minor role for glucose uptake into skeletal muscle during exercise.
The 'inflammatory reflex' acts through efferent neural connections from the central nervous system to lymphoid organs, particularly the spleen, that suppress the production of inflammatory cytokines. Stimulation of the efferent vagus has been shown to suppress inflammation in a manner dependent on the spleen and splenic nerves. The vagus does not innervate the spleen, so a synaptic connection from vagal preganglionic neurons to splenic sympathetic postganglionic neurons was suggested. We tested this idea in rats. In a preparatory operation, the anterograde tracer DiI was injected bilaterally into the dorsal motor nucleus of vagus and the retrograde tracer Fast Blue was injected into the spleen. On histological analysis 7-9 weeks later, 883 neurons were retrogradely labelled from the spleen with Fast Blue as follows: 89% in the suprarenal ganglia (65% left, 24% right); 11% in the left coeliac ganglion; but none in the right coeliac or either of the superior mesenteric ganglia. Vagal terminals anterogradely labelled with DiI were common in the coeliac but sparse in the suprarenal ganglia, and confocal analysis revealed no putative synaptic connection with any Fast Blue-labelled cell in either ganglion. Electrophysiological experiments in anaesthetized rats revealed no effect of vagal efferent stimulation on splenic nerve activity or on that of 15 single splenic-projecting neurons recorded in the suprarenal ganglion. Together, these findings indicate that vagal efferent neurons in the rat neither synapse with splenic sympathetic neurons nor drive their ongoing activity.


Multiple sclerosis is a progressive demyelinating neurological disease resulting in long-term disability, commonly manifesting in walking impairment and reduced quality of life. The use of the potassium channel blocker fampridine, chemically 4-aminopyridine, as an immediate-release formulation to improve action potential conduction in demyelinated axons was hampered by adverse events, including seizures. The prolonged-release formulation of fampridine (known as modified- or sustained-release fampridine in some countries and dalfampridine extended release in the USA) has a longer apparent half-life and a lower peak plasma concentration versus immediate-release fampridine formulations, sustaining its duration of action and reducing the incidence of adverse events. Prolonged-release fampridine is the first drug specifically licensed to improve walking in patients with multiple sclerosis, and has been shown to consistently improve walking ability in a third of patients. Prolonged-release fampridine Timed-Walk Responders showed both clinically significant improvements in walking speed and in patient-reported walking ability.
Intraoperative neurophysiologic monitoring (IONM) is essential in the preservation of function of nervous system. IONM is thus becoming the gold-standard method in nerve-sparing surgical procedures. Apart from spine and brain surgery, IONM is essential in significantly reducing morbidity in colorectal surgery, prostate and thyroid surgery, as well as in hip replacement, to name a few. IONM measures weak electric nerve potentials and, therefore, it is easily disturbed by other electromagnetic sources. Surgical dissection techniques and devices interfering with IONM make this technique useless because this is dissection that mainly endangers nerve structures. Therefore, there is a need to take into consideration the influence of various dissection techniques on IONM, and to develop or modify inert techniques that are currently not widely used.
Emerging evidence suggests environmental chemical exposures during critical windows of development may contribute to the escalating prevalence of obesity. We tested the hypothesis that prenatal air pollution exposure would predispose the offspring to weight gain in adulthood. Pregnant mice were exposed to filtered air (FA) or diesel exhaust (DE) on embryonic days (E) 9-17. Prenatal DE induced a significant fetal brain cytokine response at E18 (46-390% over FA). As adults, offspring were fed either a low-fat diet (LFD) or high-fat diet (HFD) for 6 wk. Adult DE male offspring weighed 12% more and were 35% less active than FA male offspring at baseline, whereas there were no differences in females. Following HFD, DE males gained weight at the same rate as FA males, whereas DE females gained 340% more weight than FA females. DE-HFD males had 450% higher endpoint insulin levels than FA-HFD males, and all males on HFD showed decreased activity and increased anxiety, whereas females showed no differences. Finally, both DE males and females fed HFD showed increased microglial activation (30-66%) within several brain regions. Thus, prenatal air pollution exposure can &quot;program&quot; offspring for increased susceptibility to diet-induced weight gain and neuroinflammation in adulthood in a sex-specific manner.
Dystrobrevin family members ( and ) are cytoplasmic components of the dystrophin-associated glycoprotein complex, a multimeric protein complex first isolated from skeletal muscle, which links the extracellular matrix to the actin cytoskeleton. Dystrobrevin shares high homology with the cysteine-rich and C-terminal domains of dystrophin and a common domain organization. The -dystrobrevin isoform is restricted to nonmuscle tissues, serves as a scaffold for signaling complexes, and may participate in intracellular transport through its interaction with kinesin heavy chain. We have previously characterized the molecular determinants affecting the -dystrobrevin-kinesin heavy chain interaction, among which is cAMP-dependent protein kinase [protein kinase A (PKA)] phosphorylation of -dystrobrevin. In this study, we have identified -dystrobrevin residues phosphorylated in vitro by PKA with pull-down assays, surface plasmon resonance measurements, and MS analysis. Among the identified phosphorylated residues, we demonstrated, by site-directed mutagenesis, that Thr11 is the regulatory site for the -dystrobrevin-kinesin interaction. As dystrobrevin may function as a signaling scaffold for kinases/phosphatases, we also investigated whether -dystrobrevin is phosphorylated in vitro by kinases other than PKA. Thr11 was phosphorylated by protein kinase C, suggesting that this represents a key residue modified by the activation of different signaling pathways.

Parkinson disease (PD) is a chronic and progressive neurological disease associated with a loss of dopaminergic neurons. In most cases the disease is sporadic but genetically inherited cases also exist. One of the major pathological features of PD is the presence of aggregates that localize in neuronal cytoplasm as Lewy bodies, mainly composed of -synuclein (-syn) and ubiquitin. The selective degeneration of dopaminergic neurons suggests that dopamine itself may contribute to the neurodegenerative process in PD. Furthermore, mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress constitute key pathogenic events of this disorder. Thus, in this review we give an actual perspective to classical pathways involving these two mechanisms of neurodegeneration, including the role of dopamine in sporadic and familial PD, as well as in the case of abuse of amphetamine-type drugs. Mutations in genes related to familial PD causing autosomal dominant or recessive forms may also have crucial effects on mitochondrial morphology, function, and oxidative stress. Environmental factors, such as MPTP and rotenone, have been reported to induce selective degeneration of the nigrostriatal pathways leading to -syn-positive inclusions, possibly by inhibiting mitochondrial complex I of the respiratory chain and subsequently increasing oxidative stress. Recently, increased risk for PD was found in amphetamine users. Amphetamine drugs have effects similar to those of other environmental factors for PD, because long-term exposure to these drugs leads to dopamine depletion. Moreover, amphetamine neurotoxicity involves -syn aggregation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and oxidative stress. Therefore, dopamine and related oxidative stress, as well as mitochondrial dysfunction, seem to be common links between PD and amphetamine neurotoxicity.
CRMP2, also known as DPYSL2/DRP2, Unc-33, Ulip or TUC2, is a cytosolic phosphoprotein that mediates axon/dendrite specification and axonal growth. Mapping the CRMP2 interactome has revealed previously unappreciated functions subserved by this protein. Together with its canonical roles in neurite growth and retraction and kinesin-dependent axonal transport, it is now known that CRMP2 interacts with numerous binding partners to affect microtubule dynamics; protein endocytosis and vesicular cycling, synaptic assembly, calcium channel regulation and neurotransmitter release. CRMP2 signaling is regulated by post-translational modifications, including glycosylation, oxidation, proteolysis and phosphorylation; the latter being a fulcrum of CRMP2 functions. Here, the putative roles of CRMP2 in a panoply of neurodegenerative, sensory and motor neuron, and central disorders are discussed and evidence is presented for therapeutic strategies targeting CRMP2 functions.


We report that Notch signaling is essential for the switch from developmental plasticity to commitment during Caenorhabditis elegans embryogenesis. The GLP-1 and LIN-12 Notch receptors act to set a memory state that affects commitment of cells arising from the major ectodermal progenitor (AB blastomere) several cell divisions later, thereby preventing their forced reprogramming by an endoderm-determining transcription factor. In contrast to Notch-dependent cell fate induction, this activity is autonomous to the AB lineage, is independent of the known cell fate-inducing Notch ligands, and requires a putative secreted Notch ligand, Delta Serrate Lag-3 (DSL-3). Thus, Notch signaling promotes developmental commitment by a mechanism that is distinct from that involved in specifying cell fates.

Increasing evidence indicates the functional expression of ionotropic -aminobutyric acid receptor (GABA(A) -R) in astrocytes. However, it remains controversial in regard to the intracellular Cl(-) concentration ([Cl(-) ](i) ) and the functional role of anion-selective GABA(A) -R in astrocytes. In gramicidin perforated-patch recordings from rat hippocampal CA1 astrocytes, GABA and GABA(A) -R-specific agonist THIP depolarized astrocyte membrane potential (V(m) ), and the THIP-induced currents reversed at the voltages between -75.3 and -78.3 mV, corresponding to a [Cl(-) ](i) of 3.1-3.9 mM that favored a passive distribution of Cl(-) anions across astrocyte membrane. Further analysis showed that GABA(A) -R-induced V(m) depolarization was ascribed to HCO(3) (-) efflux, while a passively distributed Cl(-) mediated no net flux or influx of Cl(-) that leads to an unchanged or hyperpolarized V(m) . In addition to a rapidly activated GABA(A) -R current component, GABA and THIP also induced a delayed inward current (DIC) in 63% of astrocytes. The DIC became manifest after agonist withdrawal and enhanced in amplitude with increasing agonist application duration or concentrations. Astrocytic two-pore domain K(+) channels (K2Ps), especially TWIK-1, appeared to underlie the DIC, because (1) acidic intracellular pH, as a result of HCO(3) (-) efflux, inhibited TWIK-1, (2) the DIC remained in the Cs(+) recording solutions that inhibited conventional K(+) channels, and (3) the DIC was completely inhibited by 1 mM quinine but not by blockers for other cation/anion channels. Altogether, HCO(3) (-) efflux through activated GABA(A) -R depolarizes astrocyte V(m) and induces a delayed inhibition of K2Ps K(+) channels via intracellular acidification.
Extrinsic factors including growth factors influence decisions of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) to continue cell cycle progression or exit the cell cycle and terminally differentiate into oligodendrocytes capable of producing myelin. Multiple studies have elucidated how the G1/S transition is regulated in OPCs; however, little is known about how S phase progression and the G2/M transition are regulated in these cells. Herein, we report that insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I coordinates with FGF-2 to promote S phase progression but regulates G2/M progression independently. During S phase, IGF-I/FGF-2 enhances protein expression of cyclin A and cdk2, and further increases effective complex formation resulting in enhanced cdk2 activity. Surprisingly, however, OPCs exposed to FGF-2 in the absence of IGF-I fail to traverse through G2/M. Consistent with this observation, OPCs exposed to IGF-I, but not FGF-2, increase cell number over 48 h. IGF-I enhances cdk1 kinase activity during G2/M by promoting nuclear localization of cyclin B/cdk1 as well as of Cdc25C, an activator of cdk1. IGF-I also induces phosphorylation of histone 3 indicating traverse of cells through mitosis. Finally, we demonstrate that IGF-I-mediated G2/M regulation requires mammalian target of rapamycin activity. These data support an important function for IGF-I in G2/M progression in OPCs.
Activation of NMDA receptor requires two co-agonists, glutamate and glycine. Despite its intrinsic role in brain functions molecular mechanisms involved in glutamate replenishment and identification of the origin of glycine have eluded characterization. We have performed direct measurements of glycine flux by SN2 (Slc38a5; also known as SNAT5), executed extensive electrophysiological characterization as well as implemented ratiometric analyses to show that SN2 transport resembles SN1 in mechanism but differ in functional implications. We report that rat SN2 mediates electroneutral and bidirectional transport of glutamine and glycine at perisynaptic astroglial membranes. Sophisticated coupled and uncoupled movements of H(+) differentially associate with glutamine and glycine transport by SN2 and regulate pH(i) and the release mode of the transporter. Consequently, SN2 doubles as a transmitter precursor furnisher and a potential regulator of NMDA receptors.
Spreading depolarizations are a key event in the pathophysiology of stroke, resulting in rapid dendritic beading, which represents acute damage to synaptic circuitry. The impact of spreading depolarizations on the real-time injury of astrocytes during ischemia is less clear. We used simultaneous in vivo 2-photon imaging and electrophysiological recordings in adult mouse somatosensory cortex to examine spreading depolarization-induced astroglial structural changes concurrently with signs of neuronal injury in the early periods of focal and global ischemia. Astrocytes in the metabolically compromised ischemic penumbra-like area showed a long lasting swelling response to spontaneous spreading depolarizations despite rapid dendritic recovery in a photothrombotic occlusion model of focal stroke. Astroglial swelling was often facilitated by recurrent depolarizations and the magnitude of swelling strongly correlated with the total duration of depolarization. In contrast, spreading depolarization-induced astroglial swelling was transient in normoxic healthy tissue. In a model of transient global ischemia, the occurrence of a single spreading depolarization elicited by a bilateral common carotid artery occlusion coincided with astroglial swelling alongside dendritic beading. With immediate reperfusion, dendritic beading subsides. Astroglial swelling was either transient during short ischemic periods distinguished by a short-lasting spreading depolarization, or persistent during severe ischemia characterized by a long-lasting depolarization with the ultraslow negative voltage component. We propose that persistent astroglial swelling is initiated and exacerbated during spreading depolarization in brain tissue with moderate to severe energy deficits, disrupting astroglial maintenance of normal homeostatic function thus contributing to the negative outcome of ischemic stroke as astrocytes fail to provide neuronal support.
The membrane lipid-anchored glypicans (Gpcs) [heparan sulfate (HS) proteoglycans (PGs)] are present in both vertebrates and invertebrates and serve as important modulators of growth factors and morphogens during development. Their core proteins are similar and consist of a large N-terminal domain comprising 14 evolutionary conserved cysteines and a C-terminal stalk carrying the HS side chains and the lipid anchor. Cysteines in Gpc-1 can be S-nitrosylated but their positions have not been identified. The recently determined crystal structure of the N-terminal domain of Gpc-1 has revealed that all the evolutionary conserved cysteines form intramolecular disulfide bonds. However, Gpc-1 contains two more, non-conserved cysteines in the C-terminal stalk, located near the HS attachment sites. We show here that the non-conserved cysteines are free thiols as a Gpc-1 core protein containing the C-terminal stalk could be biotinylated by 1-biotinamido-4-(4'-[maleimidomethyl-cyclohexane]-carboxyamido)butane. After S-nitrosylation by using a nitric oxide (NO) donor and copper ions, the Gpc-1 core protein was retained on an affinity matrix substituted with HS oligosaccharides containing N-unsubstituted glucosamines (GlcNH(2)/NH(3)(+)). The protein was displaced with 0.2M glucosamine but also by 2mM ascorbate. In the latter case, the HS of the affinity matrix was simultaneously cleaved into fragments containing anhydromannose (anMan). We propose that the S-nitrosocysteine residues interact with closely located GlcNH(2)/NH(3)(+) in the HS side chains of the Gpc-1 PG. Addition of ascorbate induces a series of reactions that eventually releases HS fragments with reducing terminal anMan, presumably without the formation of free NO.


Aim: -Aminobutyric acid (GABA) is a multifunctional molecule with various physiological effects throughout the body. The regulation of GABA receptor (GABAR) plays a key role in reducing the damage mediated by oxidative stress (OS). Extended hepatectomy causes fatal OS-induced injury in the liver remnant. We aimed to investigate the effect of a GABAR agonist in extended hepatectomy. Methods: Saline or a GABAR agonist (43.56nmol/g bodyweight of muscimol) was administrated intravenously at 4h preoperatively. C57BL/6 mice were divided into three groups: laparotomy only, 90% hepatectomy with saline and 90% hepatectomy with a GABAR agonist. Liver samples were obtained at 6h after surgery. Results: Survival curves were prolonged by the GABAR agonist. Histopathological findings and biochemical profiles showed that the GABAR agonist reduced liver damage. Immunohistological assessment demonstrated that the GABAR agonist prevented apoptotic induction. As shown by 4-hydroxynonenal, which reflects OS-induced damage, 90% hepatectomy caused OS and the GABAR agonist reduced OS. We measured ataxia-telangiectasia mutated kinase (ATM), H2AX, Akt and free radical scavenging enzymes because they may be affected by GABAR regulation, and found that Akt was greatly decreased after 90% hepatectomy, but it recovered with the GABAR agonist. Conclusion: GABAR is activated by a specific agonist in the liver in vivo. This activation reduces OS-mediated damage after extended hepatectomy in vivo, and the mechanism via an Akt-dependent pathway may be a key.
Short-term synaptic plasticity alters synaptic efficacy on a timescale that is relevant to encoding information in spike trains. The dynamics of this plasticity, combined with that of the feedback and feedforward contributions of local interneurons, impose frequency-dependent properties on neuronal networks with implications for nervous system function. The trisynaptic network of the hippocampus is especially well suited to selectively filter components of frequency-dependent signals that are transmitted from the entorhinal cortex. We measured presynaptic [Ca(2+)](i) in perforant path, mossy fiber, or Schaffer collateral terminals while simultaneously measuring field potentials of principal cells of the dentate, CA3, or CA1 synaptic fields over a range of stimulus frequencies of 2 to 77 Hz. In all three synaptic fields, the average [Ca(2+)](i) during a 500 ms stimulus train rose monotonically with stimulus frequency. The average population spike amplitude during this stimulus train, however, exhibited a non-linear relationship to frequency that was distinct for each of the three synaptic fields. The dentate synaptic field exhibited the characteristics of a low pass filter, while both CA synaptic fields had bandpass filter characteristics with a gain that was greater than 1 in the passband frequencies. Importantly, alteration of the dynamic properties of this network could significantly impact information processing performed by the hippocampus. Pregnenolone sulfate (PregS), has frequency-dependent effects on paired- and multipulse plasticity in the dentate and CA1 synaptic fields of the hippocampal formation. We investigated the PregS-dependent modulation of the dynamic properties of transmission by the principal cells of the three hippocampal synaptic fields. Importantly, PregS is capable of altering the pattern separation capabilities that may underlie hippocampal information processing.
Consolidation of long-term memory is dependent on synthesis of new proteins in the hippocampus and associated cortical regions. The neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is tightly regulated by activity-dependent cellular processes and is strongly linked with mechanisms underlying learning and memory. BDNF activation of tyrosine receptor kinase (TrkB) stimulates intracellular signaling cascades implicated in plasticity, including the extracellular-signal related kinase (ERK)/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway and the phosphatidylinositide-3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt pathway. Here, we investigate the role of BDNF, ERK/MAPK, and PI3K/AKT signaling cascade in recognition memory in the rat. We report that recognition memory was associated with increased release of BDNF in the dentate gyrus and perirhinal cortex. This was associated with significant increases in p44ERK activation and c-fos expression in the dentate gyrus and PI3K activation and c-fos expression in the perirhinal cortex. Furthermore, both recognition memory and the associated cell signaling events in dentate gyrus and perirhinal cortex were blocked by intraperitoneal injection of the Trk receptor inhibitor tyrphostin AG879. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that BDNF-stimulated intracellular signaling plays a role in consolidation of recognition memory in the rat.
Estrogen (E2) has activational effects on sexual motivation and mitigating effects on anxiety-like behaviors that can be attenuated with chronic exposure to psychosocial stress. Some studies suggest that this attenuation can be overcome by higher doses of E2, while others show that chronic psychosocial stress may alter the mechanisms of E2 function, thus reducing any positive benefit from higher doses of E2. To determine the interaction between psychosocial stress and E2 dose on behavior, we examined the scope of attenuation across a suite of socioemotional behaviors, including reproduction, affiliation, aggression, submission, and anxiety-like behaviors on 36 ovariectomized female rhesus monkeys. Females were exposed to graded psychosocial stress, established by an intrinsic female dominance hierarchy, where subordinate animals receive high amounts of harassment. Our data show that E2 dose-dependently increased sexual motivation and male-affiliation in dominant (e.g. low-stress) females, while subordinate females showed no positive effects of E2, even at higher doses. In addition, contact aggression was attenuated in dominant females, while non-contact aggression was attenuated in both dominant and middle-ranking females. These results suggest that the stress-induced attenuation of E2's activational effects on sexual behavior and affiliation with males may not be overcome with higher doses of E2. Furthermore, the observed behavioral consequences of psychosocial stress and E2 dose may be dependent on the behaviors of all the females in the social-group, and better resolution on these effects depends on isolating treatment to individuals within the group to minimize alterations in social-group interactions.
From the U.S. to Europe and Australia anabolic steroid abuse remains high in the adolescent population. This is concerning given that anabolic steroid use is associated with a higher incidence of pathological anxiety that often appears during withdrawal from use. This study uses pubertal Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) to investigate the hypothesis that adolescent anabolic/androgenic steroid (AAS) exposure predisposes hamsters to heightened levels of anxiety during AAS withdrawal that is modulated by serotonin (5HT) neural signaling. In the first two sets of experiments, adolescent AAS-treated hamsters were tested for anxiety 21 days after the cessation of AAS administration (i.e., during AAS withdrawal) using the elevated plus maze (EPM), dark/light (DL), and seed finding (SF) tests and then examined for differences in 5HT afferent innervation to select areas of the brain important for anxiety. In the EPM and DL tests, adolescent AAS exposure leads to significant increases in anxiety-like response during AAS withdrawal. AAS-treated hamsters showed long-term reductions in 5HT innervation within several areas of the hamster brain implicated in anxiety, most notably the anterior hypothalamus and the central and medial amygdala. However, no differences in 5HT were found in other anxiety areas, e.g., frontal cortex and lateral septum. In the last experiment, adolescent AAS-treated hamsters were scored for anxiety on the 21st day of AAS withdrawal following the systemic administration of saline or one of three doses of fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor. Saline-treated hamsters showed high levels of AAS withdrawal-induced anxiety, while treatment with fluoxetine reduced AAS withdrawal-induced anxiety. These findings indicate that early AAS exposure has potent anxiogenic effects during AAS withdrawal that are modulated, in part, by 5HT signaling.
Previous brain imaging studies identified the neural networks underlying free choice of self-initiated actions. In contrast, the neural mechanisms underlying free choice of external objects remain to be elucidated. In this event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging study, participants had to choose one out of two different single-colored target squares presented at two of three possible locations. In 50% of the trials the choice was either free or specified, which was indicated by a preceding cue. In order to disentangle processes associated with object choice from those related to motor responses, object-response mapping was orthogonally varied. Processes related to the freedom of choice were isolated by means of an adaptive algorithm: based on the subjects individual choices in the free trials, specified trials were continuously generated in a way that matched the free trials in all aspects but the freedom to choose the object. Comparing free and specified trials revealed enhanced neural activity of a bilateral symmetrical network including the dorsolateral prefrontal, medial frontal, and medial parietal cortex. This network overlaps with that shown previously to be associated with free motor selection. It includes the pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA), suggesting that this area is rather associated with a supramodal function of initiating choice than with a specific motor function. Neural activity specifically associated with the freedom to choose an object was found bilaterally in the lateral superior parietal cortex. A psychophysiological interaction (PPI) analysis showed increased functional connectivity of this area with bilateral areas of the extrastriate visual cortex.
Cross-modal processing enables the utilization of information received via different sensory organs to facilitate more complicated human actions. We used functional MRI on early-blind individuals to study the neural processes associated with cross auditory-spatial learning. The auditory signals, converted from echoes of ultrasonic signals emitted from a navigation device, were novel to the participants. The subjects were trained repeatedly for 4 weeks in associating the auditory signals with different distances. Subjects' blood-oxygenation-level-dependent responses were captured at baseline and after training using a sound-to-distance judgment task. Whole-brain analyses indicated that the task used in the study involved auditory discrimination as well as spatial localization. The learning process was shown to be mediated by the inferior parietal cortex and the hippocampus, suggesting the integration and binding of auditory features to distances. The right cuneus was found to possibly serve a general rather than a specific role, forming an occipital-enhanced network for cross auditory-spatial learning. This functional network is likely to be unique to those with early blindness, since the normal-vision counterparts shared activities only in the parietal cortex.
Behavioral reactions to sensory stimuli during sleep are scarce despite preservation of sizeable cortical responses. To further understand such dissociation, we recorded intracortical field potentials to painful laser pulses in humans during waking and all-night sleep. Recordings were obtained from the three cortical structures receiving 95% of the spinothalamic cortical input in primates, namely the parietal operculum, posterior insula, and mid-anterior cingulate cortex. The dynamics of responses during sleep differed among cortical sites. In sleep Stage 2, evoked potential amplitudes were similarly attenuated relative to waking in all three cortical regions. During paradoxical, or rapid eye movements (REM), sleep, opercular and insular potentials remained stable in comparison with Stage 2, whereas the responses from mid-anterior cingulate abated drastically, and decreasing below background noise in half of the subjects. Thus, while the lateral operculo-insular system subserving sensory analysis of somatic stimuli remained active during paradoxical-REM sleep, mid-anterior cingulate processes related to orienting and avoidance behavior were suppressed. Dissociation between sensory and orienting-motor networks might explain why nociceptive stimuli can be either neglected or incorporated into dreams without awakening the subject.
Structural changes in neuroanatomical subregions can be measured using serial magnetic resonance imaging scans, and provide powerful biomarkers for detecting and monitoring Alzheimer's disease. The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) has made a large database of longitudinal scans available, with one of its primary goals being to explore the utility of structural change measures for assessing treatment effects in clinical trials of putative disease-modifying therapies. Several ADNI-funded research laboratories have calculated such measures from the ADNI database and made their results publicly available. Here, using sample size estimates, we present a comparative analysis of the overall results that come from the application of each laboratory's extensive processing stream to the ADNI database. Obtaining accurate measures of change requires correcting for potential bias due to the measurement methods themselves; and obtaining realistic sample size estimates for treatment response, based on longitudinal imaging measures from natural history studies such as ADNI, requires calibrating measured change in patient cohorts with respect to longitudinal anatomical changes inherent to normal aging. We present results showing that significant longitudinal change is present in healthy control subjects who test negative for amyloid- pathology. Therefore, sample size estimates as commonly reported from power calculations based on total structural change in patients, rather than change in patients relative to change in healthy controls, are likely to be unrealistically low for treatments targeting amyloid-related pathology. Of all the measures publicly available in ADNI, thinning of the entorhinal cortex quantified with the Quarc methodology provides the most powerful change biomarker.
Abnormal presence of autophagic vacuoles is evident in brains of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), in contrast to the rare detection of autophagosomes in a normal brain. However, the actual cause and pathological significance of these observations remain unknown. Here, we demonstrate a role for mitochondrial metabolism in the regulation of the autophagy-lysosomal pathway in ex vivo and in vitro models of PD. We show that transferring mitochondria from PD patients into cells previously depleted of mitochondrial DNA is sufficient to reproduce the alterations in the autophagic system observed in PD patient brains. Although the initial steps of this pathway are not compromised, there is an increased accumulation of autophagosomes associated with a defective autophagic activity. We prove that this functional decline was originated from a deficient mobilization of autophagosomes from their site of formation toward lysosomes due to disruption in microtubule-dependent trafficking. This contributed directly to a decreased proteolytic flux of -synuclein and other autophagic substrates. Our results lend strong support for a direct impact of mitochondria in autophagy as defective autophagic clearance ability secondary to impaired microtubule trafficking is driven by dysfunctional mitochondria. We uncover mitochondria and mitochondria-dependent intracellular traffic as main players in the regulation of autophagy in PD.


A wireless cortical neural recording system with a miniature-implanted package is needed in a variety of neuroscience and biomedical applications. Toward that end, we have developed a transcutaneous two-way communication and power system for wireless neural recording. Wireless powering and forward data transmission (into the body) at 1.25 Mbps is achieved using a frequency-shift keying modulated class E converter. The reverse telemetry (out of the body) carrier frequency is generated using an integer-N phase-locked loop, providing the necessary wideband data link to support simultaneous reverse telemetry from multiple implanted devices on separate channels. Each channel is designed to support reverse telemetry with a data rate in excess of 3 Mbps, which is sufficient for our goal of streaming 16 channels of raw neural data. We plan to incorporate this implantable power and telemetry system in a 1-cm diameter single-site cortical neural recording implant.
A quantitative approach to virtual-lesion physiology is presented which integrates event-related fMRI, image-guided, repetitive, transcranial magnetic stimulation (irTMS), and simultaneous recording of 3-D movement kinematics. By linking motor neuroscience with clinical disorders of motor function, our method allows development of a healthy, human system model of disorders of skilled action.


Central Nervous System (CNS) regeneration and repair mechanism are two important aspects of functional recovery in the adult central nervous system following brain and spinal cord injury. Following olfactory tract transection in neonatal rats, functional connectivity between the olfactory bulb and the piriform cortex gets re-established by 120 days. The recovery of the dendritic morphology was associated with the synchronized oscillatory activity between olfactory bulb and piriform cortex. Mitral cells which were regenerated after the transection showed profuse branching, indicative of their undifferentiated state. However, normal dendritic morphology could be seen by 120 days after olfactory tract transection. These results thus provide a supportive evidence for the restoration of the functional connections between the olfactory bulb and the piriform cortex at 120 days.

Recent studies have identified an association between memory deficits and defects of the integrated neuronal cortical areas known collectively as the default mode network. It is conceivable that the amyloid deposition or other molecular abnormalities seen in patients with Alzheimer's disease may interfere with this network and disrupt neuronal circuits beyond the localized brain areas. Therefore, Alzheimer's disease may be both a degenerative disease and a broader system-level disorder affecting integrated neuronal pathways involved in memory. In this paper, we describe the rationale and provide some evidence to support the study of deep brain stimulation of the hippocampal fornix as a novel treatment to improve neuronal circuitry within these integrated networks and thereby sustain memory function in early Alzheimer's disease.

Learned irrelevance (LIrr) refers to a reduction in associative learning after pre-exposure of the conditioned and unconditioned stimulus in a non-contingent fashion. This paradigm might serve as a translational model for (pre)attentive information processing deficits in schizophrenia. This is the first study to investigate the event-related potentials (ERPs) of a within-subject LIrr paradigm in humans. Furthermore, the effects of the muscarinic M1 antagonist biperiden on LIrr were assessed. As expected, LIrr was found to be intact in young healthy volunteers after placebo. Furthermore, in the placebo condition P3b latency was decreased for target stimuli, which were pre-cued. This suggests that the predictability of the occurrence of these stimuli is mainly reflected by this ERP component. Biperiden had no effect on the behavioural LIrr measures, although prolonged reaction times were evident. Biperiden increased the N1 amplitude of the pre-exposed predictor letters, suggesting an effect of this drug on early perceptual processing. In conclusion, the within-subject paradigm used in the current study in combination with electroencephalography can reveal brain mechanisms involved in LIrr. M1 antagonism did not affect LIrr performance but seemed to influence early information processing.
Decreases in brain dopamine (DA) lead to catalepsy, quantified by the time a rat remains with its forepaws resting on a suspended horizontal bar. Low doses of the DA D2 receptor-preferring antagonist haloperidol repeatedly injected in a particular environment lead to gradual day-to-day increases in catalepsy (catalepsy sensitization) and subsequent testing following an injection of saline reveal conditioned catalepsy. We tested the hypothesis that D1-like and D2 receptors play different roles in catalepsy sensitization and in acquisition and expression of conditioned catalepsy. Rats were repeatedly treated with the DA D1-like receptor antagonist SCH 23990 (0.05, 0.1 and 0.25 mg/kg i.p.), the D2 receptor-preferring antagonist haloperidol (0.1, 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg i.p.) or a combination of the two drugs and tested for catalepsy each day in the same environment. Following 10 drug treatment days, rats were injected with saline and tested for conditioned catalepsy in the previously drug-paired environment. Haloperidol did not elicit cataleptic responses in the initial session; however, rats developed sensitization with repeated testing. Significant catalepsy sensitization was not observed in rats repeatedly tested with SCH 23390. When rats were injected and tested with saline following haloperidol sensitization they exhibited conditioned catalepsy in the test environment; conditioned catalepsy was not seen following SCH 23390. Rats treated with 0.05 mg/kg SCH 23390+0.25 mg/kg haloperidol showed catalepsy sensitization but failed to show conditioned catalepsy. Conversely, SCH 23390 (0.05 mg/kg) given on the test day after sensitization to haloperidol (0.25 mg/kg) failed to block conditioned catalepsy. Repeated antagonism of D2 receptors leads to catalepsy sensitization with repeated testing in a specific environment. Conditioned catalepsy requires intact D1-like receptor function during sensitization sessions but not during test sessions. In conclusion, repeated antagonism of D2, but not D1-like receptors leads to catalepsy sensitization with repeated testing in a specific environment. Conditioned catalepsy requires functional D1-like receptors during sensitization sessions but not during test sessions.
Computational head and brain volume conductor modeling is a practical and non-invasive method to investigate neuroelectrical activity in the brain. Anatomical structures included in a model affect the flow of volume currents and the resulting scalp surface potentials. The influence of different tissues within the head on scalp surface potentials was investigated by constructing five highly detailed, realistic head models from segmented and processed Visible Human Man digital images. The models were: (1) model with 20 different tissues, that is, skin, dense connective tissue (fat), aponeurosis (muscle), outer, middle and inner tables of the scalp, dura matter, arachnoid layer (including cerebrospinal fluid), pia matter, six cortical layers, eye tissue, muscle around the eye, optic nerve, temporal muscle, white matter and internal air, (2) model with three main inhomogeneities, that is, scalp, skull, brain, (3) model with homogeneous scalp and remaining inhomogeneities, (4) model with homogeneous skull and remaining inhomogeneities, and (5) model with homogeneous brain matter and remaining inhomogeneities. Scalp potentials because of three different dipolar sources in the parietal-occipital lobe were computed for all five models. Results of a forward solution revealed that tissues included in the model and the dipole source location directly affect the simulated scalp surface potentials. The major finding indicates that significant change in the scalp surface potentials is observed when the brain's distinctions are removed. The other modifications, for example, layers of the scalp and skull are important too, but they have less effect on the overall results.
This paper investigates the effects of diffusivity on retrograde dynein-driven transport of pharmaceutical agent complexes (PACs) in axons. The model is designed with two goals in mind: (1) to capture results on axonal transport drug delivery reported in recent experimental research by Filler et al. (Filler AG, Whiteside GT, Bacon M, Frederickson M, Howe FA, Rabinowitz MD, Sokoloff AJ, Deacon TW, Abell C, Munglani R, Griffiths JR, Bell BA, Lever AML. Tri-partite complex for axonal transport drug delivery achieves pharmacological effect. BMC Neuroscience 2010; 11: 8) and (2) to produce analytically tractable equations. It is shown that the inclusion of a diffusion process in the model produces equations that can still be solved by Laplace transform, although the last step of the solution, finding the inverse Laplace transform, has to be accomplished numerically, thus leading to a hybrid analytical and numerical solution technique. The effects of diffusivity and the kinetic rates describing PAC transition between the dynein-driven and accumulated states on transport of PACs toward the neuron soma are investigated.
Inter-individual differences in cognitive performance are based on an efficient use of task-related brain resources. However, little is known yet on how these differences might be reflected on resting-state brain networks. Here we used Magnetoencephalography resting-state recordings to assess the relationship between a behavioral measurement of verbal working memory and functional connectivity as measured through Mutual Information. We studied theta (4-8 Hz), low alpha (8-10 Hz), high alpha (10-13 Hz), low beta (13-18 Hz) and high beta (18-30 Hz) frequency bands. A higher verbal working memory capacity was associated with a lower mutual information in the low alpha band, prominently among right-anterior and left-lateral sensors. The results suggest that an efficient brain organization in the domain of verbal working memory might be related to a lower resting-state functional connectivity across large-scale brain networks possibly involving right prefrontal and left perisylvian areas.

The association between stressful life events and depression has been consistently supported in the literature; however, studies of the developmental trajectories of these constructs and the nature of their association over time are limited. We examined trajectories of depressive symptoms and negative dependent life events and the associations between these constructs in a sample of 916 youth assessed annually from age 9 to 16, using latent growth curve modeling. Youth depressive symptoms, as rated by youth, parents, and teachers, decreased from late childhood into adolescence, whereas rates of youth-rated life events did not change significantly over time. Initial levels of depressive symptoms were positively associated with initial levels of life events. Furthermore, after controlling for the initial association between the two constructs, increases in depressive symptoms (as assessed by parents and youth) were positively associated with increases in life events over time. The study builds on prior research by focusing specifically on negative dependent life events, examining results across multiple informants, and employing latent growth curve modeling to evaluate associations between trajectories of life events and depressive symptoms in a longitudinal adolescent sample. Additional studies employing latent growth modeling to examine the changes in this association during adolescence are needed.
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th Edition (DSM-IV) criteria for attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) specify two dimensions of inattention and hyperactivity-impulsivity symptoms that are used to define three nominal subtypes: predominantly hyperactive-impulsive type (ADHD-H), predominantly inattentive type (ADHD-I), and combined type (ADHD-C). To aid decision making for DSM-5 and other future diagnostic systems, a comprehensive literature review and meta-analysis of 546 studies was completed to evaluate the validity of the DSM-IV model of ADHD. Results indicated that DSM-IV criteria identify individuals with significant and persistent impairment in social, academic, occupational, and adaptive functioning when intelligence, demographic factors, and concurrent psychopathology are controlled. Available data overwhelmingly support the concurrent, predictive, and discriminant validity of the distinction between inattention and hyperactivity-impulsivity symptoms, and indicate that nearly all differences among the nominal subtypes are consistent with the relative levels of inattention and hyperactivity-impulsivity symptoms that define the subtypes. In contrast, the DSM-IV subtype model is compromised by weak evidence for the validity of ADHD-H after first grade, minimal support for the distinction between ADHD-I and ADHD-C in studies of etiological influences, academic and cognitive functioning, and treatment response, and the marked longitudinal instability of all three subtypes. Overall, we conclude that the DSM-IV ADHD subtypes provide a convenient clinical shorthand to describe the functional and behavioral correlates of current levels of inattention and hyperactivity-impulsivity symptoms, but do not identify discrete subgroups with sufficient long-term stability to justify the classification of distinct forms of the disorder. Empirical support is stronger for an alternative model that would replace the subtypes with dimensional modifiers that reflect the number of inattention and hyperactivity-impulsivity symptoms at the time of assessment. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2012 APA, all rights reserved).

Despite the reported advantages of corncob bedding, questions have emerged about how comfortable animals find this type of bedding as a resting surface. In this study, encephalography (EEG) was used to compare the effects of corncob and aspen-chip bedding on rat slow-wave sleep (SWS). According to a facility-wide initiative, rats that were weaned on aspen-chip bedding were switched to corncob bedding in home cages and EEG recording chambers. Spontaneous EEG recordings obtained for 5 wk after the switch to corncob bedding demonstrated that rats spent significantly less time in SWS as compared with levels measured on aspen chips just prior to the bedding switch. SWS remained low even after a 5-wk acclimation period to the corncob bedding. We then acutely switched back to aspen-chip bedding in EEG recording chambers. Acute reinstatement of aspen-chip bedding during EEG recording was associated with an average 22% increase in time spent in SWS, with overall levels of SWS comparable to the levels measured on aspen chips prior to the change to corncob bedding. Aspen-chip bedding subsequently was reinstated in both home cages and EEG recording chambers, and SWS baseline levels were restored. These data raise important concerns about the effects of corncob bedding on rodents used in research.
CRANID is a statistical program used to infer the source population of a cranium of unknown origin by comparing its cranial dimensions with a worldwide craniometric database. It has great potential for estimating ancestry in archaeological, forensic and repatriation cases. In this paper we test the validity of CRANID in classifying crania of known geographic origin. Twenty-three crania of known geographic origin but unknown sex were selected from the osteological collections of the University of Melbourne. Only 18 crania showed good statistical match with the CRANID database. Without considering accuracy of sex allocation, 11 crania were accurately classified into major geographic regions and nine were correctly classified to geographically closest available reference populations. Four of the five crania with poor statistical match were nonetheless correctly allocated to major geographical regions, although none was accurately assigned to geographically closest reference samples. We conclude that if sex allocations are overlooked, CRANID can accurately assign 39% of specimens to geographically closest matching reference samples and 48% to major geographic regions. Better source population representation may improve goodness of fit, but known sex-differentiated samples are needed to further test the utility of CRANID.
Personality psychologists have long argued that explicit traits (as measured by questionnaires) channel the expression of implicit motives (as measured by coding imaginative verbal behavior) such that both interact in the prediction of relevant life outcome variables. In the present research, we apply these ideas in the context of industrial and organizational psychology and propose that 2 explicit traits work as channels for the expression of 3 core implicit motives in task and contextual job performance (extraversion for implicit affiliation and implicit power; explicit achievement for implicit achievement). As a test of these theoretical ideas, we report a study in which employees (N = 241) filled out a questionnaire booklet and worked on an improved modern implicit motive measure, the operant motive test. Their supervisors rated their task and contextual performance. Results support 4 of the 6 theoretical predictions and show that interactions between implicit motives and explicit traits increase the explained criterion variance in both task and contextual performance.
Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder are vulnerable to anxiety. Repetitive behaviours are a core feature of Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and have been associated anxiety. This study examined repetitive behaviours and anxiety in two groups of children with autism spectrum disorder, those with high anxiety and those with lower levels of anxiety. Children with high anxiety had more repetitive behaviours than those without anxiety. Within the anxiety sample, higher levels of insistence on sameness were associated with more anxiety. No association was found between sensory motor repetitive behaviours and anxiety in this group. In the non-anxious sample, anxiety was associated with sensory motor repetitive behaviours. These findings indicate a differential relationship for repetitive behaviours in relation to anxious and non-anxious children with ASD.
Reasoning about problems with empirically false content can be hard, as the inferences that people draw are heavily influenced by their background knowledge. However, presenting empirically false premises in a fantasy context helps children and adolescents to disregard their beliefs, and to reason on the basis of the premises. The aim of the present experiments was to see if high-functioning adolescents with autism are able to utilize fantasy context to the same extent as typically developing adolescents when they reason about empirically false premises. The results indicate that problems with engaging in pretence in autism persist into adolescence, and this hinders the ability of autistic individuals to disregard their beliefs when empirical knowledge is irrelevant.
Vitamin K (vitamin K1 or phylloquinone and vitamin K2, a series of menaquinones [MKs]) is involved in the production of bone and matrix amino acid -carboxy-glutamic acid (Gla) proteins, regulating bone and vascular calcification. Low vitamin K concentrations are associated with increased risks of fractures and vascular calcification, and frequent complications in hemodialysis patients. We carried out an observational study to establish the prevalence of vitamin K deficiency and to assess the relationship between vitamin K status, vertebral fractures, vascular calcification, and survival in 387 patients on hemodialysis for 1 year. We determined plasma levels of vitamin K compound, bone-Gla-protein, matrix-Gla-protein, and routine biochemistry. Vertebral fractures (reduction in vertebral body height by 20%) and aortic and iliac calcifications were also investigated in a spine (D(5) -L(4)) radiograph. Three-year patient survival was analyzed. Important proportions of patients had deficiency of MK7 (35.4%), vitamin K1 (23.5%), and MK4 (14.5%). A total of 55.3% of patients had vertebral fractures, 80.6% had abdominal aorta calcification, and 56.1% had iliac calcification. Vitamin K1 deficiency was the strongest predictor of vertebral fractures (odds ratio [OR], 2.94; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.38-6.26). MK4 deficiency was a predictor of aortic calcification (OR, 2.82; 95% CI, 1.14-7.01), whereas MK5 deficiency actually protected against it (OR, 0.38; 95% CI, 0.15-0.95). MK7 deficiency was a predictor of iliac calcification (OR, 1.64; 95% CI, 1.03-2.60). The presence of vertebral fractures was also a predictor of vascular calcifications (OR, 1.76; 95% CI, 1.00-3.08). Increased alkaline phosphatase and C reactive protein (CRP), age, and cerebrovascular events were predictors of mortality. Our study suggests that the vitamin K system may be important for preserving bone mass and avoiding vascular calcification in hemodialysis patients, pointing out a possible role of vitamin K in bone and vascular health. Based on our results, we suggest that the general population should also be studied for vitamin K deficiency as a possible cause of both vertebral fractures and vascular calcification.
Although pediatric burn injuries are common, there is a lack of burn-specific health outcome measurements for children. The American Burn Association and the Shriners Hospitals for Children have developed the Burn Outcomes Questionnaire (BOQ), which is a parent-report questionnaire measuring the functional outcome after burn in children aged 5 to 18 years. The aim of this study was to examine the psychometric properties of the Swedish version of the BOQ, assessing feasibility, reliability, and validity aspects. Participants were parents (n = 70) of children aged 5 to 18 years who were treated at the Uppsala or Linkping burn center between January 2000 and December 2008. For most subscales, feasibility was adequate and the internal consistency was good: Cronbach's  values were above 0.76 in all but 1 subscale, and mean interitem correlations ranged from 0.34 to 0.90. The test-retest reliability was significant in the majority of subscales. Evidence of validity was shown by associations among the BOQ subscales and between BOQ subscales and measures of burn severity, heat sensitivity, fear-avoidance beliefs, and parent reports of the child's psychological problems. In conclusion, with the exception of a few subscales, this study supports the continued evaluation of the Swedish version of BOQ as a tool to measure outcome after burn in children aged 5 to 18 years.

Osteosarcoma is the second leading cause of cancer-related death for children and young adults. In this study, we have subcutaneously injected-with and without matrigel-athymic mice (Fox1nu/nu) with human osteosarcoma 3AB-OS pluripotent cancer stem cells (CSCs), which we previously isolated from human osteosarcoma MG63 cells. Engrafted 3AB-OS cells were highly tumorigenic and matrigel greatly accelerated both tumor engraftment and growth rate. 3AB-OS CSC xenografts lacked crucial regulators of beta-catenin levels (E-cadherin, APC, and GSK-3beta), and crucial factors to restrain proliferation, resulting therefore in a strong proliferation potential. During the first weeks of engraftment 3AB-OS-derived tumors expressed high levels of pAKT, beta1-integrin and pFAK, nuclear beta-catenin, c-Myc, cyclin D2, along with high levels of hyperphosphorylated-inactive pRb and anti-apoptotic proteins such as Bcl-2 and XIAP, and matrigel increased the expression of proliferative markers. Thereafter 3AB-OS tumor xenografts obtained with matrigel co-injection showed decreased proliferative potential and AKT levels, and undetectable hyperphosphorylated pRb, whereas beta1-integrin and pFAK levels still increased. Engrafted tumor cells also showed multilineage commitment with matrigel particularly favoring the mesenchymal lineage. Concomitantly, many blood vessels and muscle fibers appeared in the tumor mass. Our findings suggest that matrigel might regulate 3AB-OS cell behavior providing adequate cues for transducing proliferation and differentiation signals triggered by pAKT, beta1-integrin, and pFAK and addressed by pRb protein. Our results provide for the first time a mouse model that recapitulates in vivo crucial features of human osteosarcoma CSCs that could be used to test and predict the efficacy in vivo of novel therapeutic treatments.
A number of recent studies have examined the ability of stem cells derived from different sources to differentiate into dopamine-producing cells and ameliorate behavioural deficits in Parkinsonian models. Recently, using the approach of cell reprogramming by small cell-permeable biological active compounds that involved in the regulation of chromatin structure and function, and interfere with specific cell signalling pathways that promote neural differentiation we have been able to generate neural-like cells from human bone marrow (BM)-derived MSCs (hMSCs). Neurally induced hMSCs (NI-hMSCs) exhibited several neural properties and exerted beneficial therapeutic effect on tissue preservation and locomotor recovery in spinal cord injured rats. In this study, we aimed to determine whether hMSCs neuralized by this approach can generate dopaminergic (DA) neurons. Immunocytochemisty studies showed that approximately 50-60% of NI-hMSCs expressed early and late dopaminergic marker such as Nurr-1 and TH that was confirmed by Western blot. ELISA studies showed that NI-hMSCs also secreted neurotrophins and dopamine. Hypoxia preconditioning prior to neural induction increased hMSCs proliferation, viability, expression TH and the secretion level of dopamine induced by ATP. Taken together, these studies demonstrated that hMSCs neurally modified by this original approach can be differentiated towards DA-like neurons.
Melanosomes are transported to the cell periphery of melanocytes by coordination between bidirectional microtubule-dependent movements and unidirectional actin-dependent movement. Although both the mechanism of the actin-dependent melanosome transport and the mechanism of the microtubule-dependent retrograde melanosome transport in mammalian skin melanocytes have already been determined, almost nothing is known about the mechanism of the microtubule-dependent anterograde melanosome transport. Small GTPase Rab proteins are common regulators of membrane traffic in all eukaryotes, and in this study we performed genome-wide screening for Rab proteins that are involved in anterograde melanosome transport by expressing 60 different constitutive active (and negative) mutants, and succeeded in identifying Rab1A, originally described as a Golgi-resident Rab, as a prime candidate. Endogenous Rab1A protein was found to be localized to mature melanosomes in melanocytes, and its functional ablation either by siRNA-mediated knockdown or by overexpression of a cytosolic form of Rab1A-GTPase-activating protein/TBC1D20 induced perinuclear melanosome aggregation. The results of time-lapse imaging further revealed that long-range anterograde melanosome movements were specifically suppressed in Rab1A-deficient melanocytes, whereas retrograde melanosome transport occurred normally. Taken together, these findings indicate that Rab1A is the first crucial component of the anterograde melanosome transport machinery to be identified in mammalian skin melanocytes.
The basal ganglia are deep nuclei in the brain that include the caudate, putamen, globus pallidus, and substantia nigra. Pathological processes involving the basal ganglia often result in disorders of movement and behavior. A number of different autoimmune disorders predominantly involve the basal ganglia and can result in movement and psychiatric disorders. The classic basal ganglia autoimmune disorder is Sydenham chorea, a poststreptococcal neuropsychiatric disorder. Resurgence in the interest in Sydenham chorea is the result of the descriptions of other poststreptococcal neuropsychiatric disorders including tics and obsessive-compulsive disorder, broadly termed pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infection. Encephalitic processes affecting the basal ganglia are also described including the syndromes basal ganglia encephalitis, encephalitis lethargica, and bilateral striatal necrosis. Last, systemic autoimmune disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosus and antiphospholipid syndrome can result in chorea or parkinsonism. Using paradigms learned from other autoantibody associated disorders, the authors discuss the autoantibody hypothesis and the role of systemic inflammation in autoimmune basal ganglia disorders. Identification of these entities is important as the clinician has an increasing therapeutic repertoire to modulate or suppress the aberrant immune system.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a devastating condition producing great personal and societal costs and for which there is no effective treatment. Stem cell transplantation is a promising therapeutic strategy, though much preclinical and clinical research work remains. Here, we briefly describe SCI epidemiology, pathophysiology, and experimental and clinical stem cell strategies. Research in stem cell biology and cell reprogramming is rapidly advancing, with the hope of moving stem cell therapy closer to helping people with SCI. We examine issues important for clinical translation and provide a commentary on recent developments, including termination of the first human embryonic stem cell transplantation trial in human SCI.
Cognitive dysfunction is one of the most critical clinical manifestations of Parkinson's disease (PD), and its accurate and efficient diagnosis is crucial for treatment. We evaluated the psychometric properties of the Beijing version of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (BJ-MoCA) in 123 Chinese patients with idiopathic PD. The internal consistency and convergent validity of the BJ-MoCA were examined and psychometric characteristics of BJ-MoCA scores were analyzed in PD patients with ''normal'' Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores. More than half (56.9%) of the patients with normal MMSE scores showed cognitive impairment in multiple cognitive domains, including visuospatial and executive functions, naming, attention, language, delayed recall, and orientation. The impaired delayed recall was less likely to occur in newly diagnosed patients, and the orientation ability in patients with early onset was rarely affected. The multivariate regression analysis revealed that the age of symptom onset and disease severity were independent predictors of cognitive impairment. Thus, the current findings demonstrate that the BJ-MoCA is a reliable tool for screening cognitive dysfunction in Chinese patients with idiopathic PD. It is more sensitive than the MMSE for screening early cognitive decline in non-memory dysfunction.
Antiepileptic drug (AED) therapy is complex, with numerous traditional drugs and more than 10 second-generation drugs being approved since the mid-1990s. The burden of epilepsy is compounded by the adverse effects of these drugs, which comprise a variety of manifestations, the most devastating of which is their association with physical and cognitive foetal malformations in babies exposed to these agents in utero. Many effects are dose-related - a clear understanding of these adverse effects is desirable to be able to adjust medications and medication regimens to suit individual patient needs and to try to prevent them, by a careful introduction, slow escalation, well-considered combination and possible pre-exposure testing of patients for their tolerance, to each proposed AED. The overall problem and the profiles of the main agents are outlined from the perspective of dose-related issues.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most common and aggressive subtype of all gliomas. The prognosis is poor but despite the aggressiveness of the tumour, extracranial metastasis of glioma is rare. Most documented cases of extracranial metastases of GBM involve leptomeningeal spread to the spine. In this clinical study we aim to review the incidence and location of extracranial metastasis of glioma from the Brain Tumor Database of the National Neuroscience Institute of Singapore, between September 2004 to October 2009. Four of 148 patients (2.7%) were identified, one of whom had pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma (PXA) with scalp and spinal metastasis, suggestive of haematogenous rather than cerebrospinal fluid spread that has been described elsewhere. To our knowledge, there has been no published report of PXA with scalp metastasis or vertebral metastasis.

Load Theory of attention suggests that high perceptual load in a task leads to reduced sensory visual cortex response to task-unrelated stimuli resulting in &quot;load-induced blindness&quot; [e.g., Lavie, N. Attention, distraction and cognitive control under load. Current Directions in Psychological Science, 19, 143-148, 2010; Lavie, N. Distracted and confused?: Selective attention under load. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 9, 75-82, 2005]. Consideration of the findings that visual STM (VSTM) involves sensory recruitment [e.g., Pasternak, T., &amp; Greenlee, M. Working memory in primate sensory systems. Nature Reviews Neuroscience, 6, 97-107, 2005] within Load Theory led us to a new hypothesis regarding the effects of VSTM load on visual processing. If VSTM load draws on sensory visual capacity, then similar to perceptual load, high VSTM load should also reduce visual cortex response to incoming stimuli leading to a failure to detect them. We tested this hypothesis with fMRI and behavioral measures of visual detection sensitivity. Participants detected the presence of a contrast increment during the maintenance delay in a VSTM task requiring maintenance of color and position. Increased VSTM load (manipulated by increased set size) led to reduced retinotopic visual cortex (V1-V3) responses to contrast as well as reduced detection sensitivity, as we predicted. Additional visual detection experiments established a clear tradeoff between the amount of information maintained in VSTM and detection sensitivity, while ruling out alternative accounts for the effects of VSTM load in terms of differential spatial allocation strategies or task difficulty. These findings extend Load Theory to demonstrate a new form of competitive interactions between early visual cortex processing and visual representations held in memory under load and provide a novel line of support for the sensory recruitment hypothesis of VSTM.
Our understanding of the neurobiological basis for human speech production and perception has benefited from insights from psychology, neuropsychology and neurology. In this overview, I outline some of the ways that functional imaging has added to this knowledge and argue that, as a neuroanatomical tool, functional imaging has led to some significant contributions.
Loss of Fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) leads to Fragile X syndrome (FXS), the most common form of inherited intellectual disability and autism. Although the functions of FMRP and its homologs FXR1P and FXR2P are well studied in the somatodendritic domain, recent evidence suggests that this family of RNA binding proteins also plays a role in the axonal and presynaptic compartments. Fragile X granules (FXGs) are morphologically and genetically defined structures containing Fragile X proteins that are expressed axonally and presynaptically in a subset of circuits. To further understand the role of presynaptic Fragile X proteins in the brain, we systematically mapped the FXG distribution in the mouse central nervous system. This analysis revealed both the circuits and the neuronal types that express FXGs. FXGs are enriched in circuits that mediate sensory processing and motor planning-functions that are particularly perturbed in FXS patients. Analysis of FXG expression in the hippocampus suggests that CA3 pyramidal neurons use presynaptic Fragile X proteins to modulate recurrent but not feedforward processing. Neuron-specific FMRP mutants revealed a requirement for neuronal FMRP in the regulation of FXGs. Finally, conditional FMRP ablation demonstrated that FXGs are expressed in axons of thalamic relay nuclei that innervate cortex, but not in axons of thalamic reticular nuclei, striatal nuclei, or cortical neurons that innervate thalamus. Together, these findings support the proposal that dysregulation of axonal and presynaptic Fragile X proteins contribute to the neurological symptoms of FXS.
Precise axon pathfinding is crucial for establishment of the initial neuronal network during development. Pioneer axons navigate without the help of preexisting axons and pave the way for follower axons that project later. Voltage-gated ion channels make up the intrinsic electrical activity of pioneer axons and regulate axon pathfinding. To elucidate which channel molecules are present in pioneer axons, immunohistochemical analysis was performed to examine 14 voltage-gated ion channels (Kv1.1-Kv1.3, Kv3.1-Kv3.4, Kv4.3, Cav1.2, Cav1.3, Cav2.2, Nav1.2, Nav1.6, and Nav1.9) in nine axonal tracts in the developing rat forebrain, including the optic nerve, corpus callosum, corticofugal fibers, thalamocortical axons, lateral olfactory tract, hippocamposeptal projection, anterior commissure, hippocampal commissure, and medial longitudinal fasciculus. We found A-type K channel Kv3.4 in both pioneer axons and early follower axons and L-type Ca channel Cav1.2 in pioneer axons and early and late follower axons. Spatially, Kv3.4 and Cav1.2 were colocalized with markers of pioneer neurons and pioneer axons, such as deleted in colorectal cancer (DCC), in most fiber tracts examined. Temporally, Kv3.4 and Cav1.2 were expressed abundantly in most fiber tracts during axon pathfinding but were downregulated beginning in synaptogenesis. By contrast, delayed rectifier Kv channels (e.g., Kv1.1) and Nav channels (e.g., Nav1.2) were absent from these fiber tracts (except for the corpus callosum) during pathfinding of pioneer axons. These data suggest that Kv3.4 and Cav1.2, two high-voltage-activated ion channels, may act together to control Ca -dependent electrical activity of pioneer axons and play important roles during axon pathfinding.
Targeted deletion of VGF, a neuronal and endocrine secreted protein and neuropeptide precursor, produces a lean, hypermetabolic mouse that is resistant to diet-, lesion-, and genetically induced obesity and diabetes. We hypothesized that increased sympathetic nervous system activity in Vgf-/Vgf- knockout mice is responsible for increased energy expenditure and decreased fat storage and that increased -adrenergic receptor stimulation induces lipolysis in white adipose tissue (WAT) of Vgf-/Vgf- mice. We found that fat mass was markedly reduced in Vgf-/Vgf- mice. Within knockout WAT, phosphorylation of protein kinase A substrate increased in males and females, phosphorylation of hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL) (ser563) increased in females, and levels of adipose triglyceride lipase, comparative gene identification-58, and phospho-perilipin were higher in male Vgf-/Vgf- WAT compared with wild-type, consistent with increased lipolysis. The phosphorylation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) (Thr172) and levels of the AMPK kinase, transforming growth factor -activated kinase 1, were decreased. This was associated with a decrease in HSL ser565 phosphorylation, the site phosphorylated by AMPK, in both male and female Vgf-/Vgf- WAT. No significant differences in phosphorylation of CREB or the p42/44 MAPK were noted. Despite this evidence supporting increased cAMP signaling and lipolysis, lipogenesis as assessed by fatty acid synthase protein expression and phosphorylated acetyl-CoA carboxylase was not decreased. Our data suggest that the VGF precursor or selected VGF-derived peptides dampen sympathetic outflow pathway activity to WAT to regulate fat storage and lipolysis.
It has been proposed that two major axes, dominance and trustworthiness, characterize the social dimensions of face evaluation. Whether evaluation of faces on these social dimensions is restricted to conscious appraisal or happens at a preconscious level is unknown. Here we provide behavioral evidence that such preconscious evaluations exist and that they are likely to be interpretations arising from interactions between the face stimuli and observer-specific traits. Monocularly viewed faces that varied independently along two social dimensions of trust and dominance were rendered invisible by continuous flash suppression (CFS) when a flashing pattern was presented to the other eye. Participants pressed a button as soon as they saw the face emerge from suppression to indicate whether the previously hidden face was located slightly to the left or right of central fixation. Dominant and untrustworthy faces took significantly longer time to emerge (T2E) compared with neutral faces. A control experiment showed these findings could not reflect delayed motor responses to conscious faces. Finally, we showed that participants' self-reported propensity to trust was strongly predictive of untrust avoidance (i.e., difference in T2E for untrustworthy vs neutral faces) as well as dominance avoidance (i.e., difference in T2E for dominant vs neutral faces). Dominance avoidance was also correlated with submissive behavior. We suggest that such prolongation of suppression for threatening faces may result from a passive fear response, leading to slowed visual perception.
The previously unreported presence of transferrin in Atlantic cod Gadus morhua epidermal mucus is described. A less destructive sampling method, which may result in decreased epidermal tissue damage, is discussed.


White matter hyperintensities (WMH) have been associated with mood disorders in psychiatric patients. In the present study, we aimed to assess whether WMHs are associated with depressive symptoms and different sensitivity of the behavioral inhibition (BIS), and activation (BAS) systems in patients with chronic headache. Participants were 85 adult outpatients (16 men and 69 women) with a diagnosis of chronic headache. All of the patients underwent brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and were administered the BIS/BAS scales and the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale. Above 40 % of patients had periventricular WMHs (PWMHs) and almost 98 % had deep WMHs (DWMHs). Patients with PWMHs reported fewer depressive symptoms than patients without PWMHs. Patients with more severe DWMHs (compared with patients with mild or without DWMH lesions) were older and reported lower scores on the drive dimension of the BIS/BAS scales. In multivariate analyses, patients with PWMHs were 1.06 times more likely to report fewer depressive symptoms than patients without PWMHs. WMH lesions in patients with chronic headache were associated with less depression severity.
The term &quot;ictal epileptic headache&quot; has been recently proposed to classify the clinical picture in which headache is the isolated ictal symptom of a seizure. There is emerging evidence from both basic and clinical neurosciences that cortical spreading depression and an epileptic focus may facilitate each other, although with a different degree of efficiency. This review address the long history which lead to the 'migralepsy' concept to the new emerging pathophysiological aspects, and clinical and electroencephalography evidences of ictal epileptic headache. Here, we review and discuss the common physiopathology mechanisms and the historical aspects underlying the link between headache and epilepsy. Either experimental or clinical measures are required to better understand this latter relationship: the development of animal models, molecular studies defining more precise genotype/phenotype correlations as well as multicenter clinical studies with revision of clinical criteria for headache-/epilepsy-related disorders represent the start of future research. Therefore, the definition of ictal epileptic headache should be used to classify the rare events in which headache is the only manifestation of a seizure. Finally, using our recently published criteria, we will be able to clarify if ictal epileptic headache represents an underestimated phenomenon or not.
IL-4 has been extensively studied in the context of its role in immunity. Accumulating evidence indicates, however, that it also plays a critical role in higher functions of the normal brain, such as memory and learning. In this review, we summarize current knowledge of the basic immunology of IL-4, describe how and where this cytokine appears to operate in normal brain function, and propose a hypothesis concerning its potential role in neurological pathologies.

Triatomine insects are a problem for human health in southwestern United States because of the moderate-to-severe allergic reactions their bites can cause and because they are potential vectors of Chagas Disease. Although both infected insects and wild mammalian reservoirs are plentiful in southern U.S., only seven cases of autochthonous transmission (plus 16 new presumed cases) of this disease have been reported to date. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to investigate triatomine distribution and abundance in a metropolitan area in southern Arizona. Species, life-stage, locality, and date of collection were recorded for 1,878 triatomine insects collected during 4 yr inside and around houses. For both sexes of the most abundant species, Triatoma rubida (Uhler) (&gt;95% of triatomines collected), dispersal followed a typical year-to-year pattern: dispersal started at the beginning of May and peaked during the first-second week of June. T. rubida was found widely distributed in suburban areas. Triatomines of the two less abundant species, T. recurva (Stal) and T. protracta (Uhler), were collected in all suburban areas throughout the 4-yr survey. All of these population characteristics were observed both at a large (i.e., all collection sites pooled) and a small (i.e., single collection sites) scale. In total, approximately 55-60% of the triatomines were collected inside houses, and 30-35% of those were found in or near beds; thus, it is likely that they fed on humans. To our knowledge, this study is the first comprehensive multi-year analysis of triatomine distribution and abundance in the U.S., providing data that allow inferences about risks to human health.
Chikungunya fever a re-emerging infection with expanding geographical boundaries, can mimic symptoms of other infections like dengue, malaria which makes the definitive diagnosis of the infection important. The present study compares the utility of four laboratory diagnostic methods viz. IgM capture ELISA, an in house reverse transcription PCR for the diagnosis of Chikungunya fever, TaqMan real-time PCR, and a one step reverse transcription-loop mediated isothermal amplification assay (RT-LAMP). Out of the 70 serum samples tested, 29 (41%) were positive for Chikungunya IgM antibody by ELISA and 50 (71%) samples were positive by one of the three molecular assays. CHIKV specific nucleic acid was detected in 33/70 (47%) by reverse transcription PCR, 46/70 (66%) by TaqMan real-time PCR, and 43/70 (62%) by RT-LAMP assay. A majority of the samples (62/70; 89%) were positive by at least one of the four assays used in the study. The molecular assays were more sensitive for diagnosis in the early stages of illness (2-5 days post onset) when antibodies were not detectable. In the later stages of illness, the IgM ELISA is a more sensitive diagnostic test. In conclusion we recommend that the IgM ELISA be used as an initial screening test followed one of the molecular assays in samples that are collected in the early phase of illness and negative for CHIKV IgM antibodies. Such as approach would enable rapid confirmation of the diagnosis and implementation of public health measures especially during outbreaks.
Davunetide (NAP) is a leading drug candidate being tested against tauopathy. Davunetide is an eight-amino-acid peptide fragment derived by structure-activity studies from activity-dependent neuroprotective protein, activity-dependent neuroprotective protein (ADNP). ADNP is essential for brain formation. ADNP haploinsufficiency in mice results in tauopathy and cognitive deficits ameliorated by davunetide treatment. This article summarizes in brief recent reviews about NAP protection against tauopathy including the all D-amino acid analogue-D-NAP (AL-408). D-NAP was discovered to have similar neuroprotective functions to NAP in vitro. Here, D-NAP was tested as prophylactic as well as therapeutic treatment for amytrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in the widely used TgN(SOD1-G93A)1Gur transgenic mouse model. Results showed D-NAP-associated prophylactic protection, thus daily treatment starting from day 2 of age resulted in a prolonged life course in the D-NAP-treated mice, which was coupled to a significant decrease in tau hyperphosphorylation. These studies correlate protection against tau hyperphosphorylation and longevity in a severe model of ALS-like motor impairment and early mortality. NAP is a first-in-class drug candidate/investigation compound providing neuroprotection coupled to inhibition of tau pathology. D-NAP (AL-408) is a pipeline product.
Members of the neurotrophin family, including nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3, and neurotrophin-4/5, and other neurotrophic growth factors such as ciliary neurotrophic factor and artemin, regulate peripheral and central nervous system development and function. A subset of the neurotrophin-dependent pathways in the hypothalamus, brainstem, and spinal cord, and those that project via the sympathetic nervous system to peripheral metabolic tissues including brown and white adipose tissue, muscle and liver, regulate feeding, energy storage, and energy expenditure. We briefly review the role that neurotrophic growth factors play in energy balance, as regulators of neuronal survival and differentiation, neurogenesis, and circuit formation and function, and as inducers of critical gene products that control energy homeostasis.

The position of Tardigrada in the animal tree of life is a subject that has received much attention, but still remains controversial. Whereas some think tardigrades should be categorized as cycloneuralians, most authors argue in favor of a phylogenetic position within Panarthropoda as a sister group to Arthropoda or Arthropoda + Onychophora. Thus far, neither molecular nor morphological investigations have provided conclusive results as to the tardigrade sister group relationships. In this article, we present a detailed description of the nervous system of the eutardigrade Halobiotus crispae, using immunostainings, confocal laser scanning microscopy, and computer-aided three-dimensional reconstructions supported by transmission electron microscopy. We report details regarding the structure of the brain as well as the ganglia of the ventral nerve cord. In contrast to the newest investigation, we find transverse commissures in the ventral ganglia, and our data suggest that the brain is partitioned into at least three lobes. Additionally, we can confirm the existence of a subpharyngeal ganglion previously called subesophagal ganglion. According to our results, the original suggestion of a brain comprised of at least three parts cannot be rejected, and the data presented supports a sister group relationship of Tardigrada to 1) Arthropoda or 2) Onychophora or 3) Arthropoda + Onychophora.
The course of pathological gambling (PG) in women has been described as having a later age of initiation but a shorter time to problematic gambling (&quot;telescoped&quot;). This study examined evidence for telescoping and its relationship with comorbidities. Seventy-one treatment-seeking individuals with PG underwent a diagnostic interview to examine gambling behaviors, age at initiation of gambling, and time from initiation to meeting criteria for PG. The women had a higher mean age at gambling initiation compared with that of the men (mean [SD] age, 31.3 [13.0] years, compared with 22.4 [7.9] years; p = 0.0003) and a significantly shorter time from initiation of gambling to meeting the criteria for PG (8.33 [8.7] years compared with 11.97 [9.1] years; p = 0.0476) after controlling for demographic and clinical variables. This study presents evidence for a gender-specific course of PG unrelated to psychiatric comorbidities and suggests a need for greater clinical focus on the gender differences of gambling behavior.
There are many lines of evidence supporting the idea that essential tremor is more than simply a monosymptomatic disorder and that all the clinical manifestations of this frequent disorder are sustained by a neurodegenerative process. The most important lines of evidence in favor of a neurodegenerative nature of essential tremor are: the anatomic and neuroimaging data demonstrating a pathologic process involving the cerebellum and/or brainstem; the progression of symptom severity with disease duration; and the lack of spontaneous remission of this condition. All of this evidence is supported by recent studies that are summarized in this review.
The aim of this study is to examine the role of GCH1 among Indians affected with dopa responsive dystonia (DRD) and early onset Parkinson's disease (EOPD). The patients (n=76 including 19 DRD and 36 EOPD) and controls (n=138) were screened for variants in GCH1 by PCR amplification of exons, splice junctions and 1kb upstream region followed by SSCP and DNA sequencing. Four novel variants (p.Met1Val, p.Val204_205del, IVS3+68A&gt;G, and IVS5-6T&gt;G) were identified in 10 patients but not in the controls. In addition to two nonsynonymous changes, identified in four DRD patients in heterozygous condition, one intronic variant (IVS5-6T&gt;G) could be linked to pathogenesis of the disease since it has the potential of altering the splice site as assessed by in silico analysis. Patients carrying different nonsynonymous variants had remarkable variation in clinical phenotype. Consistent with earlier reports, severity of clinical phenotype and the age of onset varied among family members harboring the same mutation. No mutation was detected in the EOPD patients. Three novel mutations in GCH1 gene have been found and are shown to be associated with variable clinical phenotypes mostly within the spectrum of DRD. The mutations identified represent 15.79% (3/19) of east Indian DRD patient cohort.
Sepsis is characterized by systemic biochemical alterations including the central nervous system in the early times and cognitive impairment at later times after sepsis induction in the animal model. Recent studies have shown that, besides its hematological activity, erythropoietin (EPO) has cytoprotective effects on various cells and tissues. In order to corroborate elucidating the effects of alternative drugs for sepsis treatment, we evaluated the effects of both acute and chronic EPO treatment on oxidative stress and energetic metabolism in the hippocampus, and cognitive impairment, respectively, after sepsis induction by cecal ligation and perforation (CLP). To this aim, male Wistar rats underwent CLP with &quot;basic support&quot; or sham operation. In the acute treatment, EPO was administered once immediately after CLP induction. The rats were then killed after 6 and 24h, and the hippocampus was removed for analysis of oxidative stress and energetic metabolism, respectively. Regarding the chronic treatment, EPO was administered once daily until the 4th day after induction. Aversive memory was tested on the 10th day after surgery. It was observed that the acute use of EPO (a single dose) alters the oxidative parameters and energetic metabolism. Chronic use (4days) reversed cognitive impairment in the sepsis animal model. Mortality rates were attenuated only during chronic treatment.
Aging increases the vulnerability of aging white matter to ischemic injury. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors preserve young adult white matter structure and function during ischemia by conserving ATP and reducing excitotoxicity. In isolated optic nerve from 12-month-old mice, deprived of oxygen and glucose, we show that pan- and Class I-specific HDAC inhibitors promote functional recovery of axons. This protection correlates with preservation of axonal mitochondria. The cellular expression of HDAC 3 in the central nervous system (CNS), and HDAC 2 in optic nerve considerably changed with age, expanding to more cytoplasmic domains from nuclear compartments, suggesting that changes in glial cell protein acetylation may confer protection to aging axons. Our results indicate that manipulation of HDAC activities in glial cells may have a universal potential for stroke therapy across age groups.
We investigated metabolite levels during the progression of pathology in McGill-R-Thy1-APP rats, a transgenic animal model of Alzheimer's disease, and in healthy age-matched controls. Rats were subjected to in vivo (1) H magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) of the dorsal hippocampus at age 3, 9 and 12 months and of frontal cortex at 9 and 12 months. At 3 months, a stage in which only A oligomers are present, lower glutamate, myo-inositol and total choline content were apparent in McGill-R-Thy1-APP rats. At age 9 months, lower levels of glutamate, GABA, N-acetylaspartate and total choline and elevated myo-inositol and taurine were found in dorsal hippocampus, whereas lower levels of glutamate, GABA, glutamine and N-acetylaspartate were found in frontal cortex. At age 12 months, only the taurine level was significantly different in dorsal hippocampus, whereas taurine, myo-inositol, N-acetylaspartate and total creatine levels were significantly higher in frontal cortex. McGill-R-Thy1-APP rats did not show the same changes in metabolite levels with age as displayed in the controls, and overall, prominent and complex metabolite differences were evident in this transgenic rat model of Alzheimer's disease. The findings also demonstrate that in vivo (1) H MRS is a powerful tool to investigate disease-related metabolite changes in the brain.
Neurones in the centrally projecting Edinger-Westphal nucleus (EWcp) are the main site of urocortin 1 (Ucn1) synthesis in the mammalian brain, and are assumed to play a role in the stress response of the animal. Because endocannabinoid signalling has also been strongly implicated in stress, we hypothesised that endocannabinoids may modulate the functioning of the urocortinergic EWcp. First, using in situ hybridisation, we demonstrated cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1R) mRNA expression in mouse EWcp-neurones that were Ucn1-negative. Dual- and triple-label immunocytochemistry revealed the presence of CB1R in several GABA-immunopositive fibres juxtaposed to EWcp-Ucn1 neurones. To test functional aspects of such an anatomical constellation, we compared acute (1 h of restraint) and chronic (14 days of chronic mild stress) stress-induced changes in wild-type (WT) and CB1R knockout (CB1R-KO) mice. Acute and especially chronic stress resulted in an increase in Ucn1 content of the EWcp, which was attenuated in CB1R-KO mice. CB1R-KO mice had higher basal and chronic stress-induced adrenocorticotrophin and corticosterone levels and were more anxious on the elevated plus-maze versus WT. Collectively, our results show for the first time EWcp-Ucn1 neurones are putatively innervated by endocannabinoid sensitive, inhibitory, GABAergic afferents. In addition, we provide novel evidence that the absence of the CB1 receptor alters the Ucn1 mRNA and peptide levels in EWcp neurones, concomitant with an augmented stress response and increased anxiety-like behaviour.
Galanin-like peptide (GALP) is a known mediator of metabolism and reproduction; however, the role that GALP plays in the onset of puberty is unknown. First, we tested the hypothesis that central GALP administration could rescue puberty in food-restricted weanling rats. GALP treatment in food-restricted rats of both sexes rescued the timing of the onset of puberty to that seen in ad lib. fed controls. Second, we tested whether GALP translation knocked-down in ad lib. fed, prepubertal rats would alter the timing of puberty. Knock-down females, but not males, showed a significant (P &lt; 0.01) delay in the onset of puberty compared to controls. Third, we sought evidence that the role of GALP in pubertal onset is mediated by the kisspeptin system. In situ hybridisation analyses showed a significant (P &lt; 0.01) reduction in Kiss1 mRNA within the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus in food-restricted rats compared to ad lib. fed controls and this reduction was prevented with i.c.v. GALP administration. Furthermore, analyses of Fos-immunoreactivity (-IR) after i.c.v. GALP treatment did not elicit Fos-IR within any kisspeptin neurones, nor are GALP and kisspeptin peptides or mRNA colocalised. These data demonstrate that hypothalamic GALP infusion maintained the onset of puberty in food-restricted weanling rats, although probably not via direct innervation of kisspeptin neurones.

Haemorrhagic presentation of intracranial meningioma is rare, and meningiomas with both intraparenchymal hemorrhage and intraventricular extension have not been reported. An unusual case of a sphenoid wing meningioma that was treated with endovascular embolization alone is presented.
We recently demonstrated that familial and sporadic blepharospasms share several phenotypic features (including age of dystonia onset, sex, and tendency to spread) believed to reflect the etiology of a blepharospasm. To investigate whether familial and sporadic forms of primary adult-onset dystonia other than the blepharospasm also share phenotypic features, we studied the families of 98 probands with primary adult-onset dystonia other than blepharospasms using a validated two-step procedure (questionnaire and clinical examination) that yields 95 % sensitivity and 100 % specificity when used to identify dystonia among relatives. The 98 probands provided a population of 402 living first-degree relatives aged 20 years or more, 336 of whom (83 %, 111 parents, 152 siblings, and 73 children) were screened for dystonia. The screening procedure identified 26 affected relatives (five parents, 16 siblings, and five children; 11 men/15 women; age at dystonia onset, 51  11.7 years) from 24/98 families (25 %). No causes of secondary dystonia were found in the relatives who suffered from various forms of dystonia. When familial and sporadic patients were compared, no significant differences emerged in age, education, family size, sex distribution, age at dystonia onset, or tendency to spread. The phenotypic overlap we observed between the study groups suggests that familial and sporadic patients with primary adult-onset dystonia other than blepharospasm probably share a common etiological background.
Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is one of the most frequent neurodegenerative disorders with a presenile onset. It presents with a spectrum of clinical manifestations, ranging from behavioral and executive impairment to language disorders and motor dysfunction. New diagnostic criteria identified two main cognitive syndromes: behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) and primary progressive aphasia. Regarding bvFTD, new criteria include the use of biomarkers. According to them, bvFTD can be classified in &quot;possible&quot; (clinical features only), &quot;probable&quot; (inclusion of imaging biomarkers) and &quot;definite&quot; (in the presence of a known causal mutation or at autopsy). Familial aggregation is frequently reported in FTLD, and about 10 % of cases have an autosomal dominant transmission. Microtubule-associated protein tau gene mutations have been the first ones identified, and are generally associated with early onset (40-50 years) and with the bvFTD phenotype. More recently, progranulin gene mutations were recognized in association with the familial form of FTLD and a hexanucleotide repetition in C9ORF72 has been shown to be responsible for familial FTLD and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In addition, other genes are linked to rare cases of familiar FTLD. Lastly, a number of genetic risk factors for sporadic forms have also been identified.
This study reviews empirical findings on two debated issues related to the phenomenon of impulse control disorders (ICD) in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) treated with dopamine agonists: the role of &quot;premorbid&quot; or &quot;baseline&quot; personality traits and the role of cognitive status. A review of both these issues may help clinicians to understand why only some PD patients, when treated with dopamine agonists, develop an ICD: besides the treatment, which other neuropsychiatric characteristics represent a risk factor to develop an ICD? A literature review was performed on studies of ICD in PD patients, in electronic databases ISI Web of Knowledge, Medline and PsychInfo, conducted in January 2011. In the general population, impulsivity, depression and difficulties with executive functions, especially of inhibitory control, are factors associated with ICD development. As regards cognitive functions, PD patients present executive difficulties, and patients with ICD present more difficulties in comparison to patients without ICD. As regards personality characteristics, PD patients present a trait of negative affect, which could predispose them to affective disorders and could represent an affective risk factor for the development of ICD; as regards impulsivity, preliminary findings support the hypothesis that premorbid &quot;baseline&quot; levels may moderate the decrease of impulsivity because of the progressive dopaminergic deficit in PD patients and therefore also moderate the development of ICD. Longitudinal psychometric and cognitive studies, following PD patients since the clinical diagnosis and during dopaminergic treatment, are needed to confirm the role of personality traits and cognitive status on ICD development in this clinical population.
Patients with an acute basilar artery occlusion (BAO) have a high risk of long-lasting disability and death. Only limited data are available on functional outcome in elderly patients with BAO. Using data from the Basilar Artery International Cooperation Study, we aimed to determine outcomes in patients 75 years. Primary outcome measure was poor functional outcome (modified Rankin scale score 4-6). Secondary outcomes were death, insufficient vessel recanalization (defined as thrombolysis in myocardial infarction score 0-1) and symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (SICH). Patients were divided into four age-groups, based on quartiles: 18-54, 55-64, 65-74, and 75 years. Outcomes were compared between patients 75 years and patients aged 18-54 years. Risk ratios with corresponding 95 % confidence intervals (CI) were calculated and Poisson regression analyses were performed to calculate adjusted risk ratios (aRR). We included 619 patients [18-54 years n = 153 (25 %), 55-64 years n = 133 (21 %), 65-74 years n = 171 (28 %), and 75 years n = 162 (26 %)]. Compared with patients aged 18-54 years, patients 75 years were at increased risk of poor functional outcome [aRR 1.33 (1.14-1.55)] and death [aRR 2.47 (1.75-3.51)]. Nevertheless, 35/162 (22 %, 95 % CI 15-28 %) of patients 75 years had good functional outcome. No significant differences between age groups were observed for recanalization rate and incidence of SICH. Although patients 75 years with BAO have an increased risk of poor outcome compared with younger patients, a substantial group of patients 75 years survives with a good functional outcome.
Social cognitive neuroscience is the study of the neurobiological systems underlying effective social behaviour. The neural processes supporting effective social interactions in everyday life and the consequences of dysfunction in these processes have been the focus of intense research over the last two decades. It is becoming increasingly apparent that the identification of social cognitive deficits in neurodegenerative conditions and their neural basis may provide a better understanding of the behavioural changes observed in these disorders. In addition, accumulating data suggest that detection of early impairment in social cognitive skills may aid in the early diagnosis of cognitive or behavioural impairment in some of these disorders, and may even play a role in the investigation of new therapeutic options. In this review, we outline the basic components of social cognitive processing, provide a systematic review of the literature pertaining to common neurodegenerative conditions, discuss current controversies and make recommendations for future research.
Diffuse axonal injury is a major component of traumatic brain injury in children and correlates with long-term cognitive impairment. Traumatic brain injury in adult rodents has been linked to a decrease in compound action potential (CAP) in the corpus callosum, but information on trauma-associated diffuse axonal injury in immature rodents is limited. We investigated the effects of closed head injury on CAP in the corpus callosum of 17-day-old rats. The injury resulted in CAP deficits of both myelinated and unmyelinated fibers in the corpus callosum between 1 and 14 days postinjury (dpi). These deficits were accompanied by intra-axonal dephosphorylation of the 200-kDa neurofilament subunit (NF200) at 1 and 3 dpi, a decrease in total NF200 at 3 dpi and axonal degeneration at 3 and 7 dpi. Although total phosphatase activity decreased at 1 dpi, calcineurin activity was unchanged. The calcineurin inhibitor, FK506, significantly attenuated the injury-induced NF200 dephosphorylation of NF200 at 3 dpi and axonal degeneration at 3 and 7 dpi but did not affect the decrease in NF200 protein levels or impaired axonal transport. FK506 had no effect on CAP deficits at 3 dpi but exacerbated the deficit in only the myelinated fibers at 7 dpi. Thus, in contrast to adult animals, FK506 treatment did not improve axonal function in brain-injured immature animals, suggesting that calcineurin may not contribute to impaired axonal function.
The external segment of the globus pallidus (GPe) in humans and the equivalent structure in rodents, the globus pallidus (GP), influence signal processing in the basal ganglia under normal and pathological conditions. Parvalbumin (PV) immunoreactivity defines 2 main neuronal subpopulations in the GP/GPe: PV-immunopositive cells that project mainly to the subthalamic nucleus and the internal segment of the GP and PV-negative cells that mainly project to the striatum. We evaluated the number of neurons in the GP/GPe in animal models of Parkinson disease. In rats, dopaminergic denervation with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) provoked a significant decrease in the number of GP neurons (12%  4%, p &lt; 0.05), which specifically affected the PV subpopulation. A similar trend was observed in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated monkeys. Markers of GABAergic activity (GAD65 and GAD67 mRNA) were not different from those of controls in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. Taken together, these findings provide evidence for nondopaminergic neuronal cell loss in the basal ganglia of 6-OHDA-lesioned rats and suggest that a similar loss may occur in the MPTP monkey. These data suggest that in patients with Parkinson disease, the loss of GABAergic neurons projecting to the subthalamic nucleus may contribute to the hyperactivity of this nucleus despite the absence of gross alterations in GAD mRNA expression.
Excessive synchronous neuronal activity is a defining feature of epileptic activity. We previously characterized the properties of distinct glutamatergic and GABAergic transmission-dependent synchronous epileptiform discharges in mouse hippocampal slices using the 4-aminopyridine model of epilepsy. In the present study, we sought to identify the specific hippocampal neuronal populations that initiate and underlie these local field potentials (LFPs). A perforated multielectrode array was used to simultaneously record multiunit action potential firing and LFPs during spontaneous epileptiform activity. LFPs had distinct components based on the initiation site, extent of propagation, and pharmacological sensitivity. Individual units, located in different hippocampal subregions, fired action potentials during these LFPs. A specific neuron subgroup generated sustained action potential firing throughout the various components of the LFPs. The activity of this subgroup preceded the LFPs observed in the presence of antagonists of ionotropic glutamatergic synaptic transmission. In the absence of ionotropic glutamatergic and GABAergic transmission, LFPs disappeared, but units with shorter spike duration and high basal firing rates were still active. These spontaneously active units had an increased level of activity during LFPs and consistently preceded all LFPs recorded before blockade of synaptic transmission. Our findings reveal that neuronal subpopulations with interneuron properties are likely responsible for initiating synchronous activity in an in vitro model of epileptiform discharges.
GABA(B) receptors play a key role in regulating neuronal excitability in the brain. Whereas the impact of somatic GABA(B) receptors on neuronal excitability has been studied in some detail, much less is known about the role of dendritic GABA(B) receptors. Here, we investigate the impact of GABA(B) receptor activation on the somato-dendritic excitability of layer 5 pyramidal neurons in the rat barrel cortex. Activation of GABA(B) receptors led to hyperpolarization and a decrease in membrane resistance that was greatest at somatic and proximal dendritic locations. These effects were occluded by low concentrations of barium (100 M), suggesting that they are mediated by potassium channels. In contrast, activation of dendritic GABA(B) receptors decreased the width of backpropagating action potential (APs) and abolished dendritic calcium electrogenesis, indicating that dendritic GABA(B) receptors regulate excitability, primarily via inhibition of voltage-dependent calcium channels. These distinct actions of somatic and dendritic GABA(B) receptors regulated neuronal output in different ways. Activation of somatic GABA(B) receptors led to a reduction in neuronal output, primarily by increasing the AP rheobase, whereas activation of dendritic GABA(B) receptors blocked burst firing, decreasing AP output in the absence of a significant change in somatic membrane properties. Taken together, our results show that GABA(B) receptors regulate somatic and dendritic excitability of cortical pyramidal neurons via different cellular mechanisms. Somatic GABA(B) receptors activate potassium channels, leading primarily to a subtractive or shunting form of inhibition, whereas dendritic GABA(B) receptors inhibit dendritic calcium electrogenesis, leading to a reduction in bursting firing.
Discharge rate modulation of frontal eye field (FEF) neurons has been identified with a representation of visual search salience (physical conspicuity and behavioral relevance) and saccade preparation. We tested whether salience or saccade preparation are evident in the trial-to-trial variability of discharge rate. We quantified response variability via the Fano factor in FEF neurons recorded in monkeys performing efficient and inefficient visual search tasks. Response variability declined following stimulus presentation in most neurons, but despite clear discharge rate modulation, variability did not change with target salience. Instead, we found that response variability was modulated by stimulus luminance and the number of items in the visual field independently of attentional demands. Response variability declined to a minimum before saccade initiation, and presaccadic response variability was directionally tuned. In addition, response variability was correlated with the response time of memory-guided saccades. These results indicate that the trial-by-trial response variability of FEF neurons reflects saccade preparation and the strength of sensory input, but not visual search salience or attentional allocation.
The retina is divided into parallel and mostly independent ON and OFF pathways, but the ON pathway &quot;cross&quot; inhibits the OFF pathway. Cross inhibition was thought to improve signal processing by the OFF pathway, but its effect on contrast encoding had not been tested experimentally. To quantify the effect of cross inhibition on the encoding of contrast, we presented a dark flash to an in vitro preparation of the mammalian retina. We then recorded excitatory currents, inhibitory currents, membrane voltages, and spikes from OFF -ganglion cells. The recordings were subjected to an ideal observer analysis that used Bayesian methods to determine how accurately the recordings detected the dark flash. We found that cross inhibition increases the detection accuracy of currents and membrane voltages. Yet these improvements in encoding do not fully reach the spike train, because cross inhibition also hyperpolarizes the OFF -cell below spike threshold, preventing small signals in the membrane voltages at low contrast from reaching the spike train. The ultimate effect of cross inhibition is to increase the accuracy with which the spike train detects moderate contrast, but reduce the accuracy with which it detects low contrast. In apparent compensation for the loss of accuracy at low contrast, cross inhibition, by hyperpolarizing the OFF -cell, reduces the number of spikes required to detect the dark flash and thereby increases encoding efficiency.
The cerebral cortex is composed of many distinct classes of neurons. Numerous studies have demonstrated corresponding differences in neuronal properties across cell types, but these comparisons have largely been limited to conditions outside of awake, behaving animals. Thus the functional role of the various cell types is not well understood. Here, we investigate differences in the functional properties of two widespread and broad classes of cells in inferior temporal cortex of macaque monkeys: inhibitory interneurons and excitatory projection cells. Cells were classified as putative inhibitory or putative excitatory neurons on the basis of their extracellular waveform characteristics (e.g., spike duration). Consistent with previous intracellular recordings in cortical slices, putative inhibitory neurons had higher spontaneous firing rates and higher stimulus-evoked firing rates than putative excitatory neurons. Additionally, putative excitatory neurons were more susceptible to spike waveform adaptation following very short interspike intervals. Finally, we compared two functional properties of each neuron's stimulus-evoked response: stimulus selectivity and response latency. First, putative excitatory neurons showed stronger stimulus selectivity compared with putative inhibitory neurons. Second, putative inhibitory neurons had shorter response latencies compared with putative excitatory neurons. Selectivity differences were maintained and latency differences were enhanced during a visual search task emulating more natural viewing conditions. Our results suggest that short-latency inhibitory responses are likely to sculpt visual processing in excitatory neurons, yielding a sparser visual representation.
Spindle Ia afferents may be differentially involved in voluntary isometric contraction, depending on the pattern of synaptic connections in spindle reflex pathways. We investigated how isometric contraction of masseter muscles is regulated through the activity of their muscle spindles that contain the largest number of intrafusal fibers among skeletal muscle spindles by examining the effects of vibration of muscle spindles on the voluntary isometric contraction. Subjects were instructed to hold the jaw at resting position by counteracting ramp loads applied on lower molar teeth. In response to the increasing-ramp load, the root mean square (RMS) of masseter EMG activity almost linearly increased under no vibration, while displaying a steep linear increase followed by a slower increase under vibration. The regression line of the relationship between the load and RMS was significantly steeper under vibration than under no vibration, suggesting that the subjects overestimated the ramp load and excessively counteracted it as reflected in the emergence of bite pressure. In response to the decreasing-ramp load applied following the increasing one, the RMS hardly decreased under vibration unlike under no vibration, leading to a generation of bite pressure even after the offset of the negative-ramp load until the vibration was ceased. Thus the subjects overestimated the increasing rate of the load while underestimating the decreasing rate of the load, due to the vibration-induced illusion of jaw opening. These observations suggest that spindle Ia/II inputs play crucial roles both in estimating the load and in controlling the isometric contraction of masseter muscles in the jaw-closed position.
Item-specific spatial information is essential for interacting with objects and for binding multiple features of an object together. Spatial relational information is necessary for implicit tasks such as recognizing objects or scenes from different views but also for explicit reasoning about space such as planning a route with a map and for other distinctively human traits such as tool construction. To better understand how the brain supports these two different kinds of information, we used functional MRI to directly contrast the neural encoding and maintenance of spatial relations with that for item locations in equivalent visual scenes. We found a double dissociation between the two: whereas item-specific processing implicates a frontoparietal attention network, including the superior frontal sulcus and intraparietal sulcus, relational processing preferentially recruits a cognitive control network, particularly lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) and inferior parietal lobule. Moreover, pattern classification revealed that the actual meaning of the relation can be decoded within these same regions, most clearly in rostrolateral PFC, supporting a hierarchical, representational account of prefrontal organization.
Systems and cognitive neuroscience aim at understanding the neurophysiological mechanisms that underlie cognition and behavior. Many studies have revealed the involvement of many types of neural signals in diverse cognitive and behavioral phenomena. Here, we go beyond establishing such involvement and address two fundamental, yet largely unaddressed, questions: 1) exactly how much does a given neural signal contribute to a cognitive or behavioral phenomenon of interest; and 2) to what extent are distinct neural signals independently related to this phenomenon? We recorded brain activity using magnetoencephalography while human participants performed a cued somatosensory detection task. Using a novel method, we then quantified the contribution (in a predictive but not causal sense) of two well-established neural phenomena to the improvement in perception with attentional orienting. In our sample, the anticipatory suppression of extracranially recorded oscillatory - and -band amplitudes from contralateral primary somatosensory cortex could account for maximally 29% of the attention-induced improvement in tactile perception. In addition, although amplitude suppressions in the - and -frequency bands both contributed to this improvement, their contribution was largely shared. These data reveal the upper limit of the cognitive/behavioral relevance of this type of signal and show that at least 71% of the perceptual improvement with attention must be accounted for by other signals.
Internally generated, spontaneous activity is ubiquitous in the cortex, yet it does not appear to have a significant negative impact on sensory processing. Various studies have found that stimulus onset reduces the variability of cortical responses, but the characteristics of this suppression remained unexplored. By recording multiunit activity from awake and anesthetized rats, we investigated whether and how this noise suppression depends on properties of the stimulus and on the state of the cortex. In agreement with theoretical predictions, we found that the degree of noise suppression in awake rats has a nonmonotonic dependence on the temporal frequency of a flickering visual stimulus with an optimal frequency for noise suppression ~2 Hz. This effect cannot be explained by features of the power spectrum of the spontaneous neural activity. The nonmonotonic frequency dependence of the suppression of variability gradually disappears under increasing levels of anesthesia and shifts to a monotonic pattern of increasing suppression with decreasing frequency. Signal-to-noise ratios show a similar, although inverted, dependence on cortical state and frequency. These results suggest the existence of an active noise suppression mechanism in the awake cortical system that is tuned to support signal propagation and coding.
Sour and salt taste interactions are not well understood in the peripheral gustatory system. Therefore, we investigated the interaction of acetic acid and NaCl on taste processing by rat chorda tympani neurons. We recorded multi-unit responses from the severed chorda tympani nerve (CT) and single-cell responses from intact narrowly tuned and broadly tuned salt-sensitive neurons in the geniculate ganglion simultaneously with stimulus-evoked summated potentials to signal when the stimulus contacted the lingual epithelium. Artificial saliva served as the rinse and solvent for all stimuli [0.3 M NH(4)Cl, 0.5 M sucrose, 0.1 M NaCl, 0.01 M citric acid, 0.02 M quinine hydrochloride (QHCl), 0.1 M KCl, 0.003-0.1 M acetic acid, and 0.003-0.1 M acetic acid mixed with 0.1 M NaCl]. We used benzamil to assess NaCl responses mediated by the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC). The CT nerve responses to acetic acid/NaCl mixtures were less than those predicted by summing the component responses. Single-unit analyses revealed that acetic acid activated acid-generalist neurons exclusively in a concentration-dependent manner: increasing acid concentration increased response frequency and decreased response latency in a parallel fashion. Acetic acid suppressed NaCl responses in ENaC-dependent NaCl-specialist neurons, whereas acetic acid-NaCl mixtures were additive in acid-generalist neurons. These data suggest that acetic acid attenuates sodium responses in ENaC-expressing-taste cells in contact with NaCl-specialist neurons, whereas acetic acid-NaCl mixtures activate distinct receptor/cellular mechanisms on taste cells in contact with acid-generalist neurons. We speculate that NaCl-specialist neurons are in contact with type I cells, whereas acid-generalist neurons are in contact with type III cells in fungiform taste buds.
Because acoustic landscapes are complex and rapidly changing, auditory systems have evolved mechanisms that permit rapid detection of novel sounds, sound source segregation, and perceptual restoration of sounds obscured by noise. Perceptual restoration is particularly important in noisy environments because it allows organisms to track sounds over time even when they are masked. The continuity illusion is a striking example of perceptual restoration with sounds perceived as intact even when parts of them have been replaced by gaps and rendered inaudible by being masked by an extraneous sound. The mechanisms of auditory filling-in are complex and are currently not well-understood. The present study used the high temporal resolution of EEG to examine brain activity related to continuity illusion perception. Masking noise loudness was adjusted individually for each subject so that physically identical sounds on some trials elicited a continuity illusion (failure to detect a gap in a sound) and on other trials resulted in correct gap detection. This design ensured that any measurable differences in brain activity would be due to perceptual differences rather than physical differences among stimuli. We found that baseline activity recorded immediately before presentation of the stimulus significantly predicted the occurrence of the continuity illusion in 10 out of 14 participants based on power differences in -band EEG (34-80 Hz). Across all participants, power in the  and  (12- to 80-Hz range) was informative about the subsequent perceptual decision. These data suggest that a subject's baseline brain state influences the strength of continuity illusions.
Muscle weakness and atrophy are important manifestations of multiple sclerosis (MS). To investigate the pathophysiological mechanisms of skeletal muscle change in MS, we induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in Lewis male rats and examined morphological and molecular changes in skeletal muscle. We also treated EAE rats with calpepetin, a calpain inhibitor, to examine its beneficial effects on skeletal muscle damage. Morphological changes in muscle tissue of EAE rats included smaller and irregularly shaped muscle fibers and fibrosis. Western blot analysis demonstrated increased calpain:calpastatin ratio, inflammation-related transcription factors (nuclear factor-B:inhibitor of B  ratio), and proinflammatory enzymes (cyclooxygenase-2). TUNEL-positive myonuclei in skeletal muscle cells of EAE rats indicated cell death. In addition, markers of apoptotic cell death (Bax:Bcl-2 ratio and caspase-12 protein levels) were elevated. Expression of muscle-specific ubiquitin ligases (muscle atrophy F-box and muscle ring finger protein 1), was upregulated in muscle tissue of EAE-vehicle animals. Both prophylactic and therapeutic treatment with calpeptin partially attenuated muscle changes noted in EAE animals. These results indicate that morphological and molecular changes including apoptotic cell death and protein breakdown develop in skeletal muscle of EAE animals and that these changes can be reversed by calpain inhibition.

Injury to the lymphatic channels is a rare and relatively unknown complication of anterior approaches to the lumbar spine and can cause fluid to build up in the retroperitoneal space, resulting in a lymphocele. If they enlarge sufficiently, these collections of chyle in the abdomen can cause pain and bowel ischemia, and can compress nearby organs. The authors report 4 cases in which anterior approaches to the lumbar spine were complicated by a postoperative retroperitoneal chylous fluid collection. They describe the anatomy of the lymphatic system and pathophysiology of this disease entity, review the sparse literature on this subject, and recommend a treatment algorithm. Maintaining a high index of suspicion for this clinical entity in patients who have recently undergone an anterior approach to the thoracic or lumbar spine is vital to avoid delays in diagnosis and treatment.

Functional impairments (adaptive, behavioral, educational) are common after preschool traumatic brain injury (TBI). In comparison with cognitive outcome, functional outcomes have received limited attention, with little evidence to determine whether these difficulties persist in the long term. The aim of this study was to examine functional outcomes at 10 years post-injury and identify predictors of outcome. The study compared children with a diagnosis of TBI (n=40) to a healthy age-, gender-, and socioeconomic status (SES)-matched control group (n=19) at 10 years post-injury. Outcomes and predictors of functional skills were investigated. Poorer adaptive skills were evident for those with more severe injury. Behavioral difficulties were present regardless of injury severity. Post-injury, arithmetic skills were the most compromised in the longer term. Pre-injury status, interventions accessed, and acute intellectual function were significant predictors of outcome. These results highlight the importance of monitoring functional skills in the long term, especially for those children presenting with risk factors.
The gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) type A receptor (GABA(A)R) is responsible for most fast synaptic inhibition in the adult brain. The GABA(A)R protein is composed of multiple subunits that determine the distribution, properties, and dynamics of the receptor. Several studies have shown that the Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JaK/STAT) and early growth response 3 (Egr3) signaling pathways can alter GABA(A)R subunit expression after status epilepticus (SE). In this study we investigated changes in these pathways after experimental TBI in the rat using a lateral fluid percussion injury (FPI) model. Our results demonstrated changes in the expression of several GABA(A)R subunit levels after injury, including GABA(A)R 1 and 4 subunits. This change appears to be transcriptional, and there is an associated increase in the phosphorylation of STAT3, and an increase in the expression of Egr3 and inducible cAMP element repressor (ICER) after FPI. These findings suggest that the activation of the JaK/STAT and Egr3 pathways after TBI may regulate injury-related changes in GABA(A)R subunit expression.

Nutraceuticals and phytochemicals are important regulators of human health and diseases. Curcumin is a polyphenolic phytochemical isolated from the rhizome of the plant Curcuma longa (turmeric) that has been traditionally used for the treatment of inflammation and wound healing for centuries. Systematic analyses have shown that curcumin exerts its beneficial effects through antioxidant, antiproliferative and anti-inflammatory properties. We and others have shown earlier that curcumin ameliorates experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model for multiple sclerosis. In this study, we show that C57BL/6 mice induced to develop EAE express elevated levels of interferon (IFN)  and interleukin (IL)-17 in the central nervous system (CNS) and lymphoid organs that decreased significantly following in vivo treatment with curcumin. The EAE mice also showed elevated expression of IL-12 and IL-23 that decreased after treatment with curcumin. Ex vivo and in vitro treatment with curcumin resulted in a dose-dependent decrease in the secretion of IFN, IL-17, IL-12 and IL-23 in culture. The inhibition of EAE by curcumin was also associated with an up-regulation of IL-10, peroxisome proliferator activated receptor  and CD4(+)CD25(+-)Foxp3(+) Treg cells in the CNS and lymphoid organs. These findings highlight that curcumin differentially regulates CD4(+) T helper cell responses in EAE.
Masticatory function is an important aspect of oral health, and oral rehabilitation should aim to maintain or restore adequate function. The present qualitative review is the joint effort of a group of clinicians and researchers with experiences ranging from basic and clinical oral neuroscience to management of patients with dental implants. The aim is to provide a short summary for the clinician of the many aspects related to masticatory function (including quality of life) and rehabilitation with dental implants. While there are many reviews on the tissue responses to dental implants and technical aspects, the functional aspects have received relatively little focus.

Sequential proteolytic cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) by -site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) and the -secretase complex produces the amyloid- peptide (A), which is believed to play a critical role in the pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The aspartyl protease BACE1 catalyzes the rate-limiting step in the production of A, and as such it is considered to be an important target for drug development in AD. The development of a BACE1 inhibitor therapeutic has proven to be difficult. The active site of BACE1 is relatively large. Consequently, to achieve sufficient potency, many BACE1 inhibitors have required unfavorable physicochemical properties such as high molecular weight and polar surface area that are detrimental to efficient passage across the blood-brain barrier. Using a rational drug design approach we have designed and developed a new series of hydroxyethylamine-based inhibitors of BACE1 capable of lowering A levels in the brains of rats after oral administration. Herein we describe the in vitro and in vivo characterization of two of these molecules and the overall relationship of compound properties [e.g., in vitro permeability, P-glycoprotein (P-gp) efflux, metabolic stability, and pharmacological potency] to the in vivo pharmacodynamic effect with more than 100 compounds across the chemical series. We demonstrate that high in vitro potency for BACE1 was not sufficient to provide central efficacy. A combination of potency, high permeability, low P-gp-mediated efflux, and low clearance was required for compounds to produce robust central A reduction after oral dosing.
Based on the observation that antipsychotic medications display antagonist properties at dopamine D2-like receptors, aberrant dopamine signaling has been proposed to underlie psychosis in patients with schizophrenia. Thus, it is not surprising that considerable research has been devoted to understanding the mechanisms involved in the antipsychotic action of these compounds. It is important to note that the majority of these studies have been performed in &quot;normal&quot; experimental animals. Given that these animals do not possess the aberrant neuronal information processing typically associated with schizophrenia, the aim of the current study was to examine the dopamine D2 receptor system in a rodent model of schizophrenia. Here, we demonstrate that methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM)-treated rats display an enhanced effect of quinpirole on dopamine neuron activity and an aberrant locomotor response to D2-like receptor activation, suggesting changes in postsynaptic D2-like receptor function. To better understand the mechanisms underlying the enhanced response to D2-like ligands in MAM-treated rats, we examined the expression of D2, D3, and dopamine transporter mRNA in the nucleus accumbens and ventral tegmental area by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. MAM-treated rats displayed a significant increase in dopamine D3 receptor mRNA expression in the nucleus accumbens with no significant changes in the expression of the D2 receptor. Taken together, these data demonstrate robust alterations in dopamine D2-like receptor function in a rodent model of schizophrenia and provide evidence that preclinical studies examining the mechanisms of antipsychotic drug action should be performed in animal models that mirror aspects of the abnormal neuronal transmission thought to underlie symptoms of schizophrenia.

Stresses during pregnancy that increase maternal glucocorticoids reduce birth weight in several species. However, the role of natural glucocorticoids in the mother in fetal acquisition of nutrients for growth remains unknown. This study aimed to determine whether fetal growth was reduced as a consequence of altered amino acid supply when mice were given corticosterone in their drinking water for 5 day periods in mid to late pregnancy (day, D, 11-16 or D14-19). Compared to controls drinking tap water, fetal weight was always reduced by corticosterone. At D16, corticosterone had no effect on materno-fetal transfer of [(14)C]methylaminoisobutyric acid (MeAIB), although placental MeAIB accumulation and expression of the Slc38a1 and Slc38a2 transporters were increased. However, at D19, 3 days after treatment ended, materno-fetal transfer of MeAIB was increased by 37% (P &lt; 0.04). During treatment at D19, placental accumulation and materno-fetal transfer of MeAIB were reduced by 40% (P &lt; 0.01), although expression of Slc38a1 was again elevated. Permanent reductions in placental vascularity occurred during the earlier but not the later period of treatment. Placental Hsd11b2 expression, which regulates feto-placental glucocorticoid bioavailability, was also affected by treatment at D19 only. Maternal corticosterone concentrations inversely correlated with materno-fetal MeAIB clearance and fetal weight at D19 but not D16. On D19, weight gain of the maternal carcass was normal during corticosterone treatment but reduced in those mice treated from D11 to D16, in which corticosterone levels were lowest. Maternal corticosterone is, therefore, a physiological regulator of the amino acid supply for fetal growth via actions on placental phenotype.
In his first Advocacy column for the Journal of Psychiatric Practice, the author discusses the importance and relevance of advocacy for all mental health professionals and researchers in whatever setting they work. Advocacy efforts can and have influenced a range of issues that are important to hospital-based and community psychiatrists, private practitioners, and researchers. The author then discusses the importance of personal self-narrative as a tool for decreasing stigma and increasing understanding of serious mental illness, with a focus on two programs developed by the National Alliance on Mental Illness: NAMI In Our Own Voice and NAMI Smarts for Advocacy.
Regulation of the Hypothalamus-Pituitary-Adrenal axis (HPA-axis) and its end product cortisol differs among persons with certain psychiatric disorders when compared with controls. Some reports concern Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) but findings are inconclusive. In this study we collected four saliva samples during a regular weekday in children, 6-17 years old, with ADHD (n = 201) and non-affected comparisons (n = 221). Saliva cortisol was measured with radioimmunoassay technique. Clinical data were collected for diagnostic information. Subtypes and severity of symptoms were determined using parental rating scales. Children with ADHD had lower saliva cortisol levels than comparisons at waking up Median = 9.1 versus 12.7 nmol/L (p &lt; .001), 30 min later Median = 15.8 versus 20.1 nmol/L (p &lt; .001) and before going to bed Median = 0.8 versus 1.0 nmol/L (p = .015). No difference was found for the afternoon sample. When the study group was split into three different age groups similar results were found only for children above 10 years of age. Subtype of ADHD or co-occurring symptoms did not affect the cortisol levels. Degree of severity of ADHD symptoms was not associated with cortisol levels in the study group, other than a weak negative correlation between the afternoon sample and hyperactivity symptoms. The low cortisol levels in children with ADHD may indicate a dysregulation of the HPA-axis, for instance a down-regulation or a phase delay of the diurnal curve. The low levels may be related to the under-arousal possibly underlying several of the core symptoms of ADHD.

Molecules that are involved in neuronal intercommunication and adaptability of neural networks, such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), are targets of pathophysiological investigation in bipolar disorder (BD). Quetiapine is an attested treatment in this disorder, used in acute mood episodes. The aim of this study was to report prospective changes in serum BDNF levels in drug-free patients in acute mood episodes of BD who received treatment with extended-release quetiapine along a 16 week follow-up. Assessments were performed at baseline and weeks 2, 4, 8 and 16 with the Young Mania Rating Scale, the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale and the Clinical Global Impression severity scale. In these visits, serum BDNF levels were measured. Mixed effect models were used to investigate longitudinal changes. Twenty-five patients were included for this analysis, seventeen in a current depressive episode and eight in a manic/mixed episode. A significant improvement from baseline to endpoint was displayed. In the mixed model, significant main effects for episode and time appeared, and a time versus episode interaction showing increasing BDNF levels with time in those with a depressive episode, but a decrease in BDNF levels with time in those with a manic/mixed episode. BDNF may be a biomarker with differential response according to the polarity of mood episodes.
This study aimed to identify coping styles used by patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) in comparison with those used by healthy controls, and to explore their association with prefrontal hemodynamic response related to a cognitive task. Regional hemodynamic changes were monitored during a verbal fluency task (VFT) using a 52-channel near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) apparatus in 26 MDD patients in depressive state and 30 matched healthy controls, and their correlation with coping styles assessed by Coping Inventory for Stressful Situations (CISS) were examined. We found the Emotion-oriented coping style was significantly higher, whereas the Task-oriented coping and Avoidance-oriented coping style were lower in the MDD group compared with controls. Emotion-oriented coping style positively correlated with subjective assessment of depression severity. Regional hemodynamic changes were significantly smaller in the MDD group than in the control group in prefrontal and temporal regions, and positively correlated with Task-oriented coping (adaptive coping) in the bilateral ventrolateral and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and the midline fronto-polar and bilateral orbitofrontal cortex regions. These findings suggest coping styles may be considered an important source of knowledge for patients who struggle with the illness and for mental health professionals who work with MDD patients, and that hemodynamic response in the ventrolateral and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, midline fronto-polar, and orbitofrontal cortex regions during a VFT may reflect the adaptive coping (Task-oriented coping) style in MDD patients in depressive state.


In the U.S. and elsewhere, the criminal justice system is a frequent referral source for substance abuse treatment admission. To expand and improve pathways to treatment, outreach efforts need additional information about different demographic groups. Locally, clinicians observed racial and ethnic differences between minority groups in self-identifying criminal justice as the referral sources for admission. To test this clinical observation, reported criminal justice referral was examined by race/ethnicity and gender in multiple years of both national and local treatment admissions. Confirming the clinical observations, racial/ethnic referral source by gender systematically differed across years nationally (p &lt; .001) and in an examination of verbatim recorded presenting problems locally (p &lt; .001). African Americans and Puerto Ricans were less likely to have criminal justice referral sources than the White reference group, whereas American Indians, Arab Americans, Asian Americans, and other Hispanic ethnicities were more likely to have criminal justice referral sources. Racial/ethnic groups systematically differed in reported criminal justice involvement, suggesting hypotheses potentially impacting clinical treatment and outreach. Published primary referral sources may underestimate criminal justice involvement in treatment admissions.
This study investigated the association between drugs and sexual behavior in a sample of polydrug substance abusers recruited from several Italian therapeutic communities; participants were 90 polydrug substance abusers (opiates, cocaine, amphetamine, inhalants, marijuana/sedatives or hallucinogens abusers) who were compared with 90 nonsubstance-abusing individuals. Sexual behavior was measured by the Italian version of the Sex and the Average Woman (or Man; SAWM), a questionnaire that assesses different kind of sexual attitudes. Results showed that drug-abusing individuals are particularly inclined to search for sexual intercourse and are open to different kinds of sexual experiences; however, they have difficulties in establishing committed and deep relationships with their partners, showing signs of inhibition, affective detachment or anger. Their sexual lives are also surrounded by negative emotions, disturbing thoughts and maladjusted behaviors. The importance of integrating sexual problems into therapeutic strategies is discussed.
Previous studies have suggested that polymorphism in the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR) influences responses to serotonergic manipulation, with opposite effects in patients recovered from depression (rMDD) and controls. Here we sought to clarify the neurocognitive mechanisms underpinning these surprising results. Twenty controls and 23 rMDD subjects completed the study; functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and genotype data were available for 17 rMDD subjects and 16 controls. Following tryptophan or sham depletion, subjects performed an emotional-processing task during fMRI. Although no genotype effects on mood were identified, significant genotype*diagnosis*depletion interactions were observed in the hippocampus and subgenual cingulate in response to emotionally valenced words. In both regions, tryptophan depletion increased responses to negative words, relative to positive words, in high-expression controls, previously identified as being at low-risk for mood change following this procedure. By contrast, in higher-risk low-expression controls and high-expression rMDD subjects, tryptophan depletion had the opposite effect. Increased neural responses to negative words following tryptophan depletion may reflect an adaptive mechanism promoting resilience to mood change following perturbation of the serotonin system, which is reversed in sub-groups vulnerable to developing depressive symptoms. However, this interpretation is complicated by our failure to replicate previous findings of increased negative mood following tryptophan depletion.
The present 16-week double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial had the aim to explore the efficacy of lamotrigine add-on pharmacotherapy on clinical symptomatology and cognitive functioning in a sample of patients with treatment-resistant obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) receiving serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs). After clinical and neurocognitive assessments, patients were randomly allocated to receive, in a double-blind design, 100 mg/day of lamotrigine or a placebo. A final sample of 33 patients completed the study. The results obtained indicate that lamotrigine added to stable SRI treatment substantially improved obsessive-compulsive (Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale: obsessions, p &lt; 0.0001; compulsions, p &lt; 0.0001; total score, p &lt; 0.0001), and affective symptoms (Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression p &lt; 0.0001). Regarding cognitive functions, improvement was observed only in Semantic Fluency (p = 0.004). The findings provide evidence that lamotrigine augmentation of SRI treatment is well tolerated and may be proposed as an effective therapeutic strategy to improve outcome in treatment-resistant OCD.
Boldenone is one of the most frequently detected anabolic androgenic steroids in doping control analysis. Boldenone misuse is commonly detected by the identification of the active drug and its main metabolite, 5-androst-1-en-17-ol-3-one (BM1), by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS), after previous hydrolysis with -glucuronidase enzymes, extraction and derivatization steps. However, some cases of endogenous boldenone and BM1 have been reported. Nowadays, when these compounds are detected in urine at low concentrations, isotope ratio mass spectrometry (IRMS) analysis is needed to confirm their exogenous origin. The aim of the present study was to identify boldenone metabolites conjugated with sulphate and to evaluate their potential to improve the detection of boldenone misuse in sports. Boldenone was administered to a healthy volunteer and urine samples were collected up to 56h after administration. After a liquid-liquid extraction with ethyl acetate, urine extracts were analysed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) using electrospray ionisation in negative mode by monitoring the transition of m/z 365-350, specific for boldenone sulphate. Boldenone sulphate was identified in the excretion study urine samples and, moreover, another peak with the same transition was observed. Based on the MS/MS behaviour the metabolite was identified as epiboldenone sulphate. The identity was confirmed by isolation of the LC peak, solvolysis and comparison of the retention time and MS/MS spectra with an epiboldenone standard. These sulphated metabolites have not been previously reported in humans and although they account for less than 1% of the administered dose, they were still present in urine when the concentrations of the major metabolites, boldenone and BM1, were at the level of endogenous origin. The sulphated metabolites were also detected in 10 urine samples tested positive to boldenone and BM1 by GC-MS. In order to verify the usefulness of these new metabolites to discriminate between endogenous and exogenous origin of boldenone, four samples containing endogenous boldenone and BM1, confirmed by IRMS, were analysed. In 3 of the 4 samples, neither boldenone sulphate nor epiboldenone sulphate were detected, confirming that these metabolites were mainly detected after exogenous administration of boldenone. In contrast, boldenone sulphate and, in some cases, epiboldenone sulphate were present in samples with low concentrations of exogenous boldenone and BM1. Thus, boldenone and epiboldenone sulphates are additional markers for the exogenous origin of boldenone and they can be used to reduce the number of samples to be analysed by IRMS. In samples with boldenone and BM1 at the concentrations suspicion for endogenous origin, only if boldenone and epiboldenone sulphates are present, further analysis by IRMS will be needed to confirm exogenous origin.
Lymphocytic hypophysitis is a rarely recognized disease that is characterized by inflammatory infiltration and destruction of the pituitary gland. The etiology of lymphocytic hypophysitis is still unclear, but an autoimmune pathogenesis has been advocated. In fact, histopathologic specimens reveal a diffuse infiltration of the hypophysis by CD3(+)CD4(+) T cells and CD20(+) plasma cells, and antipituitary antibodies are usually found in sera of affected patients. Although previous cases were found to be correlated only to pregnancy and the postpartum period, recent reports in men and women (without association with pregnancy) suggest a possibly higher prevalence of disease. We present the case of a 55-year-old woman affected by an unusually aggressive form of lymphocytic hypophysitis that infiltrated both cavernous sinuses causing bilateral internal carotid artery occlusion and acute ischemic stroke. Diagnosis was achieved with both a biopsy specimen of the pituitary gland and the detection of antipituitary antibodies. The prompt administration of steroid therapy was effective to obtain regression and stabilization of the disease, but both carotid arteries remained permanently occluded. The natural history of lymphocytic hypophysitis is unpredictable. It usually has a benign evolution, but in exceptional cases the inflammatory process may extend beyond the pituitary gland and infiltrate the surrounding structures. These extremely serious consequences highlight the importance of early diagnosis and treatment of this otherwise curable disease.


Employment is an indicator of socioeconomic status. Unemployment is a worldwide social challenge, especially in emerging countries, accounting for a proportion of the overall higher mortality rates found in these nations. We assessed the relationship between employment status and in-hospital mortality among acute ischemic stroke patients participating in the Argentinean National Stroke Registry (ReNACer), a prospective, country-wide, hospital-based stroke registry aimed at improving quality of stroke care in Argentina. We compared demographic and socioeconomic characteristics, risk factors, acute treatment, and stroke severity between employed and unemployed patients with acute ischemic stroke participating in ReNACer. We developed a multiple logistic regression model to identify predictors of in-hospital mortality. Among the 726 patients with acute ischemic stroke included in the study, 39.5% were unemployed. In-hospital mortality was higher in the patients who were unemployed at the time of the stroke compared with those who were employed (12.0% v 5.0%; P = .003). On multivariate analysis, being unemployed (odds ratio [OR], 3.58; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.36-7.37; P = .005), stroke severity (OR, 3.54; 95% CI 1.11-10.40; P = .018), and infarct size &gt;15 mm (OR, 2.80; 95% CI, 1.18-6.60; P = .019) were associated with in-hospital mortality after adjusting for relevant covariates. Social factors may influence poor outcomes after stroke. In the present study, unemployment was associated with a higher risk of adjusted in-hospital mortality. Strategies targeting individuals at high risk of cardiovascular diseases and poorer outcomes should be implemented to reduce stroke impact.



This study was aimed to compare the effects of acute and chronic psychological stress on metabolic factors. Forty-two male Wistar rats were divided into control and stressed groups. Stress was applied by a communication box acutely (1 d) and chronically (15 and 30 d). Blood sampling was carried out by retro-orbital-puncture method. The plasma levels of glucose, cholesterol, triglyceride, insulin, and corticosterone were measured. In addition, feed and water intake, latency to eat and drink, adrenal and body weights were determined. Acute and chronic psychological stress did not significantly change basal plasma corticosterone levels. However, immediately (1 min) after acute exposure to stress, plasma corticosterone level increased compared to that before stress exposure. Acute stress increased plasma insulin levels significantly. Fifteen days of stress exposure resulted in plasma glucose increase. Chronic stress significantly increased feed intake, latency to eat, and adrenal weight compared to acute stress. The body weights of both control and stressed groups increased markedly during the experiment. Homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) index did not change significantly in the stressed group. In conclusion, application of acute and chronic psychological stress leads to different metabolic and/or behavioral changes but the metabolic changes resulting from acute exposure to stress seem to be more pronounced.
Since 2004 applications for research funding in ophthalmology have been evaluated together with those from neurosurgery, neuropathology, psychiatry, psychotherapy, psychosomatics, otolaryngology and neurology by a joint review board of the German Research Council (DFG). Facing a decreasing number of applications--in contrast to the need and importance of widespread ocular diseases--the working group &quot;young academics&quot; of the Deutsche Ophthalmologische Gesellschaft (DOG) assessed the perception of funding programmes and grants available. Young ophthalmologists think that they have poor prospects to receive funding by a DFG proposal. In comparison, specialist funding quotas show a stable development within the neurosciences over the last years. The sum of requested funding has a strong correlation with the total amount actually paid. By clarifying the number of funded proposals, the better transparency and communication for the existing programmes should improve the cooperativeness, the funding rate and number of applications in future. This inventory explicitly includes a motivational guidance for young researchers to take the initiative to do more proposals.
The concept of cognitive reserve provides an explanation for differences between individuals in susceptibility to age-related brain changes or pathology related to Alzheimer's disease, whereby some people can tolerate more of these changes than others and maintain function. Epidemiological studies suggest that lifelong experiences, including educational and occupational attainment, and leisure activities in later life, can increase this reserve. For example, the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease is reduced in individuals with higher educational or occupational attainment. Reserve can conveniently be divided into two types: brain reserve, which refers to differences in the brain structure that may increase tolerance to pathology, and cognitive reserve, which refers to differences between individuals in how tasks are performed that might enable some people to be more resilient to brain changes than others. Greater understanding of the concept of cognitive reserve could lead to interventions to slow cognitive ageing or reduce the risk of dementia.

Microwave irradiation as the energy source for one-step direct transesterification of fatty acids in human serum lipids was examined in a solvent system of methanol: hexane: acetyl chloride based on a Lepage &amp; Roy assay. Innovative and explosion proof single-mode or multimode microwave accelerated reaction system was employed. Recoveries were calculated as the percentage of fatty acid concentrations measured by microwave assay to those by the reference method of the Lepage &amp; Roy assay that utilized conductive heating at 100 C for 60 min. Under conditions of 100 C for 1 min in Single-mode (S4-100  1), or 125 C for 5 min in Multimode (M5-125  5), the recoveries were 100-103 % for the total fatty acids and 96-106 % for each categorized fatty acid, including saturates, monounsaturates, n-6 PUFA, and n-3 PUFA. For individual PUFA, the mean recoveries were 102-105 % for 18:2n-6 and 18:3n-3; 99, 109, and 95 % for 20:4n-6, 20:5n-3, and 22:6n-3, respectively. Thus, fatty acid concentrations determined by microwave fatty acid assay were accurate to those results by the reference method, when the microwave conditions were optimal. In summary, the microwave irradiation could replace conductive heating in one-step direct transesterification, and reduce the duration from 60 min to 5 min or less. This methodology may be applied in both the absolute and relative quantification of serum total fatty acids.
Intrabodies can be powerful reagents to effect modulation of aberrant intracellular proteins that underlie a range of diseases. However, their cytoplasmic solubility can be limiting. We previously reported that overall charge and hydrophilicity can be combined to provide initial estimates of intracellular solubility, and that charge engineering via fusion can alter solubility properties experimentally. Additional studies showed that fusion of a proteasome-targeting PEST motif to the anti-huntingtin intrabody scFv-C4 can degrade mutant huntingtin proteins by directing them to the proteasome, while also increasing the negative charge. We now validate the generality of this approach with intrabodies against -synuclein (-syn), an important target in Parkinson disease. In this study, fusion of the PEST sequence to a set of four diverse, poorly soluble anti--syn intrabodies (D5E, 10H, D10 scFv, VH14 nanobody) significantly increased steady-state soluble intrabody protein levels in all cases, despite fusion with the PEST proteasomal-targeting signal. Furthermore, adding this PEST motif to the least soluble construct, VH14, significantly enhanced degradation of the target protein, -syn~GFP. The intrabody-PEST fusion approach thus has dual advantages of potentially solubilizing intrabodies and enhancing their functionality in parallel. Empirical testing of intrabody-PEST fusions is recommended for enhancement of intrabody solubility from diverse sources.
Recently, spatially two-dimensional selective radiofrequency excitations based on the PROPELLER trajectory have been presented and were applied to minimize partial volume effects in single-voxel MR spectroscopy. Thereby, residual side excitations appeared due to limitations of the Voronoi diagram that was used to consider the nonconstant sampling density, and trajectory distortions caused by eddy currents varying between the differently rotated blades. In this extension, one of the refocusing radiofrequency pulses of a PRESS-based pulse sequence is applied in the blip direction of each segment to eliminate the side excitations. This corresponds to an infinitely dense sampling of the blade and the required sampling density correction can easily be calculated. Thus, signal contributions from outside the desired region-of-interest are completely avoided. The feasibility of this approach to acquire single-voxel MR spectra of anatomically defined regions-of-interest is demonstrated in the human brain in vivo on a 3T whole-body MR system.
Delay alternating with nutation for tailored excitation (DANTE) pulse trains are well appreciated as frequency-selective excitation methods in Fourier transform NMR and for spatial tagging in MRI. In this study, nonselective DANTE pulse trains are used in combination with gradient pulses and short repetition times as motion-sensitive preparation modules. We show that while the longitudinal magnetization of static tissue is mostly preserved, flowing spins are largely (or fully) attenuated as they fail to establish transverse steady state due to a spoiling effect caused by flow along the applied gradient. The attenuation of flowing spins is effectively insensitive to spin velocity (above a low threshold) and can be approximately quantified with a simple T longitudinal magnetization decay model. The relevant analytical equations for moving spins and static spins during DANTE module application are derived for both transient and steady state epochs. The equations are validated by comparing analytical solutions and numerical Bloch equation simulations against experimental observations in phantoms and in vivo. Based on this contrast mechanism, the application of the DANTE preparation to black blood vessel imaging is proposed. A simple demonstration of DANTE black blood imaging modules shows that it provides excellent blood signal suppression and static tissue signal preservation.
The brain atrophies in late life. However, there are many factors that either magnify or mitigate the rate of atrophy. Loss of estrogens during menopause and administration of hormone therapy have both been hypothesized as sources of individual variation in the prevalence of cortical and subcortical atrophy and loss of cognitive function in late adulthood. In this review we critically summarize and assess the extant rodent and human neuroimaging studies that examine the link between estrogens and hippocampal morphology and function and focus predominantly on human studies of the hippocampus in postmenopausal women. Several cross-sectional studies report that the size of the hippocampus is larger in women receiving hormone therapy while several other cross-sectional studies report either negligible effects or smaller volumes in women receiving hormone therapy. We suggest that these differences might be caused by the variation between studies in the age of the samples studied, the duration of therapy, and the age at which hormone therapy is initiated. Unfortunately, all of the human studies reviewed here are cross-sectional in nature. With the lack of well-controlled randomized trials with neuroimaging measures on postmenopausal women both before and after some exposure interval, the effect of hormone therapy on hippocampal atrophy will remain equivocal and poorly understood.

Glial neoplasms account for nearly 50% of all adult primary brain tumors. They originate from glial cells in the brain and/or spinal cord and include low-grade diffuse astrocytomas, anaplastic-astrocytomas, and glioblastomas. Of all brain tumors, glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most aggressive and is characterized by rapid glial cell growth, resistance to radio- and chemo- therapies, and relentless infiltration and spreading throughout the central nervous system (CNS). In glioblastomas, primary tumor growth and CNS invasion are associated with the activation of complex structural molecular and metabolic changes within the tumor tissue, which profoundly affect the surrounding neuronal networks and may in part explain induction of epilepsy. In fact, epileptic seizures are very common among patients with glial tumors, reaching nearly 50% in glioblastoma patients and almost 90% in low-grade astrocytomas. The overall hypothesis presented here discusses the possibility that the aberrant tumor cell metabolism may act directly on neuronal network, and this leads to seizure susceptibility. Further invasion and growth of the malignant glial cells exacerbate this initial pathologic state which promotes recurrent seizures (epileptogenesis).

In a recent article, Schwartz (Psychonomic Bulletin &amp; Review 17:82-87, 2010) reported the effects of emotion on tip-of-the-tongue states (TOTs). He found increased TOTs for emotion-inducing questions, as well as a carryover effect in which high TOT rates were observed following emotion-inducing questions. In the present study, we sought to replicate these findings while controlling for word frequency, but we found an increased TOT rate neither for emotion-inducing questions nor following emotion-inducing questions. We report three attempts to replicate Schwartz's (Psychonomic Bulletin &amp; Review 17:82-87, 2010) effect that focused on systematic differences in word frequency between stimulus sets in the original study; none of the key findings reported by Schwartz (Psychonomic Bulletin &amp; Review 17:82-87, 2010) were found in any of the experiments. These results fail to support prior claims concerning the effects of emotion on TOTs Schwartz (Psychonomic Bulletin &amp; Review 17:82-87, 2010). The discussion focuses on the importance of controlling for systematic differences in word characteristics between groups of items.
Various types of cancers (including gliomas, melanomas, and esophageal, pancreas and non-small-cell lung cancers) display intrinsic resistance to pro-apoptotic stimuli, such as conventional chemotherapy and radiotherapy, and/or the activation of a multidrug resistance phenotype, which are major barriers to effective treatment and lead to poor patient prognosis. The DYRK1A kinase is directly implicated in the resistance of cancer cells to pro-apoptotic stimuli and drives several pathways that enhance proliferation, migration, and the reduction of cell death, leading to very aggressive biological behavior in cancer cell populations. The DYRK1A kinase is also implicated in neurological diseases and in neoangiogenic processes. Thus, the DYRK1A kinase is of great interest for both cancer and neuroscience research. During the last decade, numerous compounds that inhibit DYRK1A have been synthesized. The present review discusses the available molecules known to interfere with DYRK1A activity and the implications of DYRK1A in cancer and other diseases and serves as a rational analysis for researchers who aim to improve the anti-DYRK1A activity of currently available compounds.
Cytoplasmic dynein is the major microtubule minus-end-directed cellular motor. Most dynein activities require dynactin, but the mechanisms regulating cargo-dependent dynein-dynactin interaction are poorly understood. In this study, we focus on dynein-dynactin recruitment to cargo by the conserved motor adaptor Bicaudal D2 (BICD2). We show that dynein and dynactin depend on each other for BICD2-mediated targeting to cargo and that BICD2 N-terminus (BICD2-N) strongly promotes stable interaction between dynein and dynactin both in vitro and in vivo. Direct visualization of dynein in live cells indicates that by itself the triple BICD2-N-dynein-dynactin complex is unable to interact with either cargo or microtubules. However, tethering of BICD2-N to different membranes promotes their microtubule minus-end-directed motility. We further show that LIS1 is required for dynein-mediated transport induced by membrane tethering of BICD2-N and that LIS1 contributes to dynein accumulation at microtubule plus ends and BICD2-positive cellular structures. Our results demonstrate that dynein recruitment to cargo requires concerted action of multiple dynein cofactors.
One of the most common types of epilepsy in adults is temporal lobe epilepsy. Temporal lobe epilepsy is often resistant to pharmacological treatment, requiring urgent understanding of its molecular and cellular mechanisms. It is generally accepted that an imbalance between excitatory and inhibitory inputs is related to epileptogenesis. We have recently identified that fibroblast growth factor (FGF) 7 is critical for inhibitory synapse formation in the developing hippocampus. Remarkably, FGF7 knockout mice are prone to epileptic seizures induced by chemical kindling (Terauchi et al., 2010). Here we show that FGF7 knockout mice exhibit epileptogenesis-related changes in the hippocampus even without kindling induction. FGF7 knockout mice show mossy fiber sprouting and enhanced dentate neurogenesis by 2 months of age, without apparent spontaneous seizures. These results suggest that FGF7-deficiency impairs inhibitory synapse formation, which results in mossy fiber sprouting and enhanced neurogenesis during development, making FGF7 knockout mice vulnerable to epilepsy.
Relaxin and insulin-like peptide 3 (INSL3) are peptide hormones with a number of important physiological roles in reproduction, regulation of extracellular matrix turnover, and cardiovascular function. Relaxin and INSL3 mediate their actions through the closely related G-protein coupled receptors, relaxin family peptide receptors 1 and 2 (RXFP1 and RXFP2), respectively. These receptors have large extracellular domains (ECD) that contain high-affinity ligand-binding sites within their 10 leucine-rich repeat (LRR)-containing modules. Although relaxin can bind and activate both RXFP1 and RXFP2, INSL3 can only bind and activate RXFP2. To investigate whether this difference is related to the nature of the high-affinity ECD binding site or to differences in secondary binding sites involving the receptor transmembrane (TM) domain, we created a suite of constructs with RXFP1/2 chimeric ECD attached to single TM helices. We show that by changing as little as one LRR, representing four amino acid substitutions, we were able to engineer a high-affinity INSL3-binding site into the ECD of RXFP1. Molecular modeling of the INSL3-RXFP2 interaction based on extensive experimental data highlights the differences in the binding mechanisms of relaxin and INSL3 to the ECD of their cognate receptors. Interestingly, when the engineered RXFP1/2 ECD were introduced into full-length RXFP1 constructs, INSL3 exhibited only low affinity and efficacy on these receptors. These results highlight critical differences both in the ECD binding and in the coordination of the ECD-binding site with the TM domain, and provide new mechanistic insights into the binding and activation events of RXFP1 and RXFP2 by their native hormone ligands.
Glycogen storage disease type II (GSD II), also known as Pompe disease, is an autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by a reduced activity of acid alpha glucosidase (GAA). Two different clinical entities have been described: rapidly fatal infantile and late onset forms. Hearing loss has been described in classic infantile Pompe patients but rarely in late onset cases. The main purpose of this study was to investigate the involvement of the auditory system in a cohort of Italian patients with late onset GSD II. We have enrolled 20 patients, 12 males and 8 females. The auditory system assessment included speech and pure tone audiometry, impedance audiometry and auditory brainstem responses (ABR). A combined interpretation of those tests allowed us to define the origin of the hearing impairment (sensorineural, conductive or mixed). Clinically, all patients but one denied subjective hearing disturbances. On the other hand, audiological evaluation revealed that 21/40 patient ears (52.5%) had a hearing impairment: 57% had a sensorineural deficit, 33% showed a conductive hearing loss whereas 10% presented with a mixed pattern. Our study revealed that, in this group of GSDII late onset patients, the auditory system impairment was more frequently present than thought with a prominent cochlear involvement. Our results emphasize the importance of a routinely auditory function evaluation in all forms of Pompe disease.
The association between major depressive disorder (MDD) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) is among the best described medical comorbidities. The presence of MDD increases the risk of cardiac admissions and mortality and increases healthcare costs in patients with CVD, and similarly, CVD affects the course and outcome of MDD. The potential shared biological mechanisms involved in these comorbid conditions are not well known. However, the enzyme monoamine oxidase-A (MAO-A), which has a key role in the degradation of catecholamines, has been associated with the pathophysiology and therapeutics of both MDD and CVD. Increased MAO-A activity results in the dysregulation of downstream targets of this enzyme and thus affects the pathophysiology of the two diseases. These deleterious effects include altered noradrenaline turnover, with a direct elevation in oxidative stress parameters, as well as increased platelet activity and cytokine levels. These effects were shown to be reversed by MAO inhibitors. Here, a model describing a key role for the MAO-A in comorbid MDD and CVD is proposed, with focus on the shared pathophysiological mechanisms and the potential therapeutic relevance of agents targeting this enzyme.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are oligomeric transmembrane proteins in which five subunits coassemble to form a central ion channel pore. Conventional agonists, such as acetylcholine (ACh), bind to an orthosteric site, located at subunit interfaces in the extracellular domain. More recently, it has been demonstrated that nAChRs can also be activated by ligands binding to an allosteric transmembrane site. In the case of 7 nAChRs, ACh causes rapid activation and almost complete desensitization. In contrast, allosteric agonists such as 4-(4-bromophenyl)-3a,4,5,9b-tetrahydro-3H-cyclopenta[c] quin oline-8-sulfonamide (4BP-TQS) activate 7 nAChRs more slowly and cause only low levels of apparent desensitization. In the present study, single-channel patch-clamp recording has been used to investigate differences in the mechanism of activation of 7 nAChRs by ACh and 4BP-TQS. The most striking difference between activation by ACh and 4BP-TQS is in single-channel kinetics. In comparison with activation by ACh, single-channel open times and burst lengths are substantially longer (~160-800-fold, respectively), and shut times are shorter (~8-fold) when activated by 4BP-TQS. In addition, coapplication of ACh and 4BP-TQS results in a further increase in single-channel burst lengths. Mean burst lengths seen when the two agonists are coapplied (3099  754 ms) are ~2.5-fold longer than with 4BP-TQS alone and 370-fold longer than with ACh alone. Intriguingly, the main single-channel conductance of 7 nAChRs, was significantly larger when activated by 4BP-TQS (100.3  2.4 pS) than when activated by ACh (90.0  2.7 pS), providing evidence that activation by allosteric and orthosteric agonists results in different 7 nAChRs open-channel conformations.
Drug discovery programs increasingly are focusing on allosteric modulators as a means to modify the activity of G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) targets. Allosteric binding sites are topographically distinct from the endogenous ligand (orthosteric) binding site, which allows for co-occupation of a single receptor with the endogenous ligand and an allosteric modulator that can alter receptor pharmacological characteristics. Negative allosteric modulators (NAMs) inhibit and positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) enhance the affinity and/or efficacy of orthosteric agonists. Established approaches for estimation of affinity and efficacy values for orthosteric ligands are not appropriate for allosteric modulators, and this presents challenges for fully understanding the actions of novel modulators of GPCRs. Metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGlu(5)) is a family C GPCR for which a large array of allosteric modulators have been identified. We took advantage of the many tools for probing allosteric sites on mGlu(5) to validate an operational model of allosterism that allows quantitative estimation of modulator affinity and cooperativity values. Affinity estimates derived from functional assays fit well with affinities measured in radioligand binding experiments for both PAMs and NAMs with diverse chemical scaffolds and varying degrees of cooperativity. We observed modulation bias for PAMs when we compared mGlu(5)-mediated Ca(2+) mobilization and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 phosphorylation data. Furthermore, we used this model to quantify the effects of mutations that reduce binding or potentiation by PAMs. This model can be applied to PAM and NAM potency curves in combination with maximal fold-shift data to derive reliable estimates of modulator affinities.

The ability to inhibit unwanted actions is a heritable executive function that may confer risk to disorders such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Converging evidence from pharmacology and cognitive neuroscience suggests that response inhibition is instantiated within frontostriatal circuits of the brain with patterns of activity that are modulated by the catecholamines dopamine and noradrenaline. A total of 405 healthy adult participants performed the stop-signal task, a paradigmatic measure of response inhibition that yields an index of the latency of inhibition, termed the stop-signal reaction time (SSRT). Using this phenotype, we tested for genetic association, performing high-density single-nucleotide polymorphism mapping across the full range of autosomal catecholamine genes. Fifty participants also underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging to establish the impact of associated alleles on brain and behaviour. Allelic variation in polymorphisms of the dopamine transporter gene (SLC6A3: rs37020; rs460000) predicted individual differences in SSRT, after corrections for multiple comparisons. Furthermore, activity in frontal regions (anterior frontal, superior frontal and superior medial gyri) and caudate varied additively with the T-allele of rs37020. The influence of genetic variation in SLC6A3 on the development of frontostriatal inhibition networks may represent a key risk mechanism for disorders of behavioural inhibition.




Angiogenesis is a prominent feature of central nervous system (CNS) disease and has roles in both the continued promotion of inflammation and the subsequent repair processes. Here we report that prostacyclin (or prostaglandin I(2) (PGI(2))) derived from new vessels promotes axonal remodeling of injured neuronal networks after CNS inflammation. In a localized model of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), new vessels formed around the inflammatory lesion, followed by sprouting of adjacent corticospinal tract (CST) fibers. These sprouting fibers formed a compensatory motor circuit, leading to recovery of motor function. Capillary endothelial cell-derived prostacyclin bound to its receptor, the type I prostaglandin receptor (IP receptor), on CST neurons, promoting sprouting of CST fibers and contributing to the repair process. Inhibition of prostacyclin receptor signaling impaired motor recovery, whereas the IP receptor agonist iloprost promoted axonal remodeling and motor recovery after the induction of EAE. These findings reveal an important function of angiogenesis in neuronal rewiring and suggest that prostacyclin is a promising molecule for enhancing functional recovery from CNS disease.
Humans exhibit a remarkable degree of resilience in the face of extreme stress, with most resisting the development of neuropsychiatric disorders. Over the past 5 years, there has been increasing interest in the active, adaptive coping mechanisms of resilience; however, in humans, most published work focuses on correlative neuroendocrine markers that are associated with a resilient phenotype. In this review, we highlight a growing literature in rodents that is starting to complement the human work by identifying the active behavioral, neural, molecular and hormonal basis of resilience. The therapeutic implications of these findings are important and can pave the way for an innovative approach to drug development for a range of stress-related syndromes.
The vast diversity of GABAergic interneurons is believed to endow hippocampal microcircuits with the required flexibility for memory encoding and retrieval. However, dissection of the functional roles of defined interneuron types has been hampered by the lack of cell-specific tools. We identified a precise molecular marker for a population of hippocampal GABAergic interneurons known as oriens lacunosum-moleculare (OLM) cells. By combining transgenic mice and optogenetic tools, we found that OLM cells are important for gating the information flow in CA1, facilitating the transmission of intrahippocampal information (from CA3) while reducing the influence of extrahippocampal inputs (from the entorhinal cortex). Furthermore, we found that OLM cells were interconnected by gap junctions, received direct cholinergic inputs from subcortical afferents and accounted for the effect of nicotine on synaptic plasticity of the Schaffer collateral pathway. Our results suggest that acetylcholine acting through OLM cells can control the mnemonic processes executed by the hippocampus.
Cocaine-induced alterations in synaptic glutamate function in nucleus accumbens are thought to mediate drug-related behaviors such as psychomotor sensitization. However, previous studies have examined global alterations in randomly selected accumbens neurons regardless of their activation state during cocaine-induced behavior. We recently found that a minority of strongly activated Fos-expressing accumbens neurons are necessary for cocaine-induced psychomotor sensitization, whereas the majority of accumbens neurons are less directly involved. We assessed synaptic alterations in these strongly activated accumbens neurons in Fos-GFP mice, which express a fusion protein of Fos and GFP in strongly activated neurons, and compared these alterations with those in surrounding non-activated neurons. Cocaine sensitization produced higher levels of 'silent synapses', which contained functional NMDA receptors and nonfunctional AMPA receptors only in GFP-positive neurons, 6-11 d after sensitization. Thus, distinct synaptic alterations are induced in the most strongly activated accumbens neurons that mediate psychomotor sensitization.
Moving objects generate motion information at different scales, which are processed in the visual system with a bank of spatiotemporal frequency channels. It is not known how the brain pools this information to reconstruct object speed and whether this pooling is generic or adaptive; that is, dependent on the behavioral task. We used rich textured motion stimuli of varying bandwidths to decipher how the human visual motion system computes object speed in different behavioral contexts. We found that, although a simple visuomotor behavior such as short-latency ocular following responses takes advantage of the full distribution of motion signals, perceptual speed discrimination is impaired for stimuli with large bandwidths. Such opposite dependencies can be explained by an adaptive gain control mechanism in which the divisive normalization pool is adjusted to meet the different constraints of perception and action.
The examination of tissue histology by light microscopy is a fundamental tool for investigating the structure and function of organs under normal and disease states. Many current techniques for tissue sectioning, imaging and analysis are time-consuming, and they present major limitations for 3D tissue reconstruction. The introduction of methods to achieve the optical clearing and subsequent light-sheet laser scanning of entire transparent organs without sectioning represents a major advance in the field. We recently developed a highly reproducible and versatile clearing procedure called 3D imaging of solvent-cleared organs, or 3DISCO, which is applicable to diverse tissues including brain, spinal cord, immune organs and tumors. Here we describe a detailed protocol for performing 3DISCO and present its application to various microscopy techniques, including example results from various mouse tissues. The tissue clearing takes as little as 3 h, and imaging can be completed in 45 min. 3DISCO is a powerful technique that offers 3D histological views of tissues in a fraction of the time and labor required to complete standard histology studies.
Honeybees contradict the notion that insect behaviour tends to be relatively inflexible and stereotypical. Indeed, they live in colonies and exhibit complex social, navigational and communication behaviours, as well as a relatively rich cognitive repertoire. Because these relatively complex behaviours are controlled by a brain consisting of only 1 million or so neurons, honeybees offer an opportunity to study the relationship between behaviour and cognition in neural networks that are limited in size and complexity. Most recently, the honeybee has been used to model learning and memory formation, highlighting its utility for neuroscience research, in particular for understanding the basis of cognition.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are extracellularly acting enzymes that have long been known to have deleterious roles in brain injury and disease. In particular, widespread and protracted MMP activity can contribute to neuronal loss and synaptic dysfunction. However, recent studies show that rapid and focal MMP-mediated proteolysis proactively drives synaptic structural and functional remodelling that is crucial for ongoing cognitive processes. Deficits in synaptic remodelling are associated with psychiatric and neurological disorders, and aberrant MMP expression or function may contribute to the molecular mechanisms underlying these deficits. This Review explores the paradigm shift in our understanding of the contribution of MMPs to normal and abnormal synaptic plasticity and function.
The social and neural sciences share a common interest in understanding the mechanisms that underlie human behaviour. However, interactions between neuroscience and social science disciplines remain strikingly narrow and tenuous. We illustrate the scope and challenges for such interactions using the paradigmatic example of neuroeconomics. Using quantitative analyses of both its scientific literature and the social networks in its intellectual community, we show that neuroeconomics now reflects a true disciplinary integration, such that research topics and scientific communities with interdisciplinary span exert greater influence on the field. However, our analyses also reveal key structural and intellectual challenges in balancing the goals of neuroscience with those of the social sciences. To address these challenges, we offer a set of prescriptive recommendations for directing future research in neuroeconomics.


Cortical inhibitory circuits are formed by -aminobutyric acid (GABA)-secreting interneurons, a cell population that originates far from the cerebral cortex in the embryonic ventral forebrain. Given their distant developmental origins, it is intriguing how the number of cortical interneurons is ultimately determined. One possibility, suggested by the neurotrophic hypothesis, is that cortical interneurons are overproduced, and then after their migration into cortex the excess interneurons are eliminated through a competition for extrinsically derived trophic signals. Here we characterize the developmental cell death of mouse cortical interneurons in vivo, in vitro and after transplantation. We found that 40% of developing cortical interneurons were eliminated through Bax (Bcl-2-associated X)-dependent apoptosis during postnatal life. When cultured in vitro or transplanted into the cortex, interneuron precursors died at a cellular age similar to that at which endogenous interneurons died during normal development. Over transplant sizes that varied 200-fold, a constant fraction of the transplanted population underwent cell death. The death of transplanted neurons was not affected by the cell-autonomous disruption of TrkB (tropomyosin kinase receptor B), the main neurotrophin receptor expressed by neurons of the central nervous system. Transplantation expanded the cortical interneuron population by up to 35%, but the frequency of inhibitory synaptic events did not scale with the number of transplanted interneurons. Taken together, our findings indicate that interneuron cell death is determined intrinsically, either cell-autonomously or through a population-autonomous competition for survival signals derived from other interneurons.
Computing sparse redundant representations is an important problem in both applied mathematics and neuroscience. In many applications, this problem must be solved in an energy-efficient way. Here, we propose a hybrid distributed algorithm (HDA), which solves this problem on a network of simple nodes communicating by low-bandwidth channels. HDA nodes perform both gradient-descent-like steps on analog internal variables and coordinate-descent-like steps via quantized external variables communicated to each other. Interestingly, the operation is equivalent to a network of integrate-and-fire neurons, suggesting that HDA may serve as a model of neural computation. We show that the numerical performance of HDA is on par with existing algorithms. In the asymptotic regime, the representation error of HDA decays with time, t, as 1/t. HDA is stable against time-varying noise; specifically, the representation error decays as 1/t for gaussian white noise.
Time-to-contact (TTC) estimation is beneficial for visual navigation. It can be estimated from an image projection, either in a camera or on the retina, by looking at the rate of expansion of an object. When expansion rate (E) is properly defined, TTC = 1/E. Primate dorsal MST cells have receptive field structures suited to the estimation of expansion and TTC. However, the role of MST cells in TTC estimation has been discounted because of large receptive fields, the fact that neither they nor preceding brain areas appear to decompose the motion field to estimate divergence, and a lack of experimental data. This letter demonstrates mathematically that template models of dorsal MST cells can be constructed such that the output of the template match provides an accurate and robust estimate of TTC. The template match extracts the relevant components of the motion field and scales them such that the output of each component of the template match is an estimate of expansion. It then combines these component estimates to provide a mean estimate of expansion across the object. The output of model MST provides a direct measure of TTC. The ViSTARS model of primate visual navigation was updated to incorporate the modified templates. In ViSTARS and in primates, speed is represented as a population code in V1 and MT. A population code for speed complicates TTC estimation from a template match. Results presented in this letter demonstrate that the updated template model of MST accurately codes TTC across a population of model MST cells. We conclude that the updated template model of dorsal MST simultaneously and accurately codes TTC and heading regardless of receptive field size, object size, or motion representation. It is possible that a subpopulation of MST cells in primates represents expansion in this way.
Although it is thought that orientation selectivity first emerges in the primary visual cortex, several studies have reported that neurons in the cat lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) are sensitive to stimulus orientation, especially for high spatial frequency (SF) stimuli. To understand how this orientation sensitivity emerges, we investigated the spatiotemporal structures of linear receptive fields (RFs) of LGN neurons. Orientation tunings at several SFs were measured using sinusoidal drifting grating stimuli. Fine spatiotemporal structures of the linear RFs were measured using a reverse correlation technique and two-dimensional dynamic Gaussian white noise stimuli. A non-linear response modulation function was estimated by comparing measured responses with responses predicted from a linear RF structure. Although we found that a population of LGN neurons exhibited significantly elongated linear RF centers and that the angles of the long axes corresponded well to the preferred orientations, the orientation tunings predicted from the linear RFs were significantly broader than those measured. These results suggest that orientation-tuned non-linear response modulation induced by stimulation outside the classical RF contributes to the sharp orientation tuning seen in LGN neurons.
Mutations in the valosin-containing-protein (VCP) gene are associated with the multidisorder disease, inclusion body myopathy with Pagets and associated frontotemporal dementia. This disease is characterized pathologically by large ubiquitinated, TAR DNA Binding Protein 43 (TDP-43) positive inclusions. These inclusions are also a common feature in neurological diseases including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTLD). Mutations in the VCP gene have been identified in ALS patients, therefore we aimed to characterize VCP variations in our own cohort of familial and sporadic ALS patients by sequencing all 17 coding exons of VCP. This study failed to detect any exonic variations in a subset of British familial and sporadic ALS patients.
Using diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging tractography, ventral (inferior longitudinal fasciculus) and fronto-occipital (inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus) and dorsal (fronto-parietal superior longitudinal fasciculus) visual pathways were assessed in 7 patients with posterior cortical atrophy (PCA), showing either predominantly ventral or additional dorsal cognitive deficits. Corpus callosum and corticospinal tracts were also studied. Gray and white matter atrophy was assessed using voxel-based morphometry. In all PCA patients, abnormal diffusivity indexes were found in bilateral inferior longitudinal fasciculus and inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus, with a left-side predominance. Patients also had mild microstructural damage to the corpus callosum. The 2 patients with more dorsal symptoms also showed right fronto-parietal superior longitudinal fasciculus abnormalities. Corticospinal tracts were normal, bilaterally. When studied separately, patients with ventral clinical impairment showed a pattern of atrophy mainly located in the ventral occipitotemporal regions, bilaterally; patients with both ventral and dorsal clinical deficits showed additional atrophy of the bilateral inferior parietal lobe. Magnetic resonance imaging patterns of abnormalities mirror closely the clinical phenotypes and could provide reliable ante mortem markers of tissue damage in PCA.

To investigate the intriguing and paradoxical contrast between the time-limited role of the hippocampus in memory consolidation and its permanent contribution to spatial memory as revealed by place cell activity, we carefully monitored the temporal evolution of the same set of place cells in normal nave mice throughout their familiarization to a spatial context and their consolidation of memory about space. Over six daily recording sessions, despite their widely reported stability, we observed gradual changes in hippocampal place fields and cell firing patterns. These changes were interpreted in terms of both improvement and impoverishment of spatial codes: improvement due to intrinsic place cell plasticity, and impoverishment as a consequence of attentional filtering of allocentric spatial information reaching the hippocampus due to the procedural behavioral requirements of the task, or to hippocampal disengagement as learning progresses.
Loss of reward is one of the etiological factors leading to affective disorders, such as major depression. We have proposed several variants of an animal model of depression based on extinction of reinforced behavior of rats. A number of behaviors emitted during extinction trials were found to be attenuated by antidepressant treatment and, thus, qualified as indices of extinction-induced &quot;despair&quot;. These include increases in immobility in the Morris water maze and withdrawal from the former source of reward as well as biting behavior in operant chambers. Here, we assess the effects of reward omission on behaviors after learning of (a) a cued free-reward delivery in an operant chamber and (b) food-reinforced runway behavior. Sixty adult male Wistar rats were either trained to receive food reinforcement every 90 s (s) after a 5s lasting cue light (FI 90), or to traverse an alley to gain food reward. Daily drug treatment with either the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor citalopram or the tricyclic antidepressant imipramine (each 10mg/kg) or vehicle was begun either 25 days (operant chamber) or 3 days (runway) prior to extinction. The antidepressants suppressed rearing behavior in both paradigms specifically during the extinction trials, which indicates this measure as a useful marker of depression-related behavior, possibly indicating vertical withdrawal. In the operant chamber, only marginal effects on operant learning responses during extinction were found. In the runway, the operant learned responses run time and distance to the goal, as well as total distance moved, grooming and quiescence were also influenced by the antidepressants, providing a potential set of markers for extinction-induced &quot;depression&quot; in the runway. Both paradigms differ substantially with respect to the anticipation of reward, behaviors that are learned and that accompany extinction. Accordingly, antidepressant treatment influenced different sets of behaviors in these two learning tasks.

Recent studies have proposed that chronic treatment with antidepressants increases neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus. However, the effect of antidepressants on fetal neural stem cells (NSCs) has not been well defined. Our study shows the dose-dependent effects of fluoxetine on the proliferation and neural differentiation of NSCs. Fluoxetine, even at nanomolar concentrations, stimulated proliferation of NSCs and increased the number of III-tubulin (Tuj 1)- and neural nucleus marker (NeuN)-positive cells, but not glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive cells. These results suggest that fluoxetine can enhance neuronal differentiation. In addition, fluoxetine has protective effects against cell death induced by oligomeric amyloid beta (A(42)) peptides. Taken together, these results clearly show that fluoxetine promotes both the proliferation and neuronal differentiation of NSCs and exerts protective effects against A(42)-induced cytotoxicities in NSCs, which suggest that the use of fluoxetine is applicable for cell therapy for various neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases by its actions in NSCs.
It is well established that astrocytes can utilize many substrates to support oxidative energy metabolism; however, use of energy substrates in the presence of other substrates, as would occur in vivo, has not been systematically evaluated. Substrate competition studies were used to determine changes in the rates of (14)CO(2) production since little is known about the interaction of energy substrates in astrocytes. The rates of (14)CO(2) production from 1 mM D-[6-(14)C]glucose, L-[U-(14)C]glutamate, L-[U-(14)C]glutamine, D-3-hydroxy[3-(14)C]butyrate, L-[U-(14)C]lactate and L-[U-(14)C]malate by primary cultures of astrocytes from rat brain were determined to be 1.17  0.19, 85.30  12.25, 28.04  2.84, 13.55  4.56, 14.84  2.40 and 5.20  1.20 nmol/h/mg protein (mean  SEM), respectively. The rate of (14)CO(2) production from glutamate oxidation was higher than that of the other substrates Addition of unlabeled glutamate significantly decreased the rates of (14)CO(2) production from all other substrates studied; however, glutamate oxidation was not altered by the addition of any of the other substrates. The rate of (14)CO(2) production of glutamine was decreased by glutamate, but not altered by other substrates. The rate of (14)CO(2) production from glucose was significantly decreased by the addition of unlabeled glutamate, glutamine or lactate, but not by 3-hydroxybutyrate or malate. Addition of unlabeled glucose did not significantly alter the (14)CO(2) production from any other substrate. (14)CO(2) production from lactate was decreased by the addition of unlabeled glutamine or glutamate and increased by addition of malate. The (14)CO(2) production from malate was decreased by the addition of unlabeled glutamate or lactate, but was not altered by the other substrates. The substrate utilization for oxidative energy metabolism in astrocytes is very different than the profile previously reported for synaptic terminals. These studies demonstrate the potential use of multiple substrates including glucose, glutamate, glutamine, lactate and 3-hydroxybutyrate as energy substrates for astrocytes. The data also provide evidence of interactions of substrates and multiple compartments of TCA cycle activity in cultured astrocytes.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a major neurodegenerative disease of old age, characterised by progressive cognitive impairment, dementia and atrophy of the central nervous system. The pathological hallmarks include the accumulation of the peptide -amyloid (A) which itself is toxic to neurons in culture. Recently, it has been discovered that A activates the protein poly(ADP-ribosyl) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) specifically in astrocytes, leading indirectly to neuronal cell death. PARP-1 is a DNA repair enzyme, normally activated by single strand breaks associated with oxidative stress, which catalyses the formation of poly ADP-ribose polymers from nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)). The pathological over activation of PARP-1 causes depletion of NAD(+) and leads to cell death. Here we review the relationship between AD and PARP-1, and explore the role played by astrocytes in neuronal death. AD has so far proven refractory to any effective treatment. Identification of these pathways represents a step towards a greater understanding of the pathophysiology of this devastating disease with the potential to explore novel therapeutic targets.
Acetate is a two carbon intermediate in metabolism. It is an accepted marker of astrocytic metabolism, and a substrate for production of metabolites such as glutamine, glutamate and GABA. However, anomalies exist in the current explanations of compartmentation and metabolism of acetate. Here, we investigated these anomalies by examining transport, production and metabolism of acetate. Acetate is a good substrate for the neuronal monocarboxylate transporter MCT2 (K(M) = 2.58  0.8) and the glial MCT1 but a poor substrate for the glial MCT4. Acetate is accumulated by brain cortical tissue slices to concentrations in excess of those in the media, suggesting active transport, possibly via the sodium dependent SMCT. [2-(13)C]Acetate is produced from [3-(13)C]pyruvate, [3-(13)C]lactate and [1-(13)C]glucose with the rate of production related to acetyl-CoA levels, which is likely generated in a ubiquitous cytosolic compartment via acetyl-CoA hydrolase. Citrate breakdown occurs in response to demand for acetyl-CoA units; this citrate is not derived from acetate carbon but its fate is influenced by acetate levels. Finally, use of acetate is altered by levels of nicotinamide or NAD(+). This suggests that metabolism of acetate is controlled rigorously at the enzyme level, via changes in the acetylation status of acetyl-CoA synthetase and is not regulated by restriction of uptake.
Astrocytes utilize two major pathways to achieve long distance intercellular communication. One pathway involves direct gap junction mediated signal transmission and the other consists of release of ATP through pannexin channels and excitation of purinergic receptors on nearby cells. Elevated extracellular potassium to levels occurring around hyperactive neurons affects both gap junction and pannexin1 channels. The action on Cx43 gap junctions is to increase intercellular coupling for a period that long outlasts the stimulus. This long term increase in coupling, termed &quot;LINC&quot;, is mediated through calcium and calmodulin dependent activation of calmodulin dependent kinase (CaMK). Pannexin1 can be activated by elevations in extracellular potassium through a mechanism that is quite different. In this case, potassium shifts activation potentials to more physiological range, thereby allowing channel opening at resting or slightly depolarized potentials. Enhanced activity of both these channel types by elevations in extracellular potassium of the magnitude occurring during periods of high neuronal activity likely has profound effects on intercellular signaling among astrocytes in the nervous system.

The occurrence of epilepsy with mental retardation limited to females (EFMR; MIM 300088) has been recently associated to mutations in the PCDH19 gene, located on chromosome X and encoding for protocadherin 19. EFMR shows a rare X-linked inheritance wherein affected females may be segregating a mutation through unaffected transmitting males (Fabisiak and Erickson Clin Genet 38(5):353-358, 1990; Juberg and Hellman J Pediatr 79:726-732, 1971; Ryan et al. Nat Genet 17(1):92-95, 1997). The description of a pedigree segregating PCDH19 mutations from unaffected mothers to patients (Depienne et al. Hum Mutat 32:E1959-1975, 2011; Dibbens et al. Neurology 76:1514-1519, 2011) complicates disease inheritance and genetic counseling. In the present study, we describe a PCDH19 mutation segregating from an asymptomatic mother to an EFMR patient. In order to correlate the healthy phenotype with the genotype of the transmitting mother, we quantified in a few tissues the level of the mutant allele by real-time PCR, disclosing a somatic mosaicism. This finding has a great impact on genetic counseling.
There have now been roughly 130,000 papers on fMRI. While these have clearly contributed to our understanding of the functional anatomy of the human brain, it is less clear that they have changed the way in which we think about the brain. The issue, in other words, is whether they have established new principles about how the brain works. In this paper we offer as an example one new principle, partly to lay down the criteria that are required for establishing a new principle, and partly to encourage others to offer other principles. Our example concerns the flexible flow of information through the cortex that must occur according to the demands of the task or current context. We suggest that this flexibility is achieved by feedback connections from the prefrontal and parietal cortex, and that these include connections to sensory and motor areas. However, the nature of the selective effect differs. The parietal cortex can select both within and across processing streams. By across streams we mean that it can have the same influence on different streams, for example the dorsal and ventral visual systems. However, only the prefrontal cortex can also select between processing streams. The difference between the prefrontal and parietal effects is due to their different positions within the processing hierarchy.
In the current study, we provide compelling evidence to answer the long-standing question whether perception is continuous or periodic. Spontaneous brain oscillations are assumed to be the underlying mechanism of periodic perception. Depending on the phase angle of the oscillations, an identical stimulus results in different perceptual outcomes. Past results, however, can only account for a correlation of perception with the phase of the ongoing brain oscillations. Therefore, it is desirable to demonstrate a causal relation between phase and perception. One way to address this question is to entrain spontaneous brain oscillations by applying an external oscillation and then demonstrate behavioral consequences of this oscillation. We conducted an auditory detection experiment with humans, recorded the electroencephalogram (EEG) concurrently and simultaneously applied oscillating transcranial direct current stimulation at 10Hz (-tDCS). Our approach revealed that detection thresholds were dependent on the phase of the oscillation that was entrained by -tDCS. This behavioral effect was accompanied by an electrophysiological effect: -power was enhanced after -tDCS as compared to a pre-stimulation period. By showing a causal relation between phase and perception, our results extend findings of previous studies that were only able to demonstrate a correlation. We found that manipulation of the phase resulted in different detection thresholds, which supports the notion that perception can be periodically modulated by oscillatory processes. This demonstrates that tDCS can serve as a tool in neuroscience to extend the knowledge of the functional significance of brain oscillations.

To investigate the cross-modal transfer of movement patterns necessary to perform melodies on the piano, 22 non-musicians learned to play short sequences on a piano keyboard by (1) merely listening and replaying (vision of own fingers occluded) or (2) merely observing silent finger movements and replaying (on a silent keyboard). After training, participants recognized with above chance accuracy (1) audio-motor learned sequences upon visual presentation (8917%), and (2) visuo-motor learned sequences upon auditory presentation (7722%). The recognition rates for visual presentation significantly exceeded those for auditory presentation (p&lt;.05). fMRI revealed that observing finger movements corresponding to audio-motor trained melodies is associated with stronger activation in the left rolandic operculum than observing untrained sequences. This region was also involved in silent execution of sequences, suggesting that a link to motor representations may play a role in cross-modal transfer from audio-motor training condition to visual recognition. No significant differences in brain activity were found during listening to visuo-motor trained compared to untrained melodies. Cross-modal transfer was stronger from the audio-motor training condition to visual recognition and this is discussed in relation to the fact that non-musicians are familiar with how their finger movements look (motor-to-vision transformation), but not with how they sound on a piano (motor-to-sound transformation).
MEG/EEG are non-invasive imaging techniques that record brain activity with high temporal resolution. However, estimation of brain source currents from surface recordings requires solving an ill-conditioned inverse problem. Converging lines of evidence in neuroscience, from neuronal network models to resting-state imaging and neurophysiology, suggest that cortical activation is a distributed spatiotemporal dynamic process, supported by both local and long-distance neuroanatomic connections. Because spatiotemporal dynamics of this kind are central to brain physiology, inverse solutions could be improved by incorporating models of these dynamics. In this article, we present a model for cortical activity based on nearest-neighbor autoregression that incorporates local spatiotemporal interactions between distributed sources in a manner consistent with neurophysiology and neuroanatomy. We develop a dynamic maximum a posteriori expectation-maximization (dMAP-EM) source localization algorithm for estimation of cortical sources and model parameters based on the Kalman Filter, the Fixed Interval Smoother, and the EM algorithms. We apply the dMAP-EM algorithm to simulated experiments as well as to human experimental data. Furthermore, we derive expressions to relate our dynamic estimation formulas to those of standard static models, and show how dynamic methods optimally assimilate past and future data. Our results establish the feasibility of spatiotemporal dynamic estimation in large-scale distributed source spaces with several thousand source locations and hundreds of sensors, with resulting inverse solutions that provide substantial performance improvements over static methods.
Sleep disorders are common in patients with neuromuscular diseases, but are often overlooked. Recognizing and treating issues relating to sleep disturbances improves the quality of life for these patients. This article provides an overview of the sleep dysfunction that occurs in neuromuscular diseases, of which the most common is sleep-disordered breathing. In addition, the current literature is reviewed to provide primary care physicians, sleep specialists, neurologists, and neuromuscular specialists with information on available diagnostic and treatment modalities.








The main diagnostic feature of congenital fibre type disproportion is that type 1 fibres are consistently smaller than type 2 fibres in the absence of other histological abnormalities. Mutations in the TPM3, RYR1 and ACTA1 genes are the most common established genetic causes. There has been one previous report of congenital fibre type disproportion due to a mutation in TPM2, although some atypical histological features were present. We present two cases in which novel de novo missense mutations in TPM2 are associated with marked fibre size disproportion. The finding of typical histological changes of congenital fibre type disproportion in association with a p.Ser61Pro mutation confirms that TPM2 can cause typical congenital fibre type disproportion. Although not seen on light microscopy studies, protein inclusions typical of small 'caps' were found on electron microscopy in a second patient with a p.Ala155Val mutation in TPM2. This case emphasises the importance of electron microscopy in patients with presumed congenital fibre type disproportion, to exclude the presence of caps, nemaline bodies or minicores, which, if present, may be very helpful in guiding genetic analysis.
To detect the mechanisms of death in allogeneic myofibers rejected by the immune system, myoblasts were allotransplanted in muscles of macaques immunosuppressed with tacrolimus. Immunosuppression was stopped 1month later to induce a massive rejection of allogeneic myofibers. Grafted sites were biopsied at 2-week intervals and analyzed by histology. The loss of allogeneic myofibers was rapid and concomitant with an intense infiltration of CD8+ lymphocytes. Several necrotic myofibers were observed in the lymphocyte accumulations by intracellular complement immunodetection. Dystrophin and spectrin immunodetection showed sarcolemmal damage in myofibers surrounded and invaded by CD8+ lymphocytes. Active caspase-3 was immunodetected in some myofibers surrounded by CD8+ lymphocytes. This is the first evidence that the collapse of myofibers attacked by T lymphocytes occurs by necrosis possibly due to damage of the sarcolemma. Caspase 3 is activated at least in some myofibers, but there was no evidence of a complete classical process of apoptosis.
Among receptors mediating serotonin actions in pain control, the 5-HT(7)R is of special interest because it is expressed by primary afferent fibers and intrinsic GABAergic and opioidergic interneurons within the spinal dorsal horn. Herein, we investigated whether GABA and/or opioids contribute to 5-HT(7)R-mediated control of neuropathic pain caused by nerve ligation. Acute administration of 5-HT(7)R agonists (AS-19, MSD-5a, E-55888) was found to markedly reduce mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia in rats with unilateral constriction injury to the sciatic nerve (CCI-SN). In contrast, mechanical hypersensitivity caused by unilateral constriction injury to the infraorbital nerve was essentially unaffected by these ligands. Further characterization of the anti-hyperalgesic effect of 5-HT(7)R activation by the selective agonist E-55888 showed that it was associated with a decrease in IL-1 mRNA overexpression in ipsilateral L4-L6 dorsal root ganglia and lumbar dorsal horn in CCI-SN rats. In addition, E-55888 diminished CCI-SN-associated increase in c-Fos immunolabeling in superficial laminae of the lumbar dorsal horn and the locus coeruleus, but increased c-Fos immunolabeling in the nucleus tractus solitarius and the parabrachial area in both control and CCI-SN rats. When injected intrathecally (i.t.), bicuculline (3 g i.t.), but neither phaclofen (5 g i.t.) nor naloxone (10 g i.t.), significantly reduced the anti-hyperalgesic effects of 5-HT(7)R activation (E-55888, 10 mg/kg s.c.) in CCI-SN rats. These data support the idea that 5-HT(7)R-mediated inhibitory control of neuropathic pain is underlain by excitation of GABAergic interneurons within the dorsal horn. In addition, 5-HT(7)R activation-induced c-Fos increase in the nucleus tractus solitarius and the parabrachial area suggests that supraspinal mechanisms might also be involved.
Adenosine receptors co-localize with dopamine receptors on medium spiny nucleus accumbens (NAc) neurons where they antagonize dopamine receptor activity. It remains unclear whether adenosine receptor stimulation in the NAc restores cocaine-induced enhancements in dopamine receptor sensitivity. The goal of these studies was to determine whether stimulating A(1) or A(2A) receptors in the NAc reduces the expression of cocaine sensitization. Rats were sensitized with 7 daily treatments of cocaine (15 mg/kg, i.p.). Following one-week withdrawal, the effects of intra-NAc microinjections of the adenosine kinase inhibitor (ABT-702), the adenosine deaminase inhibitor (deoxycoformycin; DCF), the specific A(1) receptor agonist (CPA) and the specific A(2A) receptor agonist (CGS 21680) were tested on the behavioral expression of cocaine sensitization. The results indicate that intra-NAc pretreatment of ABT-702 and DCF dose-dependently blocked the expression of cocaine sensitization while having no effects on acute cocaine sensitivity, suggesting that upregulation of endogenous adenosine in the accumbens is sufficient to non-selectively stimulate adenosine receptors and reverse the expression of cocaine sensitization. Intra-NAc treatment of CPA significantly inhibited the expression of cocaine sensitization, which was reversed by both A(1) and A(2A) receptor antagonism. Intra-NAc treatment of CGS 21680 also significantly inhibited the expression of cocaine sensitization, which was selectively reversed by A(2A), but not A(1), receptor antagonism. Finally, CGS 21680 also inhibited the expression of quinpirole cross-sensitization. Together, these findings suggest that adenosine receptor stimulation in the NAc is sufficient to reverse the behavioral expression of cocaine sensitization and that A(2A) receptors blunt cocaine-induced sensitization of postsynaptic D(2) receptors.

In several previous behavioral studies, we have identified a group of amnestic patients that, behaviorally, appear to exhibit severe deficits in recollection with relative preservation of familiarity-based recognition. However, these studies have relied exclusively on behavioral measures, rather than direct measures of physiology. Event-related potentials (ERPs) have been used to identify putative neural correlates of familiarity- and recollection-based recognition memory, but little work has been done to determine the extent to which these ERP correlates are spared in patients with relatively specific memory disorders. ERP studies of recognition in healthy subjects have indicated that recollection and familiarity are related to a parietal old-new effect characterized as a late positive component (LPC) and an earlier mid-frontal old-new effect referred to as an 'FN400', respectively. Here, we sought to determine the extent to which the putative ERP correlates of recollection and familiarity are intact or impaired in these patients. We recorded ERPs in three amnestic patients and six age matched controls while they made item recognition and source recognition judgments. The current patients were able to discriminate between old and new items fairly well, but showed nearly chance-level performance at source recognition. Moreover, whereas control subjects exhibited ERP correlates of memory that have been linked to recollection and familiarity, the patients only exhibited the mid-frontal FN400 ERP effect related to familiarity-based recognition. The results show that recollection can be severely impaired in amnesia even when familiarity-related processing is relatively spared, and they also provide further evidence that ERPs can be used to distinguish between neural correlates of familiarity and recollection.
There are few clues as to the neural basis of selective long-term amnesia. We report group and single-case data to shed light on this issue. In a group study of patients with transient epileptic amnesia, there were no significant correlations between volumetric measures of the hippocampus and indices of accelerated long-term forgetting or longer-term autobiographical memory loss. Post-mortem investigations in a patient with temporal lobe epilepsy who showed accelerated long-term forgetting, together with a degree of autobiographical memory loss, yielded evidence of neuronal loss and gliosis in regions of both the right and the left hippocampus. Neuronal loss and gliosis were more evident in anterior than posterior hippocampus. These results indicate that the unusual forms of long-term forgetting seen in some patients with temporal lobe epilepsy have no gross anatomical correlate. The findings leave open the possibilities that subtle structural damage or subtle functional disturbance, perhaps in the form of subclinical epileptiform activity, underly epilepsy-related long-term amnesia.
Recent cognitive research has revealed better source memory performance for familiar relative to novel stimuli. Here we consider two possible explanations for this finding. The source memory advantage for familiar stimuli could arise because stimulus novelty induces attention to stimulus features at the expense of contextual processing, resulting in diminished overall levels of contextual processing at study for novel (vs. familiar) stimuli. Another possibility is that stimulus information retrieved from long-term memory (LTM) provides scaffolding that facilitates the formation of item-context associations. If contextual features are indeed more effectively bound to familiar (vs. novel) items, the relationship between contextual processing at study and subsequent source memory should be stronger for familiar items. We tested these possibilities by applying multi-voxel pattern analysis (MVPA) to a recently collected functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) dataset, with the goal of measuring contextual processing at study and relating it to subsequent source memory performance. Participants were scanned with fMRI while viewing novel proverbs, repeated proverbs (previously novel proverbs that were shown in a pre-study phase), and previously known proverbs in the context of one of two experimental tasks. After scanning was complete, we evaluated participants' source memory for the task associated with each proverb. Drawing upon fMRI data from the study phase, we trained a classifier to detect on-task processing (i.e., how strongly was the correct task set activated). On-task processing was greater for previously known than novel proverbs and similar for repeated and novel proverbs. However, both within and across participants, the relationship between on-task processing and subsequent source memory was stronger for repeated than novel proverbs and similar for previously known and novel proverbs. Finally, focusing on the repeated condition, we found that higher levels of hippocampal activity during the pre-study phase, which we used as an index of episodic encoding, led to a stronger relationship between on-task processing at study and subsequent memory. Together, these findings suggest different mechanisms may be primarily responsible for superior source memory for repeated and previously known stimuli. Specifically, they suggest that prior stimulus knowledge enhances memory by boosting the overall level of contextual processing, whereas stimulus repetition enhances the probability that contextual features will be successfully bound to item features. Several possible theoretical explanations for this pattern are discussed.
It has been proposed that domain-specific regions in extrastriate cortex, parahippocampal cortex and the medial temporal lobe (MTL, particularly the hippocampus, HC, and perirhinal cortex, PrC) may respond differently to the degree of feature complexity present in sets of visual stimuli, with the latter two regions tuned to represent the differences among stimuli with a high degree of visual overlap or featural ambiguity (Graham, Barense, &amp; Lee, 2010; Cowell, Bussey, &amp; Saksida, 2010a). To test this prediction, healthy participants viewed blocks containing visually similar or visually different exemplars from four stimulus categories (scenes, faces, inanimate objects and animate objects). Independent functional regions of interest were identified in extrastriate and MTL regions that were preferentially responsive to one or more of these visual categories, and the main experimental data interrogated for any evidence of an interaction between visual category and degree of feature overlap. In PrC and posterior HC (PostHC) viewing sets of stimuli with a large number of overlapping features resulted in greater activity than blocks containing items that were more visually distinct. The opposite pattern was found in fusiform face area (FFA), parahippocampal place area (PPA) and lateral occipital complex (LOC). The increased response in the HC and PrC to high visual similarity was seen only for visual categories that effectively activate these regions (PrC-faces and objects; PostHC-scenes). This study confirms that regions throughout the visual ventral stream, parahippocampal cortex and MTL are engaged differentially by visual complexity, consistent with recent lesion experiments in which MTL damage affects discrimination and learning of, as well as recognition memory for, exemplars with a high degree of visual feature overlap.


Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a prevalent and often severely disabling illness with onset generally in childhood or adolescence. Although white matter deficits have been implicated in the neurobiology of OCD, few studies have been conducted in pediatric patients when the brain is still developing and have examined their functional correlates. In this study, 23 pediatric OCD patients and 23 healthy volunteers, between the ages of 9 and 17 years, matched for sex, age, handedness, and IQ, received a diffusion tensor imaging exam on a 3T GE system and a brief neuropsychological battery tapping executive functions. Patient symptom severity was assessed using the Children's Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (CY-BOCS). Patients with OCD exhibited significantly greater fractional anisotropy compared to matched controls in the left dorsal cingulum bundle, splenium of the corpus callosum, right corticospinal tract, and left inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus. There were no regions of significantly lower fractional anisotropy in patients compared to controls. Higher fractional anisotropy in the splenium was significantly correlated with greater obsession severity on the CY-BOCS in the subgroup of psychotropic drug-nave patients. Among patients, there was a significant association between greater fractional anisotropy in the dorsal cingulum bundle and better performance on measures of response inhibition and cognitive control. The overall findings suggest a pattern of greater directional coherence of white matter tracts in OCD very early in the course of illness, which may serve a compensatory mechanism, at least for response inhibition functions typically subserved by the cingulum bundle.
Previous studies suggest that central arginine vasopressin (AVP) signaling can inhibit the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. To test a role for the AVP V1A receptor in stress HPA axis habituation, adult male rats were exposed to 5 consecutive days of 3 h restraint with or without continuous intracerebroventricular infusion of the V1A receptor antagonist d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)AVP (10g/day). Assessment of neuropeptide expression and HPA output under basal conditions revealed no effects of V1A receptor antagonism in stress naive animals. Between the first and last day of restraint exposure, controls showed marked declines in ACTH and corticosterone responses, and maintained plasma concentrations of testosterone. In contrast, V1A receptor antagonized animals displayed significantly smaller declines in ACTH and corticosterone responses, and a decrease in plasma testosterone. Despite their reduced expression of HPA axis habituation, antagonized animals continued to show stress-induced increases in AVP mRNA in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and even higher levels of AVP expression in the medial amygdala relative to controls. The data leave open the nature and extent to which these and other AVP-containing pathways are recruited during repeated restraint, but nevertheless reveal a critical role for central V1A receptors in stress adaptation. As the effects of V1A receptor antagonism were restricted to the repeated restraint condition, we conclude that normal adaptation to stress involves a shift toward enhanced AVP utilization and/or V1A receptor signaling.
Dopamine is a critical mediator of instrumental reward seeking behavior and appears to have a particularly important role in motivating actions that require considerable effort. As with rewards, response costs can be evaluated in both absolute and relative terms. The current study investigated whether the extent to which instrumental performance is dependent on dopamine transmission is influenced by relative or absolute response cost. Three groups of rats were rewarded for lever pressing on different fixed ratio (FR) schedules that required 1 (FR-1), 10 (FR-10), or 20 (FR-20) presses for each food reward. Rats were then injected systemically with flupentixol, a dopamine receptor antagonist, or vehicle before testing all groups on an intermediate-cost (FR-10) schedule, such that only the relative cost of responding differed across groups. Rats experiencing an upshift in cost (group FR-1/FR-10) showed greater response suppression following flupentixol administration than rats experiencing no shift in cost (group FR-10/FR-10), whereas flupentixol treatment had no effect on rats experiencing a downshift in cost (group FR-20/FR-10). A second round of flupentixol tests was conducted using the rats' maintenance schedules, such that only absolute response costs differed across groups. Here, the pattern was reversed among the groups, in line with previous reports. Specifically, flupentixol had a stronger suppressive effect in group FR-20/FR-20 than in group FR-10/FR-10, and had no detectable effect in group FR-1/FR-1. These findings suggest that response costs are evaluated in both absolute and relative terms and that dopamine has a role in overcoming both kinds of cost.
Endogenous opioids, and in particular -opioid receptors, have been linked to hedonic and rewarding mechanisms engaged during palatable food intake. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of GSK1521498, a novel -opioid receptor antagonist, on food-seeking behavior and on binge-like eating of a highly preferred chocolate diet. Food seeking was measured in rats trained to respond for chocolate under a second-order schedule of reinforcement, in which prolonged periods of food-seeking behavior were maintained by contingent presentation of a reward-associated conditioned reinforcer. After reaching a stable baseline in both procedures, animals were treated with GSK1521498 (0.1, 1, and 3mg/kg; IP) or naltrexone (NTX, 0.1, 1, and 3mg/kg; SC). The binge eating model was characterized by four temporally contiguous phases: 1-h chow access, 2-h food deprivation, 10-min chow access, and 10-min access to either chocolate-flavoured food or standard chow. During training the rats developed binge-like hyperphagia of palatable food and anticipatory chow hypophagia (anticipatory negative contrast). Both compounds reduced binge-like palatable food hyperphagia. However, GSK1521498 reduced the impact of high hedonic value on ingestion more specifically than NTX, abolishing anticipatory chow hypophagia. GSK1521498 also dose-dependently reduced food seeking both before and after food ingestion, whereas NTX reduced food seeking only after food ingestion. Thus, while both drugs affected the hedonic value of the preferred food, GSK1521498 also directly decreased incentive motivation for chocolate. Selective -opioid receptor antagonism by GSK1521498 may have utility as a treatment for reducing maladaptive, palatability-driven eating behavior by reducing the motivational properties of stimuli that elicit the binge eating commonly associated with obesity.
Inhibitor of B kinase (IK) has historically been studied in the context of immune response and inflammation, but recent evidence demonstrates that IK activity is necessary and sufficient for regulation of neuronal function. Chronic social defeat stress of mice increases IK activity in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and this increase is strongly correlated to depression-like behaviors. Inhibition of IK signaling results in a reversal of chronic social defeat stress-induced social avoidance behavior. Here, we more completely define the role of IK in anxiety and depressive-like behaviors. Mice underwent stereotaxic microinjection of a herpes simplex virus expressing either green fluorescent protein, a constitutively active form of IK (IKca), or a dominant negative form of IK into the NAc. Of all three experimental groups, only mice expressing IKca show a behavioral phenotype. Expression of IKca results in a decrease in the time spent in the non-periphery zones of an open field arena and increased time spent immobile during a forced swim test. No baseline differences in sucrose preference were observed, but following the acute swim stress we noted a marked reduction in sucrose preference. To determine whether IK activity alters responses to other acute stressors, we examined behavior and spine morphology in mice undergoing an acute social defeat stress. We found that IKca enhanced social avoidance behavior and promoted thin spine formation. These data show that IK in NAc is a critical regulator of both depressive- and anxiety-like states and may do so by promoting the formation of immature excitatory synapses.
Trace amines (TAs) such as -phenylethylamine, p-tyramine, or tryptamine are biogenic amines found in the brain at low concentrations that have been implicated in various neuropsychiatric disorders like schizophrenia, depression, or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. TAs are ligands for the recently identified trace amine-associated receptor 1 (TAAR1), an important modulator of monoamine neurotransmission. Here, we sought to investigate the consequences of TAAR1 hypersignaling by generating a transgenic mouse line overexpressing Taar1 specifically in neurons. Taar1 transgenic mice did not show overt behavioral abnormalities under baseline conditions, despite augmented extracellular levels of dopamine and noradrenaline in the accumbens nucleus (Acb) and of serotonin in the medial prefrontal cortex. In vitro, this was correlated with an elevated spontaneous firing rate of monoaminergic neurons in the ventral tegmental area, dorsal raphe nucleus, and locus coeruleus as the result of ectopic TAAR1 expression. Furthermore, Taar1 transgenic mice were hyposensitive to the psychostimulant effects of amphetamine, as it produced only a weak locomotor activation and failed to alter catecholamine release in the Acb. Attenuating TAAR1 activity with the selective partial agonist RO5073012 restored the stimulating effects of amphetamine on locomotion. Overall, these data show that Taar1 brain overexpression causes hyposensitivity to amphetamine and alterations of monoaminergic neurotransmission. These observations confirm the modulatory role of TAAR1 on monoamine activity and suggest that in vivo the receptor is either constitutively active and/or tonically activated by ambient levels of endogenous agonist(s).
Atherosclerotic intracranial arterial stenosis is an important cause of stroke that is increasingly being treated with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stenting (PTAS) to prevent recurrent stroke. However, PTAS has been compared with medical management in a randomized trial (SAMMPRIS), where aggressive medical management was superior to PTAS with the use of the Wingspan stent system, however in our experience we have had good results and have experienced no complications with this therapy. In a retrospective, single-center study we enrolled seven consecutive patients with a symptomatic angiographically proven atherosclerotic intracranial arterial stenosis of the anterior and posterior circulation. All cases received adjuvant therapy (aspirin and clopidogrel or ticlopidine) before and after deployment of the device. The procedures were performed with the patient under general anesthesia. We use the Wingspan stent system. The occlusion site was middle cerebral artery (MCA) in three patients, proximal internal carotid artery (ICA) in one patient and vertebrobasilar artery in three patients. Primary interventional successful revascularization was achieved in all cases. Four patients had no residual stenosis, and the other three had 20%, 30% and 40% residual stenosis (Table 1). All patients showed a clinical improvement after stent deployment. No peri-interventional events or neurologic complications occurred directly related to the technique. Patency rate was 100% at the last examination in six cases, one case had a pre-occlusive stenosis, requiring angioplasty. No patients died during the follow-up period, and 100% of patients showed good functional outcome at three months (modified Rankin Scale score  2). Although the SAMMPRIS study showed that aggressive medical management was superior to PTAS, our results suggest that intracranial stenting is safe and effective, probably due to an extraordinary selection of candidates and to an exquisite technique.
Many personality theories link specific traits to the sensitivities of the neural systems that control approach and avoidance. But there is no consensus on the nature of these systems. Here we combine recent advances in economics and neuroscience to provide a more solid foundation for a neuroscience of approach/avoidance personality. We propose a two-stage integration of valuation (loss/gain) sensitivities with motivational (approach/avoidance/conflict) sensitivities. Our key conclusions are: (1) that valuation of appetitive and aversive events (e.g. gain and loss as studied by behavioural economists) is an independent perceptual input stage--with the economic phenomenon of loss aversion resulting from greater negative valuation sensitivity compared to positive valuation sensitivity; (2) that valuation of an appetitive stimulus then interacts with a contingency of presentation or omission to generate a motivational 'attractor' or 'repulsor', respectively (vice versa for an aversive stimulus); (3) the resultant behavioural tendencies to approach or avoid have distinct sensitivities to those of the valuation systems; (4) while attractors and repulsors can reinforce new responses they also, more usually, elicit innate or previously conditioned responses and so the perception/valuation-motivation/action complex is best characterised as acting as a 'reinforcer' not a 'reinforcement'; and (5) approach-avoidance conflict must be viewed as activating a third motivation system that is distinct from the basic approach and avoidance systems. We provide examples of methods of assessing each of the constructs within approach-avoidance theories and of linking these constructs to personality measures. We sketch a preliminary five-element reinforcer sensitivity theory (RST-5) as a first step in the integration of existing specific approach-avoidance theories into a coherent neuroscience of personality.
To test the application of Minkowski space-time (hyperspace) to brain function, the time-dependent inflection values required for a non-negative solution of (x2 + y2 + z2-c2t2) was solved for four functional cerebral spaces. The single electron orbit time for the cell membrane, the &quot;neuroquantal unit&quot; of 10(-20)J for the cell width, the frequency of the universal hydrogen emission (precession) line for cerebral length, and one-half of Planck's constant (the spin of particles constituting matter) for the thickness of the charges associated with the cell membrane potential were the primary solutions. These values may reflect the critical times (or frequencies) when operations shift from imaginary to real within the 4D human brain and could define the thresholds optimal for the transition between energy and matter.
Categorization is essential for survival, and it is a widely studied cognitive adaptation in humans and animals. An influential neuroscience perspective differentiates in humans an explicit, rule-based categorization system from an implicit system that slowly associates response outputs to different regions of perceptual space. This perspective is being extended to study categorization in other vertebrate species, using category tasks that have a one-dimensional, rule-based solution or a two-dimensional, information-integration solution. Humans, macaques, and capuchin monkeys strongly dimensionalize perceptual stimuli and learn rule-based tasks more quickly. In sharp contrast, pigeons learn these two tasks equally quickly. Pigeons represent a cognitive system in which the commitment to dimensional analysis and category rules was not strongly made. Their results may reveal the character of the ancestral vertebrate categorization system from which that of primates emerged. The primate results establish continuity with human cognition, suggesting that nonhuman primates share aspects of humans' capacity for explicit cognition. The emergence of dimensional analysis and rule learning could have been an important step in primates' cognitive evolution.
Dysregulation of pain neurocircuitry and neurochemistry has been increasingly recognized as playing a critical role in a diverse spectrum of diseases including migraine, fibromyalgia, depression, and PTSD. Evidence presented here supports the hypothesis that alcohol dependence is among the pathologies arising from aberrant neurobiological substrates of pain. In this review, we explore the possible influence of alcohol analgesia and hyperalgesia in promoting alcohol misuse and dependence. We examine evidence that neuroanatomical sites involved in the negative emotional states of alcohol dependence also play an important role in pain transmission and may be functionally altered under chronic pain conditions. We also consider possible genetic links between pain transmission and alcohol dependence. We propose an allostatic load model in which episodes of alcohol intoxication and withdrawal, traumatic stressors, and injury are each capable of dysregulating an overlapping set of neural substrates to engender sensory and affective pain states that are integral to alcohol dependence and comorbid conditions such as anxiety, depression, and chronic pain.
We describe how computational models can be useful to cognitive and behavioral neuroscience, and discuss some guidelines for deciding whether a model is useful. We emphasize that because instantiating a cognitive theory as a computational model requires specification of an explicit mechanism for the function in question, it often produces clear and novel behavioral predictions to guide empirical research. However, computational modeling in cognitive and behavioral neuroscience remains somewhat rare, perhaps because of misconceptions concerning the use of computational models (in particular, connectionist models) in these fields. We highlight some common misconceptions, each of which relates to an aspect of computational models: the problem space of the model, the level of biological organization at which the model is formulated, and the importance (or not) of biological plausibility, parsimony, and model parameters. Careful consideration of these aspects of a model by empiricists, along with careful delineation of them by modelers, may facilitate communication between the two disciplines and promote the use of computational models for guiding cognitive and behavioral experiments.
Through its early history, cognitive neuroscience largely followed a modular paradigm wherein high-level cognitive functions were mapped onto locally segregated brain regions. However, recent evidence drives a continuing shift away from modular theories of cognitive brain function, and toward theories which hold that cognition arises from the integrated activity of large-scale, distributed networks of brain regions. A growing consensus favors the fundamental concept of this new paradigm: the large-scale cognitive brain network, or neurocognitive network. This consensus was the motivation for Neurocognitive Networks 2010 (NCN 2010), a conference sponsored by the Cognitive Neuroscience Program of the National Science Foundation, organized by Drs. Steven Bressler and Craig Richter of Florida Atlantic University (FAU), and held at FAU in Boca Raton, FL on January 29-30, 2010. NCN 2010 gathered together some of today's leading investigators of neurocognitive networks. This paper serves to review their presentations as they relate to the paradigm of neurocognitive networks, as well as to compile the emergent themes, questions, and possible future research directions that arose from the conference.
Dysfunction in noradrenergic neurotransmission has long been theorized to occur in depressive disorders. The 2 adrenergic receptor (AR) family, as a group of key players in regulating the noradrenergic system, has been investigated for involvement in the neurobiology of depression and mechanisms of antidepressant therapies. However, a clear picture of the 2ARs in depressive disorders has not been established due to the existence of apparently conflicting findings in the literature. In this article, we report that a careful accounting of methodological differences within the literature can resolve the present lack of consensus on involvement of 2ARs in depression. In particular, the pharmacological properties of the radioligand (e.g. agonist versus antagonist) utilized for determining receptor density are crucial in determining study outcome. Upregulation of 2AR density detected by radiolabeled agonists but not by antagonists in patients with depressive disorders suggests a selective increase in the density of high-affinity conformational state 2ARs, which is indicative of enhanced G protein coupling to the receptor. Importantly, this high-affinity state 2AR upregulation can be normalized with antidepressant treatments. Thus, depressive disorders appear to be associated with increased 2AR sensitivity and responsiveness, which may represent a physiological basis for the putative noradrenergic dysfunction in depressive disorders. In addition, we review changes in some key 2AR accessory proteins in depressive disorders and discuss their potential contribution to 2AR dysfunction.
Signal transduction from the synapse to the nucleus subsequently involves transient increases in synaptic Ca2+, activation of CaM kinases, activation of the GTPase Ras, activation of the ERK mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway, and finally GSK3 inhibition and CREB-activation. Genetic studies in autism have identified mutations and copy number variations in a number of genes involved in this synapse to nucleus signaling path. In particular, a gain of function mutation in the CACNA1C gene, deletions and disruption of the SYNGAP1 gene, a copy number variation encompassing the MAPK3 gene and a duplication of YWHAE indicate that in a subset of autism patients the ERK cascade is inappropriately activated. Predicted functional consequences of this hyperactivation would be an increase in complexity of the dendritic tree, and via inhibition of GSK3, a delayed circadian phase. The latter effect indeed fits the frequent sleep disturbances observed in autistic patients. Interestingly, the sleep disturbances in bipolar disorder patients are frequently characterized as phase advanced. A selective evaluation of genetic mutations in bipolar patients indicates that the activity of the ERK cascade, at least in a subset of patients, presumably is hypoactive. Thus, with respect to the ERK pathway, autism and bipolar disorder seem each other's counter pole.

Pathogenic A-derived diffusible ligands (ADDLs) bind to post-synaptic targets, induce excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS) and stimulate tau hyperphosphorylation in cultured neurons. Recently, NbActiv4 medium was reported to increase neuron synapse densities in cultured hippocampal neurons. We aimed to investigate the effect of this novel medium on ADDL-induced toxicity. We found that ADDL-induced ROS was attenuated in cells cultured with NbActiv4. ADDL binding assay was performed in neurons cultured by different feeding conditions with NbActiv4. Feeding cells with 30% medium once a week, ADDL binding sites were abundant at days in vitro (DIV) 18. However, changing 50% medium once a week decreased ADDL binding about 80%. NbActiv4 produced about 40% more glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) positive astrocytes than the widely used hippocampal culture medium, neurobasal supplemented with B27 (neurobasal/B27). Astrocytes are reported to produce kinds of trophic factors including insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1). Consistently, when cultured with NbActiv4, neurons were sensitive to inhibitors of insulin/IGF-1 signaling in response to ADDL attack. Overall, this study supports the important role of astrocytes in neuroprotection and indicates that targeting astrocytes dysfunction may lead to new therapeutic strategies for Alzheimer's disease.
Cervical tuberculous lymphadenitis is sometimes difficult to differentiate from sarcoidosis. We treated 10 patients with cervical tuberculous lymphadenitis from April 2002 to December 2011. Their ages ranged from 42 to 78 years old (mean 63.2 years), and the male-to-female ratio was 4: 6. All patients presented to our hospital with the chief complaint of a cervical mass. All patients underwent open biopsy of the cervical lymph nodes, and 8 patients were diagnosed histopathologically as having cervical tuberculous lymphadenitis. In the remaining 2 patients, caseous necrosis could not be recognized histopathologically and they were diagnosed as having sarcoidosis. However 8 weeks later, the culture of the acid-fast bacilli turned positive, and the diagnosis was corrected to cervical tuberculous lymphadenitis. In our cases, the culture of acid-fast bacilli was positive in 6 out of 9 cases (66.7%), and TB-PCR was positive in 4 out of 9 cases (44.4%). These results show that sensitivity of individual tests is rather low. For the diagnosis of cervical tuberculous lymphadenitis, it is important to suspect this disease from the findings of the sedimentation rate, tuberculin test, and ultrasonography with fine needle aspiration cytology. On performing an open biopsy of the cervical lymph nodes in the suspected patients, it is essential to combine histopathological study, TB-PCR and the culture of the acid-fast bacilli simultaneously.


Social cognition is defined as the capacity to engage in information processing with the aim of accurate cognition of other persons' character or intentions. Development of social cognition can be observed in behavioral patterns. However, their neural basis remains largely unknown. A functional neuroimaging technique has enabled us to observe neural activities in the human brain noninvasively. First the principle and history of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), and its future perspective are introduced. As an example, presented is our attempt to apply simultaneous fMRI measurements of two individuals to elucidate the neural basis of joint attention, one of the most important behavioral milestones in the development of social cognition. Second, neural substrates of pro-social behavior are discussed. Specifically, it was found that social acceptance or praise is important for human altruistic behavior, and has a neural basis similar to that of basic reward or monetary reward. Lastly, I stress the importance of combining current and ongoing progress in neuroscience, from the 'micro' through 'macro' levels, with scholarship within the humanities. As a connecting node for the different research fields, functional neuroimaging techniques will play a critical for the ultimate goal of comprehensive understanding of human social cognition.
Alpha-synuclein (SNCA) gene expression is an important factor in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Gene multiplication can cause inherited PD, and promoter polymorphisms that increase SNCA expression are associated with sporadic PD. CpG methylation in the promoter region may also influence SNCA expression. By using cultured cells, we identified a region of the SNCA CpG island in which the methylation status altered along with increased SNCA expression. Postmortem brain analysis revealed regional non-specific methylation differences in this CpG region in the anterior cingulate and putamen among controls and PD; however, in the substantia nigra of PD, methylation was significantly decreased. This CpG region may function as an intronic regulatory element for the SNCA gene. Our findings suggest that a novel epigenetic regulatory mechanism controlling SNCA expression influences PD pathogenesis.
In this work, we report a case study of a stroke model in animals using two methods of quantification of the deviations from Gaussian behaviour: diffusion kurtosis imaging (DKI) and log-normal distribution function imaging (LNDFI). The affected regions were predominantly in grey rather than in white matter. The parameter maps were constructed for metrics quantifying the apparent diffusivity (evaluated from conventional diffusion tensor imaging, DKI and LNDFI) and for those quantifying the degree of deviations (mean kurtosis and a parameter  characterising the width of the distribution). We showed that both DKI and LNDFI were able to dramatically enhance the visualisation of ischaemic lesions in comparison with conventional methods. The largest relative change in the affected versus healthy regions was observed in the mean kurtosis values. The average changes in the mean kurtosis and  values in the lesions were a factor of two to three larger than the relative changes observed in the mean diffusivity. In conclusion, the applied methods promise valuable perspectives in the assessment of stroke.
Piwi proteins and Piwi-interacting small RNAs (piRNAs) have known functions in transposon silencing in the male germline of fetal and newborn mice. Both are also present in adult testes; however, their function here remains a mystery. Here, we confirm that most piRNAs in meiotic spermatocytes originate from clusters in non-repeat intergenic regions of DNA. The regulation of these piRNA clusters, including the processing of the precursor transcripts into individual piRNAs, is accomplished through mostly unknown processes. We present a possible regulatory mechanism for one such cluster, named cluster 1082B, located on chromosome 7 in the mouse genome. The 1082B precursor transcript and its 788 unique piRNAs are repressed by the Alkbh1 dioxygenase and the testis-specific transcription repressor Tzfp. We observe a remarkable &gt;1000-fold upregulation of individual piRNAs in pachytene spermatocytes isolated from Alkbh1- and Tzfp-deficient murine testes. Repression of cluster 1082B is further supported by the identification of a 10-bp Tzfp recognition sequence contained within the precursor transcript. Downregulation of LINE1 and IAP transcripts in the Alkbh1- and Tzfp-deficient mice leads us to propose a potential role for the 1082B-encoded piRNAs in transposon control.

The ability for endogenous pain control varies considerably among individuals. The mechanisms underlying this interindividual difference are incompletely understood. We used placebo analgesia as a classic model of endogenous pain modulation in combination with diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging to test the hypothesis of a structural predisposition for the individual capacity of endogenous pain control. Specifically we determined white matter integrity within and between regions of the descending pain modulatory system. Twenty-four healthy participants completed a placebo paradigm and underwent diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging. The individual placebo analgesic effect was correlated with white matter integrity indexed by fractional anisotropy. The individual placebo analgesic effect was positively correlated with FA in the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, left rostral anterior cingulate cortex, and the periaqueductal grey. Probabilistic tractography seeded in these regions showed that stronger placebo analgesic responses were associated with increased mean fractional anisotropy values within white matter tracts connecting the periaqueductal grey with pain control regions such as the rostral anterior cingulate cortex and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Our findings provide the first evidence that the white matter integrity within and between regions of the descending pain modulatory network is critically linked with the individual ability for endogenous pain control.
In this study, we assessed the effects of peripherally administered cannabinoids in an orofacial myositis model, and the role of sex hormones in cannabinoid receptor (CBR) expression in trigeminal ganglia (TG). Peripherally administered arachidonylcyclopropylamide (ACPA), a specific CB1R agonist, significantly attenuated complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-induced mechanical hypersensitivity in the masseter muscle in male rats. The ACPA effect was blocked by a local administration of AM251, a specific CB1R antagonist, but not by AM630, a specific CB2R antagonist. In female rats, a 30-fold higher dose of ACPA was required to produce a moderate reduction in mechanical hypersensitivity. CFA injected in masseter muscle significantly upregulated CB1R mRNA expression in TG in male, but not in female, rats. There was a close correlation between the CB1R mRNA levels in TG and the antihyperalgesic effect of ACPA. Interleukin (IL)-1 and IL-6, which are elevated in the muscle tissue following CFA treatment, induced a significant upregulation of CB1R mRNA expression in TG from male rats. The upregulation of CB1R was prevented in TG cultures from orchidectomized male rats, which was restored by the application of testosterone. The cytokines did not alter the CB1R mRNA level in TG from intact as well as ovariectomized female rats. Neither estradiol supplement nor estrogen receptor blockade had any effects on CB1R expression. These data indicate that testosterone, but not estradiol, is required for the regulation of CB1Rs in TG under inflammatory conditions, which provide explanations for the sex differences in the antihyperalgesic effects of peripherally administered cannabinoids.

Stress amelioration can improve its metabolic as well as other side effects. In the present study, the effects of hydro-alcoholic extract of Papver rhoeas (L.) on formalin-induced pain and inflammation were investigated in male Swiss-Webster mice (20-25 g). Formalin injects in the plantar portion of mice hind paw and pain was studied for 60 min. The plant extract and other drugs were administered intraperitoneally 30 min before formalin. Experiments showed that administration of extract (25, 50 and 100 mg kg(-1)) could induced analgesia in a dose-response manner in both phases of formalin test. More over, the extract inhibits inflammation induced by formalin injection. Naloxone (4 mg kg(-1)), dextromethorphan (20 mg kg(-1)) and NG-nitro-L-arginine-methylester (L-NAME; 10 mg kg(-1)) reduced the extract analgesia in first but not late phase. Extract administration also increased plasma corticosterone level in dose-dependent manner. It could be concluded that Papaver rhoeas (L.) extract could inhibits acute phase of formalin test in mice by opioidergic, glutamatergic and nitricergic mechanisms. In addition, the extract can induce corticosterone plasma level which may be responsible for inhibition of inflammation and chronic phase of pain induced by formalin.


Muscle spasticity in pediatric cerebral palsy limits movement and disrupts motor performance, thus its reduction is important in rehabilitation to optimize functional motor development. Our pilot study used repetitive peripheral magnetic stimulation, because this emerging technology influences spinal and cerebral synaptic transmission, and its antispastic effects were reported in adult neurologic populations. We tested whether five sessions of tibial and common peroneal nerve stimulation exerted acute and long-term effects on spasticity of the ankle plantar flexor muscles in five spastic diparetic children (mean age, 8 years and 3 months; standard deviation, 1 year and 10 months). Muscle resistance to fast stretching was measured with a manual dynamometer as a spasticity indicator. A progressive decrease was observed for the more impaired leg, reaching significance at the third session. This sustained reduction of spasticity may reflect that the peripheral stimulation improved the controls over the spinal circuitry. It thus suggests that a massive stimulation-induced recruitment of sensory afferents may be able to influence central nervous system plasticity in pediatric cerebral palsy.

Numerous studies utilizing drug self-administration have shown the importance of conditioned cues in maintaining and reinstating addictive behaviors. However, most used simple cues that fail to replicate the complexity of cues present in human craving and addiction. We have recently shown that music can induce behavioral and neurochemical changes in rats following classical conditioning with psychostimulants. However, such effects have yet to be characterized utilizing operant self-administration procedures, particularly with regard to craving and relapse. The goal of the present study was to validate the effectiveness of music as a contextual conditioned stimulus using cocaine in an operant reinstatement model of relapse. Rats were trained to lever press for cocaine with a musical cue, and were subsequently tested during reinstatement sessions to determine how musical conditioning affected drug seeking behavior. Additionally, in vivo microdialysis was used to determine basolateral amygdala involvement during reinstatement. Lastly, tests were conducted to determine whether the putative anti-addictive agent 18-methoxycoronaridine (18-MC) could attenuate cue-induced drug seeking behavior. Our results show that music-conditioned animals exhibited increased drug seeking behaviors when compared to controls during reinstatement test sessions. Furthermore, music-conditioned subjects exhibited increased extracellular dopamine in the basolateral amygdala during reinstatement sessions. Perhaps most importantly, 18-MC blocked musical cue-induced reinstatement. Thus,music can be a powerful contextual conditioned cue in rats, capable of inducing changes in both brain neurochemistry and drug seeking behavior during abstinence. The fact that 18-MC blocked cue-induced reinstatement suggests that 34 nicotinic receptors may be involved in the mechanism of craving, and that 18-MC may help prevent relapse to drug addiction in humans.
Estimation of model parameters is as important as model building, but is often neglected in model studies. Here we show that despite the existence of well known results on parameter estimation in a simple homogenous Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process, in most practical situations the methods suffer greatly from finite sample sizes and especially the estimator of the time constant of the system is degraded. Therefore an alternative solution is of paramount importance. We present such a solution based on perturbation of the system, observing trajectories far from equilibrium. The results are illustrated on computer experiments based on applications in neuroscience and pharmacokinetics, which show a striking improvement of the quality of estimation. The results are important for judicious designs of experiments to obtain maximal information from each data point, especially when samples are expensive or difficult to obtain.
Towards the end of the first trimester, blood flow and oxygenation rise within the placenta, supporting an increased capacity for mitochondrial oxidative metabolism in both the placenta and developing fetus. In this regard, the placenta acts uniquely as both a conduit of oxygen to the fetal circulation and a significant consumer of oxygen in order to support its own energy demands for the processes of nutrient transport and protein synthesis for hormone production and growth. When the supply of oxygen becomes restricted, for example during chronic exposure to hypobaric hypoxia at high altitude, placental and fetal tissues respond in order to optimise the allocation of oxygen between competing demands. In this case, the placenta appears to remodel its metabolism to decrease oxygen consumption, probably by increasing ATP production via glycolysis. This process can maintain oxygen supply to the fetus but is still associated with growth restriction. Oxidative stress, a feature of pre-eclampsia, might elicit similar metabolic changes in the absence of hypoxia. This review considers what is known about the metabolic response of the placenta and fetal tissues to hypoxia and oxidative stress, and suggests possible mechanisms that might underlie such metabolic remodelling using lessons from other tissues and organ systems. Aspects of the hypoxia response that remain to be addressed are highlighted and future studies suggested. Much remains unknown about the coordinated metabolic response of the fetal-placental unit to chronic hypoxia and oxidative stress, but it would appear to be more than a simple question of supply and demand.
Pregnancy is generally a co-operative interaction between mother and fetus in which the evolutionary genetic interests of both benefit from production of healthy offspring. While this view is largely supported by empirical data, Kinship Theory predicts that mother and fetus will disagree over the optimum level of maternal investment that maximises their respective fitnesses. This conflict will be more evident with polyandrous than monogamous mating systems, when resources are scarce and in late gestation when the fetus is growing maximally, particularly if conceptus mass is large relative to maternal mass. As the site of nutrient transfer, the placenta is pivotal in the tug-of-war between mother and fetus over resource allocation. It responds to both fetal signals of nutrient demand and maternal signals of nutrient availability and, by adapting its phenotype, regulates the distribution of available resources. These adaptations involve changes in placental size, morphology, transport characteristics, metabolism and hormone bioavailability. They are mediated by key growth regulatory, endocrine and nutrient supply genes responsive to mismatches between nutrient availability and the fetal genetic drive for growth. Indeed, evolution of genomic imprinting and placental secretion of hormones are believed to have been driven by maternal-fetal conflict over resource allocation. Although many of the specific mechanisms involved still have to be identified, the placenta confers optimal fitness on the offspring for its developmental environment by balancing conflict and cooperation in the allocation of resources through generation of nutrient transport phenotypes specific to the prevailing nutritional conditions and/or fetal genotype.

Complementary neuronal recordings and functional neuroimaging in human subjects show that the primary taste cortex in the anterior insula provides separate and combined representations of the taste, temperature and texture (including fat texture) of food in the mouth independently of hunger and thus of reward value and pleasantness. One synapse on, in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), these sensory inputs are for some neurons combined by learning with olfactory and visual inputs, and these neurons encode food reward in that they only respond to food when hungry, and in that activations correlate with subjective pleasantness. Cognitive factors, including word-level descriptions, and attention modulate the representation of the reward value of food in the OFC and a region to which it projects, the anterior cingulate cortex. Further, there are individual differences in the representation of the reward value of food in the OFC. It is argued that over-eating and obesity are related in many cases to an increased reward value of the sensory inputs produced by foods, and their modulation by cognition and attention that over-ride existing satiety signals. It is proposed that control of all rather than one or several of these factors that influence food reward and eating may be important in the prevention and treatment of overeating and obesity.
The brain governs food intake behaviour by integrating many different internal and external state and trait-related signals. Understanding how the decisions to start and to stop eating are made is crucial to our understanding of (maladaptive patterns of) eating behaviour. Here, we aim to (1) review the current state of the field of 'nutritional neuroscience' with a focus on the interplay between food-induced brain responses and eating behaviour and (2) highlight research needs and techniques that could be used to address these. The brain responses associated with sensory stimulation (sight, olfaction and taste), gastric distension, gut hormone administration and food consumption are the subject of increasing investigation. Nevertheless, only few studies have examined relations between brain responses and eating behaviour. However, the neural circuits underlying eating behaviour are to a large extent generic, including reward, self-control, learning and decision-making circuitry. These limbic and prefrontal circuits interact with the hypothalamus, a key homeostatic area. Target areas for further elucidating the regulation of food intake are: (eating) habit and food preference formation and modification, the neural correlates of self-control, nutrient sensing and dietary learning, and the regulation of body adiposity. Moreover, to foster significant progress, data from multiple studies need to be integrated. This requires standardisation of (neuroimaging) measures, data sharing and the application and development of existing advanced analysis and modelling techniques to nutritional neuroscience data. In the next 20 years, nutritional neuroscience will have to prove its potential for providing insights that can be used to tackle detrimental eating behaviour.
Feeding behaviour is crucial for the survival of an organism and is regulated by different brain circuits. Among these circuits the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system is implicated in the anticipation and motivation for food rewards. This system consists of the dopaminergic neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), and their projections to different cortico-limbic structures such as the nucleus accumbens and medial prefrontal cortex. While the importance of this system in motivational drive for different rewards, including drugs of abuse, has been clearly established, its role in energy balance remains largely unexplored. Evidence suggests that peripheral hormones such as leptin and ghrelin are involved in the anticipation and motivation for food and this might be partially mediated through their effects on the VTA. Yet, it remains to be determined whether these effects are direct effects of ghrelin and leptin onto VTA DA neurons, and to what extent indirect effects through other brain areas contribute. Elucidation of the role of leptin and ghrelin signalling on VTA DA neurons in relation to disruptions of energy balance might provide important insights into the role of this neural circuit in obesity and anorexia nervosa.
The objective of this non-systematic review of the literature is to highlight some of the neural systems and pathways that are affected by the various intake-promoting aspects of the modern food environment and explore potential modes of interaction between core systems such as hypothalamus and brainstem primarily receptive to internal signals of fuel availability and forebrain areas such as the cortex, amygdala and meso-corticolimbic dopamine system, primarily processing external signals. The modern lifestyle with its drastic changes in the way we eat and move puts pressure on the homoeostatic system responsible for the regulation of body weight, which has led to an increase in overweight and obesity. The power of food cues targeting susceptible emotions and cognitive brain functions, particularly of children and adolescents, is increasingly exploited by modern neuromarketing tools. Increased intake of energy-dense foods high in fat and sugar is not only adding more energy, but may also corrupt neural functions of brain systems involved in nutrient sensing as well as in hedonic, motivational and cognitive processing. It is concluded that only long-term prospective studies in human subjects and animal models with the capacity to demonstrate sustained over-eating and development of obesity are necessary to identify the critical environmental factors as well as the underlying neural systems involved. Insights from these studies and from modern neuromarketing research should be increasingly used to promote consumption of healthy foods.
In analogy with the accepted view that behaviour is shaped by geneenvironment (GE) interactions, GE studies are exponentially increasing in the field of psychiatry. Whereas research was primarily driven by the premature view that negative environmental stimuli can trigger psychopathology in those subjects that are genetically predisposed, a closer look at the available data shows that GE interactions are much more complex than initially thought. Here, we discuss GE studies focussing on serotonin transporter (5-HTT, SERT, SLC6A4) gene variation in humans, monkeys, and rodents. Recent studies, across species, confirm the theorized 'for-better-and-for-worse' effect of low activity serotonin transporter genotypes. In addition, while 5-HTTE interactions were thought to take place in early life, recent evidence illustrates that these interactions are also manifested in adulthood. Therefore, we discuss data based on 5-HTTE interactions, and propose a model in which predictive adaptive responses (PARs), as shaped by early life 5-HTTE interactions, shape responses to environmental challenges in later life, i.e. reflecting 5-HTTEE interactions.
Fatigue is a symptom associated with many disorders, is especially common in women and in older adults, and can have a huge negative influence on quality of life. Although most past research on fatigue uses human subjects instead of animal models, the use of appropriate animal models has recently begun to advance our understanding of the neurobiology of fatigue. In this review, results from animal models using immunological, developmental, or physical approaches to study fatigue are described and compared. Common across these animal models is that fatigue arises when a stimulus induces activation of microglia and/or increased cytokines and chemokines in the brain. Neurobiological studies implicate structures in the ascending arousal system, sleep executive control areas, and areas important in reward. In addition, the suprachiasmatic nucleus clearly plays an important role in homeostatic regulation of the neural network mediating fatigue. This nucleus responds to cytokines, shows decreased amplitude firing rate output in models of fatigue, and responds to exercise, one of our few treatments for fatigue. This is a young field but very important as the symptom of fatigue is common across many disorders and we do not have effective treatments.
Cellular reprogramming to neural cells is an area of ongoing study in developmental neuroscience, and recent research has generated remarkable achievements. Several studies have shown that the ectopic expression of specific neural transcription factors can convert terminally differentiated cells into neural cells. Here, we review the most recent progress in the field of induced neuronal (iN) cells and induced neural stem (iNS) cells and their potential clinical applications.
Clear associations of sleep, cognitive performance, and behavioral problems have been demonstrated in meta-analyses of studies in adults. This meta-analysis is the first to systematically summarize all relevant studies reporting on sleep, cognition, and behavioral problems in healthy school-age children (5-12 years old) and incorporates 86 studies on 35,936 children. Sleep duration shows a significant positive relation with cognitive performance (r = .08, confidence interval [CI] [.06, .10]). Subsequent analyses on cognitive subdomains indicate specific associations of sleep duration with executive functioning (r = .07, CI [.02, .13]), with performance on tasks that address multiple cognitive domains (r = .10, CI = [.05, .16]), and with school performance (r = .09, CI [.06, .12]), but not with intelligence. Quite unlike typical findings in adults, sleep duration was not associated with sustained attention and memory. Methodological issues and brain developmental immaturities are proposed to underlie the marked differences. Shorter sleep duration is associated with more behavioral problems (r = .09, CI [.07, .11]). Subsequent analyses on subdomains of behavioral problems showed that the relation holds for both internalizing (r = .09, CI [.06, .12]) and externalizing behavioral problems (r = .08, CI [.06, .11]). Ancillary moderator analyses identified practices recommended to increase sensitivity of assessments and designs in future studies. In practical terms, the findings suggest that insufficient sleep in children is associated with deficits in higher-order and complex cognitive functions and an increase in behavioral problems. This is particularly relevant given society's tendency towards sleep curtailment.










Prescription drug overdose is the leading cause of injury death in Ohio, as well as in 16 other states. Responding to the prescription drug epidemic is particularly challenging given the fragmentation of the health care system and that the consequences of addiction span across systems that have not historically collaborated. This case study reports on how Ohio is responding to the prescription drug epidemic by developing cross-system collaboration from local public health nurses to the Governor's office. In summary, legal and regulatory policies can be implemented relatively quickly whereas changing the substance abuse treatment infrastructure requires significant financial investments.



Over the last few years there have been a number of major breakthroughs in the development of stem cells for diseases of the CNS. One of these has been in the ability to reprogram adult somatic cells to a more pluripotent state as well as directly to neurons and, by so doing, use patient-derived cells to study disease. In addition, the capacity to engineer embryonic stem cells to defined neuronal fates in the absence of proliferative contaminant cells is now feasible, which opens up the possibility of using these cells for cell transplantation. In this review, we will discuss how these developments have come about, particularly in the context of Parkinson's disease, and what this means for the future of this whole field over the next few years.
Endothelin (ET)-1 has been implicated in a diverse range of signalling events in a wide variety of target tissues. Given its potent vasoactive function and the prevalence of hypertension in pre-eclampsia, there has been extensive research on the role of ET-1 in this disorder. Indeed, ET-1 has been suggested to contribute to hypertension in pre-eclampsia. Recently, ET-1 has also been implicated in the induction of both oxidative stress and endoplasmic reticulum stress in pre-eclampsia; each of which has been proposed to contribute to many of the clinical manifestations of this disorder. ET-1 has been shown to activate key signalling molecules that lead to induction of these stress pathways. The use of ET-receptor antagonists could block oxidative and endoplasmic reticulum stress. Hence, further research into the role of ET-1 in pre-eclampsia may lead to the development of possible strategies to circumvent these stress pathways and the associated pathology that occurs in pre-eclampsia. Endothelin (ET)-1 has been implicated in a diverse range of signalling events in a wide variety of target tissues. Given its potent vasoactive function and the prevalence of hypertension in pre-eclampsia, there has been extensive research on the role of ET-1 in this disorder. Indeed, ET-1 has been suggested to contribute to hypertension in pre-eclampsia. Recently, ET-1 has also been implicated in the induction of both oxidative stress and endoplasmic reticulum stress in pre-eclampsia, each of which has been proposed to contribute to many of the clinical manifestations of this disorder. ET-1 has been shown to activate key signalling molecules that lead to induction of these stress pathways. The use of ET-receptor antagonists could block oxidative and endoplasmic reticulum stress. Hence, further research into the role of ET-1 in pre-eclampsia may lead to the development of possible strategies to circumvent these stress pathways and the associated pathology that occurs in pre-eclampsia.
These two studies extended the evidence on the use of technology-based intervention packages to promote adaptive behavior in persons with acquired brain injury and multiple disabilities. Study I involved five participants in a minimally conscious state who were provided with intervention packages based on specific arrangements of optic, tilt, or pressure microswitches (linked to preferred environmental stimuli) and eyelid, toe and finger responses. Study II involved three participants who were emerging from a minimally conscious state and were provided with intervention packages based on computer presentations of stimulus options (i.e., preferred stimuli, functional caregiver's procedures, and non-preferred stimuli) and pressure microswitches to choose among them. Intervention data of Study I showed that the participants acquired relatively high levels of microswitch responding (thus engaging widely with preferred environmental stimuli) and kept that responding consistent except for one case. Intervention data of Study II showed that the participants were active in choosing among preferred stimuli and positive caregivers' procedures, but generally abstained from non-preferred stimuli. The results were discussed in terms of the successful use of fairly new/infrequent microswitch-response arrangements (Study I) and the profitable inclusion of functional caregiver's procedures among the options available to choice (Study II).
This longitudinal study compared the development of oral language and more specifically narrative skills (storytelling and story retelling) in children with specific language impairment (SLI) with and without literacy delay. Therefore, 18 children with SLI and 18 matched controls with normal literacy were followed from the last year of kindergarten (mean age=5 years 5 months) until the beginning of grade 3 (mean age=8 years 1 month). Oral language tests measuring vocabulary, morphology, sentence and text comprehension and narrative skills were administered yearly. Based on first and third grade reading and spelling achievement, both groups were divided into a group with and a group without literacy problems. Results showed that the children with SLI and literacy delay had persistent oral language problems across all assessed language domains. The children with SLI and normal literacy skills scored also persistently low on vocabulary, morphology and story retelling skills. Only on listening comprehension and storytelling, they evolved towards the level of the control group. In conclusion, oral language skills in children with SLI and normal literacy skills remained in general poor, despite their intact literacy development during the first years of literacy instruction. Only for listening comprehension and storytelling, they improved, probably as a result of more print exposure.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is a developmental disorder characterized by regression of purposeful hand skills and spoken language, although some affected children retain some ability to speech. We assessed the communicative abilities of five young girls, who were later diagnosed with the preserved speech variant of RTT, during the pre-regression period (aged 12-24 months). Videotapes, obtained by parents during routine family situations and celebrations, were analyzed to identify communicative forms and functions used by these toddlers. Non-verbal communicative forms dominated over verbal-communicative forms for six of the eight identified communication functions. Although the girls used various non-verbal forms to make requests, for example, none of the individuals were observed to make choices or request information. Early peculiarities in the speech-language domain during the first year of life became more prominent and evident during the second year of life as general differences between typical development and atypical development become more obvious in RTT. These findings highlight the importance of assessing socio-communicative forms and functions at early age in children with RTT. The results suggest that speech-language functions did not appear to play a major role in the children's communicative attempts. We conclude that, even among children with the preserved speech variant, socio-communicative deficits are present before regression and persist after this period.
We studied the gestures used by children with classic Rett syndrome (RTT) to provide evidence as to how this essential aspect of communicative functions develops. Seven participants with RTT were longitudinally observed between 9 and 18 months of life. The gestures used by these participants were transcribed and coded from a retrospective analysis of a video footage. Gestures were classified as deictic gestures, play schemes, and representational gestures. Results of the analysis showed that the majority of gestures observed were of deictic character. There were no gestures that could be classified as play schemes and only two (e.g., head nodding and waving bye bye) that were coded as representational or symbolic gestures. The overall repertoire of gestures, even though not necessarily delayed in it's onset, was characterized by little variability and a restricted pragmatic functionality. We conclude that the gestural abilities in girls with RTT appear to remain limited and do not constitute a compensatory mechanism for the verbal language modality.
This article reports two different studies examining the theoretical account of low-level deficits in beat perception as an alternative explanation of developmental dyslexia in Greek, an orthographically consistent language. Study I examined the relationship of amplitude rise time and frequency discrimination with measures of phonological processing, working memory, and reading fluency in a large unselected sample of Grade 4 children. Study II examined the presence of beat perception deficits in groups of Grade 2, 4, and 6 children with dyslexia and their chronological age controls. The results provided no evidence to support meaningful associations between beat perception tasks and reading or the theoretical account of beat perception deficits as a sufficient explanation or contributing factor to dyslexia. Implications on the importance of auditory processing in reading in orthographically consistent languages are discussed.

When does multiple sclerosis start? Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a major cause of disability in young adults. Its pathogenesis is not fully understood, although a large body of evidence suggests an autoimmune pattern. Autoreactive immune cells cross the blood-brain barrier to attack myelin and axons, thus leading to MS lesions. Considering the uncertainty concerning the mechanisms, however, it is hardly surprising that it is still not possible to pinpoint exactly when the disease starts. Yet, the question is of major importance for both patients and physicians. Faced with the impossibility of detecting the actual time of disease onset, the scientific community has nonetheless made great efforts to diagnose the disease as early as possible. In 1983, Poser defined relapsing-remitting MS as a chronic disease with at least two relapses. Further criteria (McDonald) allowed even earlier diagnosis. In the present review, which also includes three case reports, the earliest possible timepoint for making the MS diagnosis is discussed.
Clinical presentation of fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) is heterogeneous and often involves psychological comorbidities. Clinical subgrouping of FMS patients has been proposed as a strategy to improve patients' long-term outcomes by helping identify specific treatment needs. Using the 90 Symptom Checklist Revised (SCL-90-R), we have assessed emotional distress in two FMS patient subpopulations discriminated on the basis of their differences in scores on specific items of the Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ). Subjects classed as type II exhibited high emotional distress on all ten dimensions studied, which included somatization, obsessive-compulsive, interpersonal sensitivity, depression, anxiety, hostility, phobic anxiety, paranoid ideation, psychoticism, and additional items subscales, as well as on the global severity index (GSI), positive symptom total (PST), and positive symptom distress index (PDSI). T-scores in these patients were above diagnostic cutoff level of 60 on somatization, obsessive-compulsive, and depression subscales. In contrast, the profile exhibited by type I subjects fell entirely within normal values for nonpsychiatric population. Emotional status was significantly inversely correlated with present clinical pain in type I-, but not in type II-fibromyalgia patients. Regression analysis revealed a model based on phobic anxiety, paranoid ideation, and depression subscales as best contributing to classification. The present data suggest that associated psychological distress and maladaptive emotional responses that are commonly attributed to the general FMS population may be largely a distinguishing feature of one subset of patients.
Although the possibilities of antidepressive pharmacotherapy are continuously improving, the rate of nonresponders or partial responders is still relatively high. Suicidal behavior, the most tragic consequence of untreated or unsuccessfully treated depression, commonly observed in the first few weeks of antidepressive treatment before the onset of therapeutic action, is strongly related to certain symptoms of depression like insomnia. The present paper reviews the newly discovered and well-documented antidepressive effect of quetiapine in bipolar and unipolar depression with special focus on its early onset of action and its sleep-improving effects. Both beneficial effects play an important role in the reduction of suicidal risk frequently observed in depressed patients.

The N1 and the mismatch negativity (MMN) responses observed in electroencephalographic and magnetoencephalographic (MEG) recordings reflect sensory processing, sensory memory, and adaptation and are usually abnormal in patients with schizophrenia. However, their differential sensitivity to ultra-high-risk (UHR) status is controversial. The current study evaluated the sensitivity of MEG N1m, N1m adaptation, and magnetic counterpart of MMN (MMNm) in 16 UHR subjects, 15 schizophrenia patients, and 18 healthy controls (HCs) during a passive auditory oddball task. N1m adaptation was assessed using the difference in N1m dipole moment between the first and last standard tones in a standard stimulus sequence. N1m adaptation occurred in HCs, whereas neither the UHR nor the schizophrenia groups showed adaptation to the standard tone on repeated presentations. The UHR group had values between those for HCs and schizophrenia patients. Additionally, MMNm dipole moment was reduced in both the UHR and patient groups compared with HCs, whereas the UHR and schizophrenia groups did not differ from each other. These findings indicated that both N1m adaptation and MMNm were altered in UHR subjects and in schizophrenia patients, despite unaffected N1m dipole moment to the first standard tones. Moreover, both UHR and schizophrenia groups failed to show adaptation of the N1m to repeated standard tones. This failure in adaptation was more severe in patients than UHR subjects, suggesting that auditory adaptation may be sensitive to the progression of the illness and be an early biomarker of UHR for psychosis. Deficits in auditory sensory memory, on the other hand, may be similarly impaired in both groups.

The inhibitory co-receptor programmed death 1 (PD-1, encoded by pdcd1) and its two ligands PD-L1 and PD-L2 comprise an important immune inhibitory signaling pathway for defense against microbes and for self-tolerance. Unlike other members of the B7-CD28 family, expression of PD-L1 and PD-L2 is not limited to the immune system. In this study, we determined that a polyclonal antibody (pAb) (R&amp;D Systems) against extracellular domains of mouse PD-L2 (mPD-L2) could recognize antigen(s) in diverse mouse tissues, including the anterior and intermediate pituitary gland, olfactory bulbs and olfactory epithelium, tongue epithelium, keratinized epithelial cells and skin and whisker hair follicles. These findings differed from previous reports of mPD-L2 localization. Reverse transcription PCR and Western blot analyses, however, were unable to detect any mPD-L2 transcripts or proteins of the 25-kD predicted molecular weight in RNA and protein extracts, respectively, from the above tissues, suggesting that the anti-mPD-L2 pAb cross-reacts with certain novel antigen(s). Developmental studies revealed that the earliest expression of mPD-L2-like antigen was in the olfactory epithelium at embryonic day 12.5 (E12.5). At E14.5, mPD-L2-like antigen was present in the skin, tongue and follicles of the skin and whiskers. The distribution patterns of mPD-L2-like antigen remained similar from E18.5 to adulthood. The results of bioinformatic analysis and other experiments suggested neural cell adhesion molecule and hemicentin-1 as candidate proteins with cross-reactivity to the anti-mPD-L2 pAb. These results demonstrate that care is required in interpreting staining patterns generated when anti-PD-L2 pAb is used to locate PD-L2-expressing cells in the central nervous system and epithelial tissues, such as the olfactory epithelium. In addition, this anti-PD-L2 pAb may be used as an alternative antibody for labeling the olfactory epithelium during embryonic development in mice.
Born in Romania of Greek parents and raised in Trieste, Constantin von Economo was educated and influenced by Vienna's medical and scientific tradition. Better known for his description of encephalitis lethargica, a disease bearing his name, he made several contributions to as varied themes as the cytoarchitecture of the cerebral cortex, sleep regulation, evolutionary brain development and, outside medicine, in aviation. While still a student he showed an aptitude for meticulous accuracy and a skill in combining animal experiments with microanatomical techniques. Nurtured in the formidable environment of Viennese histology he produced a monumental account of the cytoarchitecture of the human cerebral cortex. This, in an attempt to correlate structure and function, was unique in its quality of accuracy and paved the way for subsequent achievements two decades later. Despite an untimely death at 55 years, he remains one of the most talented pioneers of modern neuroscience.





Psychopathy, a developmental disorder characterized by profound social disturbance, is associated with impaired recognition of distress cues. Since distress processing and moral socialization are closely linked, uncovering techniques to improve distress recognition could have positive treatment implications for developmental disorders that feature empathy impairments. Previous studies demonstrate that fear-recognition deficits can be remedied by redirecting attention to critical cues (the eyes for fearful faces). However, it remains unclear whether this manipulation increases activity in empathy-related brain regions, or has an alternate compensatory effect that may not promote prosocial behaviours. In this fMRI study, a community sample of individuals with high vs low callous traits completed an emotion recognition task that varied whether the most or least socially meaningful facial features were visible (the eyes were isolated or occluded). For fearful faces, individuals with high callous traits showed significantly less amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex activity than those with low callous traits when the eyes were occluded, but not when they were isolated. Consistent with recent models of the amygdala that emphasize orientation to disambiguate stimuli rather than represent distress, individuals with low trait empathy showed greater amygdala activity to the least vs most socially meaningful features of fearful faces.
Studies investigating theory of mind (ToM) abilities (i.e. ability to understand and predict others' mental states) have revealed that affective and cognitive functions play a significant role and that each of those functions are associated with distinct neural networks. Cognitive facets of ToM have implicated the medial prefrontal cortex, temporo-parietal junction and the anterior paracingulate cortex, whereas affective facets have implicated the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC). Although the vmPFC has repeatedly shown to be critical for affective functions, knowledge regarding the exact role of the left and right vmPFC in affective ToM is still obscure. Here, we compared performances of 30 patients with left, right and bilateral vmPFC lesions to two comparison groups (one without and one with brain injuries) on the Faux Pas Recognition task measuring the facets of ToM. We also investigated whether any deficits may be associated with other emotional measures, namely emotional empathy and emotional intelligence. Our results extend earlier findings by showing that the vmPFC is associated with abilities in affective ToM. More importantly, our results revealed that the left, and not the right vmPFC as indicated previously, is involved in affective ToM and that this deficit is associated with emotional intelligence.


Elder immigrants face multiple barriers to accessing health care and other basic services. The Community Ambassador Program for Seniors (CAPS), based in Fremont, California, trains volunteer &quot;ambassadors&quot; from several ethnic and faith communities to perform information and referral services for elders, particularly immigrants. The purpose of this study is to examine the roles of ambassadors in ecologic context as community health workers (CHWs) for clients undergoing late-life acculturation. Ambassadors from three different communities, all of South Asian heritage, were interviewed using a semi-structured guide. 20 out of 23 ambassadors from these communities participated, from December 2008 to December 2009. Data collection and analysis followed grounded theory methodology. Results are presented as an integrated explanatory model, with three major components: (1) acculturative stress, particularly within elders' families; (2) polygonal relationships, a construct that includes elders, their caregivers, CHWs, and service providers, and builds on the notion of a &quot;geriatric triad&quot; (Adelman, Greene, &amp; Charon, 1987); and (3) role hybridity, a novel explanation for CHWs' social niche. Ambassadors mediated elder clients' acculturation both inside and outside elders' families. As such, ambassadors worked in polygonal relationships with elder clients and elders' children, rather than simply working in dyads with elder clients themselves. In the CAPS context, this polygonal framework integrates intra-familial and extra-familial acculturative dynamics into a single relational model. Within these relationships, CHWs exhibited hybridity of social roles, integrating familial and professional attributes, but fully achieving neither familial nor professional status. Practical implications, including importance of outreach to elders' children, accessibility of social programs, and the consequences of role hybridity as a property of CHW identity and function, are discussed.

Traditional models of brain diseases have had limited success in driving candidate drugs into successful clinical translation. This has resulted in large international pharmaceutical companies moving out of neuroscience research. Cells are not brains, obviously, but new patient-derived stem models have the potential to elucidate cell biological aspects of brain diseases that are not present in worm, fly, or rodent models, the work horses of disease investigations and drug discovery. Neural stem cells are present in the olfactory mucosa, the organ of smell in the nose. Patient-derived olfactory mucosa has demonstrated disease-associated differences in a variety of brain diseases and recently olfactory mucosa stem cells have been generated from patients with schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease, and familial dysautonomia. By comparison with cells from healthy controls, patient-derived olfactory mucosa stem cells show disease-specific alterations in gene expression and cell functions including: a shorter cell cycle and faster proliferation in schizophrenia, oxidative stress in Parkinson's disease, and altered cell migration in familial dysautonomia. Olfactory stem cell cultures thus reveal patient-control differences, even in complex genetic diseases such as schizophrenia and Parkinson's disease, indicating that multiple genes of small effect can converge on shared cell signaling pathways to present as a disease-specific cellular phenotype. Olfactory mucosa stem cells can be maintained in homogeneous cultures that allow robust and repeatable multiwell assays suitable for screening libraries of drug candidate molecules.
Although high amounts of reactive oxygen species (ROS) can damage cells, ROS can also play roles as second messengers, regulating diverse cellular processes. Here, we report that embryonic mouse cerebral cortical neural progenitor cells (NPCs) exhibit intermittent spontaneous bursts of mitochondrial superoxide (SO) generation (mitochondrial SO flashes) that require transient opening of membrane permeability transition pores (mPTP). This quantal SO production negatively regulates NPC self-renewal. Mitochondrial SO scavengers and mPTP inhibitors reduce SO flash frequency and enhance NPC proliferation, whereas prolonged mPTP opening and SO generation increase SO flash incidence and decrease NPC proliferation. The inhibition of NPC proliferation by mitochondrial SO involves suppression of extracellular signal-regulated kinases. Moreover, mice lacking SOD2 (SOD2-/- mice) exhibit significantly fewer proliferative NPCs and differentiated neurons in the embryonic cerebral cortex at midgestation compared with wild-type littermates. Cultured SOD2-/- NPCs exhibit a significant increase in SO flash frequency and reduced NPC proliferation. Taken together, our findings suggest that mitochondrial SO flashes negatively regulate NPC self-renewal in the developing cerebral cortex.
The floor plate is one of the major organizers of the developing nervous system through its secretion of sonic hedgehog (Shh). Although the floor plate is located within the neural tube, the derivation of the floor plate during development is still debatable and some studies suggest that floor plate cells are specified by Shh in a temporarily restricted window different to neuroepithelial cells. Using human embryonic stem cells (hESC) as a model of neurogenesis, we sought to determine how floor plate cells may be temporarily specified by SHH signaling during human embryogenesis. We found that inhibition of both GSK3 and activin/nodal pathways in hESC induces a cellular state of SOX2+/PAX6- expression, we describe as &quot;pre-neuroepithelial.&quot; Exposure of SHH during this pre-neuroepithelial period causes the expression of GLI transcription factors to function as activators and consequently upregulate expression of the floor plate marker, FOXA2, while also supressing PAX6 expression to inhibit neuroepithelial fate. FOXA2+ cells were able to efficiently generate mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons, a floor plate derivative. Overall, this study demonstrates a highly efficient system for generating floor plate cells from hESC and, most importantly, reveals that specification of floor plate cells is temporally dependent, whereby it occurs prior to the onset of PAX6 expression, within a pre-neuroepithelial stage.




Although there has been considerable research conducted regarding the long-term effects of prenatal exposure to nicotine, there has been little examination of how this experience influences brain development. This study was designed to examine if there are morphological changes (dendritic branching, dendritic length, and spine density) in medial prefrontal cortex, orbital frontal cortex, parietal cortex, and nucleus accumbens associated with exposure to nicotine during gestation. Nicotine or saline was administered to pregnant Long Evans dams for the duration of pregnancy. Golgi-Cox techniques were used to examine neuroanatomy of offspring at postnatal day 21. The dendritic changes identified in rats exposed to nicotine prenatally resembled neuroanatomical changes that are identified in rats administered with nicotine in adulthood. Of the 18 anatomical parameters measured, 11 exhibited significant modification, with two parameters apical and basilar spine density in parietal cortex demonstrating sex-dependent modification. These early changes in anatomy and behavior have important implications for later plasticity and long-term well-being.
Preliminary investigation of the radioiodinated (S,S)-reboxetine analogue, (123) I-INER, in baboons showed this tracer to have promise for imaging the noradrenaline transporter (NAT) using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). More recently, the radioiodinated (R,S)-stereoisomer of (123) I-INER, (123) I-NKJ64, has been synthesized and preliminary evaluation in rats has been reported. This article reports the brain distribution and pharmacokinetic properties of (123) I-NKJ64 in baboons and compares results with (123) I-INER data in the same species. SPECT studies were conducted in two ovariectomized adult female baboons using two different protocols: (1) bolus of (123) I-INER or (123) I-NKJ64; and (2) bolus plus constant infusion of (123) I-NKJ64 with reboxetine (2.0 mg/kg) administration at equilibrium. Following bolus injection, both radiotracers rapidly and avidly entered the baboon brain. The regional brain accumulation of (123) I-NKJ64 did not match the known distribution of NAT in baboon brain, contrasting with previous results obtained in rats. Conversely, the regional distribution of (123) I-INER was consistent with known distribution of NAT in baboon brain. No displacement of (123) I-NKJ64 was observed following administration of reboxetine. This contrasts with previous data obtained for (123) I-INER, where 60% of specific binding was displaced by a lower dose of reboxetine. These data suggest that (123) I-NKJ64 may lack affinity and selectivity for NAT in baboon brain and (123) I-INER is the most promising iodinated reboxetine analogue developed to date for in vivo imaging of NAT in brain using SPECT. This study highlights the importance of species differences during radiotracer development and the stereochemical configuration of analogues of reboxetine in vivo.

Norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (NRIs) acutely increase norepinephrine (NE) levels, but therapeutic antidepressant activity is only observed after weeks of treatment because central NE levels progressively increase during continued drug exposure. Similarly, while NRIs acutely increase blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR) due to enhanced sympathetic neurotransmission, chronic treatment changes the responsiveness of the central noradrenergic system and suppresses these effects via autonomic regulation. To better understand the relationship between NE increases and cardiovascular safety, we investigated acute and chronic effects of the NRI reboxetine on central NE release and on BP and HR and electrical alternans, a measure of arrhythmia liability, in guinea pigs. NE release was assessed by microdialysis in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN); BP and HR were measured by telemetry. Animals were treated for 28 days with 15 mg/kg/day of reboxetine or vehicle via an osmotic minipump and then challenged with acute intravenous doses of reboxetine. Animals chronically treated with reboxetine had 2-fold higher extracellular basal NE levels in mPFC and PVN compared to basal levels after chronic vehicle treatment. BP was significantly increased after the first day of treatment, and gradually returned to vehicle levels by day 21. These data indicate that chronic NRI treatment may lead to an increase in central NE levels and a concomitant reduction in BP based on exposure-response curves compared to vehicle treatment, suggesting a larger separation between preclinical estimates of efficacy vs. safety compared to acute NRI treatment.
Research on Caenorhabditis elegans has led to the discovery of the consequences of mutation in myosin, its associated proteins, and the extracellular matrix-membrane cytoskeleton complex. Key results include understanding thick filament structure and assembly, the regulation of sarcomeric protein turnover, and the organization of thick and thin filaments into ordered sarcomeres. These results are critical to studies of cardiovascular diseases such as the cardiomyopathies, congenital septal defects, aneurysms of the thoracic aorta, and cardiac remodeling in heart failure.
The 'faculty psychology' approach to the mind, which attempts to explain mental function in terms of categories that reflect modular 'faculties', such as emotions, cognitions, and perceptions, has dominated research into the mind and its physical correlates. In this paper, we argue that brain organization does not respect the commonsense categories belonging to the faculty psychology approach. We review recent research from the science of emotion demonstrating that the human brain contains broadly distributed functional networks that can each be re-described as basic psychological operations that interact to produce a range of mental states, including, but not limited to, anger, sadness, fear, disgust, and so on. When compared to the faculty psychology approach, this 'constructionist' approach provides an alternative functional architecture to guide the design and interpretation of experiments in cognitive neuroscience.
Optimal feedback control (OFC) provides a powerful tool to interpret voluntary motor control, highlighting the importance of sensory feedback in the control and planning of movement. Recent studies in the context of OFC have increasingly used mechanical perturbations and visual shifts to probe voluntary control processes. These studies reveal the surprising sophistication of corrective responses, which are goal-directed and exhibit knowledge of the physical properties of the limb and the environment. These complex feedback processes appear to be generated through transcortical feedback pathways. The research reviewed here opens and enhances several lines of discovery, including testing whether feedback corrections share all of the attributes associated with voluntary control, identifying how prediction influences optimal state estimation, and importantly, how these voluntary control processes are generated by the highly distributed circuitry within the brain.
The skeletal muscle ryanodine receptor isoform 1 (RyR1) is a calcium release channel involved in excitation-contraction coupling, the process whereby an action potential is translated to a cytoplasmic Ca(2+) signal that activates muscle contraction. Dominant and recessive mutations in RYR1 cause a range of muscle disorders, including malignant hyperthermia and several forms of congenital myopathies. Many aspects of disease pathogenesis in ryanodinopathies remain uncertain, particularly for those myopathies due to recessive mutations. A thorough understanding of the ryanodine receptor macromolecular complex and its interactions with proteins and small molecular modulators is an essential starting point from which to investigate disease mechanisms.
Proper development of the central nervous system (CNS) requires the establishment of appropriate connections between neurons. Recent work suggests that this process is controlled by a balance between synaptogenic molecules and proteins that negatively regulate synapse formation and plasticity. Surprisingly, many of these newly identified synapse-limiting molecules are classic 'immune' proteins. In particular, major histocompatibility complex class I (MHCI) molecules regulate neurite outgrowth, the establishment and function of cortical connections, activity-dependent refinement in the visual system, and long-term and homeostatic plasticity. This review summarizes our current understanding of MHCI expression and function in the CNS, as well as the potential mechanisms used by MHCI to regulate brain development and plasticity.
The tail of the ventral tegmental area (tVTA), also named the rostromedial tegmental nucleus (RMTg), is a recently defined midbrain structure considered to exert a major inhibitory drive on dopamine systems. In view of its connectivity, tVTA is well placed to convey salient positive and negative signals to dopamine cells and participate in adaptative behavioral responses. This structure could act as a hub converging and integrating widespread multimodal signals toward dopamine systems. The tVTA participates in prediction error, motor control, and responses to aversive stimuli and drugs of abuse. In light of the crucial role of the tVTA in the opiate control of dopamine activity, a neuroanatomical update of the disinhibition model of morphine action is proposed.
An exciting new line of research that investigates the impact of one's own hands on visual perception and attention has flourished in the past several years. Specifically, several studies have demonstrated that the nearness of one's hands can modulate visual perception, visual attention, and even visual memory. These studies together shed new light on how the brain prioritizes certain information to be processed first. This review first outlines the recent progress that has been made to uncover various characteristics of the nearby-hand effect, including how they may be transferred to a familiar tool. We then summarize the findings into four specific characteristics of the nearby-hand effect, and conclude with a possible neural mechanism that may account for all the findings.





Susumu Tonegawa is a Japanese molecular biologist who won the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine in 1987 for his discovery of &quot;the genetic principle for generation of antibody diversity&quot;. Susumu Tonegawa is also famous for his important contributions on neuroscience, who explored the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying learning and memory. In this article, the life and research on Susumu Tonegawa was introduced.



Echinomycin is a small-molecule inhibitor of hypoxia- inducible factor-1 DNA-binding activity, which plays a crucial role in ovarian ovulation in mammalians. The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1-mediated endothelin (ET)-2 expressions contributed to ovarian ovulation in response to human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) during gonadotropin-induced superuvulation. By real-time RT-PCR analysis, ET-2 mRNA level was found to significantly decrease in the ovaries after echinomycin treatment, while HIF-1 mRNA and protein expression was not obviously changed. Further analysis also showed that these changes of ET-2 mRNA were consistent with HIF-1 activity in the ovaires, which is similar with HIF-1 and ET-2 expression in the granulosa cells with gonadotropin and echinomycin treatments. The results of HIF-1 and ET-2 expression in the granulosa cells transfected with cis-element oligodeoxynucleotide (dsODN) under gonadotropin treatment further indicated HIF-1 directly mediated the transcriptional activation of ET-2 during gonadotropin- induced superuvulation. Taken together, these results demonstrated that HIF-1-mediated ET-2 transcriptional activation is one of the important mechanisms regulating gonadotropin-induced mammalian ovulatory precess in vivo.
Mindfulness meditation is a set of attention-based, regulatory, and self-inquiry training regimes. Although the impact of mindfulness training (MT) on self-regulation is well established, the neural mechanisms supporting such plasticity are poorly understood. MT is thought to act through interoceptive salience and attentional control mechanisms, but until now conflicting evidence from behavioral and neural measures renders difficult distinguishing their respective roles. To resolve this question we conducted a fully randomized 6 week longitudinal trial of MT, explicitly controlling for cognitive and treatment effects with an active-control group. We measured behavioral metacognition and whole-brain blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signals using functional MRI during an affective Stroop task before and after intervention in healthy human subjects. Although both groups improved significantly on a response-inhibition task, only the MT group showed reduced affective Stroop conflict. Moreover, the MT group displayed greater dorsolateral prefrontal cortex responses during executive processing, consistent with increased recruitment of top-down mechanisms to resolve conflict. In contrast, we did not observe overall group-by-time interactions on negative affect-related reaction times or BOLD responses. However, only participants with the greatest amount of MT practice showed improvements in response inhibition and increased recruitment of dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, medial prefrontal cortex, and right anterior insula during negative valence processing. Our findings highlight the importance of active control in MT research, indicate unique neural mechanisms for progressive stages of mindfulness training, and suggest that optimal application of MT may differ depending on context, contrary to a one-size-fits-all approach.
Apoptosis is an essential cellular process in multiple diseases and a major pathway for neuronal death in neurodegeneration. The detailed signaling events/pathways leading to apoptosis, especially in neurons, require further elucidation. Here we identify a -amyloid precursor protein (APP)-interacting protein, designated as appoptosin, whose levels are upregulated in brain samples from Alzheimer's disease and infarct patients, and in rodent stroke models, as well as in neurons treated with -amyloid (A) and glutamate. We further demonstrate that appoptosin induces reactive oxygen species release and intrinsic caspase-dependent apoptosis. The physiological function of appoptosin is to transport/exchange glycine/5-amino-levulinic acid across the mitochondrial membrane for heme synthesis. Downregulation of appoptosin prevents cell death and caspase activation caused by glutamate or A insults. APP modulates appoptosin-mediated apoptosis through interaction with appoptosin. Our study identifies appoptosin as a crucial player in apoptosis and a novel pro-apoptotic protein involved in neuronal cell death, providing a possible new therapeutic target for neurodegenerative disorders.
Mutations in the CACNA1A gene are associated with neurological disorders, such as ataxia, hemiplegic migraine, and epilepsy. These mutations affect the pore-forming (1A)-subunit of Ca(V)2.1 channels and thereby either decrease or increase neuronal Ca(2+) influx. A decreased Ca(V)2.1-mediated Ca(2+) influx has been shown to reduce the regularity of cerebellar Purkinje cell activity and to induce episodic cerebellar ataxia. However, little is known about how ataxia can be caused by CACNA1A mutations that increase the Ca(2+) influx, such as the S218L missense mutation. Here, we demonstrate that the S218L mutation causes a negative shift of voltage dependence of Ca(V)2.1 channels of mouse Purkinje cells and results in lowered thresholds for somatic action potentials and dendritic Ca(2+) spikes and in disrupted firing patterns. The hyperexcitability of Cacna1a(S218L) Purkinje cells was counteracted by application of the activators of Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) channels, 1-EBIO and chlorzoxazone (CHZ). Moreover, 1-EBIO also alleviated the irregularity of Purkinje cell firing both in vitro and in vivo, while CHZ improved the irregularity of Purkinje cell firing in vitro as well as the motor performance of Cacna1a(S218L) mutant mice. The current data suggest that abnormalities in Purkinje cell firing contributes to cerebellar ataxia induced by the S218L mutation and they advocate a general therapeutic approach in that targeting Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) channels may be beneficial for treating ataxia not only in patients suffering from a decreased Ca(2+) influx, but also in those suffering from an increased Ca(2+) influx in their Purkinje cells.
Variation in sequencing of actions occurs in many natural behaviors, yet how such variation is maintained is poorly understood. We investigated maintenance of sequence variation in adult Bengalese finch song, a learned skill with rendition-to-rendition variation in the sequencing of discrete syllables (i.e., syllable &quot;b&quot; might transition to &quot;c&quot; with 70% probability and to &quot;d&quot; with 30% probability). We found that probabilities of transitions ordinarily remain stable but could be modified by delivering aversive noise bursts following one transition (e.g., &quot;bc&quot;) but not the alternative (e.g., &quot;bd&quot;). Such differential reinforcement induced gradual, adaptive decreases in probabilities of targeted transitions and compensatory increases in alternative transitions. Thus, the normal stability of transition probabilities does not reflect hardwired premotor circuitry. While all variable transitions could be modified by differential reinforcement, some were less readily modified than others; these were cases that exhibited more alternation between possible transitions than predicted by chance (i.e., &quot;bd &quot; would tend to follow &quot;bc &quot; and vice versa). These history-dependent transitions were less modifiable than more stochastic transitions. Similarly, highly stereotyped transitions (which are completely predictable) were not modifiable. This suggests that stochastically generated variability is crucial for sequence modification. Finally, we found that, when reinforcement ceased, birds gradually restored transition probabilities to their baseline values. Hence, the nervous system retains a representation of baseline probabilities and has the impetus to restore them. Together, our results indicate that variable sequencing in a motor skill can reflect an end point of learning that is stably maintained via continual self-monitoring.
The axons of spinal projection neurons transmit sensory information to the brain by ascending within highly organized longitudinal tracts. However, the molecular mechanisms that control the sorting of these axons within the spinal cord and their directed growth to poorly defined targets are not understood. Here, we show that an interplay between Robo and the cell adhesion molecule, N-cadherin, sorts spinal commissural axons into appropriate longitudinal tracts within the spinal cord, and thereby facilitates their brain targeting. Specifically, we show that d1 and d2 spinal commissural axons join the lateral funiculus within the spinal cord and target the cerebellum in chick embryos, and that these axons contribute to the spinocerebellar projection in transgenic reporter mice. Disabling Robo signaling or overexpressing N-cadherin on these axons prevents the formation of the lateral funiculus and the spinocerebellar tract, and simultaneously perturbing Robo and N-cadherin function rescues both phenotypes in chick embryos. Consistent with these observations, disabling Robo function in conditional N-cadherin knock-out mice results in a wild-type-like lateral funiculus. Together, these findings suggest that spinal projection axons must be sorted into distinct longitudinal tracts within the spinal cord proper to project to their brain targets.
Neural systems that identify and respond to salient stimuli are critical for survival in a complex and changing environment. In addition, interindividual differences, including genetic variation and hormonal and metabolic status likely influence the behavioral strategies and neuronal responses to environmental challenges. Here, we examined the relationship between leptin allelic variation and plasma leptin levels with DAD2/3R availability in vivo as measured with [(11)C]raclopride PET at baseline and during a standardized pain stress challenge. Allelic variation in the leptin gene was associated with varying levels of dopamine release in response to the pain stressor, but not with baseline D2/3 receptor availability. Circulating leptin was also positively associated with stress-induced dopamine release. These results show that leptin serves as a regulator of neuronal function in humans and provides an etiological mechanism for differences in dopamine neurotransmission in response to salient stimuli as related to metabolic function. The capacity for leptin to influence stress-induced dopaminergic function is of importance for pathological states where dopamine is thought to play an integral role, such as mood, substance-use disorders, eating disorders, and obesity.
Motor cortical neurons are activated during movement preparation and execution, and in response to task-relevant visual cues. A few studies also report activation before the expected presentation of cues. Here, we study specifically this anticipatory activity preceding visual cues in motor cortical areas. We recorded the activity of 1215 neurons in the motor cortex of two macaque monkeys while they performed a center-out reaching task, including two consecutive delays of equal duration, known in advance. During the first delay (D1), they had to await the spatial cue and only reach to the cued target after the second delay (D2). Forty-two percent of the neurons displayed anticipatory activity during D1. Among these anticipatory neurons, 59% increased (D1up) their activity and the remaining decreased (D1down) their activity. By classifying the neurons according to these firing rate profiles during D1, we found that the activity during D2 differed in a systematic way. The D1up neurons were more likely to discharge phasically soon after the spatial cue and were less active during movement execution, whereas the D1down neurons showed the opposite pattern. But, regardless of their temporal activity profiles, the two categories seemed equally involved in early and late motor preparation, as reflected in their directional selectivity. This precue activity in motor cortex may reflect two complementary, coexisting processes: the facilitation of incoming spatial information in parallel with the downregulation of corticospinal excitability to prevent a premature response.
The cerebellum has been implicated in processing motor errors required for on-line control of movement and motor learning. The dominant view is that Purkinje cell complex spike discharge signals motor errors. This study investigated whether errors are encoded in the simple spike discharge of Purkinje cells in monkeys trained to manually track a pseudorandomly moving target. Four task error signals were evaluated based on cursor movement relative to target movement. Linear regression analyses based on firing residuals ensured that the modulation with a specific error parameter was independent of the other error parameters and kinematics. The results demonstrate that simple spike firing in lobules IV-VI is significantly correlated with position, distance, and directional errors. Independent of the error signals, the same Purkinje cells encode kinematics. The strongest error modulation occurs at feedback timing. However, in 72% of cells at least one of the R(2) temporal profiles resulting from regressing firing with individual errors exhibit two peak R(2) values. For these bimodal profiles, the first peak is at a negative  (lead) and a second peak at a positive  (lag), implying that Purkinje cells encode both prediction and feedback about an error. For the majority of the bimodal profiles, the signs of the regression coefficients or preferred directions reverse at the times of the peaks. The sign reversal results in opposing simple spike modulation for the predictive and feedback components. Dual error representations may provide the signals needed to generate sensory prediction errors used to update a forward internal model.
How similar are the brains of listeners who hear the same content expressed in different languages? We directly compared the fMRI response time courses of English speakers and Russian speakers who listened to a real-life Russian narrative and its English translation. In the translation, we tried to preserve the content of the narrative while reducing the structural similarities across languages. The story evoked similar brain responses, invariant to the structural changes across languages, beginning just outside early auditory areas and extending through temporal, parietal, and frontal cerebral cortices. The similarity of responses across languages was nearly equal to the similarity of responses within each language group. The present results demonstrate that the human brain processes real-life information in a manner that is largely insensitive to the language in which that information is conveyed. The methods introduced here can potentially be used to quantify the transmission of meaning across cultural and linguistic boundaries.
Mortality following subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) is high, especially within the first 48 h. Poor outcome is predicted by high intracranial pressure which causes diminished cerebral perfusion pressure unless a compensatory increase in mean arterial blood pressure occurs. Therefore blood pressure elevation can be protective following subarachnoid haemorrhage despite the potential for rebleeding. This study investigated blood pressure responses to SAH and the impact on cerebral perfusion pressure and outcome, as demonstrated by two experimental models. Various blood pressure responses were demonstrated, both at the ictus and within the following 5h. Elevated MABP at the ictus and at 2h following experimental SAH was associated with maintenance of CPP in the presence of raised ICP. Poor outcome (arrest of the cerebral circulation) was predicted by failure of MABP to increase significantly above sham levels within 2h of SAH. Rat SAH provides relatively inexpensive models to investigate physiological mechanisms that maintain cerebral perfusion in the presence of intracranial hypertension.
The oldest-old are the fastest growing segment of the Western population. Over half of the oldest-old will have dementia, but the etiology is yet unknown. Age is the only risk factor consistently associated with dementia in the oldest-old. Many of the risk and protective factors for dementia in the young elderly, such as ApoE genotype, physical activity, and healthy lifestyle, are not relevant for the oldest-old. Neuropathology is abundant in the oldest-old brains, but specific pathologies of Alzheimer's disease (AD) or vascular dementia are not necessarily correlated with cognition, as in younger persons. It has been suggested that accumulation of both AD-like and vascular pathologies, loss of synaptic proteins, and neuronal loss contribute to the cognitive decline observed in the oldest-old. Several characteristics of the oldest-old may confound the diagnosis of dementia in this age group. A gradual age-related cognitive decline, particularly in executive function and mental speed, is evident even in non-demented oldest-old. Hearing and vision losses, which are also prevalent in the oldest-old and found in some cases to precede/predict cognitive decline, may mechanically interfere in neuropsychological evaluations. Difficulties in carrying out everyday activities, observed in the majority of the oldest-old, may be the result of motor or physical dysfunction and of neurodegenerative processes. The oldest-old appear to be a select population, who escapes major illnesses or delays their onset and duration toward the end of life. Dementia in the oldest-old may be manifested when a substantial amount of pathology is accumulated, or with a composition of a variety of pathologies. Investigating the clinical and pathological features of dementia in the oldest-old is of great importance in order to develop therapeutic strategies and to provide the most elderly of our population with good quality of life.
In multiple sclerosis, microglia/macrophage activation and astrocyte reactivity are important components of the lesion environment that can impact remyelination. The current study characterizes these glial populations relative to expression of candidate regulatory molecules in cuprizone demyelinated corpus callosum. Importantly, periods of recovery after acute or chronic cuprizone demyelination are examined to compare conditions of efficient versus limited remyelination, respectively. Microglial activation attenuates after early demyelination. In contrast, astrocyte reactivity persists throughout demyelination and a 6-week recovery period following either acute or chronic demyelination. This astrocyte reaction is characterized by (a) early proliferation, (b) increased expression of GFAP (glial fibrillary acidic protein), Vim (vimentin), Fn1 (fibronectin) and CSPGs (chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans) and (c) elaboration of a dense network of processes. Glial processes elongated in the axonal plane persist throughout lesion areas during both the robust remyelination that follows acute demyelination and the partial remyelination that follows chronic demyelination. However, prolonged astrocyte reactivity with chronic cuprizone treatment does not progress to barrier formation, i.e. dense compaction of astrocyte processes to wall off the lesion area. Multiple candidate growth factors and inflammatory signals in the lesion environment show strong correlations with GFAP across the acute cuprizone demyelination and recovery time course, yet there is more divergence across the progression of chronic cuprizone demyelination and recovery. However, differential glial scar formation does not appear to be responsible for differential remyelination during recovery in the cuprizone model. The astrocyte phenotype and lesion characteristics in this demyelination model inform studies to identify triggers of non-remyelinating sclerosis in chronic multiple sclerosis lesions.

Neural fields are spatially continuous state variables described by integro-differential equations, which are well suited to describe the spatiotemporal evolution of cortical activations on multiple scales. Here we develop a multi-resolution approximation (MRA) framework for the integro-difference equation (IDE) neural field model based on semi-orthogonal cardinal B-spline wavelets. In this way, a flexible framework is created, whereby both macroscopic and microscopic behavior of the system can be represented simultaneously. State and parameter estimation is performed using the expectation maximization (EM) algorithm. A synthetic example is provided to demonstrate the framework.

Traumatic experiences and subsequent symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) have been shown to affect brain structure and function. Although police officers are routinely exposed to traumatic events, the neurobehavioral effects of trauma in this population have rarely been studied. In this study, police officers with exposure to trauma-related stressors underwent structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). They also provided valence and arousal ratings of neutral and negative (trauma-related) picture stimuli. Relationships were examined among PTSD symptom scores (avoidance, reexperiencing, and hyperarousal), picture ratings, structural MRI measures, and number of trauma exposures. We hypothesized that greater PTSD symptomatology would be related to higher valence and arousal ratings of trauma-related stimuli and to decreased volume of limbic and Basal ganglia structures. Results revealed that officers with higher reexperiencing scores tended to have higher arousal ratings of negative pictures and reduced amygdala, thalamus, and globus pallidus volumes. There was a trend toward higher reexperiencing and reduced hippocampal volume. The frequency of traumatic exposures was also related to MRI measures of atrophy and to increased PTSD symptomatology. These findings suggest that chronic reexperiencing of traumatic events may result in volumetric reductions in brain structures associated with autonomic arousal and the acquisition of conditioned fear.
We review the evidence for relationships between metabolic activity of cortical, subcortical and limbic brain regions in depression and the efficacy of antidepressant agents. The influence of these regions can be described by an algebraic equation, N=H/(M+R), where N represents a homeostatic level of executive function, H represents prefrontal (Brodmann areas 9, 10, 11, 12; 46) and cingulate cortex activity (24, 25; 32), M represents subcortical (hippocampus, parahippocampal gyrus) influences, and R represents limbic (amygdala) influences. This hypothesis is based on depressed prefrontal cortex and enhanced amygdala and hippocampal metabolism in major depressive disorder, and the remission of these changes by most antidepressant interventions. The therapeutic efficacy of antidepressant strategies may depend less on their presumptive molecular mechanisms of action and more on their ability to restore the predominant metabolic and executive functions of the prefrontal cortex, and dampen excessive subcortical and limbic influences.
Hair pulling disorder (trichotillomania) affects at least 3.7 million people in the United States and results in marked functional impairment. This article reviews empirical research investigating the genetics and neurobiology of hair pulling disorder (HPD). We also discuss recent advances in the characterization of this phenotype which have led to evidence supporting the existence of at least two disparate pulling styles-automatic and focused pulling. These pulling styles exhibit facets of behavioral processes, impulsivity and compulsivity, characteristic of several classes of disorders (e.g., obsessive-compulsive spectrum disorders, impulse control disorders). Available genetic, neurobiological, and clinical data support the importance of impulsivity for conceptualizing HPD. Impulsivity alone is insufficient to fully understand this complex phenotype. Characterizations of both automatic and focused pulling as well as preliminary findings from affective neuroscience across species highlight the importance of compulsivity for understanding HPD. Opposing and complementary aspects to impulsivity-compulsivity provide a more comprehensive conceptualization of HPD and supports HPD's potential importance for advancing scientific inquiry in relation to the pathogenesis and treatment of related phenotypes. This review concludes with a description of areas-phenotype, neurobiology, and genes-in need of further study.


Elucidating patterns of neuronal connectivity has been a challenge for both clinical and basic neuroscience. Electrophysiology has been the gold standard for analyzing patterns of synaptic connectivity, but paired electrophysiological recordings can be both cumbersome and experimentally limiting. The development of optogenetics has introduced an elegant method to stimulate neurons and circuits, both in vitro(1) and in vivo(2,3). By exploiting cell-type specific promoter activity to drive opsin expression in discrete neuronal populations, one can precisely stimulate genetically defined neuronal subtypes in distinct circuits(4-6). Well described methods to stimulate neurons, including electrical stimulation and/or pharmacological manipulations, are often cell-type indiscriminate, invasive, and can damage surrounding tissues. These limitations could alter normal synaptic function and/or circuit behavior. In addition, due to the nature of the manipulation, the current methods are often acute and terminal. Optogenetics affords the ability to stimulate neurons in a relatively innocuous manner, and in genetically targeted neurons. The majority of studies involving in vivo optogenetics currently use a optical fiber guided through an implanted cannula(6,7); however, limitations of this method include damaged brain tissue with repeated insertion of an optical fiber, and potential breakage of the fiber inside the cannula. Given the burgeoning field of optogenetics, a more reliable method of chronic stimulation is necessary to facilitate long-term studies with minimal collateral tissue damage. Here we provide our modified protocol as a video article to complement the method effectively and elegantly described in Sparta et al.(8) for the fabrication of a fiber optic implant and its permanent fixation onto the cranium of anesthetized mice, as well as the assembly of the fiber optic coupler connecting the implant to a light source. The implant, connected with optical fibers to a solid-state laser, allows for an efficient method to chronically photostimulate functional neuronal circuitry with less tissue damage(9) using small, detachable, tethers. Permanent fixation of the fiber optic implants provides consistent, long-term in vivo optogenetic studies of neuronal circuits in awake, behaving mice(10) with minimal tissue damage.

Smoking during pregnancy has been shown to be detrimental for the developing fetus. The effects of active and passive maternal smoking on umbilical cord serum levels of vitamin A and vitamin E were examined. Secondary measures included anthropometric parameters in the newborn. Maternal and umbilical cord serum levels of vitamins A and E were measured at delivery. The mothers were assigned to three groups: non-smoking (n 12); passive smoking (n 13); active smoking (n 18). Based on multivariate linear regressions, active smoking during pregnancy was associated with increased umbilical cord serum levels of vitamin A and vitamin E. While enhanced circulating levels of vitamin A in cord blood were also found in non-smoking mothers exposed to tobacco smoke during pregnancy, those of vitamin E were not influenced. Further, an inverse association between smoking behaviour during pregnancy and birth length was observed, with shortest length in active smokers followed by passive smoking mothers. Active and passive maternal smoking behaviour during pregnancy increases the fetal demand for antioxidant compounds in order to counteract the oxidative burden by cigarette smoke. Against this background, the observed increase in umbilical cord serum levels of vitamins A and E may subserve antioxidative processes in response to tobacco smoke-induced oxidative stress. This would reduce the availability of vitamins A and E for fetal maturation, which is critical inasmuch as both compounds are indispensable for the developing fetus. However, due to the cross-sectional nature of our observation, this line of reasoning definitely requires validation in cause-effect experiments in the future.
In this study we applied the General Linear Convolution Model to fast optical signals (FOS). We modeled the Impulse Response Function (IRF) as a rectangular function lasting 30ms, with variable time delay with respect to the stimulus onset. Simulated data confirmed the feasibility of this approach and its capability of detecting simulated activations in case of very unfavorable Signal to Noise Ratio (SNR), providing better results than the grand average method. The model was tested in a cohort of 10 healthy volunteers who underwent to hemi-field visual stimulation. Experimental data quantified the IRF time delay at 80-100ms after the stimulus onset, in agreement with classical visual evoked potential literature and previous optical imaging studies based on grand average approach and a larger number of trails. FOS confirmed the expected contralateral activation in the occipital region. Correlational analysis between hemodynamic intensity signal, phase and intensity FOS supports diffusive rather than optical absorption changes associated with neuronal activity in the activated cortical volume. Our study provides a feasible method for detecting fast cortical activations by means of FOS.
Neuroimaging methods with enhanced spatial resolution such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI) suggest that the subcortical striatum plays a critical role in human reward processing. Analysis of FMRI data requires several preprocessing steps, some of which entail tradeoffs. For instance, while spatial smoothing can enhance statistical power, it may also bias localization towards regions that contain more gray than white matter. In a meta-analysis and reanalysis of an existing dataset, we sought to determine whether spatial smoothing could systematically bias the spatial localization of foci related to reward anticipation in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). An activation likelihood estimate (ALE) meta-analysis revealed that peak ventral striatal ALE foci for studies that used smaller spatial smoothing kernels (i.e. &lt;6mm FWHM) were more anterior than those identified for studies that used larger kernels (i.e. &gt;7mm FWHM). Additionally, subtraction analysis of findings for studies that used smaller versus larger smoothing kernels revealed a significant cluster of differential activity in the left relatively anterior NAcc (Talairach coordinates: -10, 9, -1). A second meta-analysis revealed that larger smoothing kernels were correlated with more posterior localizations of NAcc activation foci (p&lt;0.015), but revealed no significant associations with other potentially relevant parameters (including voxel volume, magnet strength, and publication date). Finally, repeated analysis of a representative dataset processed at different smoothing kernels (i.e., 0-12mm) also indicated that smoothing systematically yielded more posterior activation foci in the NAcc (p&lt;0.005). Taken together, these findings indicate that spatial smoothing can systematically bias the spatial localization of striatal activity. These findings have implications both for historical interpretation of past findings related to reward processing and for the analysis of future studies.
Animal models of predator defense distinguish qualitatively different behavioral modes that are activated at increasing levels of predation threat. A defense mode observed at intermediate threat levels is freezing: a cessation of locomotion that is characterized by a parasympathetically dominated autonomic nervous system response that causes heart rate deceleration, or fear bradycardia. Studies in rodents have shown that freezing depends on amygdalar projections to the periaqueductal grey (PAG). In humans, freezing-like behaviors are implicated in development and maintenance of psychopathology, but neural mechanisms underlying freezing or its characteristic autonomic response profile have not been identified. Here, we combined event-related blood oxygenation level-dependent functional MRI (BOLD-fMRI) with autonomic response measures in a picture viewing paradigm to probe activity and interconnectivity within the amygdala-PAG pathway and test for an association with parasympathetic as opposed to sympathetic activation. In response to negatively arousing pictures, we observed parasympathetic (bradycardia) and sympathetic (pupil dilation) autonomic responses, BOLD responses in the amygdala and PAG, and effective connectivity between these regions. Critically, BOLD responses in the PAG to negative pictures correlated on a trial-by-trial basis with bradycardia but not pupil dilation. This correlation with bradycardia remained significant when partialling out pupil dilation. Additionally, activity in regions associated with motor planning and inhibition mirrored the PAG response. Thus, our findings implicate the human PAG in a parasympathetically dominated defense mode that subserves a state of attentive immobility. Mechanistic insight into this qualitatively distinct defense mode may importantly advance translational models of anxiety disorders.
The extrastriate body area (EBA) is located in the lateral occipito-temporal cortex, in the vicinity of the motion-sensitive region hMT/V5+. To investigate the relationship of EBA to the recently mapped retinotopic areas of the MT/V5 cluster (Kolster et al., 2010), we evaluated the proportion of voxels responsive to the presentation of static human bodies (EBA voxels) in each of the four areas of the MT/V5 cluster and neighboring LO and phPIT areas. We evaluated this proportion as both a function of the number of voxels in a given area and the total number of voxels in a broader lateral occipito-temporal cortex (LOTC) ROI. We observed that each of the four retinotopic areas of the MT/V5 cluster includes substantial fractions of EBA voxels, in contrast to the LO and phPIT areas. This proportion was slightly greater in the right than left hemisphere, and did not depend on the control condition. While most EBA voxels in MT/V5 were only body-sensitive, those in pMSTv and pFST were also motion-sensitive. The main locus of EBA voxels outside the MT/V5 cluster was in the LOTC cortex just rostral to the MT/V5 cluster. Although this region contained more EBA voxels than the MT/V5 cluster, the proportion as a function of areal size was much reduced compared to the MT/V5 cluster. Our results show that EBA is not a single cortical area as EBA voxels are located in all four areas of the MT/V5 cluster, and that body-sensitivity is a key feature of the MT/V5 cluster, in keeping with its exquisite sensitivity to observed actions of others.
Investigating how intrathoracic pressure changes affect cerebral blood flow (CBF) is important for a clear interpretation of neuroimaging data in patients with abnormal respiratory physiology, intensive care patients receiving mechanical ventilation and in research paradigms that manipulate intrathoracic pressure. Here, we investigated the effect of experimentally increased and decreased intrathoracic pressures upon CBF and the stimulus-evoked CBF response to visual stimulation. Twenty healthy volunteers received intermittent inspiratory and expiratory loads (plus or minus 9cmH(2)O for 270s) and viewed an intermittent 2Hz flashing checkerboard, while maintaining stable end-tidal CO(2). CBF was recorded with transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD) and whole-brain pseudo-continuous arterial spin labeling magnetic resonance imaging (PCASL MRI). Application of inspiratory loading (negative intrathoracic pressure) showed an increase in TCD-measured CBF of 4% and a PCASL-measured increase in grey matter CBF of 5%, but did not alter mean arterial pressure (MAP). Expiratory loading (positive intrathoracic pressure) did not alter CBF, while MAP increased by 3%. Neither loading condition altered the perfusion response to visual stimulation in the primary visual cortex. In both loading conditions localized CBF increases were observed in the somatosensory and motor cortices, and in the cerebellum. Altered intrathoracic pressures, whether induced experimentally, therapeutically or through a disease process, have possible significant effects on CBF and should be considered as a potential systematic confound in the interpretation of perfusion-based neuroimaging data.
A major unanswered question in neuroscience is whether there exists genomic variability between individual neurons of the brain, contributing to functional diversity or to an unexplained burden of neurological disease. To address this question, we developed a method to amplify genomes of single neurons from human brains. Because recent reports suggest frequent LINE-1 (L1) retrotransposition in human brains, we performed genome-wide L1 insertion profiling of 300 single neurons from cerebral cortex and caudate nucleus of three normal individuals, recovering &gt;80% of germline insertions from single neurons. While we find somatic L1 insertions, we estimate &lt;0.6 unique somatic insertions per neuron, and most neurons lack detectable somatic insertions, suggesting that L1 is not a major generator of neuronal diversity in cortex and caudate. We then genotyped single cortical cells to characterize the mosaicism of a somatic AKT3 mutation identified in a child with hemimegalencephaly. Single-neuron sequencing allows systematic assessment of genomic diversity in the human brain.
ABSTRACT: INTRODUCTION: Critically ill ICU patients commonly develop severe muscle wasting and impaired muscle function, leading to delayed recovery, with subsequent increased morbidity and financial costs, and decreased quality of life for survivors. Critical illness myopathy (CIM) is a frequently observed neuromuscular disorder in ICU patients. Sepsis, systemic corticosteroid hormone treatment and post-synaptic neuromuscular blockade have been forwarded as the dominating triggering factors. Recent experimental results from our group using a unique experimental rat ICU model show that the mechanical silencing associated with CIM is the primary triggering factor. This study aims to unravel the mechanisms underlying CIM, and to evaluate the effects of a specific intervention aiming at reducing mechanical silencing in sedated and mechanically ventilated ICU patients. METHODS: Muscle gene/protein expression, post-translational modifications (PTMs), muscle membrane excitability, muscle mass measurements, and contractile properties at the single muscle fiber level were explored in seven deeply sedated and mechanically ventilated ICU patients (not exposed to systemic corticosteroid hormone treatment, post-synaptic neuromuscular blockade or sepsis) subjected to unilateral passive mechanical loading for 10 hours per day (2.5 hours, four times) for 9  1 days. RESULTS: These patients developed a phenotype considered pathognomonic of CIM; that is, severe muscle wasting and a preferential myosin loss (P &lt; 0.001). In addition, myosin PTMs specific to the ICU condition were observed in parallel with an increased sarcolemmal expression and cytoplasmic translocation of neuronal nitric oxide synthase. Passive mechanical loading for 9  1 days resulted in a 35% higher specific force (P &lt; 0.001) compared with the unloaded leg, although it was not sufficient to prevent the loss of muscle mass. CONCLUSION: Mechanical silencing is suggested to be a primary mechanism underlying CIM; that is, triggering the myosin loss, muscle wasting and myosin PTMs. The higher neuronal nitric oxide synthase expression found in the ICU patients and its cytoplasmic translocation are forwarded as a probable mechanism underlying these modifications. The positive effect of passive loading on muscle fiber function strongly supports the importance of early physical therapy and mobilization in deeply sedated and mechanically ventilated ICU patients.
Nectins belong to a family of immunoglobulin (Ig)-like cell-adhesion molecules comprising four members, nectin-1 through nectin-4. Nectins are involved in formation of the mechanical adhesive puncta adherentia junctions of synapses. Nectins share the same overall structural topology with an extracellular region containing three Ig modules, a transmembrane region, and a cytoplasmic region. In nectin-1, the first and second Ig module in the extracellular region are necessary for the trans-interaction with nectin-3 and formation of cis-dimers, respectively. The function of the third Ig module of nectin-1 remains unknown. We here report the structure in solution of the third, membrane-proximal Ig module of mouse nectin-1 (nectin-1 Ig3) solved by means of nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. It belongs to the C1 set of the Ig superfamily. Nectin-1 Ig3 was produced as a recombinant protein and induced neurite outgrowth in primary cultures of hippocampal and cerebellar granule neurons, an effect abolished by treatment with the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) inhibitor SU5402, or by transfection with a dominant-negative FGFR1 construct. We showed by surface plasmon resonance (SPR) analysis that nectin-1 Ig3 directly interacted with various isoforms of FGFR. Nectin-1 Ig3 induced phosphorylation of FGFR1c in the same manner as the whole nectin-1 ectodomain, and promoted survival of cerebellar granule neurons induced to undergo apoptosis. Finally, we constructed a peptide, nectide, by employing in silico modeling of various FGFR ligand-binding sites. Nectide mimicked all the effects of nectin-1 Ig3. We suggest that FGFR is a downstream signaling partner of nectin-1.
Two-pore domain K(+) channels (K2P) mediate background K(+) conductance and play a key role in a variety of cellular functions. Among the 15 mammalian K2P isoforms, TWIK-1, TASK-1, and TASK-3 K(+) channels are sensitive to extracellular acidification. Lowered or acidic extracellular pH (pH(o)) strongly inhibits outward currents through these K2P channels. However, the mechanism of how low pH(o) affects these acid-sensitive K2P channels is not well understood. Here we show that in Na(+)-based bath solutions with physiological K(+) gradients, lowered pH(o) largely shifts the reversal potential of TWIK-1, TASK-1, and TASK-3 K(+) channels, which are heterologously expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells, into the depolarizing direction and significantly increases their Na(+) to K(+) relative permeability. Low pH(o)-induced inhibitions in these acid-sensitive K2P channels are more profound in Na(+)-based bath solutions than in channel-impermeable N-methyl-D-glucamine-based bath solutions, consistent with increases in the Na(+) to K(+) relative permeability and decreases in electrochemical driving forces of outward K(+) currents of the channels. These findings indicate that TWIK-1, TASK-1, and TASK-3 K(+) channels change ion selectivity in response to lowered pH(o), provide insights on the understanding of how extracellular acidification modulates acid-sensitive K2P channels, and imply that these acid-sensitive K2P channels may regulate cellular function with dynamic changes in their ion selectivity.

Rapidly detecting target object categories when objects are embedded in naturalistic scenes is facilitated by preparatory baseline signal changes. However, it is unclear as to what information most strongly predicts perceptual speed in terms of the minimal exposure duration required for accurate detection. Using novel surface-based spatiotemporal pattern classification, we found that while category-specific biases resulting from merely providing a category name can be detected in multiple cortical areas, only biases in lateral occipital complex predicted perceptual speed. These biases likely carry visual semantic information regarding multiple object categories placed in familiar scene contexts. Discriminatory voxels during the preparatory period showed congruent category-selectivity during visual stimulation.



Here, we describe the embryonic central nervous system expression of 5,000 GAL4 lines made using molecularly defined cis-regulatory DNA inserted into a single attP genomic location. We document and annotate the patterns in early embryos when neurogenesis is at its peak, and in older embryos where there is maximal neuronal diversity and the first neural circuits are established. We note expression in other tissues, such as the lateral body wall (muscle, sensory neurons, and trachea) and viscera. Companion papers report on the adult brain and larval imaginal discs, and the integrated data setsare available online (http://www.janelia.org/gal4-gen1). This collection of embryonically expressed GAL4 lines will be valuable for determining neuronal morphology and function. The 1,862 lines expressed in small subsets of neurons (&lt;20/segment) will be especially valuable for characterizinginterneuronal diversity and function, because although interneurons comprise the majority of all central nervous system neurons, their gene expression profile and function remain virtually unexplored.
Advanced leads from a series of 1,2,4-triazolo[4,3-a]pyridines with mGlu2 receptor PAM activity are reported. By modification of the analogous imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine series, the newly reported leads have improved potency, in vitro ADMET, and hERG as well as good in vivo PK profile. The optimization of the series focused on improving metabolic stability while controlling lipophilicity by introducing small modifications to the scaffold substituents. Analysis of this series combined with our previously reported mGlu2 receptor PAMs showed how lipophilic ligand efficiency was improved during the course of the program. Among the best compounds, example 20 (JNJ-42153605) showed a central in vivo efficacy by inhibition of REM sleep state at a dose of 3 mg/kg po in the rat sleep-wake EEG paradigm, a phenomenon shown earlier to be mGlu2 mediated. In mice, compound 20 reversed PCP-induced hyperlocomotion with an ED of 5.4 mg/kg sc, indicative of antipsychotic activity.


In mice, microRNAs (miRNAs) are required for embryonic viability, and previous reports implicate miRNA participation in brain cortical neurogenesis. Here, we provide a more comprehensive analysis of miRNA involvement in cortical brain development. To accomplish this we used mice in which Dicer, the RNase III enzyme necessary for canonical miRNA biogenesis, is depleted from Nestin-expressing progenitors and progeny cells. We systematically assessed how Dicer depletion impacts proliferation, cell death, migration and differentiation in the developing brain. Using markers for proliferation and in vivo labeling with thymidine analogs, we found reduced numbers of proliferating cells, and altered cell cycle kinetics from embryonic day 15.5 (E15.5). Progenitor cells were distributed aberrantly throughout the cortex rather than restricted to the ventricular and subventricular zones. Activated Caspase3 was elevated, reflecting increased cortical cell death as early as E15.5. Cajal-Retzius-positive cells were more numerous at E15.5 and were dysmorphic relative to control cortices. Consistent with this, Reelin levels were enhanced. Doublecortin and Rnd2 were also increased and showed altered distribution, supporting a strong regulatory role for miRNAs in both early and late neuronal migration. In addition, GFAP staining at E15.5 was more intense and disorganized throughout the cortex with Dicer depletion. These results significantly extend earlier works, and emphasize the impact of miRNAs on neural progenitor cell proliferation, apoptosis, migration, and differentiation in the developing mammalian brain.
Traumatic Brain injury affects at least 1.7 million people in the United States alone each year. The majority of injuries are categorized as mild but these still produce lasting symptoms that plague the patient and the medical field. Currently treatments are aimed at reducing a patient's symptoms, but there is no effective method to combat the source of the problem, neuronal loss. We tested a mild, closed head traumatic brain injury model for the effects of modulation of the antioxidant transcription factor Nrf2 by the chemical activator, tert-butylhydroquinone (tBHQ). We found that post-injury visual memory was improved by a 7 day course of treatment and that the level of activated caspase-3 in the hippocampus was reduced. The injury-induced memory loss was also reversed by a single injection at 30 min after injury. Since the protective stress response molecule, HSP70, can be upregulated by Nrf2, we examined protein levels in the hippocampus, and found that HSP70 was elevated by the injury and then further increased by the treatment. To test the possible role of HSP70, model neurons in culture exposed to a mild injury and treated with the Nrf2 activator displayed improved survival that was blocked by the HSP70 inhibitor, VER155008. Following mild traumatic brain injury, there may be a partial protective response and patients could benefit from directed enhancement of regulatory pathways such as Nrf2 for neuroprotection.
The 2 adrenergic receptor antagonist yohimbine (YO) is a sympathomimetic drug that crosses the blood-brain barrier after systemic administration. YO promotes increased transmitter release from noradrenergic (NA) axon terminals in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CEA), bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST), hypothalamus, and other brain regions implicated in physiological and behavioral responses to stressful and threatening stimuli. YO is potently anxiogenic in humans and experimental animals, including rats. To determine whether direct connections between the CEA and anterolateral group of BST nuclei (algBST) are necessary for YO anxiogenesis in rats, neurotoxic ibotenate lesions of the CEA in one hemisphere and the ipsi- or contralateral algBST were conducted to disrupt CEA-algBST communication uni- or bilaterally. Sham-lesioned controls received microinjections of vehicle into the CEA and algBST. Two weeks later, behavior was assessed in the elevated plus maze (EPMZ) in rats after i.p. saline or YO (1.0mg/kg). Central ibotenate lesion placement and extent was assessed post-mortem in NeuN-immunolabeled tissue sections. The ability of YO to increase anxiety-like behavior in the EPMZ was similarly robust in rats with sham lesions or ipsilateral CEA-algBST lesions. Conversely, YO anxiogenesis in the EPMZ was disrupted in rats with asymmetric lesions designed to bilaterally disconnect the CEA and algBST, whereas neither unilateral nor bilateral disconnecting lesions altered EPMZ behavior in rats after i.p. saline. We conclude that the anxiogenic effects of increased NA signaling in rats after YO require direct CEA-algBST interactions that do not shape EPMZ behavior under baseline conditions.
Maternal separation (MS) during the first postnatal weeks induces alcohol intake and a reduction in the expression of glucocorticoid receptors (GR). Adults' alcohol consumption may depend on changes in the endocannabinoid system (eCBs). Our goal was to evaluate the status of the eCBs before the exposition to alcohol to support the notion that eCBs' alterations prompt rats to drink alcohol. To reach this goal we subjected rats to MS for the first 2 postnatal weeks. Then, we allowed rats to grow with no further manipulation until they reached adulthood. Thereafter, rats were exposed to an alcohol solution (10% of alcohol in water) as the only source of drinking liquid (forced alcohol ingestion). At the end of this period, tap water was added as an option for drinking liquid (voluntary alcohol ingestion) for another 10 days. Different groups of rats (non-MS, and MS) were sacrificed when adult but with no exposition to alcohol whatsoever, to dissect frontal cortex (FCx), ventral striatum (VS) and hippocampus (HIP) to analyze the following: The expression of cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1R), CB2R, GR and methylated CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2). Levels of GABA and glutamate were quantified in the same brain structures. We found CB1 receptor expression increased in the VS while it was decreased in the FCx in MS subjects. No changes in the CB2R or in the MeCP2 were detected. We found GABA levels increased in FCx and HIP but decreased in VS in MS. Likewise, glutamate levels increased in the FCx but decreased in the HIP in MS subjects. These findings suggest that MS induces changes in the CB1R expression, which might contribute to induce a proclivity to ingest alcohol and, potentially, other drugs.
Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is synthesized by neurons located in the hypothalamus and projecting to widespread regions of the brain, including the locus coeruleus (LC), through which MCH could modulate sleep-wake states. Yet MCH does not appear to exert direct postsynaptic effects on target neurons, including the noradrenergic LC neurons. Previous studies using in situ hybridization showed that MCH neurons synthesize glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) and could thus utilize GABA as a neurotransmitter. To determine whether MCH varicosities can release GABA, we examined by fluorescent microscopy in the LC, whether their terminals also contain the vesicular transporter for GABA (VGAT). In dual-immunostained sections, we found that approximately 6% of MCH varicosities was immunopositive for VGAT and a similar proportion for synaptophysin, the presynaptic marker for small synaptic vesicles, whereas &lt;1% was positive for the vesicular glutamate transporter (VGluT2). Moreover, of the MCH varicosities, 5% abutted puncta that were immunostained for gephyrin, the postsynaptic marker for GABAergic synapses. In triple-immunostained sections viewed with confocal laser scanning microscopy, we established that MCH varicosities that also contained VGAT or abutted upon gephyrin puncta contacted the tyrosine hydroxylase-immunostained neurons of the LC. Our results suggest that although MCH neurons can influence noradrenergic LC neurons through paracrine release and indirect effects of their peptide, they can also do so through synaptic release and direct postsynaptic effects of GABA and thus serve to inhibit the LC neurons during sleep, when they are silent, and the MCH neurons discharge.
Recent studies highlight that the brain glutamate system is involved in the etiology of depression and glutamatergic-targeting drugs are currently being explored as novel antidepressant medications. Previous studies reveal that the selective metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP) produces antidepressant-like effects in behavioral despair and olfactory bulbectomy models. The current study aimed to further explore its behavioral actions in additional animal models of depression (forced swimming test (FST) and learned helplessness (LH) test) and its underlying neurobiological mechanisms. The results demonstrated that acute treatment of MPEP at 30 but not 10mg/kg significantly reduced immobility in FST without affecting locomotor activities. Sub-chronic, five-day treatment of MPEP (30 mg/kg) decreased escape failures in animals that had developed LH symptoms. This sub-chronic treatment also increased hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) protein levels in both non-stressed and stressed animals and restored the stress-induced down-regulation of BDNF expression. Current findings provide strong evidence for further studies of MPEP as a tool to explore novel antidepressants.
Stress affects brain activity and promotes long-term changes in multiple neural systems. Exposure to stressors causes substantial effects on the perception and response to pain. In several animal models, chronic stress produces lasting hyperalgesia. Postmortem studies of stress-related psychiatric disorders have demonstrated a decrease in the number of astrocytes and the level of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), a marker for astrocyte, in the cerebral cortex. Since astrocytes play vital roles in maintaining neuroplasticity via synapse maintenance and secretion of neurotrophins, impairment of astrocytes is thought to be involved in the neuropathology. In the present study we examined GFAP and excitatory amino acid transporter 2 (EAAT2) protein levels in the periaqueductal gray matter (PAG) after subacute and chronic restraint stresses to clarify changes in descending pain modulatory system in the rat with stress-induced hyperalgesia. Chronic restraint stress (6h/day for 3 weeks), but not subacute restraint stress (6h/day for 3 days), caused a marked mechanical hypersensitivity and aggressive behavior. The chronic restraint stress induced a significant decrease of GFAP protein level in the PAG (32.0  8.9% vs. control group, p&lt;0.05). In immunohistochemical analysis the remarkable decrease of GFAP was observed in the ventrolateral PAG. The EAAT2 protein level in the 3 weeks stress group (79.6  6.8%) was significantly lower compared to that in the control group (100.0  6.1%, p&lt;0.05). In contrast there was no significant difference in the GFAP and EAAT2 protein levels between the control and 3 days stress groups These findings suggest a dysfunction of the PAG that plays pivotal roles in the organization of strategies for coping with stressors and in pain modulation after chronic restraint stress.
Transplantation of bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) is a potential therapy for ischemic stroke, but poor environmental conditions in brain lesions, such as insufficient nutrition and oxygen free radical toxicity, limit the efficacy of stem cell therapy. Here, we hypothesized that MCI-186, a free radical scavenger, would have protective effects on transplantation of BMSCs in a rat ischemia model. In vitro, flow cytometry showed the apoptotic rates of BMSCs after simulated ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury was significantly decreased when treated with MCI-186 (P&lt;0.01). In vivo, rat transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model was established. Two separate MCAO groups were administered with either MCI-186 or phosphate-buffered solution (PBS) immediately after artery occlusion. MCI-186 significantly up-regulated the secretion of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, vascular endothelial growth factor and superoxide dismutase in ischemic brain, while malondialdehyde decreased and neuronal apoptosis was inhibited. Furthermore, another four MCAO groups were administered with either PBS, MCI-186, BMSCs (210(6)) or a combination of MCI-186 and BMSCs. When compared with BMSCs or MCI-186 monotherapy, combination therapy significantly improved functional restoration, decreased infarct volume, and increased the number of engrafted-BMSCs and neurons in ischemic brain. The number of engrafted-BMSCs and neurons was significantly correlated with functional outcomes. This study suggests that MCI-186 may improve the environment of the injured brain, enhance the survival of engrafted-BMSCs and neurotization in ischemic brain and produce protective effects on BMSCs transplantation.
1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) causes nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurotoxicity and behavioral impairment in rodents similar to Parkinson's disease. The MPTP mouse model is widely used to evaluate new protective agents. EGb 761 is a well-defined mixture of active compounds extracted from Ginkgo biloba leaves according to a standardized procedure. We have shown that EGb 761 attenuates the loss of striatal dopamine levels and prevents the neurodegeneration of the nigrostriatal pathway induced by MPTP. This finding shows that neuroprotective effects of EGb 761 act, in part, on the dopamine system. Therefore, this study investigates whether EGb 761 exerts dopaminergic neuroprotection through the regulation of dopamine-related gene expression in MPTP-induced Parkinsonism. Male C57BL/6J mice were injected with MPTP (30 mg/kg, i.p.) for 5 days and later with EGb 761 (40 mg/kg, i.p.) daily for 18 days. The expression of selected genes was evaluated in the striatum and midbrain by quantitative PCR. The genes for tyrosine hydroxylase (Th), vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (Vmat2), dopamine transporter (Dat), dopamine D2 receptor (Da-d2r), and transcription factors (Pitx3 and Nurr1) related to dopamine neurotransmission were selected for the analysis. EGb 761 administration to MPTP-treated mice protected Th (41%), Vmat2 (15%), Dat (102%), Da-d2r (46%), Pitx3 (63%), and Nurr1 (148%) mRNA levels in the midbrain, all of which were up-regulated. However, EGb 761 partially reversed the MPTP effect exclusively for Th (48%) and Nurr1 (96%) mRNA in the striatum. Only Th and Nurr1 mRNA and protein levels were regulated by EGb 761 in both regions of the nigrostriatal pathway. This result could be related to the regulation of their transcription. Our results suggest that EGb 761-associated neuroprotection against MPTP neurotoxicity is related to the regulation of the dopamine genes. Moreover, this neuroprotection also involves the regulation of transcription factors such as Nurr1 that are important for the functional maintenance of dopaminergic neurons.
The present study investigated the effects of a microinjection of GABA(A) receptor agonist (muscimol) and antagonist (bicuculline) into the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) in sodium-depleted rats. We measured the sodium intake and identified the neuronal activation in the brainstem induced by activating the GABA(A) receptors in the CeA using Fos immunohistochemistry. Muscimol (0.20, 0.35 or 0.50 nmol, in 0.2l) that was injected bilaterally into the CeA decreased the 0.3M NaCl and water intake in a dose-dependent manner. Microinjection of 0.02 nmol/0.2l muscimol also decreased the NaCl intake, but had no effect on the water intake. The inhibitory effect of muscimol (0.20 nmol) on the sodium and water intake could be blocked by pretreatment with bicuculline intra-CeA microinjection (0.4 nmol). However, bilateral injections of bicuculline alone into the CeA did not affect the NaCl or water intake. Furthermore, microinjection of muscimol (0.20 nmol) into the CeA increased the number of Fos-like immunoreactive (FLI) neurons in the caudal and intermediate parts of the nucleus of the tractus solitarius (cNTS and iNTS) and the lateral parabrachial nucleus (LPBN). These results suggest that GABA(A) receptors within the CeA may be involved in mediating the sodium intake in the sodium-depleted rat, and the cNTS, iNTS and LPBN were probably involved in this mechanism.
Mitochondrial dysfunction has been implicated in several psychiatric disorders, including depression. Given that the B-cell-lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) protein family plays a role in the regulation of mitochondrial apoptotic pathway, we hypothesized that ratio of proapoptotic to antiapoptotic proteins (e.g., Bcl-2-associated X protein (Bax)/Bcl-2) may determine prosurvival/proapoptotic intracellular signaling under stress. We tested this hypothesis by examining the effects of 2h of acute stress immobilization (IM) or cold (C), 21days of social isolation as chronic stress and combined stress (chronic stress followed by acute stress) on cytosolic/mitochondrial levels and ratios of Bax and Bcl-2 proteins in relation to cytosolic nitric oxide (NO) metabolites (nitrates and nitrites) and p53 protein redistribution between cytosolic and mitochondrial compartments in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and hippocampus (HIPP) of male Wistar rats. The stress-induced changes in serum corticosterone (CORT) concentrations were also followed. Acute stressors resulting in an elevated CORT level did not change the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio in either brain region. However, chronic isolation, resulting in CORT levels similar to basal values, led to a translocation of mitochondrial Bcl-2 to the cytosol in the PFC. Furthermore, the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio in the PFC was significantly increased following chronic isolation and remained elevated after combined stressors. NO metabolites were increased by chronic isolation and the two combined stressors in the HIPP and following the combined stressors in the PFC. Translocation of p53 and proapoptotic Bax from the cytosol into mitochondria in response to NO overproduction following combined stressors was detected only in the PFC. These data indicate that chronic isolation stress exerts opposing actions on p53 and NO mechanisms in a tissue-specific manner (PFC vs. HIPP), triggering proapoptotic signaling via Bcl-2 translocation in the PFC.
Human acidic fibroblast growth factor (haFGF), a neurotrophin-like growth factor in the brain, plays important roles in the development, differentiation and regeneration of brain neurons, which makes it potential to treat Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, haFGF(14-154) and TAT-haFGF(14-154) (haFGF(14-154) fused with the cell-penetrating peptide transactivator of transcription protein transduction domain (TAT-PTD)) were intranasally administrated for 5 weeks to investigate the effects on senescence-accelerated mouse prone-8 (SAMP8) mice (a mouse model of AD). Results showed that TAT-PTD could increase the concentration of haFGF in the brain significantly, and TAT-haFGF(14-154) was more effective than haFGF(14-154) in the same dosage (300 g/kg). Importantly, TAT-haFGF(14-154) improved the learning and memory abilities of SAMP8 mice in the behavioral test, and promoted the function of cholinergic system by measuring the relevant biomarkers (acetylcholine (ACh) level, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activities). TAT-haFGF(14-154) also significantly reduced -amyloid protein(1-42) (A(1-42)) deposits as well as the levels of A soluble forms in the mice brains and prevented the neurons from apoptosis. Besides, the oxidative stress impairment in the brain and serum was also ameliorated. The results suggest that TAT-haFGF(14-154) could attenuate the disease progression of SAMP8 AD mice, and the mechanism is related to the regulation of neurons microenvironment including neurotransmitters, A pathology and oxidative stress.
Facial nerve lesions elicit long-lasting changes in vibrissal primary motor cortex (M1) muscular representation in rodents. Reorganization of cortical representation has been attributed to potentiation of preexisting horizontal connections coming from neighboring muscle representation. However, changes in layer 5 pyramidal neuron activity induced by facial nerve lesion have not yet been explored. To do so, the effect of irreversible facial nerve injury on electrophysiological properties of layer 5 pyramidal neurons was characterized. Twenty-four adult male Wistar rats were randomly subjected to two experimental treatments: either surgical transection of mandibular and buccal branches of the facial nerve (n=18) or sham surgery (n=6). Unitary and population activity of vibrissal M1 layer 5 pyramidal neurons recorded in vivo under general anesthesia was compared between sham-operated and facial nerve-injured animals. Injured animals were allowed either one (n=6), three (n=6), or five (n=6) weeks recovery before recording in order to characterize the evolution of changes in electrophysiological activity. As compared to control, facial nerve-injured animals displayed the following sustained and significant changes in spontaneous activity: increased basal firing frequency, decreased spike-associated local field oscillation amplitude, and decreased spontaneous theta burst firing frequency. Significant changes in evoked-activity with whisker pad stimulation included: increased short latency population spike amplitude, decreased long latency population oscillations amplitude and frequency, and decreased peak frequency during evoked single-unit burst firing. Taken together, such changes demonstrate that peripheral facial nerve lesions induce robust and sustained changes of layer 5 pyramidal neurons in vibrissal motor cortex.
Unilateral damage to the peripheral vestibular receptors precipitates a debilitating syndrome of oculomotor and balance deficits at rest, which extensively normalize during the first week after the lesion due to vestibular compensation. In vivo studies suggest that GABA(B) receptor activation facilitates recovery. However, the presynaptic or postsynaptic sites of action of GABA(B) receptors in vestibular nuclei neurons after lesions have not been determined. Accordingly, here presynaptic and postsynaptic GABA(B) receptor activity in principal cells of the tangential nucleus, a major avian vestibular nucleus, was investigated using patch-clamp recordings correlated with immunolabeling and confocal imaging of the GABA(B) receptor subunit-2 (GABA(B)R2) in controls and operated chickens shortly after unilateral vestibular ganglionectomy (UVG). Baclofen, a GABA(B) agonist, generated no postsynaptic currents in principal cells in controls, which correlated with weak GABA(B)R2 immunolabeling on principal cell surfaces. However, baclofen decreased miniature excitatory postsynaptic current (mEPSC) and GABAergic miniature inhibitory postsynaptic current (mIPSC) events in principal cells in controls, compensating and uncompensated chickens three days after UVG, indicating the presence of functional GABA(B) receptors on presynaptic terminals. Baclofen decreased GABAergic mIPSC frequency to the greatest extent in principal cells on the intact side of compensating chickens, with concurrent increases in GABA(B)R2 pixel brightness and percentage overlap in synaptotagmin 2-labeled terminals. In uncompensated chickens, baclofen decreased mEPSC frequency to the greatest extent in principal cells on the intact side, with concurrent increases in GABA(B)R2 pixel brightness and percentage overlap in synaptotagmin 1-labeled terminals. Altogether, these results revealed changes in presynaptic GABA(B) receptor function and expression which differed in compensating and uncompensated chickens shortly after UVG. This work supports an important role for GABA(B) autoreceptor-mediated inhibition in vestibular nuclei neurons on the intact side during early stages of vestibular compensation, and a role for GABA(B) heteroreceptor-mediated inhibition of glutamatergic terminals on the intact side in the failure to recover function.
Monodelphis domestica (short-tailed opossum) is an emerging animal model for studies of neural development due to the extremely immature state of the nervous system at birth and its subsequent rapid growth to adulthood. Yet little is known about its normal sensory discrimination abilities. In the present investigation, visual acuity was determined in this species using the optokinetic test (OPT), which relies on involuntary head tracking of a moving stimulus and can be easily elicited using a rotating visual stimulus of varying spatial frequencies. Using this methodology, we determined that the acuity of Monodelphis is 0.58 cycles per degree (cpd), which is similar to the acuity of rats using the same methodology, and higher than in mice. However, acuity in the short-tailed opossum is lower than in other marsupials. This is in part due to the methodology used to determine acuity, but may also be due to differences in diel patterns, lifestyle and phylogeny. We demonstrate that for the short-tailed opossum, the OPT is a rapid and reliable method of determining a baseline acuity and can be used to study enhanced acuities due to cortical plasticity.
The entorhinal cortex is a brain area with multiple reciprocal connections to the hippocampus, amygdala, perirhinal cortex, olfactory bulb and piriform cortex. As such, it is thought to play a large role in the olfactory memory process. The present study is the first to compare lateral entorhinal and anterior piriform cortex odor-evoked single-unit and local field potential activity in mouse. Recordings were made in urethane-anesthetized mice that were administered a range of three pure odors and three overlapping odor mixtures. Results show that spontaneous as well as odor-evoked unit activity was lower in lateral entorhinal versus piriform cortex. In addition, units in lateral entorhinal cortex were responsive to a more restricted set of odors compared to piriform. Conversely, odor-evoked power change in local field potential activity was greater in the lateral entorhinal cortex in the theta band than in piriform. The highly odor-specific and restricted firing in lateral entorhinal cortex suggests that it may play a role in modulating odor-specific, experience- and state-dependent olfactory coding.
There is increasing evidence that alterations in the focus of attention result in changes in neural responding at the most peripheral levels of the auditory system. To date, however, those studies have not ruled out differences in task demands or overall arousal in explaining differences in responding across intermodal attentional conditions. The present study sought to compare changes in the response of cochlear outer hair cells, employing distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs), under different, balanced conditions of intermodal attention. DPOAEs were measured while the participants counted infrequent, brief exemplars of the DPOAE primary tones (auditory attending), and while counting visual targets, which were instances of Gabor gradient phase shifts (visual attending). Corroborating an earlier study from our laboratory, the results show that DPOAEs recorded in the auditory-ignoring condition were significantly higher in overall amplitude, compared with DPOAEs recorded while participants attended to the eliciting primaries; a finding in apparent contradiction with more central measures of intermodal attention. Also consistent with our previous findings, DPOAE rapid adaptation, believed to be mediated by the medial olivocochlear efferents (MOC), was unaffected by changes in intermodal attention. The present findings indicate that manipulations in the conditions of attention, through the corticofugal pathway, and its last relay to cochlear outer hair cells (OHCs), the MOC, alter cochlear sensitivity to sound. These data also suggest that the MOC influence on OHC sensitivity is composed of two independent processes, one of which is under attentional control.
The involvement of different brain regions in place- and response-learning was examined using a water cross-maze. Rats were trained to find the goal from the initial arm by turning left at the choice point (egocentric strategy) or by using environmental cues (allocentric strategy). Although different strategies were required, the same maze and learning conditions were used. Using cytochrome oxidase histochemistry as a marker of cellular activity, the function of the 13 diverse cortical and subcortical regions was assessed in rats performing these two tasks. Our results show that allocentric learning depends on the recruitment of a large functional network, which includes the hippocampal CA3, dentate gyrus, medial mammillary nucleus and supramammillary nucleus. Along with the striatum, these last three structures are also related to egocentric spatial learning. The present study provides evidence for the contribution of these regions to spatial navigation and supports a possible functional interaction between the two memory systems, as their structural convergence may facilitate functional cooperation in the behaviours guided by more than one strategy. In summary, it can be argued that spatial learning is based on dynamic functional systems in which the interaction of brain regions is modulated by task requirements.
Despair-related withdrawal behaviors are common symptoms of major depression (MD) and can be ascribed to a loss or absence of former rewarding events. Extinction of negatively reinforced escape behavior in the Morris Water Maze has been shown to induce despair-like behavior. A new animal model of depressive-like behavior is based on the extinction of positively reinforced behavior, which was shown to induce spatial avoidance of the former source of reward and biting of the operandum. Treatment with antidepressants attenuated these extinction-induced behaviors, suggesting that they reflect a depressive-like state. Here we present a methodological variation of this depression model. We employed an elongated operant chamber rather than a two-compartment procedure with the intent to establish a flowing gradient of withdrawal from the source of reward, rather than an all-or-none binary measure. Furthermore, instead of employing extinction of lever-pressing behavior, we applied a cued fixed-time food-delivery schedule. Sixty adult male Wistar rats (n=12/group) were trained to receive a food reward after appearance of a cue-light (fixed interval 90s) in an elongated Skinner-box of 72 cm length. Prior to extinction, the animals were treated for 9 days with either 7.5 or 10mg/kg of the tricyclic antidepressant clomipramine, 7.5 or 10mg/kg of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) citalopram or vehicle. Subsequent testing in an open field was carried out to investigate potential effects of the antidepressants on locomotor- and anxiety-like behavior. An overall increase in distance from the feeder and biting behavior was found over the course of the extinction trials. Both, citalopram and clomipramine decreased the distance from the pellet feeder during the initial extinction trials compared to the vehicle-treated group. The attenuation of withdrawal behavior by the antidepressants supports the hypothesis that avoidance/withdrawal behavior during extinction trials can serve as a marker for extinction-induced depression and suggests the utility of this paradigm as a rodent model of depression.
Exercise improves cognitive function, and Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) plays a key role in this process. We recently reported that particulate matter (PM) exposure negatively contributed to the exercise-induced increase in human serum BDNF concentration. Furthermore, PM exposure is associated with neuroinflammation and cognitive decline. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of exposure to ultrafine particles (UFP) during a single bout of forced exercise on the expression of inflammatory (IL1, IL1, TNF, IL6, NOS2, NOS3) and oxidative stress (NFE2L2)-related genes, as well as BDNF in the brain of rats. Four groups (n=6/group) of Wistar rats were exposed for 90 min to one of the following exposure regimes: UFP+exercise, UFP+rest, ambient air+exercise, ambient air+rest (control). Hippocampus, olfactory bulb and prefrontal cortex were collected 24h after exposure. Gene expression changes were analyzed with real-time PCR. In the condition ambient air+exercise, hippocampal expression of BDNF and NFE2L2 was up-regulated, while the expression of IL1 and NOS3 in the prefrontal cortex and IL1 in the olfactory bulb was down-regulated compared to the control. In contrast, gene expression in the condition UFP+exercise did not differ from the control. In the condition UFP+rest, hippocampal expression of NFE2L2 was down-regulated and there was a trend toward down-regulation of BDNF expression compared to the control. This study shows a negative effect of UFP exposure on the exercise-induced up-regulation of BDNF gene expression in the hippocampus of rats.
Profilin1 is an actin monomer-binding protein, essential for cytoskeletal dynamics. Based on its broad expression in the brain and the localization at excitatory synapses (hippocampal CA3-CA1 synapse, cerebellar parallel fiber (PF)-Purkinje cell (PC) synapse), an important role for profilin1 in brain development and synapse physiology has been postulated. We recently showed normal physiology of hippocampal CA3-CA1 synapses in the absence of profilin1, but impaired glial cell binding and radial migration of cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs). Consequently, brain-specific inactivation of profilin1 by exploiting conditional mutants and Nestin-mediated cre expression resulted in a cerebellar hypoplasia, aberrant organization of cerebellar cortex layers, and ectopic CGNs. Apart from these findings we noted a loss of PCs and an irregularly shaped PC layer in adult mutants. In this study, we show that PC migration and development are not affected in profilin1 mutants, suggesting cell type-specific functions for profilin1 in PCs and CGNs. PC loss begins during the second postnatal week and progresses until adulthood with no further impairment in aged mutants. In Nestin-cre profilin1 mutants, defects in cerebellar cortex cytoarchitecture are associated with impaired motor coordination. However, in L7-cre mutants, lacking profilin1 specifically in PCs, the cerebellar cortex cytoarchitecture is unchanged. Thereby, our results demonstrate that the loss of PCs is not caused by cell-autonomous defects, but presumably by impaired CGN migration. Finally, we show normal functionality of PF-PC synapses in the absence of profilin1. In summary, we conclude that profilin1 is crucially important for brain development, but dispensable for the physiology of excitatory synapses.
Spreading depolarization (SD) is a slowly propagating, coordinated depolarization of brain tissue, which is followed by a transient (5-10min) depression of synaptic activity. The mechanisms for synaptic depression after SD are incompletely understood. We examined the relative contributions of action potential failure and adenosine receptor activation to the suppression of evoked synaptic activity in murine brain slices. Focal micro-injection of potassium chloride (KCl) was used to induce SD and synaptic potentials were evoked by electrical stimulation of Schaffer collateral inputs to hippocampal area Cornu Ammonis area 1 (CA1). SD was accompanied by loss of both presynaptic action potentials (as assessed from fiber volleys) and field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs). Fiber volleys recovered rapidly upon neutralization of the extracellular direct current (DC) potential, whereas fEPSPs underwent a secondary suppression phase lasting several minutes. Paired-pulse ratio was elevated during the secondary suppression period, consistent with a presynaptic mechanism of synaptic depression. A transient increase in extracellular adenosine concentration was detected during the period of secondary suppression. Antagonists of adenosine A1 receptors (8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine [DPCPX] or 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dimethylxanthine [8-CPT]) greatly accelerated fEPSP recovery and abolished increases in paired-pulse ratio normally observed after SD. The duration of fEPSP suppression was correlated with both the duration of the DC shift and the area of tissue depolarized, consistent with the model that adenosine accumulates in proportion to the metabolic burden of SD. These results suggest that in brain slices, the duration of the DC shift approximately defined the period of action potential failure, but the secondary depression of evoked responses was in large part due to endogenous adenosine accumulation after SD.
The pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) and central mesencephalic reticular formation (cMRF) both send projections and receive input from areas with known vestibular responses. Noting their connections with the basal ganglia, the locomotor disturbances that occur following lesions of the PPN or cMRF, and the encouraging results of PPN deep brain stimulation in Parkinson's disease patients, both the PPN and cMRF have been linked to motor control. In order to determine the existence of and characterize vestibular responses in the PPN and cMRF, we recorded single neurons from both structures during vertical and horizontal rotation, translation, and visual pursuit stimuli. The majority of PPN cells (72.5%) were vestibular-only (VO) cells that responded exclusively to rotation and translation stimuli but not visual pursuit. Visual pursuit responses were much more prevalent in the cMRF (57.1%) though close to half of cMRF cells were VO cells (41.1%). Directional preferences also differed between the PPN, which was preferentially modulated during nose-down pitch, and cMRF, which was preferentially modulated during ipsilateral yaw rotation. Finally, amplitude responses were similar between the PPN and cMRF during rotation and pursuit stimuli, but PPN responses to translation were of higher amplitude than cMRF responses. Taken together with their connections to the vestibular circuit, these results implicate the PPN and cMRF in the processing of vestibular stimuli and suggest important roles for both in responding to motion perturbations like falls and turns.
Although many physiological adaptations of diving mammals have been reported, little is known about how their brains sustain the high demands for metabolic energy and thus O(2) when submerged. A recent study revealed in the deep-diving hooded seal (Cystophora cristata) a unique shift of the oxidative energy metabolism and neuroglobin, a respiratory protein that is involved in neuronal hypoxia tolerance, from neurons to astrocytes. Here we have investigated neuroglobin in another pinniped species, the harp seal (Pagophilus groenlandicus), and in two cetaceans, the harbor porpoise (Phocoena phocoena) and the minke whale (Balaenoptera acutorostrata). Neuroglobin sequences, expression levels and patterns were compared with those of terrestrial relatives, the ferret (Mustela putorius furo) and the cattle (Bos taurus), respectively. Neuroglobin sequences of whales and seals only differ in two or three amino acids from those of cattle and ferret, and are unlikely to confer functional differences, e.g. in O(2) affinity. Neuroglobin is expressed in the astrocytes also of P. groenlandicus, suggesting that the shift of neuroglobin and oxidative metabolism is a common adaptation in the brains of deep-diving phocid seals. In the cetacean brain neuroglobin resides in neurons, like in terrestrial mammals. However, neuroglobin mRNA expression levels were 4-15 times higher in the brains of harbor porpoises and minke whales than in terrestrial mammals or in seals. Thus neuroglobin appears to play a specific role in diving mammals, but seals and whales have evolved divergent strategies to cope with cerebral hypoxia. The specific function of neuroglobin that conveys hypoxia tolerance may either relate to oxygen supply or protection from reactive oxygen species. The different strategies in seals and whales resulted from a divergent evolution and an independent adaptation to diving.
Proprioceptive signals are of prime importance in kinesthesia. However, in conditions of visuo-proprioceptive conflicts, strong visual-evoked biases can be observed. In three experiments, we parsed the interaction between visual and proprioceptive afferents using the 'mirror box' paradigm. Participants' left arm, the image of which was reflected in a mirror, was passively moved into flexion/extension or remained static. In Experiment 1 proprioceptive afferents of the unseen static right arm were masked with diffuse arm vibration. In Experiments 2 and 3, afferent signals were enhanced by muscle vibration of biceps or triceps stretch receptors. Illusory arm movements were evaluated with subjective reports and matching adjustments. Results revealed that participants did not experience kinesthetic illusions when the mirror reflected the image of a static arm while proprioceptive afferents conveyed signals of a moving arm (Experiment 2). In this specific case, vision apparently contributed much more strongly to the final percept than proprioceptive signals. However, in most circumstances, the percept reflected integration of both afferent signals (Experiments 1-3). For instance, when both sensory channels conveyed signals of arm displacement but in the opposite direction, kinesthetic illusions occurred but were either proprioceptively (vibration illusion) or visually driven (mirror illusion), according to individual sensorial preferences (Experiments 2 and 3). These results indicate that kinesthesia is the product of cooperative integration processes in which the final percept strongly depends on the experimental conditions as well as sensorial preferences. The observed changes in the relative contribution of each input across experimental conditions likely reflect reliability-dependent weights.
Astrocytes perform several functions that are essential for normal neuronal activity. They play a critical role in neuronal survival during ischemia and other degenerative injuries and also modulate neuronal recovery by influencing neurite outgrowth. In this study, we investigated the neuroprotective effects of astrocyte-derived 14,15-epoxyeicosatrienoic acid (14,15-EET), metabolite of arachidonic acid by cytochrome P450 epoxygenases (CYP), against oxidative stress induced by hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)). We found that dopaminergic neuronal cells (N27 cell line) stimulated with two different doses of H(2)O(2) (0.1 and 1mM) for 1h showed decreased cell viability compared to the control group, while astrocytes showed less cell death after stimulation with the same doses of H(2)O(2) for 1h. Dopaminergic neuronal cells (N27 cell line) pretreated with different doses of 14,15-EET (0.1-30 M, 30 min) before H(2)O(2) stimulation also showed increased cell viability. Furthermore, pre-treatment of the co-cultured cells with 12-(3-adamantan-1-yl-ureido)-dodecanoic acid, an inhibitor of the EET metabolizing enzyme, soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH), before H(2)O(2) stimulation (1mM, for 1h) increased cell viability. It also increased the endogenous level of 14,15-EET in the media compared to control group. However, pretreatment with the CYP epoxygenase inhibitor miconazole (1-20 M, 1h) before H(2)O(2) (1mM, 1h) stimulation showed decreased cell viability. Our data suggest that 14,15-EET which is released from astrocytes, enhances cell viability against oxidant-induced injury. Further understanding of the mechanism of 14,15-EET-mediated protection in dopaminergic neurons is imperative, as it could lead to novel therapeutic approaches for treating CNS neuropathologies, such as Parkinson's disease.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent form of dementia affecting the elderly. Evidence has emerged signifying that stimulation of the reelin pathway should promote neural plasticity and suppress molecular changes associated with AD, suggesting a potential therapeutic application to the disease. This was explored through the use of lentiviral vector-mediated overexpression of the reelin homolog, F-spondin, which is an activator of the reelin pathway. Intrahippocampal gene transfer of F-spondin improved spatial learning/memory in the Morris Water Maze and increased exploration of the novel object in the Novel Object Recognition test in wild-type mice. F-spondin overexpression also suppressed endogenous levels of amyloid beta (A(42)) in these mice and reduced A plaque deposition while improving synaptophysin expression in transgenic mouse models of AD. These data demonstrate pathologic and cognitive improvements in mice through F-spondin overexpression.
Recently there has been a widespread interest in the development of kappa opioid receptor (KOPR) ligands for treatment of pain, depression and anxiety, and prevention of stress-induced drug relapse. However, most of these preclinical studies have been conducted using male experimental animals. In the present study we examined if sex differences exist in neural activity induced by the KOPR agonist trans-()-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-(2-[1-pyrrolidinyl]-cyclohexyl) benzeneacetamide methanesulfonate (U50,488H). Here, we used immunohistochemistry to detect activation (phosphorylation) of p44/42 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) as an indicator of neural activity. Following habituation to injection for 3 days, adult guinea pigs received a single injection of U50,488H (5mg/kg, s.c.) and perfused 30-45 min later. U50,488H-induced an increase in the number of cells immuno-positive for phosphorylated p44/42 MAPK in subregions of the amygdala, thalamus, paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, periaqueductal gray, and dorsal raphe nuclei. In contrast, U50,488H-induced a decrease in immuno-positive cells in the ventrolateral and lateral orbital cortex. Pretreatment with the KOPR antagonist norbinaltorphimine (10mg/kg, i.p.) 18 h prior to U50,488H significantly reversed the effects of U50,488H in most regions. In addition, we observed a notable sex difference in the basolateral amygdala; in males, U50,488H induced an increase in immuno-positive cell numbers but a decrease in females. However, across other brain regions males were generally more sensitive to U50,488H-induced alterations than females. These results suggest the need to include female subjects in studies examining emotional responses to KOPR ligands.
Acetylcholine has been implicated in higher cortical functions such as learning, memory and cognition, yet the cellular effects of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) activation are poorly understood in the human cortex. Here we investigated the effect of the mAChR agonist carbachol (CCh) and various mAChR antagonists in human cortical slices (from tissue removed during neurosurgical treatment of epilepsy) by intracellular and extracellular recordings. CCh increased neuronal firing, which was antagonised by atropine (non-selective mAChR antagonist) and pirenzepine (M(1)/M(4) mAChRs antagonist) when applied before or after CCh application. AF-DX 116 (M(2)/M(4) mAChRs antagonist) had no effect on CCh-induced increase of firing. CCh also reduced evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSP), and the CCh-induced depression of EPSP was fully reversed by atropine. Pirenzepine reversed the depression of CCh on EPSP, but failed to prevent the depression when applied before CCh. AF-DX 116 prevented the CCh-induced depression of evoked EPSP when applied before CCh. CCh also depressed GABAergic transmission and this effect was antagonised by AF-DX 116. Xanomeline (M(1)/M(4) mAChR agonist) increased neuronal firing and decreased EPSP, but had no effect on GABAergic transmission. Reduction (with linopirdine) and enhancement (with retigabine) of the M-current (mediated by K(V)7 channels), increased and decreased neuronal firing, respectively, but had marginal effects on the evoked EPSP. Our results indicate that three pharmacologically distinct mAChRs modulate neuronal firing, glutamatergic and GABAergic transmissions in the human epileptogenic neocortex. The data are discussed towards possible implications of altered mAChR signalling in hyperexcitability and cognitive functions in the human neocortex.
Both angiotensin (Ang)-(1-7) and Ang II in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) increase renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA) and mean arterial pressure (MAP) and enhance the cardiac sympathetic afferent reflex (CSAR). NAD(P)H oxidase-derived superoxide anions in the RVLM mediate the effects of Ang II on CSAR and sympathetic activity. However, whether the superoxide anions mediate the effects of Ang-(1-7) in RVLM is still unclear. This study was designed to determine whether superoxide anions mediate the effects of Ang-(1-7) in the RVLM, including increasing the RSNA and MAP and enhancing the CSAR, and to determine whether NAD(P)H oxidase is the major origin of the superoxide anions in rats. RSNA and MAP were recorded in sinoaortic-denervated and cervical-vagotomized rats with urethane and -chloralose anesthesia. The CSAR was evaluated by the RSNA and MAP responses to the epicardial application of capsaicin. Bilateral RVLM microinjection of the superoxide anion scavengers tempol or tiron, or the NAD(P)H oxidase inhibitor apocynin inhibited the effects of Ang-(1-7) in RVLM, while the superoxide dismutase (SOD) inhibitor diethyldithiocarbamic acid (DETC) potentiated the effects of Ang-(1-7). Ang-(1-7) increased but Mas receptor antagonist D-Alanine-Ang-(1-7) (A-779) decreased the NAD(P)H oxidase activity and superoxide anion level in the RVLM. The Ang-(1-7)-induced increases in NAD(P)H oxidase activity and superoxide anion level were abolished by pre-treating the RVLM with apocynin or A-779 but not the AT(1) receptor antagonist losartan. The epicardial application of capsaicin increased NAD(P)H oxidase activity and superoxide anion level; the effect was inhibited by A-779 and enhanced by Ang-(1-7). These results indicate that superoxide anions are involved in modulating the effects of Ang-(1-7) and Mas receptor in the RVLM: increasing the RSNA and MAP and enhancing the CSAR. The enzyme of NAD(P)H oxidase is a major source of the superoxide anions that modulate the effects of Ang-(1-7) in the RVLM.
Neural computation could benefit from the heterogeneity of neurons to achieve energy efficiency. Beyond a single neuron level, adaptation to biologically important signals should also make functional columns heterogeneous. In the present study, we test a hypothesis that variability of neural response depends on tonotopic columns in the primary auditory cortex (A1) of rats. Mutual information (MI) was estimated from multi-unit responses in A1 of anesthetized rats, to quantify how spike count (SC) and the first spike latency (FSL) carried information about frequency and intensity of test tones. Consequently, for both SC and FSL, we found best frequency (BF)-dependent MI distributions with wide variances in high BF regions. These MI distributions were caused by BF-dependence of the amount of information that neurons conveyed, i.e., total entropy, rather than the transmission efficiency. In addition, the relationship between the transmission efficiency and the total entropy differentiated SC encoding and FSL encoding, suggesting that SC encoding and FSL encoding are not redundant but each plays a different role in intensity encoding. These results provide compelling evidence that BF columns are heterogeneous. Such heterogeneity of columns may make the global computation in A1 more efficient. Thus, the efficient coding in the neural system could be achieved by multiple-scale heterogeneity.
In this study we show that high frequency stimulation (HFS, 100Hz) of afferent fibers to the medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) can induce opposite long-term modifications of synaptic responses in the type B neurons depending upon the stimulation pattern. Long burst stimulation (LBS: 2s) and short burst stimulation (SBS: 0.55s) were applied with different burst number (BN) and inter-burst intervals (IBI). It results that both LBS and SBS can induce either N-methyl-d aspartate receptors (NMDARs)-mediated long-term potentiation (LTP) or long-term depression (LTD), depending on temporal organization of repetitive bursts. In particular, the IBI plays a relevant role in guiding the shift from LTP to LTD since by using both LBS and SBS LTP is induced by shorter IBI than LTD. By contrast, the sign of long-term effect does not depend on the mean impulse frequency evaluated within the entire stimulation period. Therefore, the patterns of repetitive vestibular activation with different ratios between periods of increased activity and periods of basal activity may lead to LTP or LTD probably causing different levels of postsynaptic Ca(2+). On the whole, this study demonstrates that glutamatergic vestibular synapse in the MVN can undergo NMDAR-dependent bidirectional plasticity and puts forward a new aspect for understanding the adaptive and compensatory plasticity of the oculomotor responses.
Single prolonged stress (SPS) is a rodent model of post traumatic stress disorder that is comprised of serial application of restraint (r), forced swim (fs), and ether (eth) followed by a 7-day quiescent period. SPS induces extinction retention deficits and it is believed that these deficits are caused by the combined stressful effect of serial exposure to r, fs, and eth. However, this hypothesis remains untested. Neurobiological mechanisms by which SPS induces extinction retention deficits are unknown, but SPS enhances glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression in the hippocampus, which is critical for contextual modulation of extinction retrieval. Upregulation of GRs in extinction circuits may be a mechanism by which SPS induces extinction retention deficits, but this hypothesis has not been examined. In this study, we systematically altered the stressors that constitute SPS (i.e. r, fs, eth), generating a number of partial SPS (p-SPS) groups, and observed the effects SPS and p-SPSs had on extinction retention and GR levels in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex (PFC). PFC GRs were assayed, because regions of the PFC are critical for maintaining extinction. We predicted that only exposure to full SPS would result in extinction retention deficits and enhance hippocampal and PFC GR levels. Only exposure to full SPS induced extinction retention deficits. Hippocampal and PFC GR expression was enhanced by SPS and most p-SPSs, however hippocampal GR expression was significantly larger following the full SPS exposure than all other conditions. Our findings suggest that the combined stressful effect of serial exposure to r, fs, and eth results in extinction retention deficits. The results also suggest that simple enhancements in GR expression in the hippocampus and PFC are insufficient to result in extinction retention deficits, but raise the possibility that a threshold-enhancement in hippocampal GR expression contributes to SPS-induced extinction retention deficits.
Brief noxious heat stimuli activate A- and C-fibers and allow contact heat-evoked potentials (CHEPs) to be recorded from the scalp. Under normal conditions, only late responses related to A-fibers can be recorded. This study aimed to demonstrate C-fiber responses to contact heat stimuli. A preferential A-fiber compression blockade of the superficial radial nerve was applied in 22 healthy subjects. Quality and intensity of heat-evoked pain and CHEPs were examined at baseline, during nerve compression, and during nerve compression with simultaneous application of topical capsaicin (5%). During the A-fiber block, three subjects had CHEPs with latencies below 400 ms, eight subjects within 400-800 ms and six subjects (29%) later than 800 ms. Pain intensity to contact heat stimuli after compression was reduced and fewer subjects reported the heat stimuli as stinging. Following nerve compression and capsaicin application, ultralate CHEPs with latencies &gt;800 ms could be recorded in 13 subjects (62%), pain intensity to the contact heat stimuli was increased and the warm/hot-burning pain quality became more intense. The main results of our study are the demonstration of ultralate C-fiber-related CHEPs following A-fiber blockade in 29% of healthy subjects increasing to 62% when the blockade was combined with capsaicin. After blockade of A-fibers we recorded responses with latencies in the range between the latencies of A- and C-fibers suggesting release of A-fibers with slower conduction velocity than normally recorded with CHEPs.
In two experiments, we combined a semantic blocked naming paradigm with anodal transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) to shed light on the neural correlates of the semantic interference (SI) effect. In particular, prior to the naming task, anodal tDCS was applied over the left superior temporal gyrus (STG, Experiment 1) or the left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG, Experiment 2) to enhance cortical excitability in these regions. In both experiments, participants were tested in two sessions in which either real or sham tDCS was delivered. We found that anodal tDCS over the left STG significantly increased the SI effect, whereas anodal tDCS over the left IFG led to a reduction of the SI effect. Overall, our data confirm the existence of a distributed cortical network involved in lexical retrieval and show that both the left IFG and the left STG play a causal role in this process. In particular, the left IFG is likely to be critical in resolving the conflict between competitor lexical representations, while the left STG seems to be the neural locus of the lexical representational system, where competition among different lexical representations occurs.
The NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor can be alternatively spliced by the insertion or removal of the N1, C1, C2, or C2' regions. Morphine dependence and withdrawal were previously demonstrated to lower N1 and C2' in the accumbens and lower N1, C1, and C2' in the amygdala (AMY). Withdrawal has also been demonstrated to increase motivational and anxiety/stress behaviors in rats. We tested the hypothesis that NR1 splicing would be associated with these behaviors during an extended withdrawal period of 2 months. Motivation was measured using an operant orofacial assay at non-aversive temperatures (37C) while anxiety and stress were measured by examining this behavior at aversive temperatures (46C). Lower C1 and C2 expression levels were observed in the AMY in a subset of the population of withdrawn rats even after 2 months of morphine withdrawal. These subsets were associated with a hypersensitivity to adverse conditions which may reflect long-term alterations in the withdrawn population.
Since homocysteine (Hcy) is considered a risk factor to cerebral diseases and adenine nucleotides are important molecules to brain normal function, in the present study we investigated the effect of chronic mild hyperhomocysteinemia on ectonucleotidase activities and expression in rat cerebral cortex. The levels of ATP, ADP, AMP and adenosine (Ado) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of adult rats also were evaluated by high-performance liquid chromatography. For the chronic chemically induced mild hyperhomocysteinemia, Hcy (0.03 mol/g of body weight) was administered subcutaneously from the 30th to the 60th day of life. Control rats received saline solution in the same volumes. Results showed that Hcy significantly decreased nucleotide hydrolysis in the synaptosomal fraction and increased E-NTPDase1 and ecto-5'-nucleotidase transcripts in rat cerebral cortex. ATP levels were significantly increased, while Ado decreased in CSF of Hcy-treated rats. These findings suggest that the unbalance in ATP and Ado levels may be, at last in part, involved in the cerebral toxicity of mild hyperhomocysteinemia.
Previous studies in rat and mouse documented that a subpopulation of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons innervating non-visceral tissues express tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Here we studied whether or not mouse DRG neurons retrogradely traced with Fast Blue (FB) from colorectum or urinary bladder also express immunohistochemically detectable TH. The lumbar sympathetic chain (LSC) and major pelvic ganglion (MPG) were included in the analysis. Previously characterized antibodies against TH, norepinephrine transporter type 1 (NET-1) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) were used. On average, 14% of colorectal and 17% of urinary bladder DRG neurons expressed TH and spanned virtually all neuronal sizes, although more often in the medium-sized to small ranges. Also, they were more abundant in lumbosacral than thoracolumbar DRGs, and often coexpressed CGRP. We also detected several TH-immunoreactive (IR) colorectal and urinary bladder neurons in the LSC and the MPG, more frequently in the former. No NET-1-IR neurons were detected in DRGs, whereas the majority of FB-labeled, TH-IR neurons in the LSC and MPG coexpressed this marker (as did most other TH-IR neurons not labeled from the target organs). TH-IR nerve fibers were detected in all layers of the colorectum and the urinary bladder, with some also reaching the basal mucosal cells. Most TH-IR fibers in these organs lacked CGRP. Taken together, we show: (1) that a previously undescribed population of colorectal and urinary bladder DRG neurons expresses TH, often CGRP but not NET-1, suggesting the absence of a noradrenergic phenotype; and (2) that TH-IR axons/terminals in the colon or urinary bladder, naturally expected to derive from autonomic sources, could also originate from sensory neurons.
The cuneiform (CnF) and Kolliker-Fuse (KF) nuclei are implicated in several functions including regulation of cardiovascular system and pain modulation. The KF also is a potential candidate for relaying the CnF cardiovascular responses to the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM). In a previous study we showed that blockade of the KF strongly attenuated the short responses and moderately attenuated the long responses to glutamate microinjection into the CnF, suggesting that the cardiovascular effects of the CnF, especially the short responses, were mediated by the KF. In the present study the cellular basis of the cardiovascular responses of the CnF and possible role of the KF in relaying them to the RVLM were explored. In one group, l-glutamate was microinjected in the CnF and the cardiovascular responses were recorded. In another group the single unit responses of the KF to l-glutamate injection into the CnF were recorded. Our results showed that chemical stimulation of the CnF with glutamate produced mainly excitatory cardiovascular and single unit responses and a minority of mixed (excitatory and inhibitory) responses. In about one fourth of the cases there were no responses to stimulation. Various patterns of each group were presented and compared between cardiovascular and single unit responses. Similarities were found between cardiovascular and single unit response patterns, suggesting a significant role of KF neurons in mediating the CnF cardiovascular responses to the RVLM.
Several studies in rodents have shown that dysfunctions of the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) result in deficits of sensory gating and attentional processes, two core features of schizophrenia. TRN receives inputs from the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and hippocampal formation, two structures which send excitatory projections to the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) and are interconnected with the basolateral amygdala (BLA). Here we determined whether (and which) changes occurred four weeks after a TRN lesion in the dendritic morphology of pyramidal neurons of layers 3 and 5 of the PFC, neurons of ventral and dorsal hippocampus, BLA, and the medium spiny neurons of the NAcc. Dendritic morphology and characteristics were measured by using Golgi-Cox procedure followed by Sholl analysis. We also evaluated the effects of TRN lesion on exploratory behavior assessed by hole-board test and locomotor activity induced by a novel environment. We found that TRN damage induced a reduction in the exploratory behavior measured by hole-board test with neuronal hypotrophy in PFC (layer 5), CA1 ventral hippocampus and NAcc neurons. Taken together, these data suggest that the behavioral and morphological effects of TRN lesion are, at least partially, mediated by limbic subregions with possible consequences for schizophrenia-related behaviors.
Synaptic plasticity is a crucial step in the development of central sensitization in the pathogenesis of neuropathic hyperalgesia. Menin, the product of the multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) gene, possesses the property of synaptogenesis which plays an essential role in neuronal activity. We tested the contributing role of spinal menin in peripheral nerve injury-induced neuropathic hypersensitivity through modulating neuronal synaptic plasticity. After approval by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee, nociceptive responses were detected with von Frey filaments and thermal plate after spared nerve injury in C57BL/6 mice who were treated with either intrathecal antisense oligonucleotide of MEN1 (ASO) or vehicle. Extracellular spontaneous discharge frequency, field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP), and monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were measured electrophysiologically. Intrathecal ASO alleviated nerve injury-induced mechanical and thermal hypersensitivity. Upregulated spinal menin after nerve injury colocalized with NeuN in the superficial laminae; genetic knockdown of spinal menin reduced nerve injury induced in vivo spontaneous activity and instantaneous frequency and in vitro field potentials; ASO decreased the frequency and amplitude of monosynaptic EPSCs, and reduced synaptic strength and total charge. Collectively, these findings highlight the role of upregulated neuronal menin in the spinal cord in potentiating spinal synaptic plasticity in peripheral nerve injury-induced neuropathic hypersensitivity.
FK-506 accelerates nerve regeneration and improves functional recovery in vivo; its immunosuppressive properties, however, limit its clinical utility. Geldanamycin (GA), a non-immunosuppressive agent, shares a common binding target (heat shock protein 90) with FK-506 and may accelerate nerve regeneration through a similar mechanism. GA has been shown to augment neurite outgrowth in vitro but has not been tested in vivo. The current study investigated the effect of GA on the rate of axonal regeneration and functional recovery following peripheral nerve injury. In the first experiment, Thy1-GFP transgenic rats underwent serial transmuscular imaging to quantify the rate of axonal regeneration following saphenous nerve crush injury. In subsequent experiments, Lewis rats underwent tibial nerve crush or transection-and-repair injuries and were assessed for functional recovery by walking track analysis. All animals were randomized to receive daily administration of FK-506 (2mg/kg), GA (0.2mg/kg), or a control vehicle (dimethyl sulfoxide, 1 mL/kg) starting 3 days prior to injury. Both GA and FK-506 significantly increased the rate of axonal regeneration following crush injury in Thy1-GFP rats. In Lewis rats undergoing tibial nerve crush injury, earlier functional recovery occurred at day 5 and day 6 in animals treated with FK-506 and GA respectively, vs. day 13 for controls. Over a truncated 21-day timeframe, Lewis rats undergoing tibial nerve transection-and-repair injury and treated with FK-506 regained function at day 16, whereas those treated with GA or the control vehicle did not regain normal function. GA-treated animals, however, did exhibit significant functional improvement vs. controls. The current study demonstrated that GA accelerates axonal regeneration and enhances functional recovery in vivo. Its ability to increase the rate at which peripheral axons regenerate is comparable to that of FK-506. GA, however, did not match the performance of FK-506 in injury models where Wallerian degeneration (WD) is ongoing in the distal stump. This provides evidence that FK-506 accelerates axonal regeneration through two parallel mechanisms: the first being its well-established effect on neurons; the second is likely a newly described, as-yet poorly defined mechanism that affects WD. Finally, given the decrease in observed toxicity with GA administration, it might be a suitable non-immunosuppressive alternative to FK-506 for accelerating peripheral nerve regeneration in cases of clinical nerve injury.
Psychosocial neglect during childhood severely impairs both behavioral and physical health. The isolation rearing model in rodents has been employed by our group and others to study this clinical problem at a basic level. We previously showed that immediate early gene (IEG) expression in the hippocampus and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is decreased in isolation-reared (IR) compared to group-reared (GR) rats. In the current study, we sought to evaluate: (1) whether these changes in IEG expression would be detected by the measurement of brain glucose metabolism using positron emission tomography (PET) with fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and (2) whether PET FDG could illuminate other brain regions with different glucose metabolism in IR compared to GR rats. We found that there were significant differences in FDG uptake in the hippocampus that were consistent with our findings for IEG expression (decreased mean FDG uptake in IR rats). In contrast, in the mPFC, the FDG uptake between IR and GR rats did not differ. Finally, we found decreased mean FDG uptake in the thalamus of the IR rats, a region we had not previously examined. The results suggest that PET FDG has the potential to be utilized as a biomarker of molecular changes in the hippocampus. Further, the differences found in thalamic brain FDG uptake suggest that further investigation of this region at the molecular and cellular levels may provide an important insight into the neurobiological basis of the adverse clinical outcomes found in children exposed to psychosocial deprivation.
Aging is, by far, the greatest risk factor for most neurodegenerative diseases. In non-diseased conditions, normal aging can also be associated with declines in cognitive function that significantly affect quality of life in the elderly. It was recently shown that inhibition of Mammalian TOR (mTOR) activity in mice by chronic rapamycin treatment extends lifespan, possibly by delaying aging {Harrison, 2009 #4}{Miller, 2011 #168}. To explore the effect of chronic rapamycin treatment on normal brain aging we determined cognitive and non-cognitive components of behavior throughout lifespan in male and female C57BL/6 mice that were fed control- or rapamycin-supplemented chow. Our studies show that rapamycin enhances cognitive function in young adult mice and blocks age-associated cognitive decline in older animals. In addition, mice fed with rapamycin-supplemented chow showed decreased anxiety and depressive-like behavior at all ages tested. Levels of three major monoamines (norepinephrine, dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine) and their metabolites (3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, homovanillic acid, and 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid) were significantly augmented in midbrain of rapamycin-treated mice compared to controls. Our results suggest that chronic, partial inhibition of mTOR by oral rapamycin enhances learning and memory in young adults, maintains memory in old C57BL/6J mice, and has concomitant anxiolytic and antidepressant-like effects, possibly by stimulating major monoamine pathways in brain.
Minocycline is a second-generation tetracycline that has been reported to have powerful neuroprotective properties. In our previous studies, we found that d-amphetamine (AMPH) elicited action potential bursts in an identifiable RP4 neuron of the African snail, Achatina fulica Ferussac. This study sought to determine the effects of minocycline on the AMPH-elicited action potential pattern changes in the central snail neuron, using the two-electrode voltage clamping method. Extracellular application of AMPH at 300 M elicited action potential bursts in the RP4 neuron. Minocycline dose-dependently (300-900 M) inhibited the action potential bursts elicited by AMPH. The inhibitory effects of minocycline on AMPH-elicited action potential bursts were restored by forskolin (50 M), an adenylate cyclase activator, and by dibutyryl cAMP (N(6),2'-O-Dibutyryladenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate; 1mM), a membrane-permeable cAMP analog. Co-administration of forskolin (50 M) plus tetraethylammonium chloride (TEA; 5mM) or co-administration of TEA (5mM) plus dibutyryl cAMP (1mM) also elicited action potential bursts, which were prevented and inhibited by minocycline. In addition, minocycline prevented and inhibited forskolin (100 M)-elicited action potential bursts. Notably, TEA (50mM)-elicited action potential bursts in the RP4 neuron were not affected by minocycline. Minocycline did not affect steady-state outward currents of the RP4 neuron. However, minocycline did decrease the AMPH-elicited steady-state current changes. Similarly, minocycline decreased the effects of forskolin-elicited steady-state current changes. Pretreatment with H89 (N-[2-(p-Bromocinnamylamino)ethyl]-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide dihydrochloride; 10 M), a protein kinase A inhibitor, inhibited AMPH-elicited action potential bursts and decreased AMPH-elicited steady-state current changes. These results suggest that the cAMP-protein kinase A signaling pathway and the steady-state current are involved in the inhibitory effects of minocycline upon AMPH-elicited action potential bursts.
In the present study, we aimed to identify whether cross-modal priming effect based on short-term experience of ecologically unrelated audio-visual information existed. In the experiment, we employed ecologically unrelated pictures and sounds as visual and auditory stimuli. Participants were required to learn the associations between pictures and sounds in the study phase, and then finished the following experiment adopting a cross-modal priming paradigm. The result showed that the processing of sound was facilitated by a priming picture if an audio-visual pair was presented in the study phase. Enhanced induced gamma-band activity (GBA) was also found under the Match condition, and we suggested that induced GBA reflected the association between auditory and visual information to form supra-modal representation, which is top-down modulated by short-term experience of audio-visual information. Event-related potential (ERP) analysis revealed an N400 effect under the Mismatch condition compared to the Match condition, and source reconstruction of N400 effect showed that the biggest difference of activity between two conditions was localized in middle temporal gyrus (MTG), suggesting that MTG played an important role in the mapping process of auditory information onto a temporal semantic network.
As one of the founders of Chinese neuroscience, Dr. Hsiang-Tung Chang's return to China has a profound impact on neuroscience in China. As many people expected, this action also may have influenced the development of neuroscience in other Eastern countries. Therefore, Dr. Chang's move may have changed the history of neuroscience in a greater area than China.
Sixty years elapsed since Chang (Hsiang-Tung Chang, Xiang-Tong Zhang) presented his seminal report &quot;Cortical neurons with particular reference to the apical dendrite&quot; at the Cold Spring Harbor Symposium. Thanks to the development of elaborated techniques through the 6 decades, our understanding of the dendrite has been pushed forward greatly: the backward and forward conductions during excitation, sodium and calcium conductances, chemical excitation by uncaging glutamate at a dimension of micrometer, and the quantitative study of chemical organization of postsynaptic density (PSD), etc. Though the progression is great, there are still tough problems in dendritic research, especially the integration through dendritic spine.

Chromatic mechanisms have been studied extensively with psychophysical techniques in humans, but the number and nature of the mechanisms are still controversial. Appeals to monkey neurophysiology are often used to sort out the competing claims and to test hypotheses arising from the experiments in humans, but psychophysical chromatic mechanisms have never been assessed in monkeys. Here we address this issue by measuring color-detection thresholds in monkeys before and after chromatic adaptation, employing a standard approach used to determine chromatic mechanisms in humans. We conducted separate experiments using adaptation configured as either flickering full-field colors or heterochromatic gratings. Full-field colors would favor activity within the visual system at or before the arrival of retinal signals to V1, before the spatial transformation of color signals by the cortex. Conversely, gratings would favor activity within the cortex where neurons are often sensitive to spatial chromatic structure. Detection thresholds were selectively elevated for the colors of full-field adaptation when it modulated along either of the two cardinal chromatic axes that define cone-opponent color space [L vs M or S vs (L + M)], providing evidence for two privileged cardinal chromatic mechanisms implemented early in the visual-processing hierarchy. Adaptation with gratings produced elevated thresholds for colors of the adaptation regardless of its chromatic makeup, suggesting a cortical representation comprised of multiple higher-order mechanisms each selective for a different direction in color space. The results suggest that color is represented by two cardinal channels early in the processing hierarchy and many chromatic channels in brain regions closer to perceptual readout.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is typified by the deposition of amyloid in the brain, which elicits a robust microglial-mediated inflammatory response that is associated with disease exacerbation and accelerated progression. Microglia are the principal immune effector cells in the brain and interact with fibrillar forms of A (fA) through a receptor complex that includes Toll-like receptors (TLR) 2/4/6 and their coreceptors. Interleukin receptor-associated kinases (IRAKs) are essential intracellular signaling molecules for transduction of TLR signals. Studies of mouse models of AD in which the individual TLRs are knocked out have produced conflicting results on roles of TLR signaling in amyloid homeostasis. Therefore, we disrupted a common downstream TLR signaling element, IRAK4. We report that microglial IRAK4 is necessary in vitro for fA to activate the canonical pro-inflammatory signaling pathways leading to activation of p38, JNK, and ERK MAP kinases and to generate reactive oxygen species. In vivo the loss of IRAK4 function results in decreased A levels in a murine model of AD. This was associated with diminished microgliosis and astrogliosis in aged mice. Analysis of microglia isolated from the adult mouse brain revealed an altered pattern of gene expression associated with changes in microglial phenotype that were associated with expression of IRF transcription factors that govern microglial phenotype. Further, loss of IRAK4 function also promoted amyloid clearance mechanisms, including elevated expression of insulin-degrading enzyme. Finally, blocking IRAK function restored olfactory behavior. These data demonstrate that IRAK4 activation acts normally to regulate microglial activation status and influence amyloid homeostasis in the brain.
Newly experienced events are often remembered together with how rewarding the experiences are personally. Although the hippocampus is a candidate structure where subjective values are integrated with other elements of episodic memory, it is uncertain whether and how the hippocampus processes value-related information. We examined how activity of dorsal CA1 and dorsal subicular neurons in rats performing a dynamic foraging task was related to reward values that were estimated using a reinforcement learning model. CA1 neurons carried significant signals related to action values before the animal revealed its choice behaviorally, indicating that the information on the expected values of potential choice outcomes was available in CA1. Moreover, after the outcome of the animal's goal choice was revealed, CA1 neurons carried robust signals for the value of chosen action and they temporally overlapped with the signals related to the animal's goal choice and its outcome, indicating that all the signals necessary to evaluate the outcome of an experienced event converged in CA1. On the other hand, value-related signals were substantially weaker in the subiculum. These results suggest a major role of CA1 in adding values to experienced events during episodic memory encoding. Given that CA1 neuronal activity is modulated by diverse attributes of an experienced event, CA1 might be a place where all the elements of episodic memory are integrated.
Adult forebrain neurogenesis is dynamically regulated. Multiple families of niche-derived cues have been implicated in this regulation, but the precise roles of key intracellular signaling pathways remain vaguely defined. Here, we show that mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling is pivotal in determining proliferation versus quiescence in the adult forebrain neural stem cell (NSC) niche. Within this niche, mTOR complex-1 (mTORC1) activation displays stage specificity, occurring in transiently amplifying (TA) progenitor cells but not in GFAP+ stem cells. Inhibiting mTORC1 depletes the TA progenitor pool in vivo and suppresses epidermal growth factor (EGF)-induced proliferation within neurosphere cultures. Interestingly, mTORC1 inhibition induces a quiescence-like phenotype that is reversible. Likewise, mTORC1 activity and progenitor proliferation decline within the quiescent NSC niche of the aging brain, while EGF administration reactivates the quiescent niche in an mTORC1-dependent manner. These findings establish fundamental links between mTOR signaling, proliferation, and aging-associated quiescence in the adult forebrain NSC niche.
The brain endocannabinoid system plays a crucial role in emotional processes. We have previously identified an important role for endocannabinoids in social play behavior, a highly rewarding form of social interaction in adolescent rats. Here, we tested the hypothesis that endocannabinoid modulation of social play behavior occurs in brain regions implicated in emotion and motivation. Social play increased levels of the endocannabinoid anandamide in the amygdala and nucleus accumbens (NAc), but not in prefrontal cortex or hippocampus of 4- to 5-week-old male Wistar rats. Furthermore, social play increased phosphorylation of CB1 cannabinoid receptors in the amygdala. Systemic administration of the anandamide hydrolysis inhibitor URB597 increased social play behavior, and augmented the associated elevation in anandamide levels in the amygdala, but not the NAc. Infusion of URB597 into the basolateral amygdala (BLA) increased social play behavior, and blockade of BLA CB1 cannabinoid receptors with the antagonist/inverse agonist SR141716A prevented the play-enhancing effects of systemic administration of URB597. Infusion of URB597 into the NAc also increased social play, but blockade of NAc CB1 cannabinoid receptors did not antagonize the play-enhancing effects of systemic URB597 treatment. Last, SR141716A did not affect social play after infusion into the core and shell subregions of the NAc, while it reduced social play when infused into the BLA. These data show that increased anandamide signaling in the amygdala and NAc augments social play, and identify the BLA as a prominent site of action for endocannabinoids to modulate the rewarding properties of social interactions in adolescent rats.
The TRPM8 channel is a principal cold transducer that is expressed on some primary afferents of the somatic and cranial sensory systems. However, it is uncertain whether TRPM8-expressing afferent neurons have the ability to convey innocuous and noxious cold stimuli with sensory discrimination between the two sub-modalities. Using rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and the patch-clamp recording technique, we characterized membrane and action potential properties of TRPM8-expressing DRG neurons at 24C and 10C. TRPM8-expressing neurons could be classified into TTX-sensitive (TTXs/TRPM8) and TTX-resistant (TTXr/TRPM8) subtypes based on the sensitivity to tetrodotoxin (TTX) block of their action potentials. These two subtypes of cold-sensing cells displayed different membrane and action potential properties. Voltage-activated inward Na(+) currents were highly susceptible to cooling temperature and abolished by ~95% at 10C in TTXs/TRPM8 DRG neurons, but remained substantially large at 10C in TTXr/TRPM8 cells. In both TTXs/TRPM8 and TTXr/TRPM8 cells, voltage-activated outward K(+) currents were substantially inhibited at 10C, and the cooling-sensitive outward currents resembled A-type K(+) currents. TTXs/TRPM8 neurons and TTXr/TRPM8 neurons were shown to fire action potentials at innocuous and noxious cold temperatures respectively, demonstrating sensory discrimination between innocuous and noxious cold by the two subpopulations of cold-sensing DRG neurons. The effects of cooling temperatures on voltage-gated Na(+) channels and A-type K(+) currents are likely to be contributing factors to sensory discrimination of cold by TTXs/TRPM8 and TTXr/TRPM8 afferent neurons.
Since central administration of neuropeptide S (NPS) has been shown to exert anxiolytic effects on rodent behavior in a number of studies, genetic variants of its cognate G-protein coupled receptor (NPSR1) became the focus of several recent human studies on anxiety and anxiety disorders. The T allele of rs324981, which goes along with enhanced receptor function, was associated with panic disorder, increased anxiety sensitivity in healthy subjects, attenuated prefrontal brain activation and elevated amygdala responses to fear-relevant stimuli. To investigate whether prefrontal attenuations in rs324981 T allele carriers are specific to fear-relevant stimulus content and cannot be attributed to a generally higher interference of emotional stimuli, 92 subjects performed a combined cognitive and emotional Stroop task while oxygenation changes in the prefrontal cortex were recorded using functional near-infrared spectroscopy. Results showed a specific NPSR1 gene activation modulation in response to fear-relevant word stimuli. Only A-homozygotes displayed an emotional Stroop effect in terms of increased activation to fear-relevant stimuli in medial and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Specifically, activation in the fear-relevant condition was higher in A-homozygotes as compared to T allele carriers while no group differences were found during neutral, congruent or highly interfering incongruent color word presentation. The current results are in line with earlier imaging genetic studies and suggest a potential protective function of the NPSR1 rs324981 A/A genotype against pathologically enhanced anxiety that might be explained by stronger reflective prefrontal regulation over the subcortical fear response.
In addition to senile plaque and neurofibrillary tangles, granulovacuolar degeneration is a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease. A number of tau kinases, such as c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), glycogen-synthase kinase-3 (GSK3), and casein kinase 1 (CK1), have been reported to be markers of granulovacuolar degeneration. In addition, cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5), which phosphorylates tau, has been shown to be abundantly expressed in neurofibrillary tangles in the hippocampus. CDK5 has a unique staining pattern, and therefore, has the potential to be a novel marker for granulovacuolar degeneration. In this study, we investigated the ability of CDK5 to be a marker for granulovacuolar degeneration using immunohistochemical analysis. Four Alzheimer's disease cases, three myotonic dystrophy (MyD) cases, and three control cases were subjected to immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescent techniques using anti-CDK5, anti-charged multivesicular body protein 2B (CHMP2B), anti-pSmad2/3, anti-ubiquitin (Ub), anti-phospho-TDP-43 and AT8 antibodies. Some CDK5-positive granules were morphologically similar to granulovacuolar degeneration intraluminal granules, and these granules overlapped with those immunopositive for pSmad2/3, Ub and phospho-TDP-43 established granulovacuolar degeneration markers. Moreover, CDK5-positive granulovacuolar degeneration and phosphorylated tau colocalized in pyramidal neurons in Alzheimer's disease and MyD cases. The numbers of CDK5-positive granules showed an inverse relationship with the degree of mature neurofibrillary tangles in each cell, as was the case with CHMP2B-positive granulovacuolar degeneration granules and neurofibrillary tangles. The presence of tau kinases including CDK5 in granulovacuolar degeneration might implicate that granulovacuolar degeneration is structurally involved in tau modification.
It is well known that emotion can modify the experience of pain. However, it is unclear how an emotional state and its concomitant neural activity affects activity in brain regions responsive to pain, thus altering the experience of pain itself. In this study, we examined the effect of sad mood on perception of painful stimuli and used functional MRI (fMRI) to identify neural activity changes in 15 participants who, in separate trials, (a) received painful electric shocks; (b) experienced a sad mood; and (c) received electric shocks as they were experiencing a sad mood. Sad mood was induced using a previously validated paradigm using sad pictures. As predicted, participants rated pain as more intense when they were experiencing a sad mood (viewing sad pictures) than when they were viewing neutral pictures, even though the intensity of the painful stimulation was identical under both conditions. Analysis of fMRI data showed that when pain was delivered while participants were feeling sad, neural activation was significantly greater in some areas known to process pain information as well as some that are believed to primarily process emotion. The 'pain-processing' areas included the secondary somatosensory cortex and the adjacent posterior insula (pIn/SII) as well as periaqueductal gray. The 'emotional-processing' regions included the subgenual cingulate cortex and the amygdala. On the basis of these results, we suggest that increased activation in the pIn/SII is part of a top-down system of pain facilitation that includes the anterior cingulate cortex, amygdala, and periaqueductal gray.
The changes of spontaneous activity from before and after a memory or learning task had been considered to be related to off-line memory consolidation process in human brain by using resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) MRI (fMRI). However, RSFC reflects temporal synchronization of timecourses of spatially distinct brain regions and therefore could not determine which specific brain region is involved in the memory consolidation process. Here we used regional homogeneity (ReHo), a method for measuring local synchronization, to link the local spontaneous activity change to off-line episodic memory consolidation. We hypothesized that the spontaneous activity change would be different between people with better memory performance and those with worse performance in memory-related regions. All participants completed two resting-state sessions, that is, before (REST-1) and after (REST-2) an episodic memory encoding task (picture indoor or outdoor judgment). Then, based on the d' of a later surprise memory retrieval test, a high-performance group and a low-performance group, each consisting of 16 participants, were chosen from whole 58 participants. We defined a ReHo ratio, that is, ReHo of REST-2 divided by ReHo of REST-1, as a change induced by memory consolidation. The high-performance group showed a significant higher ReHo ratio than low-performance group in medial temporal lobe (MTL) including parahippocampal and anterior temporal regions. The current results provide neuroimaging evidence supporting that the MTL is involved in off-line memory consolidation of episodic memory. Moreover, this study may provide a paradigm for understanding of episodic memory deficit in Alzheimer's disease.
The neural correlates of visual motion perception have historically been studied in non-human primates. However, the mouse has recently gained popularity as a model for studying vision primarily driven by the hope that the genetic tools available in this species may contribute to our understanding of visual processing in the cortex. A recent calcium-imaging study on the spatiotemporal tuning of mouse striate and extrastriate cortex revealed that neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1) were almost never speed tuned, whereas previous electrophysiological studies in macaques noted around one quarter of V1 neurons appeared to be selective for a particular stimulus speed. We were interested in whether this discrepancy was due to methodological or species differences, so we measured the spatiotemporal tuning of mouse V1 neurons using standard electrophysiological techniques. Using comparable analyses to previous studies of speed tuning, our data showed that speed tuning is rare in mouse V1, which corroborates earlier studies in mouse and points to a species difference in motion processing in early cortex between macaques and other mammals.
Although the firing patterns of collision-detecting neurons have been described in detail in several species, the mechanisms generating responses in these neurons to visual objects on a collision course remain largely unknown. This is partly due to the limited number of intracellular recordings from such neurons, particularly in vertebrate species. By employing patch recordings in a novel integrated frog eye-tectum preparation we tested the hypothesis that OFF retinal ganglion cells were driving the responses to visual objects on a collision course in the frog optic tectum neurons. We found that the majority (22/26) of neurons in layer 6 responding to visual stimuli fitted the definition of  class collision-detectors: they readily responded to a looming stimulus imitating collision but not a receding stimulus (spike count difference 10 times) and the spike firing rate peaked after the stimulus visual angle reached a threshold value of 20-45. In the majority of these neurons (15/22) a slow frequency oscillation (f=20Hz) of the neuronal membrane potential could be detected in the responses to a simulated collision stimulus, as well as to turning off the lights. Since OFF retinal ganglion cells could produce such oscillations, our observations are in agreement with the hypothesis that 'collision' responses in the frog optic tectum neurons are driven by synaptic inputs from OFF retinal ganglion cells.
Estrogen levels in rats are positively correlated with enhanced memory function and hippocampal dendritic spine density. There is much less work on the long-term effects of estradiol manipulation in preadolescent rats. The present work examined how injections of estradiol during postnatal days 19-22 (p19-22; preadolescence) affected water maze performance and hippocampal phosphorylated ERK labeling. To investigate this, half of the estradiol- and vehicle-treated female rats were trained on a water maze task 24h after the end of estradiol treatment (p23-27) while the other half was not trained. All female rats were tested on the water maze from p40 to p44 (adolescence) and hippocampal pERK1/2 labeling was assessed as a putative marker of neuronal plasticity. During adolescence, preadolescent-trained groups showed lower latencies than groups without preadolescent training. Retention data revealed lower latencies in both estradiol groups, whether preadolescent trained or not. Immunohistochemical detection of hippocampal pERK1/2 revealed elevations in granule cell labeling associated with the preadolescent trained groups and reductions in CA1 labeling associated with estradiol treatment. These results show a latent beneficial effect of preadolescent estradiol treatment on adolescent spatial performance and suggest an organizational effect of prepubescent exogenously applied estradiol.
Gaucher disease (GD) patients and carriers of glucocerebrosidase mutations are at an increased risk for Parkinson's disease (PD). The presynaptic protein alpha-synuclein (AS) is linked to PD. In the current work we examined biochemical properties of AS in GD patients. We generated membrane-enriched lysates from erythrocytes of 27 patients with GD and 32 age- and sex-matched controls and performed Western immunoblotting with antibodies against AS. Levels of monomeric AS did not differ between GD patients and controls and did not change as a function of age. However, the ratio of dimeric to monomeric AS was significantly increased in GD patients, and showed a significant positive correlation with age. Therefore, two major risk factors for PD, aging and GD status, are associated with an increased AS dimer to monomer ratio in erythrocytes. This ratio needs to be validated in further studies as a potential biomarker for PD risk.


In the assembly of DNA nanostructures, the specificity of Watson-Crick base pairing is used to control matter at the nanoscale. Using this technology for drug delivery is a promising route toward the magic bullet concept, as it would allow the realization of complex assemblies that co-localize drugs, targeting ligands and other functionalities in one nanostructure. Anthracyclines' mechanism of action in cancer therapy is to intercalate DNA, and since DNA nanotechnology allows for such a high degree of customization, we hypothesized that this would allow us to tune the DNA nanostructures for optimal delivery of the anthracycline doxorubicin (Dox) to human breast cancer cells. We have tested two DNA origami nanostructures on three different breast cancer cell lines (MDA-MB-231, MDA-MB-468, and MCF-7). The different nanostructures were designed to exhibit varying degrees of global twist, leading to different amounts of relaxation in the DNA double-helix structure. By tuning the nanostructure design we are able to (i) tune the encapsulation efficiency and the release rate of the drug and (ii) increase the cytotoxicity and lower the intracellular elimination rate when compared to free Dox. Enhanced apoptosis induced by the delivery system in breast cancer cells was investigated using flow cytometry. The findings indicate that DNA origami nanostructures represent an efficient delivery system for Dox, resulting in high degrees of internalization and increased induction of programmed cell death in breast cancer cells. In addition, by designing the structures to exhibit different degrees of twist, we are able to rationally control and tailor the drug release kinetics.
New research has uncovered a micro-domain within dorsal neostriatum where enkephalin surges are triggered by the opportunity to consume tasty foods and where -opioid microinjections generate intense motivational 'wanting' to eat without enhancing food 'liking'.
A clever genetic trick allows the lipid composition of the plasma membrane to be manipulated using light, paving the way for new investigations into the many membrane interactions that dictate cell shape, movement and communication.
How are stereotyped behaviors organized in a simple nervous system? A new study in the Drosophila larva reports that the foraging routine can be performed in the absence of any input from the brain.
Loneliness is the distressing feeling associated with the perceived absence of satisfying social relationships. Loneliness is increasingly prevalent in modern societies and has detrimental effects on health and happiness. Although situational threats to social relationships can transiently induce the emotion of loneliness, susceptibility to loneliness is a stable trait that varies across individuals [6-8] and is to some extent heritable. However, little is known about the neural processes associated with loneliness (but see [12-14]). Here, we hypothesized that individual differences in loneliness might be reflected in the structure of the brain regions associated with social processes. To test this hypothesis, we used voxel-based morphometry and showed that lonely individuals have less gray matter in the left posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS)--an area implicated in basic social perception. As this finding predicted, we further confirmed that loneliness was associated with difficulty in processing social cues. Although other sociopsychological factors such as social network size, anxiety, and empathy independently contributed to loneliness, only basic social perception skills mediated the association between the pSTS volume and loneliness. Taken together, our results suggest that basic social perceptual abilities play an important role in shaping an individual's loneliness.
Glutamatergic neural transmission is involved in both neural plasticity and neurodegeneration. This combination of roles could result in ambivalent effects in which excitotoxic neurodegeneration augments neural plasticity in parallel. Neural plasticity can be induced by exposure-based learning (EBL) that resembles timing properties of long-term potentiation (LTP) protocols (i.e., LTP-like learning). Even though it has not been demonstrated so far in animal models that perceptual effects of such stimulation protocols are mediated by typical LTP mechanisms, it has been shown that exposure-based learning exerts strong effects on cognitive brain functioning and is modulated by glutamatergic neural transmission. We reveal that exposure-based perceptual learning is more efficient in a human model of excitotoxic neurodegeneration than in healthy participants. Premanifest Huntington's disease gene mutation carriers showed faster increases in perceptual sensitivities than controls. This in turn changed attentional processing in extrastriate visual areas objectified using electroencephalogram data. The emergence of faster learning correlated positively with genetic disease load. Our results confirm an ambivalent action of increased glutamatergic transmission, implying that the process of excitotoxic neurodegeneration is associated with enhanced perceptual learning, which can be used to improve attentional and behavioral control via the alteration of perceptual sensitivities.
How do we perform rapid visual categorization?It is widely thought that categorization involves evaluating the similarity of an object to other category items, but the underlying features and similarity relations remain unknown. Here, we hypothesized that categorization performance is based on perceived similarity relations between items within and outside the category. To this end, we measured the categorization performance of human subjects on three diverse visual categories (animals, vehicles, and tools) and across three hierarchical levels (superordinate, basic, and subordinate levels among animals). For the same subjects, we measured their perceived pair-wise similarities between objects using a visual search task. Regardless of category and hierarchical level, we found that the time taken to categorize an object could be predicted using its similarity to members within and outside its category. We were able to account for several classic categorization phenomena, such as (a) the longer times required to reject category membership; (b) the longer times to categorize atypical objects; and (c) differences in performance across tasks and across hierarchical levels. These categorization times were also accounted for by a model that extracts coarse structure from an image. The striking agreement observed between categorization and visual search suggests that these two disparate tasks depend on a shared coarse object representation.
Photochemical tissue bonding (PTB) is a sutureless technique for tissue repair, which is achieved by applying a solution of rose bengal (RB) between two tissue edges(1,2). These are then irradiated by a laser that is selectively absorbed by the RB. The resulting photochemical reactions supposedly crosslink the collagen fibers in the tissue with minimal heat production(3). In this report, RB has been incorporated in thin chitosan films to fabricate a novel tissue adhesive that is laser-activated. Adhesive films, based on chitosan and containing ~0.1 wt% RB, are fabricated and bonded to calf intestine and rat tibial nerves by a solid state laser (=532 nm, Fluence~110 J/cm(2), spot size~0.5 cm). A single-column tensiometer, interfaced with a personal computer, is used to test the bonding strength. The RB-chitosan adhesive bonds firmly to the intestine with a strength of 15  6 kPa, (n=30). The adhesion strength drops to 2  2 kPa (n=30) when the laser is not applied to the adhesive. The anastomosis of tibial nerves can be also completed without the use of sutures. A novel chitosan adhesive has been fabricated that bonds photochemically to tissue and does not require sutures.



The hippocampal formation plays key roles in representing an animal's location and in detecting environmental novelty to create or update those representations. However, the mechanisms behind this latter function are unclear. Here, we show that environmental novelty causes the spatial firing patterns of grid cells to expand in scale and reduce in regularity, reverting to their familiar scale as the environment becomes familiar. Simultaneously recorded place cell firing fields remapped and showed a smaller, temporary expansion. Grid expansion provides a potential mechanism for novelty signaling and may enhance the formation of new hippocampal representations, whereas the subsequent slow reduction in scale provides a potential familiarity signal.
Variability in opioid analgesia has been attributed to many factors. For example, genetic variability of the -opioid receptor (MOR)-encoding gene introduces variability in MOR function and endogenous opioid neurotransmission. Emerging evidence suggests that personality trait related to the experience of reward is linked to endogenous opioid neurotransmission. We hypothesized that opioid-induced behavioral analgesia would be predicted by the trait reward responsiveness (RWR) and the response of the brain reward circuitry to noxious stimuli at baseline before opioid administration. In healthy volunteers using functional magnetic resonance imaging and the -opioid agonist remifentanil, we found that the magnitude of behavioral opioid analgesia is positively correlated with the trait RWR and predicted by the neuronal response to painful noxious stimuli before infusion in key structures of the reward circuitry, such as the orbitofrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, and the ventral tegmental area. These findings highlight the role of the brain reward circuitry in the expression of behavioral opioid analgesia. We also show a positive correlation between behavioral opioid analgesia and opioid-induced suppression of neuronal responses to noxious stimuli in key structures of the descending pain modulatory system (amygdala, periaqueductal gray, and rostral-ventromedial medulla), as well as the hippocampus. Further, these activity changes were predicted by the preinfusion period neuronal response to noxious stimuli within the ventral tegmentum. These results support the notion of future imaging-based subject-stratification paradigms that can guide therapeutic decisions.
Processive movements of unconventional myosins on actin filaments generally require motor dimerization. A commonly accepted myosin dimerization mechanism is via formation of a parallel coiled-coil dimer by a stretch of amino acid residues immediately carboxyl-terminal to the motor's lever-arm domain. Here, we discover that the predicted coiled-coil region of myosin X forms a highly stable, antiparallel coiled-coil dimer (anti-CC). Disruption of the anti-CC either by single-point mutations or by replacement of the anti-CC with a parallel coiled coil with a similar length compromised the filopodial induction activity of myosin X. We further show that the anti-CC and the single -helical domain of myosin X are connected by a semirigid helical linker. The anti-CC-mediated dimerization may enable myosin X to walk on both single and bundled actin filaments.

A female patient with non-small-cell lung cancer presented with a huge area of exposed bone in the mandible following spontaneous teeth loss. She was receiving multimodal chemotherapy containing bevacizumab. No previous treatment with bisphosphonates or comorbid conditions was reported. Pain medications and infection control were offered to the patient who was closely followed up. Initial imaging and histology of bone and surrounding mucosa (8 weeks after bevacizumab cessation) confirmed the clinical suspicion of avascular osteonecrosis of the mandible. Subsequent imaging and histology of bone and gingiva (12 weeks after bevacizumab cessation) revealed the initial sequestration of the mandible with a marked expansion of the mucosal vascular network. Spontaneous bone sequestration eventually occurred few months later, followed by stable and painless mucosal coverage of the mandibular bone. The patient remained disease-free up to 3 years of follow-up.
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a life-threatening disease characterized by the progressive narrowing and occlusion of small pulmonary arteries. Current therapies fail to fully reverse this vascular remodeling. Identifying key pathways in disease pathogenesis is therefore required for the development of new-targeted therapeutics. We have previously reported tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) immunoreactivity within pulmonary vascular lesions from patients with idiopathic PAH and animal models. Because TRAIL can induce both endothelial cell apoptosis and smooth muscle cell proliferation in the systemic circulation, we hypothesized that TRAIL is an important mediator in the pathogenesis of PAH. We demonstrate for the first time that TRAIL is a potent stimulus for pulmonary vascular remodeling in human cells and rodent models. Furthermore, antibody blockade or genetic deletion of TRAIL prevents the development of PAH in three independent rodent models. Finally, anti-TRAIL antibody treatment of rodents with established PAH reverses pulmonary vascular remodeling by reducing proliferation and inducing apoptosis, improves hemodynamic indices, and significantly increases survival. These preclinical investigations are the first to demonstrate the importance of TRAIL in PAH pathogenesis and highlight its potential as a novel therapeutic target to direct future translational therapies.




NMDA receptors (NRs) are glutamate-gated calcium-permeable channels that are essential for normal synaptic transmssion and contribute to neurodegeneration. Tetrameric proteins consist of two obligatory GluN1 (N1) and two GluN2 (N2) subunits, of which GluN2A (2A) and GluN2B (2B) are prevalent in adult brain. The intracellularly located C-terminal domains (CTDs) make a significant portion of mass of the receptors and are essential for plasticity and excitotoxicity, but their functions are incompletely defined. Recent evidence shows that truncation of the N2 CTD alters channel kinetics; however, the mechanism by which this occurs is unclear. Here we recorded activity from individual NRs lacking the CTDs of N1, 2A, or 2B and determined the gating mechanisms of these receptors. Receptors lacking the N1 CTDs had larger unitary conductance and faster deactivation kinetics, receptors lacking the 2A or 2B CTDs had longer openings and longer desensitized intervals, and the first 100 amino acids of the N2 CTD were essential for these changes. In addition, receptors lacking the CTDs of either 2A or 2B maintained isoform-specific kinetic differences and swapping CTDs between 2A and 2B had no effect on single-channel properties. Based on these results, we suggest that perturbations in the CTD can modify the NR-mediated signal in a subunit-dependent manner, in 2A these effects are most likely mediated by membrane-proximal residues, and the isoform-specific biophysical properties conferred by 2A and 2B are CTD-independent. The kinetic mechanisms we developed afford a quantitative approach to understanding how the intracellular domains of NR subunits can modulate the responses of the receptor.
Loss-of-function mutations in the gene encoding the multifunctional protein, DJ-1, have been implicated in the pathogenesis of early-onset familial Parkinson's disease (PD), suggesting that DJ-1 may act as a neuroprotectant for dopaminergic (DA) neurons. Enhanced autophagy may benefit PD by clearing damaged organelles and protein aggregates; thus, we determined if DJ-1 protects DA neurons against mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress through an autophagic pathway. Cultured DA cells (MN9D) overexpressing DJ-1 were treated with the mitochondrial complex I inhibitor, rotenone. In addition, rotenone was injected into the left substantia nigra of rats 4weeks after injection with a DJ-1 expression vector. Overexpression of DJ-1 protected MN9D cells against apoptosis, significantly enhanced the survival of nigral DA neurons after rotenone treatment in vivo, and rescued rat behavioral abnormalities. Overexpression of DJ-1 enhanced rotenone-evoked expression of the autophagic markers, beclin-1 and LC3II, while transmission electron microscopy and confocal imaging revealed that the ultrastructural signs of autophagy were increased by DJ-1. The neuroprotective effects of DJ-1 were blocked by phosphoinositol 3-kinase and the autophagy inhibitor, 3-methyladenine, and by the ERK pathway inhibitor, U0126. Confocal imaging revealed that the size of p62-positive puncta decreased significantly in DJ-1 overexpression of MN9D cells 12h after rotenone treatment, suggesting that DJ-1 reveals the ability to clear aggregated p62 associated with PD. Factors that control autophagy, including DJ-1, may inhibit rotenone-induced apoptosis and present novel targets for therapeutic intervention in PD.
Microdeletion and microduplication copy number variations are found in patients with autism spectrum disorder and in a number of cases they include genes that are involved in the canonical Wnt signaling pathway (for example, FZD9, BCL9 or CDH8). Association studies investigating WNT2, DISC1, MET, DOCK4 or AHI1 also provide evidence that the canonical Wnt pathway might be affected in autism. Prenatal medication with sodium-valproate or antidepressant drugs increases autism risk. In animal studies, it has been found that these medications promote Wnt signaling, including among others an increase in Wnt2 gene expression. Notably, the available genetic information indicates that not only canonical Wnt pathway activation, but also inhibition seems to increase autism risk. The canonical Wnt pathway plays a role in dendrite growth and suboptimal activity negatively affects the dendritic arbor. In principle, this provides a logical explanation as to why both hypo- and hyperactivity may generate a similar set of behavioral and cognitive symptoms. However, without a validated biomarker to stratify for deviant canonical Wnt pathway activity, it is probably too dangerous to treat patients with compounds that modify pathway activity.

Autism spectrum disorders are a genetically heterogeneous constellation of syndromes characterized by impairments in reciprocal social interaction. Available somatic treatments have limited efficacy. We have identified inactivating mutations in the gene BCKDK (Branched Chain Ketoacid Dehydrogenase Kinase) in consanguineous families with autism, epilepsy, and intellectual disability. The encoded protein is responsible for phosphorylation-mediated inactivation of the E1 subunit of branched-chain ketoacid dehydrogenase (BCKDH). Patients with homozygous BCKDK mutations display reductions in BCKDK messenger RNA and protein, E1 phosphorylation, and plasma branched-chain amino acids. Bckdk knockout mice show abnormal brain amino acid profiles and neurobehavioral deficits that respond to dietary supplementation. Thus, autism presenting with intellectual disability and epilepsy caused by BCKDK mutations represents a potentially treatable syndrome.
The mammalian circadian clock involves a transcriptional feed back loop in which CLOCK and BMAL1 activate the Period and Cryptochrome genes, which then feedback and repress their own transcription. We have interrogated the transcriptional architecture of the circadian transcriptional regulatory loop on a genome scale in mouse liver and find a stereotyped, time-dependent pattern of transcription factor binding, RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) recruitment, RNA expression, and chromatin states. We find that the circadian transcriptional cycle of the clock consists of three distinct phases: a poised state, a coordinated de novo transcriptional activation state, and a repressed state. Only 22% of messenger RNA (mRNA) cycling genes are driven by de novo transcription, suggesting that both transcriptional and posttranscriptional mechanisms underlie the mammalian circadian clock. We also find that circadian modulation of RNAPII recruitment and chromatin remodeling occurs on a genome-wide scale far greater than that seen previously by gene expression profiling.
(2)-glycoprotein I ((2)GPI) is the major antigenic target for antiphospholipid Abs. Anti-(2)GPI Abs are a heterogeneous population of Igs targeting all domains of the molecule. Abs specific to (2)GPI domain I are strongly associated with thrombosis and obstetric complications. In the present study, we sought to understand the possible pathogenic mechanism for this subset of anti-(2)GPI Abs, investigating their potential cross-reactivity with other self-proteins involved in inflammatory or coagulant events. We compared the amino acid sequence of the (2)GPI domain I with human proteins in a protein databank and identified a peptide sharing 88% identity with an epitope of human TLR4. A high percentage of patients with antiphospholipid syndrome (41%) and systemic lupus erythematosus (50%) presented serum IgG specific to this peptide. Anti-(2)GPI peptide Abs binding the TLR4 were able to induce NF-B activation in HEK293 cells that were stably transfected with the TLR4 gene. Anti-(2)GPI peptide Abs induced activation of TLR4 and triggered interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase phosphorylation and NF-B translocation, promoting VCAM expression on endothelial cells and TNF- release by monocytes. In conclusion, our observations suggest a novel pathogenic mechanism in the TLR4 stimulation by anti-(2)GPI peptide Abs that links adaptive immune responses with innate immunity in antiphospholipid syndrome and systemic lupus erythematosus.

Neuroligin (NLG), a postsynaptic adhesion molecule, is involved in the formation of synapses by binding to a cognate presynaptic ligand, neurexin. Here we report that neuroligin-1 (NLG1) undergoes ectodomain shedding at the juxtamembrane stalk region to generate a secreted form of NLG1 anda membrane-tethered C-terminal fragment (CTF) in adult rat brains invivo as well as in neuronal cultures. Pharmacological and genetic studies identified ADAM10 as the major protease responsible for NLG1 shedding, the latter being augmented by synaptic NMDA receptor activation or interaction with soluble neurexin ligands. NLG1-CTF was subsequently cleaved by presenilin/-secretase. Secretion of soluble NLG1 was significantly upregulated under a prolonged epileptic seizure condition, and inhibition of NLG1 shedding led to an increase in numbers of dendritic spines in neuronal cultures. Collectively, neuronal activity-dependent proteolytic processing of NLG1 may negatively regulate the remodeling of spines at excitatory synapses.
Rod photoreceptors generate amplified, reproducible responses to single photons via a G protein signaling cascade. Surprisingly, genetic perturbations that dramatically alter the deactivation of the principal signal amplifier, the GPCR rhodopsin (R), do not much alter the amplitude of single-photon responses (SPRs). These same perturbations, when crossed into a line lacking calcium feedback regulation of cGMP synthesis, produced much larger alterations in SPR amplitudes. Analysis of SPRs from rods with and without feedback reveal that the consequences of trial-to-trial fluctuations in R lifetime in normal rods are also dampened by feedback regulation of cGMP synthesis. Thus, calcium feedback trumps the mechanisms of R deactivation in determining the SPR amplitude, attenuating responses arising from longer R lifetimes to a greater extent than those arising from shorter ones. As a result, rod SPRs achieve a more stereotyped amplitude, a characteristic considered important for reliable transmission through the visual system.
Despite many studies on selective attention, fundamental questions remain about its nature and neural mechanisms. Here I draw from the animal and machine learning fields that describe attention as a mechanism for active learning and uncertainty reduction and explore the implications of this view for understanding visual attention and eye movement control. I propose that a closer integration of these different views has the potential greatly to expand our understanding of oculomotor control and our ability to use this system as a window into high level but poorly understood cognitive functions, including the capacity for curiosity and exploration and for inferring internal models of the external world.
The auditory cortex encodes information about sounds through the combined activity of large numbers ofneurons, but the way this population activity is organized has not been clear. In this issue of Neuron, Bathellier etal. (2012) show that firing in the superficial layers of auditory cortex is organized into a small number of attractor-like neuronal assemblies, whose responses can predict an animal's sound discrimination performance.
Current therapies to enhance CNS cholinergic function rely primarily on extracellular acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition, a pharmacotherapeutic strategy that produces dose-limiting side effects. The Na(+)-dependent, high-affinity choline transporter (CHT) is an unexplored target for cholinergic medication development. Although functional at the plasma membrane, CHT at steady-state is localized to synaptic vesicles such that vesicular fusion can support a biosynthetic response to neuronal excitation. To identify allosteric potentiators of CHT activity, we mapped endocytic sequences in the C-terminus of human CHT, identifying transporter mutants that exhibit significantly increased transport function. A stable HEK-293 cell line was generated from one of these mutants (CHT LV-AA) and used to establish a high-throughput screen (HTS) compatible assay based on the electrogenic nature of the transporter. We established that the addition of choline to these cells, at concentrations appropriate for high-affinity choline transport at presynaptic terminals, generates a hemicholinium-3 (HC-3)-sensitive, membrane depolarization that can be used for the screening of CHT inhibitors and activators. Using this assay, we discovered that staurosporine increased CHT LV-AA choline uptake activity, an effect mediated by a decrease in choline K(M) with no change in V(max). As staurosporine did not change surface levels of CHT, nor inhibit HC-3 binding, we propose that its action is directly or indirectly allosteric in nature. Surprisingly, staurosporine reduced choline-induced membrane depolarization, suggesting that increased substrate coupling to ion gradients, arising at the expense of nonstoichiometric ion flow, accompanies a shift of CHT to a higher-affinity state. Our findings provide a new approach for the identification of CHT modulators that is compatible with high-throughput screening approaches and presents a novel model by which small molecules can enhance substrate flux through enhanced gradient coupling.
Treatment of brain tumors with chemotherapy is limited mostly because of delivery impediments related to the blood-brain barrier (BBB). For gliomas, the most common and aggressive primary brain tumor, treatment includes surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy usually administered orally or intravenously. These routes do not deliver effective concentrations. To complicate matters, chemotherapy is usually a long treatment. Therefore, transient disruption of the BBB is likely insufficient to deliver effective intratumoral concentrations of anticancer drugs. This review briefly updates current strategies for overcoming the BBB with emphasis on their limitations and challenges intrinsic to the biology of cancer cells.
The number of functional transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) channels at the surface, especially at the peripheral terminals of primary sensory neurons, regulates heat sensitivity, and increased surface localization of TRPV1s contributes to heat hyperalgesia. However, the mechanisms for regulating TRPV1 surface localization are essentially unknown. Here, we show that cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5), a new player in thermal pain sensation, positively regulates TRPV1 surface localization. Active Cdk5 was found to promote TRPV1 anterograde transport in vivo, suggesting a regulatory role of Cdk5 in TRPV1 membrane trafficking. TRPV1-containing vesicles bind to the forkhead-associated (FHA) domain of the KIF13B (kinesin-3 family member 13B) and are thus delivered to the cell surface. Overexpression of Cdk5 or its activator p35 promoted and inhibition of Cdk5 activity prevented the KIF13B-TRPV1 association, indicating that Cdk5 promotes TRPV1 anterograde transport by mediating the motor-cargo association. Cdk5 phosphorylates KIF13B at Thr-506, a residue located in the FHA domain. T506A mutation reduced the motor-cargo interaction and the cell-permeable TAT-T506 peptide, targeting to the Thr-506, decreased TRPV1 surface localization, demonstrating the essential role of Thr-506 phosphorylation in TRPV1 transport. Moreover, complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) injection-induced activation of Cdk5 increased the anterograde transport of TRPV1s, contributing to the development and possibly the maintenance of heat hyperalgesia, whereas intrathecal delivery of the TAT-T506 peptide alleviated CFA-induced heat hyperalgesia in rats. Thus, Cdk5 regulation of TRPV1 membrane trafficking is a fundamental mechanism controlling the heat sensitivity of nociceptors, and moderate inhibition of Thr-506 phosphorylation during inflammation might be helpful for the treatment of inflammatory thermal pain.
Cerebellar climbing fibers (CFs) provide powerful excitatory input to Purkinje cells (PCs), which represent the sole output of the cerebellar cortex. Recent discoveries suggest that CFs have information-rich signaling properties important for cerebellar function, beyond eliciting the well known all-or-none PC complex spike. CF morphology has not been quantitatively analyzed at the same level of detail as its biophysical properties. Because morphology can greatly influence function, including the capacity for information processing, it is important to understand CF branching structure in detail, as well as its variability across and within arbors. We have digitally reconstructed 68 rat CFs labeled using biotinylated dextran amine injected into the inferior olive and comprehensively quantified their morphology. CF structure was considerably diverse even within the same anatomical regions. Distinctly identifiable primary, tendril, and distal branches could be operationally differentiated by the relative size of the subtrees at their initial bifurcations. Additionally, primary branches were more directed toward the cortical surface and had fewer and less pronounced synaptic boutons, suggesting they prioritize efficient and reliable signal propagation. Tendril and distal branches were spatially segregated and bouton dense, indicating specialization in signal transmission. Furthermore, CFs systematically targeted molecular layer interneuron cell bodies, especially at terminal boutons, potentially instantiating feedforward inhibition on PCs. This study offers the most detailed and comprehensive characterization of CF morphology to date. The reconstruction files and metadata are publicly distributed at NeuroMorpho.org.
Pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release is critical for the central regulation of fertility. There is no method allowing real-time GnRH detection in brain slices. We developed fast-scan cyclic voltammetry (FSCV) using carbon-fiber microelectrodes (CFME) to detect GnRH release and validated it using a biologically relevant system. FSCV parameters (holding potential, switching potential, and scan rate) were determined for stable GnRH detection in vitro, then optimized for GnRH detection in mouse brain slices. Placement of CFMEs in the median eminence (ME) near GnRH terminals allowed detection of both KCl-evoked and spontaneous GnRH release. GnRH release was also detected from GnRH fibers passing near GnRH soma and near fiber-fiber appositions in the preoptic area. No GnRH signal was detected from CFMEs in the ME of hpg mice, which lack GnRH, or in regions not containing GnRH neurons in wild-type mice; application of exogenous GnRH produced a signal similar to that observed for spontaneous/evoked endogenous GnRH release. Using an established mouse model that produces diurnal variations in GnRH neuron activity, we demonstrated corresponding changes in spontaneous GnRH release in the median eminence. These results validate FSCV to detect GnRH in brain slices and provide new information on the sites and amounts of GnRH release, providing insight into its neuromodulatory functions.
To investigate the role of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1 (IL-1) in postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) in aged rats, we used laparotomy to mimic human abdominal surgery in adult (3 months) and aged (24 months) F344/BN rats. We demonstrated that memory consolidation of the hippocampal-dependent contextual fear-conditioning task is significantly impaired in aged but not young rats 4 d after surgery. Hippocampal-independent auditory-cued fear memory was not disrupted by laparotomy in either age group. The hippocampal-dependent memory impairment was paralleled by elevations of IL-1 in the hippocampus of aged animals 1 and 4 d after surgery. These findings support our substantial line of previous research showing that aged animals are more vulnerable to cognitive decline after a peripheral immune challenge. In addition, we demonstrated that a single intracisternal administration of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1RA; 112 g) at the time of surgery was sufficient to block both the behavioral deficit and the neuroinflammatory response. Injecting the same dose of IL-1RA peripherally failed to have a protective effect. These data provide strong support for the specific role of central, not peripheral, IL-1 in POCD. Furthermore, the long-lasting presence of IL-1RA in the brain (4 d) compared with in the blood (&lt;24 h) underscores the value of intracisternal administration of IL-1RA for therapeutic purposes.
Glucocorticoids (GCs) mediate the effects of stress to cause structural plasticity in brain regions such as the hippocampus, including simplification of dendrites and shrinkage of dendritic spines. However, the molecular mechanics linking stress and GCs to these effects remain largely unclear. Here, we demonstrated that corticosterone (CORT) reduces the expression levels of caldesmon (CaD), causing dendritic spines to become vulnerable. CaD regulates cell motility by modulating the actin-myosin system and actin filament stability. In cultured rat hippocampal neurons, CaD localized to dendritic spines by binding to filamentous actin (F-actin), and CaD expression levels increased during spine development. CaD stabilized the F-actin dynamics in spines, thereby enlarging the spine heads, whereas CaD knockdown decreased the spine-head size via destabilization of the F-actin dynamics. CaD was also required for chemical LTP-induced actin stabilization. The CaD expression levels were markedly decreased by exposure to CORT mediated by suppression of serum response factor-dependent transcription. High CORT levels reduced both the spine-head size and F-actin stability similarly to CaD knockdown, and overexpressing CaD abolished the detrimental effect of CORT on dendritic spine development. These results indicate that CaD enlarges the spine-head size by stabilizing F-actin dynamics, and that CaD is a critical target in the GC-induced detrimental effects on dendritic spine development.
The ability to identify and localize our own limbs is crucial for survival. Indeed, the majority of our interactions with objects occur within the space surrounding the hands. In non-human primates, neurons in the posterior parietal and premotor cortices dynamically represent the space near the upper limbs in hand-centered coordinates. Neuronal populations selective for the space near the hand also exist in humans. It is unclear whether these remap the peri-hand representation as the arm is moved in space. Furthermore, no combined neuronal and behavioral data are available about the possible involvement of peri-hand neurons in the perception of the upper limbs in any species. We used fMRI adaptation to demonstrate dynamic hand-centered encoding of space by reporting response suppression in human premotor and posterior parietal cortices to repeated presentations of an object near the hand for different arm postures. Furthermore, we show that such spatial representation is related to changes in body perception, being remapped onto a prosthetic hand if perceived as one's own during an illusion. Interestingly, our results further suggest that peri-hand space remapping in the premotor cortex is most tightly linked to the subjective feeling of ownership of the seen limb, whereas remapping in the posterior parietal cortex closely reflects changes in the position sense of the arm. These findings identify the neural bases for dynamic hand-centered encoding of peripersonal space in humans and provide hitherto missing evidence for the link between the peri-hand representation of space and the perceived self-attribution and position of the upper limb.
-Alanine, a popular supplement for muscle building, induces itch and tingling after consumption, but the underlying molecular and neural mechanisms are obscure. Here we show that, in mice, -alanine elicited itch-associated behavior that requires MrgprD, a G-protein-coupled receptor expressed by a subpopulation of primary sensory neurons. These neurons exclusively innervate the skin, respond to -alanine, heat, and mechanical noxious stimuli but do not respond to histamine. In humans, intradermally injected -alanine induced itch but neither wheal nor flare, suggesting that the itch was not mediated by histamine. Thus, the primary sensory neurons responsive to -alanine are likely part of a histamine-independent itch neural circuit and a target for treating clinical itch that is unrelieved by anti-histamines.
Environmental enrichment (EE) has marked beneficial effects on cognitive capacity. Given the possibility that this form of neuronal plasticity could function via the actuation of the same cellular signaling pathways that underlie learning/memory formation, we examined whether the MAPK cascade effector, mitogen/stress-activated kinase 1 (MSK1), could play a role in this process. MSK1 functions as a key signaling intermediate that couples changes in neuronal activity into inducible gene expression, neuronal plasticity, and learning/memory. Here, we show that MSK1 is expressed in excitatory cell layers of the hippocampus, progenitor cells of the subgranular zone (SGZ), and adult-born immature neurons. MSK1(-/-) mice exhibit reduced spinogenesis and decreased dendritic branching complexity in hippocampal neurons, compared with WT mice. Further, in MSK1(-/-) mice, progenitor cell proliferation within the SGZ was significantly reduced and, correspondingly, the number of immature neurons within the dentate gyrus was significantly reduced. Consistent with prior work, MSK1(-/-) mice displayed deficits in both spatial and recognition memory tasks. Strikingly, cognitive enhancement resulting from a 40-d period of EE was markedly reduced in MSK1(-/-) animals. MSK1(-/-) mice exhibited reduced levels of EE-induced spinogenesis and SGZ progenitor proliferation. Taken together, these data reveal that MSK1 serves as a critical regulator of hippocampal physiology and function and that MSK1 serves as a key conduit by which enriching stimuli augment cellular plasticity and cognition.
Encoding new information requires dynamic changes in synaptic strength. The brain can boost synaptic plasticity through the secretion of neuromodulatory substances, including acetylcholine and noradrenaline. Considerable effort has focused on elucidating how neuromodulatory substances alter synaptic properties. However, determination of the potential synergistic interactions between different neuromodulatory systems remains incomplete. Previous results indicate that coactivation of -adrenergic and cholinergic receptors facilitated the conversion of STP to LTP through an extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)-dependent mechanism. ERK signaling has been linked to synaptically localized translation regulation. Thus, we hypothesized that costimulation of noradrenergic and cholinergic receptors could initiate the transformation of STP to LTP through up-regulation of protein synthesis. Our results indicate that a protocol which yields STP (5 Hz, 5 sec) when paired with coapplication of the -adrenergic agonist, isoproterenol (ISO), and the cholinergic agonist, carbachol (CCh), induces translation-dependent LTP in mouse CA1. This form of LTP requires both 1-adrenergic and M1 muscarinic receptor activation, as blocking either receptor subtype prevented LTP induction. Blocking ERK, mTOR, or translation reduced the expression of LTP induced with ISO + CCh. Taken together, our data demonstrate that coactivation of -adrenergic and muscarinic receptors facilitates the conversion of STP to LTP through a mechanism requiring translation initiation.
Restoration of motor function following stroke involves reorganization of motor output through intact pathways, with compensatory brain activity likely variable by task. One class of motor tasks, those involved in self-care, is particularly important in stroke rehabilitation. Identifying the brain areas that are engaged in self-care and how they reorganize after stroke may enable development of more effective rehabilitation strategies. We piloted a paradigm for functional MRI assessment of self-care activity. In two groups, young adults and older adults, two self-care tasks (buttoning and zipping) produce activation similar to a bimanual tapping task, with bilateral activation of primary and secondary motor cortices, primary sensory cortex, and cerebellum. Quantitative differences include more activation of sensorimotor cortex and cerebellum in buttoning than bimanual tapping. Pilot subjects with stroke showed greater superior parietal activity across tasks than controls, potentially representing an increased need for sensorimotor integration to perform motor tasks.
Snail family transcription factors are best known for regulating epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). The Drosophila Snail family member Worniu is specifically transcribed in neural progenitors (neuroblasts) throughout their lifespan, and worniu mutants show defects in neuroblast delamination (a form of EMT). However, the role of Worniu in neuroblasts beyond their formation is unknown. We performed RNA-seq on worniu mutant larval neuroblasts and observed reduced cell-cycle transcripts and increased neural differentiation transcripts. Consistent with these genomic data, worniu mutant neuroblasts showed a striking delay in prophase/metaphase transition by live imaging and increased levels of the conserved neuronal differentiation splicing factor Elav. Reducing Elav levels significantly suppressed the worniu mutant phenotype. We conclude that Worniu is continuously required in neuroblasts to maintain self-renewal by promoting cell-cycle progression and inhibiting premature differentiation.


Variations in maternal care in the rat affect hippocampal morphology and function as well as performance on hippocampal-dependent tests of learning and memory in the offspring. Preliminary genome-wide analyses of gene transcription and DNA methylation of the molecular basis for such maternal effects suggested differences in the epigenetic state and transcriptional activity of the Grm1 gene in the rat as a function of maternal care. Grm1 encodes the type I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR1), and we found increased mGluR1 mRNA and protein in hippocampus from the adult offspring of mothers showing an increased frequency of pup licking/grooming (i.e., high-LG mothers) that was associated with a decrease in the methylation of Grm1. ChIP assays showed increased levels of histone 3 lysine 9 acetylation and histone 3 lysine 4 trimethylation of Grm1 in hippocampus from the adult offspring of high-LG compared with low-LG mothers. These histone posttranslational modifications were highly correlated, and both associate inversely with DNA methylation and positively with transcription. Studies of mGluR1 function showed increased hippocampal mGluR1-induced long-term depression in the adult offspring of high-LG compared with low-LG mothers, as well as increased paired-pulse depression (PPD). PPD is an inhibitory feedback mechanism that prevents excessive glutamate release during high-frequency stimulation. The maternal effects on both long-term depression and PPD were eliminated by treatment with an mGluR1-selective antagonist. These findings suggest that variations in maternal care can influence hippocampal function and cognitive performance through the epigenetic regulation of genes implicated in glutamatergic synaptic signaling.
Head trauma from abuse, including shaken baby syndrome, is a devastating and potentially lethal form of infant physical abuse first recognized in the early 1970s. What has been less recognized is the role of the early increase in crying in otherwise normal infants in the first few months of life as a trigger for the abuse. In part, this is because infant crying, especially prolonged unsoothable crying, has been interpreted clinically as something wrong with the infant, the infant's caregiver, or the interactions between them. Here, we review an alternative developmental interpretation, namely, that the early increase in crying is a typical behavioral development in normal infants and usually does not reflect anything wrong or abnormal. We also review evidence indicating that this normal crying pattern is the most common trigger for abusive head trauma (AHT). Together, these findings point to a conceptualization of AHT as the consequence of a failure in an otherwise common, iterative, and developmentally normal infant-caregiver interaction. They also imply that there is a window of opportunity for prevention of AHT, and potentially other forms of infant abuse, through a public health primary universal prevention strategy aimed at changing knowledge and behaviors of caregivers and society in general concerning normal development of infants and the significance of early increased infant crying. If effective, there may be important implications for prevention of infant abuse nationally and internationally.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) receives input from all other cortical regions and functions to plan and direct motor, cognitive, affective, and social behavior across time. It has a prolonged development, which allows the acquisition of complex cognitive abilities through experience but makes it susceptible to factors that can lead to abnormal functioning, which is often manifested in neuropsychiatric disorders. When the PFC is exposed to different environmental events during development, such as sensory stimuli, stress, drugs, hormones, and social experiences (including both parental and peer interactions), the developing PFC may develop in different ways. The goal of the current review is to illustrate how the circuitry of the developing PFC can be sculpted by a wide range of pre- and postnatal factors. We begin with an overview of prefrontal functioning and development, and we conclude with a consideration of how early experiences influence prefrontal development and behavior.
A hallmark of visual cortical neurons is their selectivity for stimulus pattern features, such as color, orientation, or shape. In most cases this feature selectivity is hard-wired, with selectivity manifest from the beginning of the response. Here we show that when a task requires that a monkey distinguish between patterns, V4 develops a selectivity for the sought-after pattern, which it does not manifest in a task that does not require the monkey to distinguish between patterns. When a monkey looks for a target object among an array of distractors, V4 neurons become selective for the target 50 ms after the visual latency independent of the impending saccade direction. However, when the monkey has to only make a saccade to the spatial location of the same objects without discriminating their pattern, V4 neurons do not distinguish the search target from the distractors. This selectivity for stimulus pattern develops roughly 40 ms after the same neurons' selectivity for basic pattern features like orientation or color. We suggest that this late-developing selectivity is related to the phenomenon of feature attention and may contribute to the mechanisms by which the brain finds the target in visual search.
Aripiprazole is an atypical antipsychotic drug approved for the treatment of psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder and autism. The drug shows partial agonistic activity at dopamine D(2) receptors and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) 5-HT(1A) receptors, and antagonistic activity at 5-HT(2A) receptors. However, the precise mechanistic pathways remain unclear. In this study, we examined the effects of aripiprazole on neurite outgrowth. Aripiprazole significantly potentiated nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells, in a concentration-dependent manner. The 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY-100635, but not the dopamine D(2) receptor antagonist sulpiride, blocked the effects of aripiprazole, although, only partially. Specific inhibitors of inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP(3)) receptors and BAPTA-AM, a chelator of intracellular Ca(2+), blocked the effects of aripiprazole. Moreover, specific inhibitors of several common signaling pathways phospholipase C- (PLC-), phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K), mammalian target of rapamycin, p38 MAPK, c-Jun N-terminal kinase, Akt, Ras, Raf, ERK, MAPK) also blocked the effects of aripiprazole. Using proteomic analysis, we found that aripiprazole significantly increased levels of the heat shock protein Hsp90 in cultured cells. The effects of aripiprazole on NGF-induced neurite outgrowth were significantly attenuated by treatment with Hsp90 RNA interference, but not by the negative control of Hsp90. These findings suggest that both 5-HT(1A) receptor activation and Ca(2+) signaling via IP(3) receptors, as well as their downstream cellular signaling pathways play a role in the promotion of aripiprazole-induced neurite outgrowth. Furthermore, aripiprazole-induced increases in Hsp90 protein expression may form part of the therapeutic mechanism for this drug.

Epicardial and perivascular fat depot size is considered an index of cardiac and visceral obesity. The functional and anatomic proximity of epicardial adipose tissue (EAT) to myocardium has drawn increasing attention in recent years among researchers attempting to elucidate its putative role as an endocrine organ. This includes the role of EAT as a lipid storing depot and as an inflammatory tissue secreting cytokines and chemokines under pathogenic conditions such as cardiovascular diseases. In this review, we discuss the current state of knowledge regarding the potential EAT mediators of inflammation and the paracrine cross-talk between EAT and the underlying myocardium. We also highlight the most recent findings on the causes and correlates of myocardial steatosis/cardiac lipotoxicity and its association with cardiac dysfunction.
Forty-eight hours of water deprivation (WD) in conscious rats results in a paradoxical increase in mean arterial pressure (MAP). Previous studies suggest this may be due to increased sympathetic nerve activity (SNA). However, this remains to be investigated in conscious, freely behaving animals. The purpose of this study was to determine, in conscious rats, the role of the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) in mediating WD-induced increases in MAP and to identify which vascular beds are targeted by increased SNA. Each rat was chronically instrumented with a radiotelemetry transmitter to measure MAP and heart rate (HR) and an indwelling venous catheter for plasma sampling and/or drug delivery. MAP and HR were continuously measured during a 2-day baseline period followed by 48 h of WD and then a recovery period. By the end of the WD period, MAP increased by 15 mmHg in control groups, whereas HR did not change significantly. Chronic blockade of (1)/(1)-adrenergic receptors significantly attenuated the WD-induced increase in MAP, suggesting a role for global activation of the SNS. However, the MAP response to WD was unaffected by selective denervations of the hindlimb, renal, or splanchnic vascular beds, or by adrenal demedullation. In contrast, complete adrenalectomy (with corticosterone and aldosterone replaced) significantly attenuated the MAP response to WD in the same time frame as (1)/(1)-adrenergic receptor blockade. These results suggest that, in conscious water-deprived rats, the SNS contributes to the MAP response and may be linked to release of adrenocortical hormones. Finally, this sympathetically mediated response is not dependent on increased SNA to one specific vascular bed.
Circulating ghrelin reduces blood pressure, but the mechanism for this action is unknown. This study investigated whether ghrelin has direct vasodilator effects mediated through the growth hormone secretagogue receptor 1a (GHSR1a) and whether ghrelin reduces sympathetic nerve activity. Mice expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein under control of the promoter for growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHSR) and RT-PCR were used to locate sites of receptor expression. Effects of ghrelin and the nonpeptide GHSR1a agonist capromorelin on rat arteries and on transmission in sympathetic ganglia were measured in vitro. In addition, rat blood pressure and sympathetic nerve activity responses to ghrelin were determined in vivo. In reporter mice, expression of GHSR was revealed at sites where it has been previously demonstrated (hypothalamic neurons, renal tubules, sympathetic preganglionic neurons) but not in any artery studied, including mesenteric, cerebral, and coronary arteries. In rat, RT-PCR detected GHSR1a mRNA expression in spinal cord and kidney but not in the aorta or in mesenteric arteries. Moreover, the aorta and mesenteric arteries from rats were not dilated by ghrelin or capromorelin at concentrations &gt;100 times their EC(50) determined in cells transfected with human or rat GHSR1a. These agonists did not affect transmission from preganglionic sympathetic neurons that express GHSR1a. Intravenous application of ghrelin lowered blood pressure and decreased splanchnic nerve activity. It is concluded that the blood pressure reduction to ghrelin occurs concomitantly with a decrease in sympathetic nerve activity and is not caused by direct actions on blood vessels or by inhibition of transmission in sympathetic ganglia.
Our laboratory has previously reported that bronchial epithelial cells (BEC) express a regulatory cascade of classic neurotransmitters and receptors that communicate in an almost neuronal-like manner to achieve physiological regulation. In this paper we show that the similarity between neurotransmitter signaling in neurons and BEC extends to the level of transmitter receptor allosteric modulators. Lynx1 is a member of the ly-6/three-finger superfamily of proteins, many of which modulate receptor signaling activity. Lynx1 specifically has been shown to modulate nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) function in neurons by altering receptor sensitivity and desensitization. We now report that lynx1 forms a complex with 7 nAChR in BEC and serves to negatively regulate 7 downstream signaling events. Treatment of primary cultures of BEC with nicotine increased levels of nAChR subunits and that increase was potentiated by lynx1 knockdown. Lynx1 knockdown also potentiated the nicotine-induced increase in GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)R) and MUC5AC mRNA expression, and that effect was blocked by 7 antagonists and 7 knockdown. In parallel with the increases in nAChR, GABA(A)R, and mucin mRNA levels, lynx1 knockdown also increased levels of p-Src. Consistent with this, inhibition of Src signaling blocked the ability of the lynx1 knockdown to increase basal and nicotine-stimulated GABA(A)R and mucin mRNA expression. Thus lynx1 appears to act as a negative modulator of 7 nAChR-induced events by inhibiting Src activation. This suggests that lynx1 agonists or mimetics are a potentially important therapeutic target to develop new therapies for smoking-related diseases characterized by increased mucin expression.
The essential role of the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO) in the integration of chemosensory information associated with the hydromineral state of the rat relies on the presence of a unique population of sodium (Na+) sensor neurons. Little is known about the intrinsic properties of these neurons; therefore, we used whole cell recordings in acute brain slices to determine the electrical fingerprints of this specific neural population of rat MnPO. The data collected from a large sample of neurons (115) indicated that the Na+ sensor neurons represent a majority of the MnPO neurons in situ (83%). These neurons displayed great diversity in both firing patterns induced by transient depolarizing current steps and rectifying properties activated by hyperpolarizing current steps. This diversity of electrical properties was also present in non-Na+ sensor neurons. Subpopulations of Na+ sensor neurons could be distinguished, however, from the non-Na+ sensor neurons. The firing frequency was higher in Na+ sensor neurons, showing irregular spike discharges, and the amplitude of the time-dependent rectification was weaker in the Na+ sensor neurons than in non-Na+ sensor neurons. The diversity among the electrical properties of the MnPO neurons contrasts with the relative function homogeneity (Na+ sensing). However, this diversity might be correlated with a variety of direct synaptic connections linking the MnPO to different brain areas involved in various aspects of the restoration and conservation of the body fluid homeostasis.
NF-B transcription factors play a key role in regulating the growth of neural processes in the developing PNS. Although several secreted proteins have been shown to activate NF-B to inhibit the growth of developing sympathetic neurons, it is unknown how the endogenous level of NF-B activity present in these neurons is restricted to allow neurite growth to occur during their normal development. Here we show that activation of the glucocorticoid-induced tumour necrosis factor receptor (GITR) inhibits NF-B activation while promoting the activation of Erk in developing sympathetic neurons. Conversely, inhibition of GITR results in an increase in NF-B dependent gene transcription and a decrease in Erk activation leading to a reduction in neurite growth. These findings show that GITR signalling can regulate the extent of sympathetic neurite growth through an inverse modulation of Erk and NF-B signalling, which provides an optimal environment for NGF-promoted growth.


Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is involved in the regulation of feeding behavior as well as in goal oriented behaviors, and MCH-containing neurons are distributed mainly in the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA). The anterior basomedial nucleus (BMA) and anterior cortical nucleus (CoA) of the amygdala form part of a circuit involved in processing olfactory, gustatory and visceral information, and the BMA-LHA and CoA-LHA pathways are suggested to be implicated in the control of feeding behavior. However, it is still unknown whether or not MCH-containing LHA neurons are under the direct influence of the BMA and CoA. Here the organization of projections from the BMA and CoA to MCH-containing LHA neurons was examined. Using a combined anterograde tracing with biotinylated dextranamine and immunohistochemistry for MCH, we first demonstrated that the distribution pattern of BMA fibers was almost similar to that of CoA fibers in the LHA, and a prominent overlapping distribution of these fibers and MCH-immunoreactive neurons existed in the ventral peripeduncular region of the LHA. We further revealed that asymmetrical synapses were made between these fibers and neurons. Using a combination of retrograde tract-tracing with cholera toxin B subunit and in situ hybridization for vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT) 2 mRNA, we finally showed that most of the LHA-projecting BMA and CoA neurons expressed VGLUT2 mRNA. These data suggest that the BMA and CoA of the amygdala may exert excitatory influence upon the MCH-containing LHA neurons for the regulation of feeding behavior.
Sigma () receptors are unique non-opioid binding sites that are associated with a broad range of disease states. Sigma-2 receptors provide a promising target for diagnostic imaging and pharmacological interventions to curb tumor progression. Most recently, the progesterone receptor (PGRMC1, 25 kDa) has been shown to have 2 receptor-like binding properties, thus highlighting the need to understand the biological function of an 18 kDa protein that exhibits 2-like photoaffinity labeling (denoted here as 2-18k) but the amino acid sequence of which is not known. In order to provide new tools for the study of the 2-18k protein, we have developed bifunctional  receptor ligands each bearing a benzophenone photo-crosslinking moiety and an alkyne group to which an azide-containing biotin affinity tag can be covalently attached through click chemistry after photo-crosslinking. Although several compounds showed favorable 2 binding properties, the highest affinity (2 nM) and the greatest potency in blocking photolabeling of 2-18k by a radioactive photoaffinity ligand was shown by compound 22. These benzophenone-alkyne  receptor ligands might therefore be amenable for studying the 2-18k protein through chemical biology approaches. To the best of our knowledge, these compounds represent the first reported benzophenone-containing clickable  receptor ligands, which might potentially have broad applications based on the &quot;plugging in&quot; of various tags.
Mesencephalic astrocyte derived neurotrophic factor (MANF) is recognized as a dopaminergic neurotrophic factor, which can protect dopaminergic neurons from neurotoxic damage. However, little is known about the function of MANF during the vertebrate development. Here, we report that MANF expression is widespread during embryonic development and in adult organs analyzed by qPCR and in situ hybridization in zebrafish. Knockdown of MANF expression with antisense splice-blocking morpholino oligonucleotides resulted in no apparent abnormal phenotype. Nevertheless, the dopamine level of MANF morphants was lower than that of the wild type larvae, the expression levels of the two tyrosine hydroxylase gene transcripts were decreased and a decrease in neuron number in certain groups of th1 and th2 cells in the diencephalon region in MANF morphants was observed. These defects were rescued by injection of exogenous manf mRNA. Strikingly, manf mRNA could partly restore the decrease of th1 positive cells in Nr4a2-deficient larvae. These results suggest that MANF is involved in the regulation of the development of dopaminergic system in zebrafish.
Triple reuptake inhibitors (TRIs) are potential new antidepressants, which not only enhance brain serotonin and norepinephrine concentrations but also increase dopamine levels. Therefore TRIs are believed to have faster therapeutic onset than SSRIs, and may be particularly useful for the treatment of anhedonia (i.e. inability to experience pleasure), one of the core symptoms of major depression. The current study aimed at getting better insight into the rewarding properties of DOV 216,303, which is a TRI, regarding its possible use to treat anhedonia. It is known that psychostimulant drugs lower intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) reward thresholds, reflecting enhanced brain reward activity, whereas withdrawal from those compounds mostly results in increased ICSS thresholds. Therefore we assessed the effects of DOV 216,303 on ICSS thresholds in rats. Animals were trained in the discrete-trial current-threshold procedure and after stable ICSS reward thresholds were established, animals received one injection per day of DOV 216,303 (20mg/kg) or amphetamine (5mg/kg) for four consecutive days. ICSS thresholds were assessed 3, 6, and 23 h after each injection. DOV 216,303 decreased ICSS thresholds up to 6h after drug treatment. To our knowledge this is the first time that a triple reuptake inhibitor, DOV 216,303, induces relatively long-lasting enhancement of brain reward activity. Elevated ICSS thresholds were found after amphetamine administration, which is consistent with previously reported reward deficits induced after amphetamine-withdrawal.
A series of 7 hydroxylated biphenyl derivatives (1-7) were prepared to evaluate their ability to modulate the function of several ligand gated ion channel (LGIC) recombinant receptors expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Compounds 1, 3, 4, 6 and 7 are natural occurring compounds whereas the synthesis of compounds 2 and 5 was previously reported (Delogu et al., 2004; Fabbri et al., 2007). None of the compounds tested were able to modify, the activity of the strychnine-sensitive glycine receptor, or the activity of nicotinic receptor. The function of the 5HT(3A) receptor was partially inhibited by all compounds tested, however this inhibition occurred at relatively high concentrations (100 M). All compounds, with the exception of compound 6, potentiate the action of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-evoked Cl(-) currents in Xenopus laevis oocytes expressing recombinant human (1)(2)(2L) GABA(A) receptors. Compounds 1, 2, 5 and 7 enhance the function of the GABA(A) receptor at concentrations higher than 3-10 M. Compound 4 was the most efficacious. However, compound 3 was the most potent (EC(50) 0.8 M). The potency of compound 3 in modulating the function of the GABA(A) receptor was comparable to that of diazepam, propofol or allopregnanolone. The enhancement of the GABA evoked Cl(-) currents by compound 3 was not affected by flumazenil. Compound 3 did not induce loss of the righting reflex in rats suggesting that it is not an anesthetic agent, however, its ability in protecting the animals from seizures induced by picrotoxin confirm that its action occurs through the GABA(A) receptor.
In humans, congenital myopathy-linked tropomyosin mutations lead to skeletal muscle dysfunction, but the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying such dysfunction remain obscure. Recent studies have suggested a unifying mechanism by which tropomyosin mutations partially inhibit thin filament activation and prevent proper formation and cycling of myosin cross-bridges, inducing force deficits at the fiber and whole-muscle levels. Here, we aimed to verify this mechanism using single membrane-permeabilized fibers from patients with three tropomyosin mutations (TPM2-null, TPM3-R167H and TPM2-E181K) and measuring a broad range of parameters. Interestingly, we identified two divergent, mutation-specific pathophysiological mechanisms. (i) The TPM2-null and TPM3-R167H mutations both decreased cooperative thin filament activation in combination with reductions in the myosin cross-bridge number and force production. The TPM3-R167H mutation also induced a concomitant reduction in thin filament length. (ii) In contrast, the TPM2-E181K mutation increased thin filament activation, cross-bridge binding and force generation. In the former mechanism, modulating thin filament activation by administering troponin activators (CK-1909178 and EMD 57033) to single membrane-permeabilized fibers carrying tropomyosin mutations rescued the thin filament activation defect associated with the pathophysiology. Therefore, administration of troponin activators may constitute a promising therapeutic approach in the future.
Copepods are a diverse and ecologically crucial group of minute crustaceans that are relatively neglected in terms of studies on nervous system organization. Recently, morphological neural characters have helped clarify evolutionary relationships within Arthropoda, particularly among Tetraconata (i.e., crustaceans and hexapods), and indicate that copepods occupy an important phylogenetic position relating to both Malacostraca and Hexapoda. This taxon therefore provides the opportunity to evaluate those neural characters common to these two clades likely to be results of shared ancestry (homology) versus convergence (homoplasy). Here we present an anatomical characterization of the brain and central nervous system of the well-studied harpacticoid copepod species Tigriopus californicus. We show that this species is endowed with a complex brain possessing a central complex comprising a protocerebral bridge and central body. Deutocerebral glomeruli are supplied by the antennular nerves, and a lateral protocerebral olfactory neuropil corresponds to the malacostracan hemiellipsoid body. Glomeruli contain synaptic specializations comparable to the presynaptic &quot;T-bars&quot; typical of dipterous insects, including Drosophila melanogaster. Serotonin-like immunoreactivity pervades the brain and ventral nervous system, with distinctive deutocerebral distributions. The present observations suggest that a suite of morphological characters typifying the Tigriopus brain reflect a ground pattern organization of an ancestral Tetraconata, which possessed an elaborate and structurally differentiated nervous system.
Psychiatric symptom can be a prominent feature early in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), which is also common in autoantibody-mediated limbic encephalitis. We hypothesized that anti-neuronal autoantibodies, especially those against N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors (NMDAR), can also be associated with CJD. Thirteen patients with CJD and 13 patients with limbic encephalitis were enrolled. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated that serum of CJD patients reacted with neuronal components of the rat hippocampus, indicating that those samples contained anti-neuronal antibodies. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay revealed that titers of antibodies against peptides of GluN2B subunit of NMDAR were significantly elevated in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid of CJD patients.

Two patients with recurrent lymphoma developed an acute, transient encephalopathy following administration of recombinant human granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (rhG-CSF), filgrastim, in anticipation of leukapheresis for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Head magnetic resonance imaging showed evidence of blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown, compatible with posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES). The proposed pathogenesis of PRES was rhG-CSF-induced neutrophil mobilization and activation with the release of inflammatory mediators, resulting in transient alteration of barrier permeability and capillary leakage.
Aquaporin-4 (AQP4) is known to have two main isoforms M1 and M23 in the brain. Immunoblot analyses have provided evidence of additional AQP4 immunopositive bands, suggesting that the repertoire of AQP4 isoforms is broader than previously assumed. As isoforms beyond M1 and M23 are not observed in recombinant systems, investigation of novel isoforms requires the use of a native source. Here we report purification of AQP4 to three silver-stained proteins on SDS-PAGE. This was achieved by organelle separation, alkaline stripping of cellular membranes, detergent solubilization and multiple chromatographic steps. The three proteins that co-purified were identified as AQP4 by mass spectrometry. These results represent the first purification of AQP4 from a native source and demonstrate by mass spectrometry the presence of a third AQP4 isoform of 36 kDa in the rat brain. Immunoblots revealed that the same isoform is present in the mouse, pig, and human brain.
To study the electrophysiological properties of neuronal networks, in vitro studies based on microelectrode arrays have become a viable tool for analysis. Although in constant progress, a challenging task still remains in this area: the development of an efficient spike sorting algorithm that allows an accurate signal analysis at the single-cell level. Most sorting algorithms currently available only extract a specific feature type, such as the principal components or Wavelet coefficients of the measured spike signals in order to separate different spike shapes generated by different neurons. However, due to the great variety in the obtained spike shapes, the derivation of an optimal feature set is still a very complex issue that current algorithms struggle with. To address this problem, we propose a novel algorithm that (i) extracts a variety of geometric, Wavelet and principal component-based features and (ii) automatically derives a feature subset, most suitable for sorting an individual set of spike signals. Thus, there is a new approach that evaluates the probability distribution of the obtained spike features and consequently determines the candidates most suitable for the actual spike sorting. These candidates can be formed into an individually adjusted set of spike features, allowing a separation of the various shapes present in the obtained neuronal signal by a subsequent expectation maximisation clustering algorithm. Test results with simulated data files and data obtained from chick embryonic neurons cultured on microelectrode arrays showed an excellent classification result, indicating the superior performance of the described algorithm approach.
Mouse chromaffin cells (MCCs) express high densities of L-type Ca2+ channels (LTCCs), which control pacemaking activity and catecholamine secretion proportionally to their density of expression. In vivo phosphorylation of LTCCs by cAMP-PKA and cGMPPKG, regulate LTCC gating in two opposing ways: the cAMP-PKA pathway potentiates while the cGMPPKG cascade inhibits LTCCs. Despite this, no attempts have been made to answer three key questions related to the two Cav1 isoforms expressed in MCCs (Cav1.2 and Cav1.3): (i) how much are the two Cav1 channels basally modulated by PKA and PKG?, (ii) to what extent can Cav1.2 and Cav1.3 be further regulated by PKA or PKG activation?, and (iii) are the effects of both kinases cumulative when simultaneously active? Here, by comparing the size of L-type currents of wild-type (WT; Cav1.2+Cav1.3) and Cav1.3/ KO (Cav1.2) MCCs, we provide new evidence that both PKA and PKG pathways affect Cav1.2 and Cav1.3 to the same extent either under basal conditions or induced stimulation. Inhibition of PKA by H89 (5 M) reduced the L-type current in WT and KO MCCs by60%,while inhibition of PKG by KT 5823 (1 M) increased by40% the same current in both cell types. Given that Cav1.2 and Cav1.3 carry the same quantity of Ca2+ currents, this suggests equal sensitivity of Cav1.2 and Cav1.3 to the two basal modulatory pathways. Maximal stimulation of cAMPPKA by forskolin (100 M) and activation of cGMPPKG by pCPT-cGMP (1mM) uncovered a25% increase of L-type currents in the first case and65% inhibition in the second case in both WT and KO MCCs, suggesting equal sensitivity of Cav1.2 and Cav1.3 during maximal PKA or PKG stimulation. The effects of PKA and PKG were cumulative and most evident when one pathway was activated and the other was inhibited. The two extreme combinations(PKA activationPKG inhibition vs. PKG activation-PKA inhibition) varied the size of L-type currents by one order of magnitude (from 180% to 18% of control size). Taken together our data suggest that: (i) Cav1.2 and Cav1.3 are equally sensitive to PKA and PKG action under both basal conditions and maximal stimulation, and (ii) PKA and PKG act independently on both Cav1.2 and Cav1.3, producing cumulative effects when opposingly activated. These extreme Cav1 channel modulations may occur either during high-frequency sympathetic stimulation to sustain prolonged catecholamine release (maximal L-type current) or following activation of the NOcGMPPKG signalling pathway (minimal L-type current) to limit the steady release of catecholamines.
To investigate transjunctional voltage (Vj)-dependent gating mechanisms of connexin50 (Cx50) gap junction (GJ) channels and to elucidate the relative contribution of each hemichannel of a heterotypic GJ channel to Vj-dependent gating, we performed dual voltage-clamp recordings on heterotypic GJ channels formed by Cx50 and a mutant, Cx50N9R or a chimera, Cx50-Cx36N. Our results provide evidence that the two component hemichannels interact with each other during Vj-dependent gating. Cx50/Cx50N9R heterotypic GJ channels exhibited asymmetrical Vj-dependent gating which cannot be ascribed to the function of an individual hemichannel for a certain polarity of voltage; instead it can only be ascribed to the combined effects of both hemichannels. Single GJ channel open dwell-time analyses showed that homotypic Cx50 channels adopted short-lived and long-lived open states. Heterotypic combinations of Cx50/Cx50N9R gave rise to shorter mean dwell-times when Cx50-expressing cells received relatively positive Vj, and longer mean dwell-times when positive Vj was applied at the Cx50N9R side. In contrast, Cx50/Cx50-Cx36N heterotypic channels showed asymmetrical Vj-dependent gating, which appears to be caused by enhanced and reduced Vj-gating sensitivity of Cx50-Cx36N and Cx50 hemichannels, respectively. Unitary conductance of the main open state of both types of heterotypic GJ channel cannot be simply predicted by assuming a Vj redistribution across the two hemichannels arranged in series in heterotypic GJ channels. Our data also reveal reasons for the invisibility of fast Vj-gating transitions from open to substate in homotypic Cx50N9R and Cx50-Cx36N channels.
Short generation times and facile genetic techniques make the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster an excellent genetic model in fundamental neuroscience research. Ion channels are the basis of all behavior since they mediate neuronal excitability. The first voltage gated ion channel cloned was the Drosophila voltage gated potassium channel Shaker(1,2). Toward understanding the role of ion channels and membrane excitability for nervous system function it is useful to combine powerful genetic tools available in Drosophila with in situ patch clamp recordings. For many years such recordings have been hampered by the small size of the Drosophila CNS. Furthermore, a robust sheath made of glia and collagen constituted obstacles for patch pipette access to central neurons. Removal of this sheath is a necessary precondition for patch clamp recordings from any neuron in the adult Drosophila CNS. In recent years scientists have been able to conduct in situ patch clamp recordings from neurons in the adult brain(3,4) and ventral nerve cord of embryonic(5,6), larval(7,8,9,10), and adult Drosophila(11,12,13,14). A stable giga-seal is the main precondition for a good patch and depends on clean contact of the patch pipette with the cell membrane to avoid leak currents. Therefore, for whole cell in situ patch clamp recordings from adult Drosophila neurons must be cleaned thoroughly. In the first step, the ganglionic sheath has to be treated enzymatically and mechanically removed to make the target cells accessible. In the second step, the cell membrane has to be polished so that no layer of glia, collagen or other material may disturb giga-seal formation. This article describes how to prepare an identified central neuron in the Drosophila ventral nerve cord, the flight motoneuron 5 (MN5(15)), for somatic whole cell patch clamp recordings. Identification and visibility of the neuron is achieved by targeted expression of GFP in MN5. We do not aim to explain the patch clamp technique itself.

The neuropathological hallmark of the autosomal dominantly inherited, neurodegenerative disorder Huntington's disease is progressive striatal loss starting several years prior to symptom manifestation. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging has been widely used to detect altered structure in premanifest and early Huntington's disease. Given that neurodegeneration is likely preceded by substantial neuronal dysfunction, we used in vivo sodium MR imaging, which has been shown to be sensitive to cell death and viability, to investigate cellular and metabolic integrity of Huntington's disease brain tissue. We studied a total of thirteen healthy controls and thirteen Huntington's disease gene carriers (11 manifest and 2 premanifest). The manifest Huntington's disease group was subdivided into stages 1 and 2 according to their Total Functional Capacity scores. Clinical total motor and cognitive scores, as well as calibrated sodium and T1-weighted MR images were obtained with a 4 T Siemens MR scanner. Sodium images were acquired by means of a constant time imaging technique with an ultra-short &quot;echo time&quot;. T1-weighted MR images were further analysed with voxel-based morphometry. The absolute total sodium concentration and grey matter values were measured in several Huntington's disease-specific and also non-specific areas. Statistical analysis of variance and Pearson correlation were applied. In Huntington's disease subjects, we found an increase of total sodium concentration of the entire brain compared to controls. Increased total sodium concentration values were found in structurally affected, but also in some non-affected, regions. The highest total sodium concentration values were found in the bilateral caudate, which was associated with caudate grey matter atrophy and CAG repeat length. In all Huntington's disease subjects we further found a profound increase of total sodium concentration in the putamen, pallidum, thalamus, hippocampus, insula, precuneus and occipital cortex compared to controls. No change of total sodium concentration was observed in the amygdala, pre- and postcentral gyrus, frontal and temporal cortices or in the cerebellum. This is the first in vivo sodium MR imaging study carried out on a 4 T MR scanner in Huntington's disease gene carriers demonstrating a significant enhancement in sodium concentration in the bilateral striatum, a key region in Huntington's disease, and also in other disease-related atrophic areas. Sodium MR imaging may provide a deeper insight into the pathophysiological mechanisms of tissue degeneration in Huntington's disease, presenting potential to detect changes preceding neurodegeneration.
Tourette syndrome (TS) is a neuro-psychiatric disorder being characterized by motor and phonic tics typically preceded by sensory urges. Given the latter the role of the sensory system and sensorimotor interaction in TS has recently gained increased attention. 12 TS patients and 12 matched control subjects performed two tasks, requiring simple finger movements: a Go/NoGo task and a self paced movement task. Neurophysiological data was recorded using magnetoencephalography (MEG). Event related responses around movement onset, i.e. motor field (MF) occurring directly prior to the movement and movement evoked field (MEF) immediately after movement onset were analyzed using dipole modeling. MF peak amplitudes did not differ between groups in either task. In contrast, in both tasks MEF peak amplitudes were increased in TS patients. Moreover, larger MEF amplitudes during self paced movements were inversely correlated with motor tic frequency and severity. Enlarged MEF amplitudes as a marker of early sensory feedback of one's own movements probably represent enlarged sensory input from the periphery resulting from altered subcortical gating. We conclude that TS patients exhibit altered sensory-motor processing involved in voluntary movement control, which might also be successful in tic control.
It is now well established that communicators interpret others' mental states through what has been called &quot;Theory of Mind&quot; (ToM). From a linguistic-pragmatics perspective, this mentalizing ability is considered critical because it is assumed that the linguistic code in all utterances underdetermines the speaker's meaning, leaving a vital role for ToM to fill the gap. From a neuroscience perspective, understanding others' intentions has been shown to activate a neural ToM network that includes the right and left temporal parietal junction (rTPJ, lTPJ), the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) and the precuneus (PC). Surprisingly, however, there are no studies - to our knowledge - that aim to uncover a direct, on-line link between language processing and ToM through neuroimaging. This is why we focus on verbal irony, an obviously pragmatic phenomenon that compels a listener to detect the speaker's (dissociated, mocking) attitude (Wilson, 2009). In the present fMRI investigation, we compare participants' comprehension of 18 target sentences as contexts make them either ironic or literal. Consider an opera singer who tells her interlocutor: &quot;Tonight we gave a superb performance!&quot; when the performance in question was clearly awful (making the statement ironic) or very good (making the statement literal). We demonstrate that the ToM network becomes active while a participant is understanding verbal irony. Moreover, we demonstrate - through Psychophysiological Interactions (PPI) analyses - that ToM activity is directly linked with language comprehension processes. The paradigm, its predictions, and the reported results contrast dramatically with those from seven prior fMRI studies on irony.
We have developed a model of the local field potential (LFP) based on the conservation of charge, the independence principle of ionic flows and the classical Hodgkin-Huxley (HH) type intracellular model of synaptic activity. Insights were gained through the simulation of the HH intracellular model on the nonlinear relationship between the balance of synaptic conductances and that of post-synaptic currents. The latter is dependent not only on the former, but also on the temporal lag between the excitatory and inhibitory conductances, as well as the strength of the afferent signal. The proposed LFP model provides a method for decomposing the LFP recordings near the soma of layer IV pyramidal neurons in the barrel cortex of anaesthetised rats into two highly correlated components with opposite polarity. The temporal dynamics and the proportional balance of the two components are comparable to the excitatory and inhibitory post-synaptic currents computed from the HH model. This suggests that the two components of the LFP reflect the underlying excitatory and inhibitory post-synaptic currents of the local neural population. We further used the model to decompose a sequence of evoked LFP responses under repetitive electrical stimulation (5Hz) of the whisker pad. We found that as neural responses adapted, the excitatory and inhibitory components also adapted proportionately, while the temporal lag between the onsets of the two components increased during frequency adaptation. Our results demonstrated that the balance between neural excitation and inhibition can be investigated using extracellular recordings. Extension of the model to incorporate multiple compartments should allow more quantitative interpretations of surface Electroencephalography (EEG) recordings into components reflecting the excitatory, inhibitory and passive ionic current flows generated by local neural populations.
Neuroimaging studies have become increasingly multimodal in recent years, with researchers typically acquiring several different types of MRI data and processing them along separate pipelines that provide a set of complementary windows into each subject's brain. However, few attempts have been made to integrate the various modalities in the same analysis. Linked ICA is a robust data fusion model that takes multi-modal data and characterizes inter-subject variability in terms of a set of multi-modal components. This paper examines the types of components found when running Linked ICA on a large magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) morphometric and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) data set comprising 484 healthy subjects ranging from 8 to 85 years of age. We find several strong global features related to age, sex, and intracranial volume; in particular, one component predicts age to a high accuracy (r=0.95). Most of the remaining components describe spatially localized modes of variability in white or gray matter, with many components including both tissue types. The multimodal components tend to be located in anatomically-related brain areas, suggesting a morphological and possibly functional relationship. The local components show relationships between surface-based cortical thickness and arealization, voxel-based morphometry (VBM), and between three different DTI measures. Further, we report components related to artifacts (e.g. scanner software upgrades) which would be expected in a dataset of this size. Most of the 100 extracted components showed interpretable spatial patterns and were found to be reliable using split-half validation. This work provides novel information about normal inter-subject variability in brain structure, and demonstrates the potential of Linked ICA as a feature-extracting data fusion approach across modalities. This exploratory approach automatically generates models to explain structure in the data, and may prove especially powerful for large-scale studies, where the population variability can be explored in increased detail.
Previous research indicates that motion-sensitive brain regions are engaged when comprehending motion semantics expressed by words or sentences. Using fMRI, we investigated whether such neural modulation can occur when the linguistic signal itself is visually dynamic and motion semantics is expressed by movements of the hands. Deaf and hearing users of American Sign Language (ASL) were presented with signed sentences that conveyed motion semantics (&quot;The deer walked along the hillside.&quot;) or were static, conveying little or no motion (&quot;The deer slept along the hillside.&quot;); sentences were matched for the amount of visual motion. Motion-sensitive visual areas (MT+) were localized individually in each participant. As a control, the Fusiform Face Area (FFA) was also localized for the deaf participants. The whole-brain analysis revealed static (locative) sentences engaged regions in left parietal cortex more than motion sentences, replicating previous results implicating these regions in comprehending spatial language for sign languages. Greater activation was observed in the functionally defined MT+ ROI for motion than static sentences for both deaf and hearing signers. No modulation of neural activity by sentence type was observed in the FFA. Deafness did not affect modulation of MT+ by motion semantics, but hearing signers exhibited stronger neural activity in MT+ for both sentence types, perhaps due to differences in exposure and/or use of ASL. We conclude that top down modulation of motion-sensitive cortex by linguistic semantics is not disrupted by the visual motion that is present in sign language sentences.
The present study aimed to step into two-person neuroscience by investigating the hemodynamic correlates of between-brain connectivity involved in imitation and its dependency on pacing stimuli. To test this approach, we used wireless functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) to record simultaneously during imitation performance of a paced finger-tapping task (PFT) in two subjects over premotor cortices (PMC). During the imitation (IM) condition, a model and an imitator were recorded while tapping in synchrony with auditory stimuli separated by a constant interval (stimulus-paced mode, St-P), followed by tapping without the pacing stimulus (self-paced mode, Se-P). During the control (CO) condition, each subject (single 1 and 2) performed the PFT task with the same pacing mode pattern, but alone without reference to each other. Using wavelet transform coherence (WTC) analysis evaluating functional connectivity between brains, we found (1) that IM revealed a larger coherence increase between the model and the imitator as compared to the CO condition. (2) Within the IM condition, a larger coherence increase was found during Se-P as compared to St-P mode. Using Granger-causality (G-causality) analysis evaluating effective connectivity between brains, we found (3) that IM revealed larger G-causality as compared to the CO condition and (4) that within the IM condition, the signal of the model G-caused that of the imitator to a greater extent as compared to vice versa. Our findings designate fNIRS as suitable tool for monitoring between-brain connectivity during dynamic interactions between two subjects and that those measurements might thereby provide insight into activation patterns not detectable using typical single-person experiments. Overall, the results of the present study demonstrate the potential of simultaneously assessing brain hemodynamics in interacting subjects in several research areas where social interactions are involved.
Free, i.e. non-externally cued generation of movement sequences is fundamental to human behavior. We have earlier hypothesized that the dorsal premotor cortex (PMD), which has been consistently implicated in cognitive aspects of planning and selection of spatial motor sequences may be particularly important for the free generation of spatial movement sequences, whereas the pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA), which shows increased activation during perception, learning and reproduction of temporal sequences, may contribute more to the generation of temporal structures. Here we test this hypothesis using fMRI and musical improvisation in professional pianists as a model behavior. We employed a 2  2 factorial design with the factors Melody (Specified/Improvised) and Rhythm (Specified/Improvised). The main effect analyses partly confirmed our hypothesis: there was a main effect of Melody in the PMD; the pre-SMA was present in the main effect of Rhythm, as predicted, as well as in the main effect of Melody. A psychophysiological interaction analysis of functional connectivity demonstrated that the correlation in activity between the pre-SMA and cerebellum was higher during rhythmic improvisation than during the other conditions. In summary, there were only subtle differences in activity level between the pre-SMA and PMD during improvisation, regardless of condition. Consequently, the free generation of rhythmic and melodic structures, appears to be largely integrated processes but the functional connectivity between premotor areas and other regions may change during free generation in response to sequence-specific spatiotemporal demands.

Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) variations including single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been proposed to be involved in idiosyncratic drug reactions. However, current in vitro and in vivo models lack the genetic diversity seen in the human population. Our hypothesis is that different cell strains with distinct mtDNA SNPs may have different mitochondrial bioenergetic profiles and may therefore vary in their response to drug-induced toxicity. Therefore, we used an in vitro system composed of four strains of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) with mtDNA polymorphisms. We sequenced mtDNA from embryonic fibroblasts isolated from four mouse strains, C57BL/6J, MOLF/EiJ, CZECHII/EiJ and PERA/EiJ, with the latter two being sequenced for the first time. The bioenergetic profile of the four strains of MEFs was investigated at both passages 3 and 10. Our results showed that there were clear differences among the four strains of MEFs at both passages, with CZECHII/EiJ having a lower mitochondrial robustness when compared to C57BL/6J, followed by MOLF/EiJ and PERA/EiJ. Seven drugs known to impair mitochondrial function were tested for their effect on the ATP content of the four strains of MEFs in both glucose- and galactose-containing media. Our results showed that there were strain-dependent differences in the response to some of the drugs. We propose that this model is a useful starting point to study compounds that may cause mitochondrial off-target toxicity in early stages of drug development, thus decreasing the number of experimental animals used.
In this study we investigated whether motor and perceptual tasks share common attentional resources. To this end, we used a dual-task paradigm requiring participants to perform grasping movements toward objects of varying size and at the same time to identify a perceptual target presented at the object's location. To ensure that both tasks were performed simultaneously and to prevent participants from adopting a sequential strategy, the perceptual target was always presented after movement onset and could occur at two different moments in time (early vs. late). Our findings show that both, the planning and the control of the movement were altered in the dual-task condition, resulting in prolonged reaction times and delayed adjustment of the grip to object size. Also, the perceptual performance was impaired when both tasks were performed concurrently. These findings are in contrast with previous studies suggesting that only movement planning but not movement control are susceptible to dual-task interferences (Enns &amp; Liu, 2009, chap. 12). Instead, our results give further evidence for the proposition that the dorsal (visuomotor) and ventral (perceptual) stream share the same attentional resources and that attention is required for effective grasping.
The spatial representation of a visual scene in the early visual system is well known. The optics of the eye map the three-dimensional environment onto two-dimensional images on the retina. These retinotopic representations are preserved in the early visual system. Retinotopic representations and processing are among the most prevalent concepts in visual neuroscience. However, it has long been known that a retinotopic representation of the stimulus is neither sufficient nor necessary for perception. Saccadic Stimulus Presentation Paradigm and the Ternus-Pikler displays have been used to investigate non-retinotopic processes with and without eye movements, respectively. However, neither of these paradigms eliminates the retinotopic representation of the spatial layout of the stimulus. Here, we investigated how stimulus features are processed in the absence of a retinotopic layout and in the presence of retinotopic conflict. We used anorthoscopic viewing (slit viewing) and pitted a retinotopic feature-processing hypothesis against a non-retinotopic feature-processing hypothesis. Our results support the predictions of the non-retinotopic feature-processing hypothesis and demonstrate the ability of the visual system to operate non-retinotopically at a fine feature processing level in the absence of a retinotopic spatial layout. Our results suggest that perceptual space is actively constructed from the perceptual dimension of motion. The implications of these findings for normal ecological viewing conditions are discussed.
Proper neuron to glia interaction is critical to physiological function of the central nervous system (CNS). This bidirectional communication is sophisticatedly mediated by specific signaling pathways between neuron and glia(1,2) . Identification and characterization of these signaling pathways is essential to the understanding of how neuron to glia interaction shapes CNS physiology. Previously, neuron and glia mixed cultures have been widely utilized for testing and characterizing signaling pathways between neuron and glia. What we have learned from these preparations and other in vivo tools, however, has suggested that mutual signaling between neuron and glia often occurred in specific compartments within neurons (i.e., axon, dendrite, or soma)(3). This makes it important to develop a new culture system that allows separation of neuronal compartments and specifically examines the interaction between glia and neuronal axons/dendrites. In addition, the conventional mixed culture system is not capable of differentiating the soluble factors and direct membrane contact signals between neuron and glia. Furthermore, the large quantity of neurons and glial cells in the conventional co-culture system lacks the resolution necessary to observe the interaction between a single axon and a glial cell. In this study, we describe a novel axon and glia co-culture system with the use of a microfluidic culture platform (MCP). In this co-culture system, neurons and glial cells are cultured in two separate chambers that are connected through multiple central channels. In this microfluidic culture platform, only neuronal processes (especially axons) can enter the glial side through the central channels. In combination with powerful fluorescent protein labeling, this system allows direct examination of signaling pathways between axonal/dendritic and glial interactions, such as axon-mediated transcriptional regulation in glia, glia-mediated receptor trafficking in neuronal terminals, and glia-mediated axon growth. The narrow diameter of the chamber also significantly prohibits the flow of the neuron-enriched medium into the glial chamber, facilitating probing of the direct membrane-protein interaction between axons/dendrites and glial surfaces.
Myosin VI, the only known minus-ended actin filament-dependent motor, plays diverse cellular roles both as a processive motor and as a mechanical anchor. Although myosin VI has a short lever arm containing only one &quot;IQ-motif&quot; and a unique insertion for CaM binding, the motor walks with large and variable step sizes of 30-36 nm. Here, we show that the previously predicted coiled-coil domain immediately following the IQ-motifs (referred to as the lever arm extension (LAE)) adopts a stable monomeric, three-helix bundle fold in solution. Importantly, the LAE can undergo reversible, lipid membrane-dependent conformational changes. Upon exposure to lipid membranes, the LAE adopts a partially extended rod shape, and the removal of lipids from the LAE converts it back into the compact helix bundle structure. Molecular dynamics simulations indicate that lipid membrane binding may initiate unfolding and thereby trigger the LAE expansion. This reversible, lipid membrane-dependent expansion of the LAE provides a mechanistic base for myosin VI to walk with large and variable step sizes.
Glycosylation is a major form of post-translational modification of synaptic vesicle membrane proteins. For example, the three major synaptic vesicle glycoproteins, synaptotagmin 1, synaptophysin, and SV2, represent 30% of the total copy number of vesicle proteins. Previous studies suggested that glycosylation is required for the vesicular targeting of synaptotagmin 1, but the role of glycosylation of synaptophysin and SV2 has not been explored in detail. In this study, we analyzed all glycosylation sites on synaptotagmin 1, synaptophysin, and SV2A via mutagenesis and optical imaging of pHluorin-tagged proteins in cultured neurons from knock-out mice lacking each protein. Surprisingly, these experiments revealed that glycosylation is completely dispensable for the sorting of synaptotagmin 1 to SVs whereas the N-glycans on SV2A are only partially dispensable. In contrast, N-glycan addition is essential for the synaptic localization and function of synaptophysin. Thus, glycosylation plays distinct roles in the trafficking of each of the three major synaptic vesicle glycoproteins.
The GABA transporters (GAT1, GAT2, GAT3, and BGT1) have mostly been discussed in relation to their potential roles in controlling the action of transmitter GABA in the nervous system. We have generated the first mice lacking the GAT2 (slc6a13) gene. Deletion of GAT2 (both mRNA and protein) neither affected growth, fertility, nor life span under nonchallenging rearing conditions. Immunocytochemistry showed that the GAT2 protein was predominantly expressed in the plasma membranes of periportal hepatocytes and in the basolateral membranes of proximal tubules in the renal cortex. This was validated by processing tissue from wild-type and knockout mice in parallel. Deletion of GAT2 reduced liver taurine levels by 50%, without affecting the expression of the taurine transporter TAUT. These results suggest an important role for GAT2 in taurine uptake from portal blood into liver. In support of this notion, GAT2-transfected HEK293 cells transported [(3)H]taurine. Furthermore, most of the uptake of [(3)H]GABA by cultured rat hepatocytes was due to GAT2, and this uptake was inhibited by taurine. GAT2 was not detected in brain parenchyma proper, excluding a role in GABA inactivation. It was, however, expressed in the leptomeninges and in a subpopulation of brain blood vessels. Deletion of GAT2 increased brain taurine levels by 20%, suggesting a taurine-exporting role for GAT2 in the brain.
Oxysterols are oxygenated cholesterol derivates that are emerging as a physiologically important group of molecules. Although they regulate a range of cellular processes, only few oxysterol-binding effector proteins have been identified, and the knowledge of their binding mode is limited. Recently, the family of G protein-coupled seven transmembrane-spanning receptors (7TM receptors) was added to this group. Specifically, the Epstein-Barr virus-induced gene 2 (EBI2 or GPR183) was shown to be activated by several oxysterols, most potently by 7,25-dihydroxycholesterol (7,25-OHC). Nothing is known about the binding mode, however. Using mutational analysis, we identify here four key residues for 7,25-OHC binding: Arg-87 in TM-II (position II:20/2.60), Tyr-112 and Tyr-116 (positions III:09/3.33 and III:13/3.37) in TM-III, and Tyr-260 in TM-VI (position VI:16/6.51). Substituting these residues with Ala and/or Phe results in a severe decrease in agonist binding and receptor activation. Docking simulations suggest that Tyr-116 interacts with the 3-OH group in the agonist, Tyr-260 with the 7-OH group, and Arg-87, either directly or indirectly, with the 25-OH group, although nearby residues likely also contribute. In addition, Tyr-112 is involved in 7,25-OHC binding but via hydrophobic interactions. Finally, we show that II:20/2.60 constitutes an important residue for ligand binding in receptors carrying a positively charged residue at this position. This group is dominated by lipid- and nucleotide-activated receptors, here exemplified by the CysLTs, P2Y12, and P2Y14. In conclusion, we present the first molecular characterization of oxysterol binding to a 7TM receptor and identify position II:20/2.60 as a generally important residue for ligand binding in certain 7TM receptors.
Phototransduction in Drosophila microvillar photoreceptor cells is mediated by a G protein-activated phospholipase C (PLC). PLC hydrolyzes the minor membrane lipid phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)), leading by an unknown mechanism to activation of the prototypical transient receptor potential (TRP) and TRP-like (TRPL) channels. We found that light exposure evoked rapid PLC-mediated contractions of the photoreceptor cells and modulated the activity of mechanosensitive channels introduced into photoreceptor cells. Furthermore, photoreceptor light responses were facilitated by membrane stretch and were inhibited by amphipaths, which alter lipid bilayer properties. These results indicate that, by cleaving PIP(2), PLC generates rapid physical changes in the lipid bilayer that lead to contractions of the microvilli, and suggest that the resultant mechanical forces contribute to gating the light-sensitive channels.
OBJECTIVES:: Our goal was to localize lesions in poststroke depression patients using magnetic resonance imaging, based on the statistical parametric maps image analysis technique that can be used to combine image data from multiple participants and correlate these images with other data sets. METHODS:: Magnetic resonance imaging acquisitions were obtained from 149 poststroke patients, who were assessed for affective and apathetic symptoms using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale and the Apathy Scale, respectively. We created a statistical parametric map that displayed an association between lesion location and affective and apathetic symptoms. RESULTS:: Among the patients with higher depressive scores, the lesion overlap centered on the brainstem, left basal ganglia, and left frontal cortex. Among the patients with higher apathy scores, the lesion overlap centered on the brainstem and bilateral striatum. The overlap lesion for both affective and apathetic depression centered mainly on the brainstem; however, the two types of depression often did not overlap. CONCLUSIONS:: Two core symptoms that can occur after stroke, affective and apathetic symptoms, appear to be associated with different monoaminergic neuroanatomic pathways (serotonergic and dopaminergic).

The response of cortical neurons to a sensory stimulus is modulated by the context. In the visual cortex, for example, stimulation of a pyramidal cell's receptive-field surround can attenuate the cell's response to a stimulus in the centre of its receptive field, a phenomenon called surround suppression. Whether cortical circuits contribute to surround suppression or whether the phenomenon is entirely relayed from earlier stages of visual processing is debated. Here we show that, in contrast to pyramidal cells, the response of somatostatin-expressing inhibitory neurons (SOMs) in the superficial layers of the mouse visual cortex increases with stimulation of the receptive-field surround. This difference results from the preferential excitation of SOMs by horizontal cortical axons. By perturbing the activity of SOMs, we show that these neurons contribute to pyramidal cells' surround suppression. These results establish a cortical circuit for surround suppression and attribute a particular function to a genetically defined type of inhibitory neuron.


Early language experience is essential for the development of a high level of linguistic proficiency in adulthood and in a recent functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) experiment, we showed that a delayed acquisition of a first language results in changes in the functional organization of the adult brain (Mayberry et al., 2011). The present study extends the question to explore if delayed acquisition of a first language also modulates the structural development of the brain. To this end, we carried out anatomical MRI in the same group of congenitally deaf individuals who varied in the age of acquisition of a first language, American Sign Language -ASL (Mayberry et al., 2011) and used a neuroanatomical technique, Voxel-Based Morphometry (VBM), to explore changes in gray and white matter concentrations across the brain related to the age of first language acquisition. The results show that delayed acquisition of a first language is associated with changes in tissue concentration in the occipital cortex close to the area that has been found to show functional recruitment during language processing in these deaf individuals with a late age of acquisition. These findings suggest that a lack of early language experience affects not only the functional but also the anatomical organization of the brain.
Somatosensory integration is a critical cognitive function for human social interaction. Though somatosensory integration has been highly explored in cognitive studies; only a few studies have explored focal modulation of cortical excitability using a speech perception paradigm. In the current study, we aimed to investigate the effects of tDCS applied over the temporal cortex of healthy subjects during a go-no-go task in which stimuli were shapes and non-words. Twenty-eight subjects were randomized to receive cathodal, anodal or sham tDCS bilaterally over the superior temporal cortex (the reference electrode was on deltoid) in a counterbalanced order. The effects on judgment of congruency between shapes and non-words in healthy volunteers were measured by a go-no-go task. Our findings show a significant modification of performance according to the polarity of stimulation, task and subject gender. We found that men performed worse on the no-go condition for congruent stimuli during cathodal tDCS. For reaction time, on the other hand, there was a similar effect for anodal and cathodal stimulation. There were significantly faster responses on incongruent trials during both anodal and cathodal tDCS. Along with previous literature showing gender differences in tasks associated with speech perception, the findings of this study provide additional evidence suggesting that men may have a more focal and restricted neural processing in this multisensory integration task.
More than four decades ago, Dr. Judah Folkman hypothesized that angiogenesis was a critical process in tumor growth. Since that time, there have been significant advances in understanding tumor biology and groundbreaking research in cancer therapy that have validated his hypothesis. However, in spite of extensive research, glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), the most common and malignant primary brain tumor, has gained little in the way of improved median survival. There have been several angiogenesis targets that have resulted in drugs that are in clinical trials or FDA approved for clinical use in several cancers. GBM is a highly angiogenic tumor and several drugs are showing promise in clinical trials with one (bevacizumab), clinically approved for use. We will review several possible angiogenic targets in GBM as well as the vector methodologies used for delivery. In addition, GBMs present several therapeutic challenges related to structure, tumor immune microenvironment and resistance to angiogenesis. To overcome these challenges will require novel approaches to improve therapeutic gene expression and vector biodistribution in the glioma.
Excitatory synaptic transmission in area CA1 of the mammalian hippocampus is rapidly depressed during hypoxia. The depression is largely attributable to an increase in extracellular adenosine and activation of inhibitory adenosine A(1) receptors on presynaptic glutamatergic terminals. However, sequential exposure to hypoxia results in a slower subsequent hypoxic depression of excitatory synaptic transmission, a phenomenon we have previously ascribed to a reduction in the release of extracellular adenosine. In the present study we show that this delayed depression of excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) to repeated hypoxia can be reversed by a period of postsynaptic depolarisation delivered to an individual CA1 neuron, under whole-cell voltage clamp, between two periods of hypoxia. The depolarisation-induced acceleration of the hypoxic depression of the EPSC is dependent upon postsynaptic Ca(2+) influx, the activation of PKC and is blocked by intracellular application of GDP--S and N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), inhibitors of membrane fusion events. In addition, the acceleration of the hypoxic depression of the EPSC was prevented by the GI mGluR antagonist AIDA, but not by the CB1 cannabinoid receptor antagonist AM251. Our results suggest a process initiated in the postsynaptic cell that can influence glutamate release during subsequent metabolic stress. This may reflect a novel neuroprotective strategy potentially involving retrograde release of adenosine and/or glutamate.
Excitotoxic insults can lead to intracellular signaling cascades that contribute to cell death, in part by activation of proteases, phospholipases, and endonucleases. Cysteine proteases, such as calpains, are calcium (Ca(2+))-activated enzymes which degrade cytoskeletal proteins, including microtubule-associated proteins, tubulin, and spectrin, among others. The current study used the organotypic hippocampal slice culture model to examine whether pharmacologic inhibition of cysteine protease activity inhibits N-methyl-D-aspartate- (NMDA-) induced excitotoxic (20 M NMDA) cell death and changes in synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Significant NMDA-induced cytotoxicity (as measured by propidium iodide [PI] uptake) was found in the CA1 region of the hippocampus at all timepoints examined (24, 72, 120 h), an effect significantly attenuated by co-exposure to the selective NMDA receptor antagonist DL-2-Amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (APV), but not MDL-28170, a potent cysteine protease inhibitor. Results indicated sparing of NMDA-induced loss of the synaptic vesicular protein synaptophysin in all regions of the hippocampus by MDL-28170, though only at early timepoints after injury. These results suggest Ca(2+)-dependent recruitment of cysteine proteases within 24h of excitotoxic insult, but activation of alternative cellular degrading mechanisms after 24h. Further, these data suggest that synaptophysin may be a substrate for calpains and related proteases.
It is not well-studied how the ubiquitous neuromodulator adenosine (ADO) affects mammalian locomotor network activities. We analyzed this here with focus on roles of 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX)-sensitive A(1)-type ADO receptors. For this, we recorded field potentials from ventral lumbar nerve roots and electrically stimulated dorsal roots in isolated newborn rat spinal cords. At  25M, bath-applied ADO slowed synchronous bursting upon blockade of anion-channel-mediated synaptic inhibition by bicuculline (20 M) plus strychnine (1 M) and this depression was countered by DPCPX (1 M) as tested at 100 M ADO. ADO abolished this disinhibited rhythm at  500 M. Contrary, the single electrical pulse-evoked dorsal root reflex, which was enhanced in bicuculline/strychnine-containing solution, persisted at all ADO doses (5 M-2 mM). In control solution,  500 M ADO depressed this reflex and pulse train-evoked bouts of alternating fictive locomotion; this inhibition was reversed by 1 M DPCPX. ADO (5 M-2 mM) did not depress, but stabilize alternating fictive locomotion evoked by serotonin (10 M) plus N-methyl-d-aspartate (4-5 M). Addition of DPCPX (1M) to control solution did not change either the dorsal root reflex or rhythmic activities indicating lack of endogenous A(1) receptor activity. Our findings show A(1) receptor involvement in ADO depression of the dorsal root reflex, electrically evoked fictive locomotion and spontaneous disinhibited lumbar motor bursting. Contrary, chemically evoked fictive locomotion and the enhanced dorsal root reflex in disinhibited lumbar locomotor networks are resistant to ADO. Because ADO effects in standard solution occurred at doses that are notably higher than those occurring in vivo, we hypothesize that newborn rat locomotor networks are rather insensitive to this neuromodulator.
Arginine-vasopressin (AVP) and the vasopressin 1a receptor (V1aR) modulate social behavior and learning and memory in adult animals. Both functions depend upon the normal emergence of the balance of excitation and inhibition (E/I balance) in the neocortex. Here, we tested the hypothesis that V1aR signaling and E/I balance converge through the influence of the neuropeptide on interneuron number achieved in the neocortex. Postnatal mapping of forebrain V1aR binding in male and female mice revealed a transient expression of high levels of receptor in the neocortex and hippocampus in the second and third post-natal weeks. Receptor binding levels in these cortical structures fell dramatically in the adult, maintaining high levels of expression subcortically. Surprisingly, we observed sex differences in the number of calbindin interneurons, and a contribution of V1aR to the number of parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons in the adult mouse neocortex. These data suggest that individual differences in developmentally transient V1aR signaling and even sex may alter the development of E/I balance in the neocortex, with long-lasting influence on information processing.
The transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 (TRPA1) is expressed in peripheral and spinal terminals of sensory neurons, jointly to the vanilloid receptor (TRPV1). A relevant peripheral role of TRPA1 receptor has been implicated in a variety of processes, including the detection of noxious cold, and diverse painful stimulus, but the functional role of TRPA1 receptor in nociceptive transmission at spinal cord in vivo is poorly known. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate whether the glutamatergic system is involved in the transmission of nociceptive stimulus induced for a TRPA1 agonist in the rat spinal cord. We observed that cinnamaldehyde, a TRPA1 agonist, on spinal cord synaptosomes leads to an increase in [Ca(2+)](i) and a rapid release of glutamate, but was not able to change the specific [(3)H]-glutamate binding. In addition, spinally administered cinnamaldehyde produced heat hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia in rats. This behavior was reduced by the co-injection (i.t.) of camphor (TRPA1 antagonist) or MK-801 (N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist) to cinnamaldehyde. Besides, the pretreatment with resiniferatoxin (RTX), a potent TRPV1 agonist, abolished the cinnamaldehyde-induced heat hyperalgesia. Here, we showed that intrathecal RTX results in a decrease in TRPA1 and TRPV1 immunoreactivity in dorsal root ganglion. Collectively, our results demonstrate the pertinent participation of spinal TRPA1 in the possible enhancement of glutamatergic transmission of nociceptive signals leading to increase of the hypersensitivity, here observed as heat hyperalgesia. Then the modulation of spinal TRPA1 might be a valuable target in painful conditions associated with central pain hypersensitivity.
We have demonstrated previously that nicotine affords neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects against intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH)-associated neuropathological changes. The present study was undertaken to clarify whether subtype-specific agonists of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) could preserve tissue integrity in mouse ICH model in vivo. ICH was induced by unilateral injection of collagenase into the striatum of male C57BL/6 mice. Daily intraperitoneal injection of 7 nAChR agonist PNU-282987 (3-10mg/kg) for 3 days, starting from 3h after induction of ICH, significantly increased the number of surviving neurons in the central and the peripheral regions of hematoma at 3 days after ICH. In contrast, 42 nAChR agonist RJR-2403 (2-10 mg/kg) given in the same regimen showed no significant effect. PNU-282987 and RJR-2403 did not affect either the size of hemorrhage or the extent of brain edema associated with ICH. PNU-282987 decreased the number of activated microglia/macrophages accumulating in the perihematoma region at 3 days after ICH, in a dose-dependent manner. On the other hand, the number of microglia/macrophages in the central region of hematoma at early phase of pathology (6 h after ICH) was increased by 10mg/kg PNU-282987. These results suggest that 7 nAChR agonist can provide neuroprotective effect on ICH-induced injury, independently of its anti-inflammatory actions.
Background and purpose: Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a major stroke risk factor and is associated with poor recovery compared with nondiabetic stroke patients. In the present study, we investigated the effects of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) treatment of stroke in diabetic and non-diabetic rats. Methods: Type-1 diabetes (T1DM) was induced by injection of streptozotocin. Non-T1DM and T1DM rats were subjected to embolic middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) and treated with or without tPA 2h after MCAo. Functional outcomes and immunostaining for advanced glycation endproducts receptor (RAGE), matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) and toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and Western blotting were performed. Results: tPA treatment of WT-MCAo rats significantly improved the functional outcome and reduced the lesion volume compared with non-treatment WT-MCAo rats (p&lt;0.05). There was no significant difference between treatment with or without tPA in the WT-MCAo group in brain hemorrhage, BBB leakage and expression of inflammatory mediators, RAGE, MMP-9 and TLR4. However, tPA treatment in T1DM-MCAo rats (T1DM-MCAo+tPA) significantly enlarged brain hemorrhage, augmented BBB leakage, and failed to decrease lesion volume and improve functional outcome after stroke compared to T1DM-MCAo control. tPA treatment also significantly increased the expression of RAGE, MMP-9 and TLR4 in the ischemic brain in T1DM-MCAo rats compared with T1DM-MCAo control rats (p&lt;0.05). Brain hemorrhage was significantly correlated with functional deficit and RAGE and TLR4 expression, respectively. Conclusions: Treatment of stroke with tPA increased brain hemorrhage, BBB leakage and failed to improve functional outcome in T1DM rats. The increased inflammatory response may contribute to the failed neuroprotective effects of tPA treatment in T1DM rats.
Exogenous delivery of the neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) gene may provide a potential therapeutic strategy for ischemic stroke. To investigate the neuroprotective effects of NT-3 expression controlled by 5HRE after focal cerebral ischemia, we constructed a recombinant retrovirus vector (RV) with five copies of hypoxia-responsive elements (5HRE or 5H) and NT-3 and delivered it to the rat brain. Three groups of rats received RV-5H-NT3, RV-5H-EGFP or saline injection. Three days after gene transfer, the rats underwent 90min of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO), followed by 1-28days of reperfusion. Three days after tMCAO, brain NT-3 expression was significantly increased in the RV-5H-NT3-transduced animals compared with the RV-5H-EGFP or saline group, and brain infarct volume was smaller in the RV-5H-NT3-transduced group than the RV-5H-EGFP or saline group. The percentage of TUNEL-positive cells was reduced in RV-5H-NT3-transduced brains compared with the RV-5H-EGFP or saline group 3 and 7days after tMCAO. Furthermore, the neurological status of RV-5H-NT3-transduced rats was better than that of RV-5H-EGFP- or saline-transduced animals from 1day to 4weeks after tMCAO. Our results demonstrated that 5HRE could modulate NT-3 expression in the ischemic brain environment and that the up-regulated NT-3 could effectively improve neurological status following tMCAO due to decreased initial damage. To avoid unexpected side effects, 5HRE-controlled gene expression might be a useful tool for gene therapy of ischemic disorders in the central nervous system.
In the past several decades, tremendous progress has been achieved through developmental studies of the central nervous system structures such as the cerebral cortex. The septum, which receives reciprocal connections from a variety of brain structures, contains diverse projection neurons but few interneurons. However, the mechanisms underlying its development remain poorly understood. Here we show that the septum is organized into an onion skin-like structure composed of five groups of neurons. These neurons are parvalbumin, choline acetyltransferase, neuronal nitric oxide synthase, calretinin and calbindin immunoreactive. Using the BrdU birth-dating method, we found that these five groups of neurons in the septum are grossly generated following an outside-in pattern. Interestingly, the distinct molecular identities of these neuronal subtypes correspond to their heterogeneous subpallial origins. Using three specific transgenic mouse lines and focal in utero electroporation of Cre-reporter plasmid, we showed that septal neurons originate from not only local progenitor regions but also neighboring progenitor regions including the medial ganglionic eminence and preoptic area. Thus, the neuronal diversity of the septum is achieved through both temporal and spatial control. Our results also suggest that multiple neuronal subtypes arrive to the septum through both radial and tangential migration. Based on these findings, we proposed a novel developmental model involving multiple spatial-temporal origins of septal neurons. This study presents new perspectives for comprehensively exploring septal functions in brain circuits.
Chronic subcortical hyperdopaminergic activity is associated with the positive symptoms of schizophrenia and is a hallmark feature of a number of animal models of the disorder. However, the molecular changes induced by increased dopaminergic activity associated with schizophrenia are not clear. Increased levels of FosB have been found in association with chronic subcortical hyperdopaminergic activity following repeated cocaine or amphetamine administration. Therefore, we investigated FosB signaling in a putative neurodevelopmental animal model of schizophrenia showing chronic subcortical hyperdopaminergic activity. Increased protein levels of the transcription factor FosB as well as cyclin-dependent kinase-5 (cdk-5), p35, p25 and the GluR2 subunit of the AMPA glutamate receptor were observed in the nucleus accumbens (NA). Cdk-5, p35 and GlurR2 are all proteins regulated by FosB, while p25 is a degradation product of p35. Increased total protein levels of cdk-5, p35 and p25 resulted in increased cdk-5 kinase activity as determined by increased phosphorylation of dopamine and adenosine regulated phosphoprotein-32 (DARPP32) at Thr(75) in the NA. DARPP32 Thr(75) is selectively phosphorylated by cdk-5 and phosphorylation of DARPP32 at Thr(75) suppresses DARPP32 activity, a critical step in the regulation of both glutamatergic and dopaminergic activity in neurons. We also found that apomorphine-induced locomotor activity was further increased following intra-accumbens infusions of roscovitine, a cdk-5 blocker, in a dose-dependent manner. Our results indicate that chronic hyperdopaminergic activity, as seen in schizophrenia, may affect glutamate and dopamine function in the NA via FosB-mediated transcriptional modulation.
The Drosophila melanogaster gustatory system consists of several neuronal pathways representing diverse taste modalities. The two predominant modalities are a sweet-sensing pathway that mediates attraction, and a bitter-sensing pathway that mediates avoidance. A central question is how flies integrate stimuli from these pathways and generate the appropriate behavioral response. We have developed a novel assay for induction of taste memories. We demonstrate that the gustatory response to fructose is suppressed when followed by the presence of bitter quinine. We employ optogenetic neural activation using infrared laser in combination with heat-sensitive channel - TRPA1 to precisely activate gustatory neurons. This optogenetic system allows for spatially and temporally controlled activation of distinct neural classes in the gustatory circuit. We directly activated bitter-sensing neurons together with presentation of fructose for remote induction of aversive taste memories. Here we report that activation of bitter-sensing neurons in the proboscis suffices as a conditioning stimulus. Spatially restricted stimulation indicates that the conditioning stimulus is indeed a signal from the bitter neurons in the proboscis and it is independent of postingestive feedback. The coincidence of temporally specific activation of bitter-sensing neurons with fructose presentation is crucial for memory formation, establishing aversive taste learning in Drosophila as associative learning. Taken together, this optogenetic system provides a powerful new tool for interrogation of the central brain circuits that mediate memory formation.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) are glutamatergic by virtue of glutamate-binding GluN2 subunits and glycinergic by virtue of glycine-binding GluN1 and GluN3 subunits. The existence, location, and functional-significance of NMDARs containing both GluN2 and GluN3 subunits have as yet remained unelucidated. Here we report on the discovery and characterization of a novel type of NMDARs, found at layer (L)1/primary whisker-motor-cortex inputs onto L5 pyramidal neurons in somatosensory cortex, that are distinct in structure and function from conventional GluN2A-containing NMDARs at thalamic/striatal (Str) inputs onto the same neurons. These receptors had a threshold-like activation at hyperpolarized holding-potentials with strong outward rectification of their current-voltage relationships unlike any known GluN1/GluN2-containing NMDARs. Pharmacology revealed a triheteromeric-receptor with features common to glutamate-activated GluN1/GluN2-containing and glycine-activated GluN1/GluN3-containing diheteromeric NMDARs. However, unlike GluN1/GluN3 receptors, NMDARs at L1 inputs were activated by glutamate and blocked by d-AP5, Ca(2+)-permeable, and more efficient at integrating and potentiating EPSPs selectively over Str inputs during high-frequency stimulation while obviating the need for AMPAR-mediated depolarization.
We used an immortalized arachnoid cell line to test the arachnoid barrier properties and paracellular transport. The permeabilities of urea, mannitol, and inulin through monolayers were 2.9  1.1  10(-6), 0.8  .18  10(-6), 1.0  .29  10(-6)cm/s. Size differential permeability testing with dextran clarified the arachnoidal blood-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) barrier limit and established a rate of transcellular transport to be about two orders of magnitude slower than paracellular transport in a polyester membrane diffusion chamber. The theoretical pore size for paracellular space is 11 and the occupancy to length ratio is 0.8 and 0.72 cm(-1) for urea and mannitol respectively. The permeability of the monolayer was not significantly different from apical to basal and vice versa. Gap junctions may have a role in contributing to barrier formation. Although the upregulation of claudin by dexamethasone did not significantly alter paracellular transport, increasing intracellular cAMP decreased mannitol permeability. Calcium modulated paracellular transport, but only selectively with the ion chelator, EDTA, and with disruption of intracellular stores. The blood-CSF barrier at the arachnoid is anatomically and physiologically different from the vascular-based blood-brain barrier, but is similarly subject to modulation. We describe the basic paracellular transport characteristics of this CSF &quot;sink&quot; of the brain which will allow for a better description of mass and constitutive balance within the intracranial compartment.
Synucleinopathies including Parkinson's disease (PD) are characterized by the accumulation of alpha-synuclein (-syn) within neural cell bodies and their processes. Transgenic mice overexpressing human wild-type or mutant forms of -syn under the control of different promoters were developed to analyse the underlying neuropathology of PD. One of the earliest clinical symptoms associated with PD is olfactory impairment. The generation of new neurons persists up to adulthood in mammals, in particular the olfactory bulb (OB). In order to assess this process in relation to -syn accumulation, we used mice overexpressing human wild-type -syn under the regulatable control (tet-off) of the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II-promoter (CaMKII). We observed a decrease in OB neurogenesis in transgenic animals compared to controls using 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) to label newly generated cells (neuron-specific nuclear protein; NeuN). After cessation of transgene expression we detected an increase in newly generated cells both in granular (GCL) and glomerular (GLOM) layers of the OB. This led to a rescue of newly generated neurons (BrdU(+)/NeuN(+)) within the GLOM with a distinct specificity for the dopaminergic subpopulation. In contrast, we did not detect a cell-specific rescue of neuronal cells in the GCL suggesting diverse effects of alpha-synucleinopathy in both interneuronal layers of the OB. Colabelling of BrdU with glial markers showed that a differentiation into neither astroglia nor microglia attributed to the observed phenotype in the GCL. In particular, BrdU(+) particles located within microglial cells were predominantly associated close to the membrane therefore the resembling phagocytosed nuclear fragments of BrdU(+) cells. Thus, our study further contributes insights into -syn accumulation as a causative player in the impairment of adult neurogenesis and emphasizes its diverse role in cell renewal of distinct OB cell layers.
It has been proposed that the underlying epileptic process is mediated by changes in both excitatory and inhibitory circuits leading to the formation of hyper-excitable seizure networks. In this review we aim to shed light on the many physiological factors that modulate excitability within these networks. These factors have been discussed extensively in many reviews each as a separate entity and cannot be extensively covered in a single manuscript. Thus for the purpose of this work in which we aim to bring those factors together to explain how they interact with epilepsy, we only provide brief descriptions. We present reported evidence supporting the existence of the epileptic brain in several states; interictal, peri-ictal and ictal, each with distinct excitability features. We then provide an overview of how many physiological factors influence the excitatory/inhibitory balance within the interictal state, where the networks are presumed to be functioning normally. We conclude that these changes result in constantly changing states of cortical excitability in patients with epilepsy.
This study aimed to better characterize the sensorimotor mechanisms underlying motor resonance, namely the relationship between motion perception and movement production in patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease (AD). This work first gives a kinematic description of AD patients' upper limb movements, then it presents a simple paradigm in which a dot with different velocities is moved in front of the participant who is instructed to point to its final position when it stopped. AD patients' actions, as well as healthy elderly participants, were similarly influenced by the dot velocity, suggesting that motor resonance mechanisms are not prevented by pathology. In contrast, only patients had anticipatory motor response: i.e. they started moving before the end of the stimulus motion, unlike what was requested by the experimenter. While the automatic imitation of the stimulus suggests an intact ability to match the internal motor representations with that of the visual model, the uncontrolled motion initiation would indicate AD patients' deficiency to voluntarily inhibit response production. These findings might open new clinical perspectives suggesting innovative techniques in training programs for people with dementia. In particular, the preservation of the motor resonance mechanisms, not dependent on conscious awareness, constitutes an intact basis upon which clinicians could model both physical and cognitive interventions for healthy elderly and AD patients. Furthermore, the evaluation of the inhibitory functions, less sensitive to the level of education than other methods, might be useful for screening test combined with the traditional AD techniques. However, further investigations to understand if this feature is specific to AD or is present also in other neurodegenerative diseases are needed.
Circadian rhythms affect olfaction by an unknown molecular mechanism. Independent of the suprachiasmatic nuclei, the mammalian olfactory bulb (OB) has recently been identified as a circadian oscillator. The electrical activity in the OB was reported to be synchronized to a daily rhythm and the clock gene, Period1, was oscillatory in its expression pattern. Because gap junctions composed of connexin36 and -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors (AMPARs) have been reported to work together to synchronize firing of action potentials in the OB, we hypothesized that circadian electrical oscillations could be synchronized by daily changes in the expression of connexins and AMPAR subunits (GluR1-4). We examined the OB for the presence of clock genes by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and whether Period2, connexins, and AMPARs fluctuated across the light/dark cycle by quantitative PCR or SDS-PAGE/Western blot analysis. We observed significant changes in the messenger RNA and protein expression of our targets across 24 or 48 h. Whereas most targets were rhythmic by some measures, only GluR1 mRNA and protein were both rhythmic by the majority of our tests of rhythmicity across all time scales. Differential expression of these synaptic proteins over the light/dark cycle may underlie circadian synchronization of action potential firing in the OB or modify synaptic interactions that would be predicted to impact olfactory coding, such as alteration of granule cell inhibition, increased number of available AMPARs to bind glutamate, or an increased gap junction conductance between mitral/tufted cells.
Face perception is subtended by a large set of areas in the human ventral occipito-temporal cortex. However, the role of these areas and their importance for face recognition remain largely unclear. Here we report a case of transient selective impairment in face recognition (prosopagnosia) induced by focal electrical intracerebral stimulation of the right inferior occipital gyrus. This area presents with typical face-sensitivity as evidenced by functional neuroimaging right occipital face area (OFA). A face-sensitive intracerebral N170 was also recorded in this area, supporting its contribution as a source of the well-known N170 component typically recorded on the scalp. Altogether, these observations indicate that face recognition can be selectively impaired by local disruption of a single face-sensitive area of the network subtending this function, the right OFA.
Previous studies have shown that a 2-week treatment with 40 mg/kg corticosterone (CORT) in rats suppresses hippocampal neurogenesis and decreases hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels and impairs spatial learning, all of which could be counteracted by voluntary wheel running. BDNF and insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) have been suggested to mediate physical exercise-enhanced hippocampal neurogenesis and cognition. Here we examined whether such running-elicited benefits were accompanied by corresponding changes of peripheral BDNF and IGF-1 levels in a rat model of stress. We examined the effects of acute (5 days) and chronic (4 weeks) treatment with CORT and/or wheel running on (1) hippocampal cell proliferation, (2) spatial learning and memory and (3) plasma levels of BDNF and IGF-1. Acute CORT treatment improved spatial learning without altered cell proliferation compared to vehicle treatment. Acute CORT-treated non-runners showed an increased trend in plasma BDNF levels together with a significant increase in hippocampal BDNF levels. Acute running showed no effect on cognition, cell proliferation and peripheral BDNF and IGF-1 levels. Conversely, chronic CORT treatment in non-runners significantly impaired spatial learning and suppressed cell proliferation in association with a decreased trend in plasma BDNF level and a significant increase in hippocampal BDNF levels. Running counteracted cognitive deficit and restored hippocampal cell proliferation following chronic CORT treatment; but without corresponding changes in plasma BDNF and IGF-1 levels. The results suggest that the beneficial effects of acute stress on cognitive improvement may be mediated by BDNF-enhanced synaptic plasticity that is hippocampal cell proliferation-independent, whereas chronic stress may impair cognition by decreasing hippocampal cell proliferation and BDNF levels. Furthermore, the results indicate a trend in changes of plasma BDNF levels associated with a significant alteration in hippocampal levels, suggesting that treatment with running/CORT for 4 weeks may induce a change in central levels of hippocampal BDNF level, which may not lead to a significant change in peripheral levels.
In the present study, multielectrode array (MEA) recording was used to illustrate the spatial-temporal progression of anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) activity following stimulation of the thalamus in a thalamocingulate pathway-preserved slice. The MEA was placed under the slice that contained the ACC, and 60 channels of extracellular local field potentials evoked by bipolar electrical stimulation within the thalamus were analyzed. Several distinct thalamic-evoked responses were identified. The early negative component (N1; amplitude, -35.7  5.9 V) emerged in layer VI near the cingulum 8.4  0.5 ms after stimulation. N1 progressed upward to layers V and II/III in a lateral-to-medial direction. Subsequently, a positive component (P; amplitude, 27.0  3.2 V) appeared 12.0  0.6 ms after stimulation in layer VI. At 26.8  1.1 ms, a second negative component (N2; amplitude, -20.9  2.7 V) became apparent in layers II/III and V, followed by a more ventrolateral component (N3; amplitude, -18.9  2.9 V) at 42.8  2.6 ms. These two late components spread downward to layer VI in a medial-to-lateral direction. The trajectory paths of the evoked components were consistently represented with varied medial thalamic stimulation intensities and sites. Both AMPA/kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate-type glutamate receptors involved in monosynaptic and polysynaptic transmission participated in this thalamocortical pathway. Morphine mainly diminished the two negative synaptic components, and this suppressive effect was reversed by naloxone. The present study confirmed that functional thalamocingulate activity was preserved in the brain-slice preparation. The thalamus-evoked responses were activated and progressed along a deep surface-deep trajectory loop across the ACC layers. Glutamatergic neurotransmitters were crucially involved in information processing. Opioid interneurons may play a modulatory role in regulating the signal flows in the cingulate cortex.
The distribution of low-threshold tetrodotoxin-resistant (TTX-r) Na(+) current and its co-expression with high-threshold TTX-r Na(+) current were studied in randomly selected acutely dissociated rat trigeminal ganglion (non-identified TG cells) and TG cells serving the temporomandibular joint (TMJ-TG cells). Conditions previously shown to enhance Na(V)1.9 channel-mediated currents (holding potential (HP) -80 mV, 130-mM fluoride internally) were employed to amplify the low-threshold Na(+) current. Under these conditions, detectable low-threshold Na(+) current was exhibited by 16 out of 21 non-identified TG cells (average, 1810  358 pA), and by nine of 14 TMJ-TG cells (average, 959  525 pA). The low-threshold Na(+) current began to activate around -55 mV and was inactivated by holding TG cells at -60 mV and delivering 40-ms test potentials (TPs) to 0 mV. The inactivation was long lasting, recovering only 8  3% over a 5-min period after the HP was returned to -80 mV. Following low-threshold Na(+) current inactivation, high-threshold TTX-r Na(+) current, evoked from HP -60 mV, was observed. High-threshold Na(+) current amplitude averaged 16,592  3913 pA for TPs to 0 mV, was first detectable at an average TP of -34  1.3 mV, and was  activated at -7.1  2.3 mV. In TG cells expressing prominent low-threshold Na(+) currents, changing the external solution to one containing 0 mM Na(+) reduced the amount of current required to hold the cells at -80 mV through -50 mV, the peak effect being observed at HP -60 mV. TG cells recorded from with a more physiological pipette solution containing chloride instead of fluoride exhibited small low-threshold Na(+) currents, which were greatly increased upon superfusion of the TG cells with the adenylyl cyclase (AC) activator forskolin. These data suggest two hypotheses: (1) low- and high-threshold Na(V)1.9 and Na(V)1.8 channels, respectively, are frequently co-expressed in TG neurons serving the TMJ and other structures, and (2), Na(V)1.9 channel-mediated currents are small under physiological conditions, but may be enhanced by inflammatory mediators that increase AC activity, and may mediate an inward leak that depolarizes TG neurons, increasing their excitability.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder in which the nigro-striatal dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons have been selectively lost. Due to side effects of levodopa, a dopamine precursor drug, recently cell replacement therapy for PD has been considered. Lack of sufficient amounts of, embryos and ethical problems regarding the use of dopamine-rich embryonic neural cells have limited the application of these cells for PD cell therapy. Therefore, many investigators have focused on using the pluripotent stem cells to generate DAergic neurons. This study is aimed first to establish a mouse embryonic stem (mES) cell line that can stably co-express Nurr1 (Nuclear receptor subfamily 4, group A, member 2) transcription factor in order to efficiently generate DAergic neurons, and glutathione peroxidase-1 (GPX-1) to protect the differentiated DAergic-like cells against oxidative stress. In addition to genetic engineering of ES cells, the effect of Beta-boswellic acid (BBA) on DAergic differentiation course of mES cells was sought in the present study. To that end, the feeder-independent CGR8 mouse embryonic stem cells were transduced by Nurr1- and GPX-1-harboring Lentiviruses and the generated Nurr1/GPX-1-expresssing ES clones were characterized and verified. Gene expression analyses demonstrated that BBA treatment and overexpression of Nurr1 has a synergistic effect on derivation of DAergic neurons from Nurr1/GPX-1-expressing ES cells. The differentiated cells could exclusively synthesize and secrete dopamine in response to stimuli. Overexpression of GPX-1 in genetically engineered Nurr1/GPX-1-ES cells increased the viability of these cells during their differentiation into CNS stem cells. In conclusion, the results demonstrated that Nurr1-overexpressing feeder-independent ES cells like the feeder-dependent ES cells, can be efficiently programmed into functional DAergic neurons and additional treatment of cells by BBA can even augment this efficiency. GPX-1 overexpression in Nurr1/GPX-1-ES cells increases the viability of differentiated CNS stem-like cells. The result of this study may have impact on future stem cell therapy of PD.
Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) is an approved antiepileptic and antidepressant treatment, which has recently shown promise as a therapy for drug-resistant primary headaches. Specific neurobiological mechanisms underlying its anticephalgic action are not elucidated, partly because of the deficiency of research-related findings. The spinal trigeminal nucleus (STN) plays a prominent role in pathophysiology of headaches by modulating pain transmission from intracranial structures to higher centers of the brain. To determine whether vagal stimulation may affect trigeminovascular nociception, we investigated the effects of VNS on the STN neuronal activity in the animal model of headache. In anesthetized rats the spike activity of the STN neurons with convergent orofacial and meningeal inputs was monitored, and the changes in neuronal responses to electrical stimulation of the dura mater under preconditioning or under continuous electrical stimulation of the left cervical vagus nerve were studied. Preconditioning vagal afferent stimulation (200-ms train of pulses at 30 Hz applied before each dural stimulus) did not produce substantial changes in the STN spike activity. However, continuous VNS with frequency of 10 Hz in 48% of cases significantly suppressed trigeminal neuronal responses to dural electrical stimulation. In line with the decrease in evoked activity, the VNS-induced depression of ongoing neuronal firing was observed. Although the inhibitory effect was prevailing, 29.5% of STN neurons were facilitated by VNS, whereas 22.5% were unresponsive to the stimulation. These results provide an evidence of VNS-induced modulation of trigeminovascular nociception, and therefore contribute to a deeper understanding of neurophysiological mechanisms underlying effects of vagal stimulation in chronic drug-resistant headaches.
Beside its role in development and maturation of synapses, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is suggested to play a critical role in modulation and plasticity of glutamatergic as well as GABAergic synaptic transmission. Here, we used heterozygous BDNF knockout (BDNF(+/-)) mice, which chronically lack approximately 50% of BDNF of wildtype (WT) animals, to investigate the role of BDNF in regulating synaptic transmission in the ventrobasal complex (VB) of the thalamus. Excitatory transmission was characterized at glutamatergic synapses onto relay (TC) neurons of the VB and intrathalamic inhibitory transmission was characterized at GABAergic synapses between neurons of the reticular thalamic nucleus (RTN) and TC neurons. Reduced expression of BDNF in BDNF(+/-) mice did not affect intrinsic membrane properties of TC neurons. Recordings in TC neurons, however, revealed a strong reduction in the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) in BDNF(+/-) mice, as compared to WT littermates, whereas mEPSC amplitudes were not significantly different between genotypes. A mainly presynaptic impairment of corticothalamic excitatory synapses in BDNF(+/-) mice was also indicated by a decreased paired-pulse ratio and faster synaptic fatigue upon prolonged repetitive stimulation at 40 Hz. For miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) recorded in TC neurons, both, frequency and amplitude showed a significant reduction in knock-out animals, concurrent with a prolonged decay time constant, whereas paired-pulse depression and synaptic fatigue of inhibitory synapses were not significantly different between WT and BDNF(+/-) mice. Spontaneous IPSCs (sIPSCs) recorded in VB neurons of BDNF(+/-) animals showed a significantly reduced frequency. However, the glutamatergic drive onto RTN neurons, as revealed by the percentage reduction in frequency of sIPSCs after application of AMPA and NMDA receptor blockers, was not significantly different. Together, the present findings suggest that a chronically reduced level of BDNF to 50% of WT levels in heterozygous knock-out animals, strongly attenuates glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic transmission in thalamic circuits. We hypothesize that this impairment of excitatory and inhibitory transmission may have profound consequences for the generation of rhythmical activity in the thalamocortical network.
Brain-implantable electrodes such as those used in deep brain stimulation (DBS) have a promising future in end-stage Parkinson's disease therapy. However, there is considerable injury when electrodes penetrate brain tissue. For instance, broken blood vessels and glial scar formation may impede continual DBS or electrical recording from specific neurons. To begin addressing this key safety issue, we tested the therapeutic potential of resveratrol in reducing brain trauma caused by DBS-like surgery. Microinfusion of resveratrol (10 M) directly applied to the sub-thalamic nucleus (STN) of the rat brain significantly minimized the formation of astrocytic gliosis in response to a 27-G precision-glide cannula implant. The therapeutic effects of resveratrol extended to the &quot;kill zone&quot;, a boundary zone of about 100 m comprising the cannula implant and surrounding neurons. We also found that resveratrol not only provided almost complete protection from mechanical injury to the brain, but that it also prevented undesirable motor deficits often seen in animals with lesions to the STN. Lastly, continuous infusion of resveratrol over a 4-week period led to the inhibition of pro-apoptotic, neurodegenerative and cell division cycle genes that may be associated with a reduction in astrocytic gliosis and glial scar formation within the STN. Taken together, these data suggest that application of resveratrol to the brain is an effective adjunct surgical procedure for minimizing acute neuronal injury when electrodes are implanted directly into the STN.
The participation of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the benefits of physical exercise on cognitive functions has been widely investigated. Different from voluntary exercise, the effects of treadmill running on memory and BDNF are still controversial. Importantly, the impact of the frequency of physical exercise on memory remains still unknown. In this study, young adult and middle-aged rats were submitted to 8 weeks of treadmill running at moderate intensity and divided into 4 groups of frequency: 0, 1, 3 and 7 days/week. Aversive and recognition memory were assessed as well as the immunocontent of proBDNF, BDNF and tyrosine kinase receptor type B (TrkB) in the hippocampus. Frequencies did not modify memory in young adult animals. The frequency of 1 day/week increased proBDNF and BDNF. All frequencies decreased TrkB immunocontent. Middle-aged animals presented memory impairment along with increased BDNF and downregulation of TrkB receptor. The frequency of 1day/week reversed age-related recognition memory impairment, but worsened the performance in the inhibitory avoidance task. The other frequencies rescued aversive memory, but not recognition memory. None of frequencies altered the age-related increase in the BDNF. Seven days/week decreased proBDNF and there was a trend toward increase in the TrkB by the frequency of 1 day/week. These results support that the frequency and intensity of exercise have a profound impact on cognitive functions mainly in elderly. Thus, the effects of physical exercise on behavior and brain functions should take into account the frequency and intensity.
Brainstem A2/C2 catecholamine (CA) neurons within the solitary tract nucleus (NTS) influence many homeostatic functions, including food intake, stress, respiratory and cardiovascular reflexes. They also play a role in both opioid reward and withdrawal. Injections of opioids into the NTS modulate many autonomic functions influenced by catecholamine neurons including food intake and cardiac function. We recently showed that NTS-CA neurons are directly activated by incoming visceral afferent inputs. Here we determined whether opioid agonists modulate afferent activation of NTS-CA neurons using transgenic mice with EGFP expressed under the control of the tyrosine hydroxylase promoter (TH-EGFP) to identify catecholamine neurons. The opioid agonist Met-enkephalin (Met-Enk) significantly attenuated solitary tract-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (ST-EPSCs) in NTS TH-EGFP neurons by 80%, an effect reversed by wash or the mu opioid receptor-specific antagonist D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2) (CTOP). Met-Enk had a significantly greater effect to inhibit afferent inputs onto TH-EGFP-positive neurons than EGFP-negative neurons, which were only inhibited by 50%. The mu agonist, DAMGO, also inhibited the ST-EPSC in TH-EGFP neurons in a dose-dependent manner. In contrast, neither the delta agonist DPDPE, nor the kappa agonist, U69,593, consistently inhibited the ST-EPSC amplitude. Met-Enk and DAMGO increased the paired pulse ratio, decreased the frequency, but not amplitude, of mini-EPSCs and had no effect on holding current, input resistance or current-voltage relationships in TH-EGFP neurons, suggesting a presynaptic mechanism of action on afferent terminals. Met-Enk significantly reduced both the basal firing rate of NTS TH-EGFP neurons and the ability of afferent stimulation to evoke an action potential. These results suggest that opioids inhibit NTS-CA neurons by reducing an excitatory afferent drive onto these neurons through presynaptic inhibition of glutamate release and elucidate one potential mechanism by which opioids could control autonomic functions and modulate reward and opioid withdrawal symptoms at the level of the NTS.
In the present study we determined the role of spinal 5-hydroxytriptamine (5-HT) and 5-HT(4/6/7) receptors in the long-term secondary mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia induced by formalin in the rat. Formalin produced acute nociceptive behaviors (flinching and licking/lifting) followed by long-term secondary mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia in both paws. In addition, formalin increased the tissue content of 5-HT in the ipsilateral, but not contralateral, dorsal part of the spinal cord compared to control animals. Intrathecal (i.t.) administration of 5,7-dihydroxytriptamine (5,7-DHT), a serotonergic neurotoxin, diminished tissue 5-HT content in the ipsilateral and contralateral dorsal parts of the spinal cord. Accordingly, i.t. 5,7-DHT prevented formalin-induced secondary allodynia and hyperalgesia in both paws. I.t. pre-treatment (-10 min) with ML-10302 (5-HT(4) agonist), EMD-386088 (5-HT(6) agonist) and LP-12 (5-HT(7) agonist) significantly increased secondary mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia in both paws. In contrast, i.t. pre-treatment (-20 min) with GR-125487 (5-HT(4) antagonist), SB-258585 (5-HT(6) antagonist) and SB-269970 (5-HT(7) antagonist) significantly prevented formalin-induced long-term effects in both paws. In addition, these antagonists prevented the pro-nociceptive effect of ML-10302, EMD-386088 and LP-12, respectively. The i.t. post-treatment (6 days after formalin injection) with GR-125487, SB-258585 and SB-269970 reversed formalin-induced secondary allodynia and hyperalgesia in both paws. These results suggest that spinal 5-HT, released from the serotonergic projections in response to formalin injection, activates pre- or post-synaptic 5-HT(4/6/7) receptors at the dorsal root ganglion/spinal cord promoting the development and maintenance of secondary allodynia and hyperalgesia.
Motor imagery (MI) refers to the mental simulation of a movement. It is used as a tool to improve motor function in several populations. In young adults, it has been repeatedly shown that MI of upper-limb movements is facilitated when one's posture is congruent with the movement to simulate. As MI training is notably used for improving locomotor-related activities in older populations, it may be questioned whether subjects' body configuration could also influence MI of walking movements and whether this influence is preserved with age. In the present study, we examined the impact of one's body position (congruent with walking: standing/incongruent with walking: sitting) on the duration of walking simulation over two distances (3m/6m), in 26 young (21 females, 5 males; mean: 23.2  2.4 years) and 26 elderly (18 females, 8 males; mean: 72.7  5.5 years) healthy subjects. It was found that, in both age groups, walking simulation times while standing were shorter than while sitting. Furthermore, walking simulation times in the standing position were closer to actual walking times to cover the same distances. The present findings extend to walking movements the notion that adopting a posture congruent with the movement to imagine facilitates the simulation process. They also suggest that, at least for simple walking tasks, this effect is maintained across the lifespan. The implication of our findings for optimizing MI training of locomotor-related activities is underlined.
In heterozygous mice, attenuation of G-protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 (GRK2) level in nociceptors is associated with enhanced and prolonged inflammatory hyperalgesia. To further elucidate the role of GRK2 in nociceptor function we reversibly decreased GRK2 expression using intrathecal antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (AS-ODN). GRK2 AS-ODN administration led to an enhanced and prolonged hyperalgesia induced by prostaglandin E(2), epinephrine and carrageenan. Moreover, this effect persisted unattenuated 2weeks after the last dose of antisense, well after GRK2 protein recovered, suggesting that transient attenuation of GRK2 produced neuroplastic changes in nociceptor function. Unlike hyperalgesic priming induced by transient activation of protein kinase C epsilon (PKC), (Aley et al., 2000; Parada et al., 2003b), the enhanced and prolonged hyperalgesia following attenuation of GRK2 is PKC- and cytoplasmic polyadenylation element binding protein (CPEB)-independent and is protein kinase A (PKA)- and Src tyrosine kinase (Src)-dependent. Finally, rats treated with GRK2 AS-ODN exhibited enhanced and prolonged hyperalgesia induced by direct activation of second messengers, adenyl cyclase, Epac or PKA, suggesting changes downstream of G-protein-coupled receptors. Because inflammation can produce a decrease in GRK2, such a mechanism could help explain a predilection to develop chronic pain, after resolution of acute inflammation.
According to the simulation theory, the internal simulation of a movement (imagined movement, IM) and its execution (actual movement, AM) are based on the same motor representations. The brain uses these representations for controlling action. The specific objective of this study was to investigate the updating process of internal models of action in adults, through massive environmental changes involved by microgravity (0G). 0G has multiple effects on motor control, including short-term adaptations with respect to the planification and performance of actions. However, the effects of 0G on internal representations of action are still largely unknown. To address this issue, thirteen subjects performed first sit-to-stand (STS) and back-to-sit (BTS) tasks, and subsequently had to imagine movement performance in these tasks. The tasks were performed under normogravity (1G) and 0G conditions. Based on durations of actual and IMs, two main results emerged from this study. In 1G, actual and IM's durations were similar. However, in 0G, AM durations were significantly longer than IM durations. Furthermore, IM durations in 0G were similar to the 1G value. These results show that although the planification and execution of action were immediately adapted to the 0G condition, the storage of afferent information was inadequate to recalibrate the predictive model. These results suggest that sudden change in gravity was not considered for updating internal models of action, and that forward model probably required more practice in order to integrate the modification of the sensorial feedback generated by the new environmental constraints.
Excitotoxicity triggered by over-stimulation of glutamatergic receptors is considered to be a major component of damage following acute spinal cord injury (SCI). Using an in vitro model of neonatal rat SCI caused by transient application (1h) of the glutamate agonist kainate (0.05-0.1 mM) to produce limited excitotoxicity, the present study investigated whether riluzole, a drug inhibiting glutamate release and neuronal excitability, could prevent neuronal loss and protect locomotor patterns 24 h later. Immunohistochemical analysis of neuronal and motoneuronal populations was associated with recording of fictive locomotion induced by neurochemicals or dorsal root stimuli. Riluzole (5 M; 24 h application) per se exerted strong and persistent neurodepressant effects on network synaptic transmission from which recovery was very slow. When continuously applied after kainate, riluzole partially reduced the number of pyknotic cells in the gray matter, although motoneurons remained vulnerable and no fictive locomotion was present. In further experiments, riluzole per se was applied for 3 h (expected to coincide with kainate peak excitotoxicity) and washed out for 24 h with full return of fictive locomotion. When this protocol was implemented after kainate, no efficient histological or functional recovery was observed. No additional benefit was detected even when riluzole was co-applied with kainate and continued for the following 3 h. These results show that modest neuronal losses evoked by excitotoxicity have a severe impact on locomotor network function, and that they cannot be satisfactorily blocked by strong neurodepression with riluzole, suggesting the need for more effective pharmacological approaches.
Exposure to ethanol during the prenatal period contributes to increased alcohol consumption and preference in rodents and increased risk for alcoholism in humans. With studies in adult animals showing the orexigenic peptides, enkephalin (ENK), galanin (GAL) and orexin (OX), to stimulate ethanol consumption, the question addressed here is whether prenatal ethanol alters the development in utero of specific neurons that express these peptides. With reports describing suppressive effects of high doses of ethanol, we examined the offspring of dams gavaged from embryonic day 9 to parturition with a control solution or lower ethanol doses, 1 and 3g/kg/day, known to promote ethanol consumption in the offspring. To understand underlying mechanisms, measurements were taken in postnatal offspring of the expression of ENK in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and nucleus accumbens (NAc), GAL in the PVN, and OX in the perifornical lateral hypothalamus (PFLH) using real-time qPCR and in situ hybridization, and also of the cell proliferation marker, 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU), and its double-labeling with either neuronal nuclei (NeuN), a marker of mature neurons, or the peptides. On postnatal day 15 (P15), after two weeks without ethanol, the offspring showed increased expression of ENK in the PVN and NAc core but not shell, GAL in the PVN, and OX in the PFLH. In these same areas, prenatal ethanol compared to control increased the density at birth (P0) of neurons expressing these peptides and at P0 and P15 of neurons double-labeling BrdU and NeuN, indicating increased neurogenesis. These BrdU-positive neurons were found to express ENK, GAL and OX, indicating that prenatal ethanol promotes neurogenesis in these specific peptide systems. There were no changes in gliogenesis or apoptosis. This increase in neurogenesis and density of peptide-expressing neurons suggests the involvement of these hypothalamic and accumbal peptide systems in mediating the increased alcohol consumption observed in prenatal ethanol-exposed offspring.
Recent work has found that infant rats (postnatal day (P) 18) do not require the prelimbic cortex (PL) to express learned fear, whereas older animals (adults and juveniles) do. In other words, there is a switch from a PL-independent fear expression system during infancy to a PL-dependent system later in life. The present study investigated whether the PL would be involved in fear expression in rats trained at P17 but tested at P23 (that is, as juveniles). The first two experiments showed that PL involvement in fear expression was determined by the age of the animal at the time of training rather than the animal's age at the time of test. More specifically, experiment 1 showed that expression of learned fear (measured by freezing, and elicited by a white noise previously paired with a shock) was PL-independent for memories that were acquired when the rat was P17 but then tested at P23. In experiment 2, rats trained at P23, when the PL is functionally mature, still required the PL to express fear when tested at P37. In the last experiment, using two different reactivation procedures, we showed that it is possible to update an infant memory and switch it from being PL-independent to being PL-dependent. Combined, these results have important implications for our understanding of the neural circuitry underlying fear expression across development and show that, at least in some cases, expression of fear responses learned early in life remain PL-independent even as the animal matures.
The present study describes a complete and detailed neuroanatomical distribution map of the phospholipase C beta1 (PLC1) isoform along the adult rat neuraxis, and defines the phenotype of cells expressing PLC1, along with its subcellular localization in cortical neurons as assessed by double-immunofluorescence staining and confocal laser scanning. Immunohistochemical labeling revealed a considerable morphological heterogeneity among PLC1-positive cells in the cortex, even though there was a marked predominance of pyramidal morphologies. As an exception to the general non-matching distribution of GFAP and PLC1, a high degree of co-expression was observed in radial glia-like processes of the spinal cord white matter. In the somatosensory cortex, the proportion of GABAergic neurons co-stained with PLC1 was similar (around 2/3) in layers I, II-III, IV and VI, and considerably lower in layer V (around 2/5). Double immunofluorescence against PLC1 and nuclear speckle markers SC-35 and NeuN/Fox3 in isolated nuclei from the rat cortex showed a high overlap of both markers with PLC1 within the nuclear matrix. In contrast, there was no apparent co-localization with markers of the nuclear envelope and lamina. Finally, to assess whether the subcellular expression pattern of PLC1 involved specifically one of the two splice variants of PLC1, we carried out Western blot experiments in cortical subcellular fractions. Notably, PLC1a/1b ratios were statistically higher in the cytoplasm than in the nuclear and plasma membrane fractions. These results provide a deeper knowledge of the cellular distribution of the PLC1 isoform in different cell subtypes of the rat brain, and of its presence in the neuronal nuclear compartment.
Stress hormones are thought to be involved in the etiology of depression, in part, because animal models show they cause morphological damage to the brain, an effect that can be reversed by chronic antidepressant treatment. The current study examined two mouse strains selected for naturalistic variation of tissue regeneration after injury for resistance to the effects of chronic corticosterone (CORT) exposure on cell proliferation and neurotrophin mobilization. The wound healer MRL/MpJ and control C57BL/6J mice were implanted subcutaneously with pellets that released CORT for 7 days. MRL/MpJ mice were resistant to reductions of hippocampal cell proliferation by chronic exposure to CORT when compared to vulnerable C57BL/6J mice. Chronic CORT exposure also reduced protein levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampus of C57BL/6J but not MRL/MpJ mice. CORT pellet exposure increased circulating levels of CORT in the plasma of both strains in a dose-dependent manner although MRL/MpJ mice may have larger changes from baseline. The strains did not differ in circulating levels of corticosterone binding globulin (CBG). There were also no strain differences in CORT levels in the hippocampus, nor did CORT exposure alter glucocorticoid receptor or mineralocorticoid receptor expression in a strain-dependent manner. Strain differences were found in the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, and BDNF I and IV promoters. Strain and CORT exposure interacted to alter tropomyosine-receptor-kinase B (TrkB) expression and this may be a potential mechanism protecting MRL/MpJ mice. In addition, differences in the inflammatory response of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) may also contribute to these strain differences in resistance to the deleterious effects of CORT to the brain.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is one of the leading causes of death and disability in children and adolescents. The neuropathological sequelae that result from TBI are a complex cascade of events including edema formation, which occurs more frequently in the pediatric than the adult population. This developmental difference in the response to injury may be related to higher water content in the young brain and also to molecular mechanisms regulating water homeostasis. Aquaporins (AQPs) provide a unique opportunity to examine the mechanisms underlying water mobility, which remain poorly understood in the juvenile post-traumatic edema process. We examined the spatiotemporal expression pattern of principal brain AQPs (AQP1, AQP4, and AQP9) after juvenile TBI (jTBI) related to edema formation and resolution observed using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Using a controlled cortical impact in post-natal 17 day-old rats as a model of jTBI, neuroimaging analysis showed a global decrease in water mobility (apparent diffusion coefficient, ADC) and an increase in edema (T2-values) at 1 day post-injury, which normalized by 3 days. Immunohistochemical analysis of AQP4 in perivascular astrocyte endfeet was increased in the lesion at 3 and 7days post-injury as edema resolved. In contrast, AQP1 levels distant from the injury site were increased at 7, 30, and 60 days within septal neurons but did not correlate with changes in edema formation. Group differences were not observed for AQP9. Overall, our observations confirm that astrocyticAQP4 plays a more central role than AQP1 or AQP9 during the edema process in the young brain.
More than 40 years after their introduction in therapy, 1,4-dihydropyridines (DHPs) are still amongst the most prescribed drugs in the world. Though they all share a similar mechanism of action blocking L-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, DHPs differ in crucial pharmacological properties like tissue selectivity and cardiodepressant activity. This review examines how changes in the DHP structure can modify the pharmacological properties of these drugs and how some of these chemical manipulations have been exploited to obtain clinically more effective molecules. Special emphasis is given to the evidence that L-type Ca(2+) channels are an heterogeneous family and that DHPs with different pharmacological properties differ in their affinity for the different isoforms of this class of channels. Data showing that DHP pharmacological heterogeneity could be in part dependent on the interaction of some of these molecules with ion channels different from the L-type Ca(2+) channels is reviewed as well.
OBJECTIVES:: To examine the prevalence, sociodemographic correlates, psychiatric and medical comorbidities, and the disability of personality disorders among adults age 65 years and older. METHODS:: Data were drawn from the National Epidemiologic Survey on Alcohol and Related Conditions, focusing on a subsample of 8,205 adults age 65 years and older. RESULTS:: A total of 8.07% (SE: 0.37) of American adults age 65 years and older presented at least one personality disorder. The most prevalent personality disorder was the obsessive-compulsive personality disorder. The overall pattern of associations between each personality disorder and lifetime psychiatric comorbidity correlates was statistically significant. Participants with a personality disorder show a lower quality of life than their counterparts. CONCLUSIONS:: Personality disorders in older adults are highly associated with disability, medical, and psychiatric disorders. These findings highlight the need to develop more effective prevention and intervention programs in this specific population.
Where the non-human animal research investigating reproduction-induced cognitive reorganization has focused on neural plasticity and adaptive advantage in response to the demands associated with pregnancy and parenting, human studies have primarily concentrated on pregnancy-induced memory decline. The current review updates Henry and Rendell's 2007 meta-analysis, and examines cognitive reorganization as the result of reproductive experience from an adaptationist perspective. Investigations of pregnancy-induced cognitive change in human females may benefit by focusing on areas, such as social cognition, where a cognitive advantage would serve a protective function, and by extending the study duration beyond pregnancy into the postpartum period.
Neuronal activity is critical for the formation and modification of neural circuits during brain development. In hippocampal CA1 pyramidal dendrites, A-type voltage-gated K(+) currents, formed primarily by Kv4.2 subunits, control excitability. Here we used Kv4.2 knock-out (Kv4.2-KO) mice along with acute in vivo expression of Kv4.2 or its dominant-negative pore mutant to examine the role of Kv4.2 in the development of CA1 synapses. We found that Kv4.2 expression induces synaptic maturation in juvenile WT mice and rescues developmentally delayed synapses in adult Kv4.2-KO mice. In addition, we show that NMDAR subunit composition can be reverted back to the juvenile form in WT adult synapses by functionally downregulating Kv4.2 levels. These results suggest that Kv4.2 regulation of excitability determines synaptic maturation state, which can be bidirectionally adjusted into adulthood.
Neurons in cortical area MT respond well to transparent streaming motion in distinct depth planes, such as caused by observer self-motion, but do not contain subregions excited by opposite directions of motion. We therefore predicted that spatial resolution for transparent motion/disparity conjunctions would be limited by the size of MT receptive fields, just as spatial resolution for disparity is limited by the much smaller receptive fields found in primary visual cortex, V1. We measured this using a novel &quot;joint motion/disparity grating,&quot; on which human observers detected motion/disparity conjunctions in transparent random-dot patterns containing dots streaming in opposite directions on two depth planes. Surprisingly, observers showed the same spatial resolution for these as for pure disparity gratings. We estimate the limiting receptive field diameter at 11 arcmin, similar to V1 and much smaller than MT. Higher internal noise for detecting joint motion/disparity produces a slightly lower high-frequency cutoff of 2.5 cycles per degree (cpd) versus 3.3 cpd for disparity. This suggests that information on motion/disparity conjunctions is available in the population activity of V1 and that this information can be decoded for perception even when it is invisible to neurons in MT.
Mutations in parkin and LRRK2 together account for the majority of familial Parkinson's disease (PD) cases. Interestingly, recent evidence implicates the involvement of parkin and LRRK2 in mitochondrial homeostasis. Supporting this, we show here by means of the Drosophila model system that, like parkin, LRRK2 mutations induce mitochondrial pathology in flies when expressed in their flight muscles, the toxic effects of which can be rescued by parkin coexpression. When expressed specifically in fly dopaminergic neurons, mutant LRRK2 results in the appearance of significantly enlarged mitochondria, a phenotype that can also be rescued by parkin coexpression. Importantly, we also identified in this study that epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), a green tea-derived catechin, acts as a potent suppressor of dopaminergic and mitochondrial dysfunction in both mutant LRRK2 and parkin-null flies. Notably, the protective effects of EGCG are abolished when AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is genetically inactivated, suggesting that EGCG-mediated neuroprotection requires AMPK. Consistent with this, direct pharmacological or genetic activation of AMPK reproduces EGCG's protective effects. Conversely, loss of AMPK activity exacerbates neuronal loss and associated phenotypes in parkin and LRRK mutant flies. Together, our results suggest the relevance of mitochondrial-associated pathway in LRRK2 and parkin-related pathogenesis, and that AMPK activation may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for these familial forms of PD.
Neural oscillations in the alpha band (8-12 Hz) are increasingly viewed as an active inhibitory mechanism that gates and controls sensory information processing as a function of cognitive relevance. Extending this view, phase synchronization of alpha oscillations across distant cortical regions could regulate integration of information. Here, we investigated whether such long-range cross-region coupling in the alpha band is intrinsically and selectively linked to activity in a distinct functionally specialized brain network. If so, this would provide new insight into the functional role of alpha band phase synchrony. We adapted the phase-locking value to assess fluctuations in synchrony that occur over time in ongoing activity. Concurrent EEG and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) were recorded during resting wakefulness in 26 human subjects. Fluctuations in global synchrony in the upper alpha band correlated positively with activity in several prefrontal and parietal regions (as measured by fMRI). fMRI intrinsic connectivity analysis confirmed that these regions correspond to the well known fronto-parietal (FP) network. Spectral correlations with this network's activity confirmed that no other frequency band showed equivalent results. This selective association supports an intrinsic relation between large-scale alpha phase synchrony and cognitive functions associated with the FP network. This network has been suggested to implement phasic aspects of top-down modulation such as initiation and change in moment-to-moment control. Mechanistically, long-range upper alpha band synchrony is well suited to support these functions. Complementing our previous findings that related alpha oscillation power to neural structures serving tonic control, the current findings link alpha phase synchrony to neural structures underpinning phasic control of alertness and task requirements.
In mammals, the pupillary light reflex is mediated by intrinsically photosensitive melanopsin-containing retinal ganglion cells that also receive input from rod-cone photoreceptors. To assess the relative contribution of melanopsin and rod-cone photoreceptors to the pupillary light reflex in humans, we compared pupillary light responses in normally sighted individuals (n = 24) with a blind individual lacking rod-cone function. Here, we show that visual photoreceptors are required for normal pupillary responses to continuous light exposure at low irradiance levels, and for sustained pupillary constriction during exposure to light in the long-wavelength portion of the visual spectrum. In the absence of rod-cone function, pupillomotor responses are slow and sustained, and cannot track intermittent light stimuli, suggesting that rods/cones are required for encoding fast modulations in light intensity. In sighted individuals, pupillary constriction decreased monotonically for at least 30 min during exposure to continuous low-irradiance light, indicating that steady-state pupillary responses are an order of magnitude slower than previously reported. Exposure to low-irradiance intermittent green light (543 nm; 0.1-4 Hz) for 30 min, which was given to activate cone photoreceptors repeatedly, elicited sustained pupillary constriction responses that were more than twice as great compared with exposure to continuous green light. Our findings demonstrate nonredundant roles for rod-cone photoreceptors and melanopsin in mediating pupillary responses to continuous light. Moreover, our results suggest that it might be possible to enhance nonvisual light responses to low-irradiance exposures by using intermittent light to activate cone photoreceptors repeatedly in humans.
Although essential for their neuronal function, the molecular mechanisms underlying the dendritic targeting of serotonin G-protein-coupled receptors are poorly understood. Here, we characterized a Yif1B-dependent vesicular scaffolding complex mediating the intracellular traffic of the rat 5-HT(1A) receptor (5-HT(1A)R) toward dendrites. By combining directed mutagenesis, GST-pull down, and surface plasmon resonance, we identified a tribasic motif in the C-tail of the 5-HT(1A)R on which Yif1B binds directly with high affinity (K(D)  37 nM). Moreover, we identified Yip1A, Rab6, and Kif5B as new partners of the 5-HT(1A)R/Yif1B complex, and showed that their expression in neurons is also crucial for the dendritic targeting of the 5-HT(1A)R. Live videomicroscopy revealed that 5-HT(1A)R, Yif1B, Yip1A, and Rab6 traffic in vesicles exiting the soma toward the dendritic tree, and also exhibit bidirectional motions, sustaining their role in 5-HT(1A)R dendritic targeting. Hence, we propose a new trafficking pathway model in which Yif1B is the scaffold protein recruiting the 5-HT(1A)R in a complex including Yip1A and Rab6, with Kif5B and dynein as two opposite molecular motors coordinating the traffic of vesicles along dendritic microtubules. This targeting pathway opens new insights for G-protein-coupled receptors trafficking in neurons.
Painful bladder syndrome is a debilitating condition that affects 3-6% of women in the United States. Multiple lines of evidence suggest that changes in CNS processing are key to the development of chronic bladder pain conditions but little is known regarding the underlying cellular, molecular, and neuronal mechanisms. Using a mouse model of distention-induced bladder pain, we found that the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) is a critical site of neuromodulation for processing of bladder nociception. Furthermore, we demonstrate that metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) activation in the CeA induces bladder pain sensitization by increasing CeA output. Thus, pharmacological activation of mGluR5 in the CeA is sufficient to increase the response to bladder distention. Additionally, pharmacological blockade or virally mediated conditional deletion of mGluR5 in the CeA reduced responses to bladder distention suggesting that mGluR5 in the CeA is also necessary for these responses. Finally, we used optogenetic activation of the CeA and demonstrated that this caused a robust increase in the visceral pain response. The CeA-localized effects on responses to bladder distention are associated with changes in extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 (ERK1/2) phosphorylation in the spinal cord. Overall, these data demonstrate that mGluR5 activation leads to increased CeA output that drives bladder pain sensitization.
Auditory cortical processing of complex meaningful sounds entails the transformation of sensory (tonotopic) representations of incoming acoustic waveforms into higher-level sound representations (e.g., their category). However, the precise neural mechanisms enabling such transformations remain largely unknown. In the present study, we use functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and natural sounds stimulation to examine these two levels of sound representation (and their relation) in the human auditory cortex. In a first experiment, we derive cortical maps of frequency preference (tonotopy) and selectivity (tuning width) by mathematical modeling of fMRI responses to natural sounds. The tuning width maps highlight a region of narrow tuning that follows the main axis of Heschl's gyrus and is flanked by regions of broader tuning. The narrowly tuned portion on Heschl's gyrus contains two mirror-symmetric frequency gradients, presumably defining two distinct primary auditory areas. In addition, our analysis indicates that spectral preference and selectivity (and their topographical organization) extend well beyond the primary regions and also cover higher-order and category-selective auditory regions. In particular, regions with preferential responses to human voice and speech occupy the low-frequency portions of the tonotopic map. We confirm this observation in a second experiment, where we find that speech/voice selective regions exhibit a response bias toward the low frequencies characteristic of human voice and speech, even when responding to simple tones. We propose that this frequency bias reflects the selective amplification of relevant and category-characteristic spectral bands, a useful processing step for transforming a sensory (tonotopic) sound image into higher level neural representations.
Activation of the hippocampus is required to encode memories for new events (or episodes). Observations from animal studies suggest that, for these memories to persist beyond 4-6 h, a release of dopamine generated by strong hippocampal activation is needed. This predicts that dopaminergic enhancement should improve human episodic memory persistence also for events encoded with weak hippocampal activation. Here, using pharmacological functional MRI (fMRI) in an elderly population in which there is a loss of dopamine neurons as part of normal aging, we show this very effect. The dopamine precursor levodopa led to a dose-dependent (inverted U-shape) persistent episodic memory benefit for images of scenes when tested after 6 h, independent of whether encoding-related hippocampal fMRI activity was weak or strong (U-shaped dose-response relationship). This lasting improvement even for weakly encoded events supports a role for dopamine in human episodic memory consolidation, albeit operating within a narrow dose range.
This study addresses the neuronal representation of aversive sounds that are perceived as unpleasant. Functional magnetic resonance imaging in humans demonstrated responses in the amygdala and auditory cortex to aversive sounds. We show that the amygdala encodes both the acoustic features of a stimulus and its valence (perceived unpleasantness). Dynamic causal modeling of this system revealed that evoked responses to sounds are relayed to the amygdala via auditory cortex. While acoustic features modulate effective connectivity from auditory cortex to the amygdala, the valence modulates the effective connectivity from amygdala to the auditory cortex. These results support a complex (recurrent) interaction between the auditory cortex and amygdala based on object-level analysis in the auditory cortex that portends the assignment of emotional valence in amygdala that in turn influences the representation of salient information in auditory cortex.
Older adults frequently report they can hear what is said but cannot understand the meaning, especially in noise. This difficulty may arise from the inability to process rapidly changing elements of speech. Aging is accompanied by a general slowing of neural processing and decreased neural inhibition, both of which likely interfere with temporal processing in auditory and other sensory domains. Age-related reductions in inhibitory neurotransmitter levels and delayed neural recovery can contribute to decreases in the temporal precision of the auditory system. Decreased precision may lead to neural timing delays, reductions in neural response magnitude, and a disadvantage in processing the rapid acoustic changes in speech. The auditory brainstem response (ABR), a scalp-recorded electrical potential, is known for its ability to capture precise neural synchrony within subcortical auditory nuclei; therefore, we hypothesized that a loss of temporal precision results in subcortical timing delays and decreases in response consistency and magnitude. To assess this hypothesis, we recorded ABRs to the speech syllable /da/ in normal hearing younger (18-30 years old) and older (60-67 years old) adult humans. Older adults had delayed ABRs, especially in response to the rapidly changing formant transition, and greater response variability. We also found that older adults had decreased phase locking and smaller response magnitudes than younger adults. Together, our results support the theory that older adults have a loss of temporal precision in the subcortical encoding of sound, which may account, at least in part, for their difficulties with speech perception.
Theoretical advances in language research and the availability of increasingly high-resolution experimental techniques in the cognitive neurosciences are profoundly changing how we investigate and conceive of the neural basis of speech and language processing. Recent work closely aligns language research with issues at the core of systems neuroscience, ranging from neurophysiological and neuroanatomic characterizations to questions about neural coding. Here we highlight, across different aspects of language processing (perception, production, sign language, meaning construction), new insights and approaches to the neurobiology of language, aiming to describe promising new areas of investigation in which the neurosciences intersect with linguistic research more closely than before. This paper summarizes in brief some of the issues that constitute the background for talks presented in a symposium at the Annual Meeting of the Society for Neuroscience. It is not a comprehensive review of any of the issues that are discussed in the symposium.
Safety signals are learned cues that predict the nonoccurrence of an aversive event. As such, safety signals are potent inhibitors of fear and stress responses. Investigations of safety signal learning have increased over the last few years due in part to the finding that traumatized persons are unable to use safety cues to inhibit fear, making it a clinically relevant phenotype. The goal of this review is to present recent advances relating to the neural and behavioral mechanisms of safety learning, and expression in rodents, nonhuman primates, and humans.
The prevalence of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is as high as 1 in 100 individuals and is a heavy burden to society. Thus, identifying causes and treatments is imperative. Here, we briefly review the topics covered in our 2012 Society for Neuroscience Mini-Symposium entitled &quot;Integrative Approaches Using Oxytocin to Enhance Prosocial Behavior: From Animal and Human Social Behavior to ASD's Social Dysfunction.&quot; This work is not meant to be a comprehensive review of oxytocin and prosocial behavior. Instead, we wish to share the newest findings on the effects of oxytocin on social behavior, the brain, and the social dysfunction of ASD at the molecular, genetic, systemic, and behavior levels, in varied subjects ranging from animal models to humans suffering from autism for the purpose of promoting further study for developing the clinical use of oxytocin in treating ASD.
The olfactory system encodes information about molecules by spatiotemporal patterns of activity across distributed populations of neurons and extracts information from these patterns to control specific behaviors. Recent studies used in vivo recordings, optogenetics, and other methods to analyze the mechanisms by which odor information is encoded and processed in the olfactory system, the functional connectivity within and between olfactory brain areas, and the impact of spatiotemporal patterning of neuronal activity on higher-order neurons and behavioral outputs. The results give rise to a faceted picture of olfactory processing and provide insights into fundamental mechanisms underlying neuronal computations. This review focuses on some of this work presented in a Mini-Symposium at the Annual Meeting of the Society for Neuroscience in 2012.
A new mesopontine structure exerting a strong influence on dopamine systems has recently been defined: the tail of the ventral tegmental area/rostromedial tegmental nucleus (tVTA/RMTg). This review presents a neuroanatomical, physiological, and behavioral overview of some of the recent and ongoing research on this brain region and its relationship with dopamine systems. The tVTA/RMTg sends dense GABA projections to VTA and substantia nigra neurons. The inhibitory influence of tVTA/RMTg on dopamine neurons is supported by both neuroanatomical and electrophysiology data. The latter studies also reveal the tVTA/RMTg as a substrate for morphine and cannabinoid action on dopamine cells. In primates, the tVTA/RMTg has been implicated in reward prediction error signals, through a basal ganglia-lateral habenula-tVTA/RMTg-dopamine-basal ganglia circuit. In rodents, the tVTA/RMTg has been shown to play a critical role in aversive behaviors, particularly those involving behavioral inhibition, such as freezing and avoidance. These findings highlight the functional importance of the tVTA/RMTg as a major GABA brake for dopamine systems.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is the most common monogenic disorder in which individuals manifest CNS abnormalities. Affected individuals develop glial neoplasms (optic gliomas, malignant astrocytomas) and neuronal dysfunction (learning disabilities, attention deficits). Nf1 genetically engineered mouse models have revealed the molecular and cellular underpinnings of gliomagenesis, attention deficit, and learning problems with relevance to basic neurobiology. Using NF1 as a model system, these studies have revealed critical roles for the NF1 gene in non-neoplastic cells in the tumor microenvironment, the importance of brain region heterogeneity, novel mechanisms of glial growth regulation, the neurochemical bases for attention deficit and learning abnormalities, and new insights into neural stem cell function. Here we review recent studies, presented at a symposium at the 2012 Society for Neuroscience annual meeting, that highlight unexpected cell biology insights into RAS and cAMP pathway effects on neural progenitor signaling, neuronal function, and oligodendrocyte lineage differentiation.
Brain development in neurodevelopmental disorders has been considered to comprise a sequence of critical periods, and abnormalities occurring during early development have been considered irreversible in adulthood. However, findings in mouse models of neurodevelopmental disorders, including fragile X, Rett syndrome, Down syndrome, and neurofibromatosis type I suggest that it is possible to reverse certain molecular, electrophysiological, and behavioral deficits associated with these disorders in adults by genetic or pharmacological manipulations. Furthermore, recent studies have suggested that critical period-like plasticity can be reactivated in the adult brain by environmental manipulations or by pharmacotherapy. These studies open up a tantalizing possibility that targeted pharmacological treatments in combination with regimes of training or rehabilitation might alleviate or reverse the symptoms of neurodevelopmental disorders even after the end of critical developmental periods. Even though translation from animal experimentation to clinical practice is challenging, these results suggest a rational basis for treatment of neurodevelopmental disorders in adulthood.
The Hodgkin-Huxley studies of the action potential, published 60 years ago, are a central pillar of modern neuroscience research, ranging from molecular investigations of the structural basis of ion channel function to the computational implications at circuit level. In this Symposium Review, we aim to demonstrate the ongoing impact of Hodgkin's and Huxley's ideas. The Hodgkin-Huxley model established a framework in which to describe the structural and functional properties of ion channels, including the mechanisms of ion permeation, selectivity, and gating. At a cellular level, the model is used to understand the conditions that control both the rate and timing of action potentials, essential for neural encoding of information. Finally, the Hodgkin-Huxley formalism is central to computational neuroscience to understand both neuronal integration and circuit level information processing, and how these mechanisms might have evolved to minimize energy cost.

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) results in a multitude of deficits following injury. Some of the most pervasive in humans are the changes that affect frontally-mediated cognitive functioning, such as decision making. The assessment of decision-making behavior in rodents has been extensively tested in the field of the experimental analysis of behavior. However, due to the narrow therapeutic window following TBI, time-intensive operant paradigms are rarely incorporated into the battery of tests traditionally used, the majority of which assess motor and sensory functioning. The cognitive measures that are used are frequently limited to memory and do not account for changes in decision-making behavior. The purpose of the present study was to develop a simplified discrimination task that can assess deficits in decision-making behavior in rodents. For the task, rats were required to dig in cocoa-scented sand (versus unscented sand) for a reinforcer. Rats were given 12 sessions per day until a criterion level of 80% accuracy for 3 days straight was reached. Once the criterion was achieved, cortical contusion injuries were induced (frontal, parietal, or sham). Following a recovery period, the rats were re-tested on cocoa versus unscented sand. Upon reaching criterion, a reversal discrimination was evaluated in which the reinforcer was placed in unscented sand. Finally, a novel scent discrimination (basil versus coffee with basil reinforced), and a reversal (coffee) were evaluated. The results indicated that the Dig task is a simple experimental preparation that can be used to assess deficits in decision-making behavior following TBI.

Venous thromboembolism (VTE) refers to pulmonary embolism and deep venous thrombosis. Anticoagulation is the cornerstone of management for patients with VTE. This review will discuss current anticoagulation guidelines.
Physiological and nutritional state can modify sensory ability and perception through hormone signaling. Obesity and related metabolic disorders present a chronic imbalance in hormonal signaling that could impact sensory systems. In the olfactory system, external chemical cues are transduced into electrical signals to encode information. It is becoming evident that this system can also detect internal chemical cues in the form of molecules of energy homeostasis and endocrine hormones, whereby neurons of the olfactory system are modulated to change animal behavior towards olfactory cues. We hypothesized that chronic imbalance in hormonal signaling and energy homeostasis due to obesity would thereby disrupt olfactory behaviors in mice. To test this idea, we utilized three mouse models of varying body weight, metabolic hormones, and visceral adiposity - 1) C57BL6/J mice maintained on a condensed-milk based, moderately high-fat diet (MHF) of 32% fat for 6 months as the diet-induced obesity model, 2) an obesity-resistant, lean line of mice due to a gene-targeted deletion of a voltage-dependent potassium channel (Kv 1.3-null), and 3) a genetic model of obesity as a result of a gene-targeted deletion of the melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R-null). Diet-induced obese (DIO) mice failed to find a fatty-scented hidden peanut butter cracker, based solely on olfactory cues, any faster than an unscented hidden marble, initially suggesting general anosmia. However, when these DIO mice were challenged to find a sweet-scented hidden chocolate candy, they had no difficulty. Furthermore, DIO mice were able to discriminate between fatty acids that differ by a single double bond and are components of the MHF diet (linoleic and oleic acid) in a habituation-dishabituation paradigm. Obesity-resistant, Kv1.3-null mice exhibited no change in scented object retrieval when placed on the MHF-diet, nor did they perform differently than wild-type mice in parallel habituation-dishabituation paradigms of fatty food-related odor components. Genetically obese, MC4R-null mice successfully found hidden scented objects, but did so more slowly than lean, wild-type mice, in an object-dependent fashion. In habituation-dishabituation trials of general odorants, MC4R-null mice failed to discriminate a novel odor, but were able to distinguish two fatty acids. Object memory recognition tests for short- and long-term memory retention demonstrated that maintenance on the MHF diet did not modify the ability to perform these tasks independent of whether mice became obese or were resistant to weight gain (Kv1.3-null), however, the genetically predisposed obese mice (MC4R-null) failed the long-term object memory recognition performed at 24h. These results demonstrate that even though both the DIO mice and genetically predisposed obese mice are obese, they vary in the degree to which they exhibit behavioral deficits in odor detection, odor discrimination, and long-term memory.
Mammalian offspring sex ratios can be biased via prenatal and postnatal mechanisms, including sperm selection, sex-specific embryo loss, and differential postnatal investment in males and females. Syrian hamsters routinely cannibalize some of their pups in the first days after birth. We present evidence that short day lengths, typically predictive of poor autumn and winter field conditions, are associated with male-biased sex ratios, achieved in part through selective perinatal maternal infanticide of female offspring. Higher peak litter sizes were associated with increased cannibalism rates, decreased final litter counts, and increased body mass of pups surviving to weaning. To our knowledge this is the first report of sex ratio adjustment by offspring cannibalism.
Subanesthetic administration of the NMDA receptor antagonist ketamine has been suggested to have utility in several therapeutic domains; however, its recreational use has exceeded its therapeutic applications. Ketamine has been utilized to investigate NMDA receptor-mediated learning and memory and to model disorders such as schizophrenia. The utility of ketamine in relation to schizophrenia is based on a proposed mechanism of the disorder being associated with reduced NMDA receptor function within a subset of GABAergic neurons. The examination of ketamine with relevance to the above topics has produced valuable data; however, there exists a great deal of variability in the literature regarding dosage and timing of administration to examine ketamine-induced deficits. In the below experiments we sought to identify the minimal subanesthetic dosage and schedule of ketamine administrations that would produce behavioral deficits in multiple tasks with relevance to the above investigations. We evaluated sensorimotor gating as well as spatial learning and memory in the Morris water task utilizing different doses of ketamine. Our data indicate that an 8 mg/kg subcutaneous dose of ketamine was the minimal dose to produce impairments in both sensorimotor gating and spatial learning.
Friedreich's ataxia (FA) is a multisystemic disorder characterized by progressive gait, ataxia, and cardiomyopathy. There are few treatments for this disease; thus, we analyzed in vitro the possible beneficial effect of adult stem cells in FA. To this end, human adipose stem cells from healthy individuals and periodontal ligament cells from FA patients were isolated and cultured. FA cells are especially vulnerable to oxidative stress; thus, they were submitted to this condition and cultured in adipose stem cell-conditioned medium. This resulted in increased cell survival and upregulation of oxidative-stress-related genes as well as frataxin, among other genes. A number of trophic factors were shown to be expressed by the adipose stem cells, especially brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), which was also identified in the conditioned medium. The culture of the ataxic cells under oxidative stress and in the presence of this trophic factor confirmed its protective effect. Thus, this work demonstrates that adipose stem cell-conditioned medium from healthy individuals is capable of changing the transcription levels of oxidative-stress-related genes in cells that are particularly susceptible to this condition, avoiding cellular degeneration. Also, this work shows how neurotrophic factors, particularly BDNF, are capable of increasing cell survival in response to oxidative stress, which occurs in many neurodegenerative diseases.
The human polyomavirus JC (JCV) is the causative agent of the CNS demyelinating disease progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). Infection by JCV is extremely common and after primary infection, JCV persists in a latent state. However, PML is a very rare disease suggesting that the virus is tightly regulated. Previously, we showed that NF-B and C/EBP regulate the JCV early and late promoters via a DNA control element, KB, which also mediates the stimulatory effects of proinflammatory cytokines such as TNF- on JCV gene expression. Other studies have implicated NFAT4 in JCV regulation. We now report that NFAT4 and NF-B interact at the KB element to co-operatively activate both JCV early and late transcription and viral DNA replication. This interplay is inhibited by C/EBP and by agents that block the calcineurin/NFAT signaling pathway. The importance of these events in the regulation of JCV latency and reactivation is discussed.
The time of reward and the temporal structure of reward occurrence fundamentally influence behavioral reinforcement and decision processes [1-11]. However, despite knowledge about timing in sensory and motor systems [12-17], we know little about temporal mechanisms of neuronal reward processing. In this experiment, visual stimuli predicted different instantaneous probabilities of reward occurrence that resulted in specific temporal reward structures. Licking behavior demonstrated that the animals had developed expectations for the time of reward that reflected the instantaneous reward probabilities. Neurons in the amygdala, a major component of the brain's reward system [18-29], showed two types of reward signal, both of which were sensitive to the expected time of reward. First, the time courses of anticipatory activity preceding reward delivery followed the specific instantaneous reward probabilities and thus paralleled the temporal reward structures. Second, the magnitudes of responses following reward delivery covaried with the instantaneous reward probabilities, reflecting the influence of temporal reward structures at the moment of reward delivery. In being sensitive to temporal reward structure, the reward signals of amygdala neurons reflected the temporally specific expectations of reward. The data demonstrate an active involvement of amygdala neurons in timing processes that are crucial for reward function.
In spite of its massively parallel architecture [1], the human brain is fundamentally limited if required to perform two tasks at the same time [2, 3]. This limitation can be studied with the psychological refractory period (PRP) paradigm, where two stimuli that require speeded responses occur in close succession [4]. Interference generally takes the form of a delay in the time to respond to the second stimulus [5]. Previous studies suggested that sensory decisions require the accumulation of sensory evidence [6, 7] and that the PRP reflects the inability to form more than one decision at a time [4, 8]. In the present study, we used a psychophysical reverse-correlation technique [9, 10] to measure the time-course of evidence accumulation during the PRP. We found that the accumulation of evidence could occur during the PRP albeit with a reduced efficiency, which implies that multiple decision processes can occur in parallel in the human brain. In addition to the reduced efficiency of evidence accumulation, our results uncover an additional delay in the routing of the decision to motor structures during the PRP, which implies that the process of sensory decision making is separable from the preparation of a motor response [11-13].
Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) is a blood-derived product, used for the treatment of immunodeficiency and autoimmune diseases. Since a range of immunotherapies have recently been proposed as a therapeutic strategy for Parkinson's disease (PD), we investigated the effects of an IVIg treatment in a neurotoxin-induced animal model of PD. Mice received four injections of MPTP (15 mg/kg) at 2-hour intervals followed by a 14-day IVIg treatment, which induced key immune-related changes such as increased regulatory T-cell population and decreased CD4(+)/CD8(+) ratio. The MPTP treatment induced significant 80% and 84% decreases of striatal dopamine concentrations (P&lt;0.01), as well as 33% and 40% reductions in the number of nigral dopaminergic neurons (P&lt;0.001) in controls and IVIg-treated mice, respectively. Two-way analyses of variance further revealed lower striatal tyrosine hydroxylase protein levels, striatal homovanillic acid concentrations and nigral dopaminergic neurons (P&lt;0.05) in IVIg-treated animals. Collectively, our results fail to support a neurorestorative effect of IVIg on the nigrostriatal system in the MPTP-treated mice and even suggest a trend toward a detrimental effect of IVIg on the dopaminergic system. These preclinical data underscore the need to proceed with caution before initiating clinical trials of IVIg in PD patients.
Practice in most sensory tasks substantially improves perceptual performance. A hallmark of this 'perceptual learning' is its specificity for the basic attributes of the trained stimulus and task. Recent studies have challenged the specificity of learned improvements, although transfer between substantially different tasks has yet to be demonstrated. Here, we measure the degree of transfer between three distinct perceptual tasks. Participants trained on an orientation discrimination, a curvature discrimination, or a 'global form' task, all using stimuli comprised of multiple oriented elements. Before and after training they were tested on all three and a contrast discrimination control task. A clear transfer of learning was observed, in a pattern predicted by the relative complexity of the stimuli in the training and test tasks. Our results suggest that sensory improvements derived from perceptual learning can transfer between very different visual tasks.
Task preparation is a complex cognitive process that implements anticipatory adjustments to facilitate future task performance. Little is known about quantitative network parameters governing this process in humans. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and functional connectivity measurements, we show that the large-scale topology of the brain network involved in task preparation shows a pattern of dynamic reconfigurations that guides optimal behavior. This network could be decomposed into two distinct topological structures, an error-resilient core acting as a major hub that integrates most of the network's communication and a predominantly sensory periphery showing more flexible network adaptations. During task preparation, core-periphery interactions were dynamically adjusted. Task-relevant visual areas showed a higher topological proximity to the network core and an enhancement in their local centrality and interconnectivity. Failure to reconfigure the network topology was predictive for errors, indicating that anticipatory network reconfigurations are crucial for successful task performance. On the basis of a unique network decoding approach, we also develop a general framework for the identification of characteristic patterns in complex networks, which is applicable to other fields in neuroscience that relate dynamic network properties to behavior.

Children with dyslexia often exhibit increased variability in sensory and cognitive aspects of hearing relative to typically developing peers. Assistive listening devices (classroom FM systems) may reduce auditory processing variability by enhancing acoustic clarity and attention. We assessed the impact of classroom FM system use for 1 year on auditory neurophysiology and reading skills in children with dyslexia. FM system use reduced the variability of subcortical responses to sound, and this improvement was linked to concomitant increases in reading and phonological awareness. Moreover, response consistency before FM system use predicted gains in phonological awareness. A matched control group of children with dyslexia attending the same schools who did not use the FM system did not show these effects. Assistive listening devices can improve the neural representation of speech and impact reading-related skills by enhancing acoustic clarity and attention, reducing variability in auditory processing.

Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) is a bioactive lipid acting on the nervous system through at least 6 different G protein-coupled receptors. In this study, we examined mice lacking the LPA(5) receptor using an extensive battery of behavioral tests. LPA(5) -deficient mice showed decreased pain sensitivity in tail withdrawal, faster recovery in one inflammatory pain procedure (complete Freund's adjuvant-induced inflammation) and attenuated responses under specific neuropathic pain conditions. Notably, deletion of LPA(5) also induced nocturnal hyperactivity and reduced anxiety in the mutant mice. Several exploratory tasks revealed signs of reduced anxiety in LPA(5) knockout mice including increased visits to the arena center and reduced thigmotaxis in the open field, and more open arm entries in the elevated plus maze. Finally, LPA(5) knockout mice also displayed marked reduction in social exploration, although several other tests indicated that these mice were able to respond normally to environmental stimuli. While learning and memory performance was not impaired in LPA(5) -deficient mice, we found differences, e.g., targeted swim strategy and reversal learning, as well as scheduled appetitive conditioning that might indicate differential motivational behavior. These results imply that LPA(5) might be involved in both nociception and mechanisms of pain hypersensitivity, as well as in anxiety-related and motivational behaviors. These observations further support the proposed involvement of LPA signaling in psychopathology.


The Stroop effect is one of the most popular models of conflict processing in neuroscience and psychology. The response conflict theory of the Stroop effect explains decreased performance in the incongruent condition of Stroop tasks by assuming that the task-relevant and the task-irrelevant stimulus features elicit conflicting response tendencies. However, to date, there is not much explicit neural evidence supporting this theory. Here we used functional near-infrared imaging (fNIRS) to examine whether conflict at the level of the motor cortex can be detected in the incongruent relative to the congruent condition of a Stroop task. Response conflict was determined by comparing the activity of the hemisphere ipsilateral to the response hand in the congruent and incongruent conditions. First, results provided explicit hemodynamic evidence supporting the response conflict theory of the Stroop effect: there was greater motor cortex activation in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the response hand in the incongruent than in the congruent condition during the initial stage of the hemodynamic response. Second, as fNIRS is still a relatively novel technology, it is methodologically significant that our data shows that fNIRS is able to detect a brief and transient increase in hemodynamic activity localized to the motor cortex, which in this study is related to subthreshold motor response activation.
In this work the pharmacology and the receptor kinetics of the following orexin receptor antagonists SB-649868, ACT-078573, JNJ-10397049, MK-6096 and Roche-Cp were evaluated at human OX(1) and OX(2) orexin receptors by using functional and receptor binding assays. Kinetic analysis of the unlabeled ligands was carried out by indirect measurement according to the Motulski and Mahan's method as opposed to the direct measure by using labeled test compounds. All compounds antagonized orexin-A-induced inositol 1 phosphate (IP1) accumulation with the following pK(B) values: SB-649868 (OX(1)=9.67; OX(2)=9.64), ACT-078573 (OX(1)=8.44; OX(2)=9.02), JNJ-10397049 (OX(1)=5.97; OX(2)=8.35), MK-6096 (OX(1)=9.13; OX(2)=9.79) and Roche-Cp (OX(1)=7.18; OX(2)=8.83). They displaced the [(3)H]ACT-078573 receptor binding with the following pK(i) values: SB-649868 (OX(1)=9.27; OX(2)=8.91), ACT-078573 (OX(1)=7.80; OX(2)=9.12), JNJ-10397049 (OX(1)=5.18; OX(2)=8.10), MK-6096 (OX(1)=8.39; OX(2)=8.90) and Roche-Cp (OX(1)=6.65; OX(2)=8.54). From dissociation kinetic studies using [(3)H]ACT-078573, the calculated long half-life, (t()) supported the non-surmountability profile of SB-649868 (t()=35.91min) at OX(1) orexin receptor. Similarly, the long or moderately long t() values for ACT-078573 at OX(2) orexin receptor (t()=69.71min), MK-6096 (t()=17.70min), SB-649868 (t()=8.09min) and Roche-Cp (t()=5.79min) sustained their non-surmountable profile. JNJ-10397049 showed short t() values at both receptor subtypes (OX(1)t()=0.19min; OX(2)t()=0.60min) with surmountable antagonism.
Aberrant Notch signaling has recently emerged as a possible mechanism for the altered neurogenesis, cognitive impairment, and learning and memory deficits associated with Alzheimer disease (AD). Recently, targeting the endocannabinoid system in models of AD has emerged as a potential approach to slow the progression of the disease process. Although studies have identified neuroprotective roles for endocannabinoids, there is a paucity of information on modulation of the pro-survival Notch pathway by endocannabinoids. In this study the influence of the endocannabinoids, anandamide (AEA) and 2-arachidonoylglycerol, on the Notch-1 pathway and on its endogenous regulators were investigated in an in vitro model of AD. We report that AEA up-regulates Notch-1 signaling in cultured neurons. We also provide evidence that although A(1-42) increases expression of the endogenous inhibitor of Notch-1, numb (Nb), this can be prevented by AEA and 2-arachidonoylglycerol. Interestingly, AEA up-regulated Nct expression, a component of -secretase, and this was found to play a crucial role in the enhanced Notch-1 signaling mediated by AEA. The stimulatory effects of AEA on Notch-1 signaling persisted in the presence of A(1-42). AEA was found to induce a preferential processing of Notch-1 over amyloid precursor protein to generate A(1-40). Aging, a natural process of neurodegeneration, was associated with a reduction in Notch-1 signaling in rat cortex and hippocampus, and this was restored with chronic treatment with URB 597. In summary, AEA has the proclivity to enhance Notch-1 signaling in an in vitro model of AD, which may have relevance for restoring neurogenesis and cognition in AD.

The aim of the study was to review the epidemiology, clinical profile and discuss the etiology, prognosis and treatment options in patients aged 60 years or older presenting with status epilepticus. We performed a systematic review involving studies published from 1996 to 2010, in Medline/PubMed, Scientific Electronic Library on line (Scielo), Latin-American and Caribbean Center of Health Sciences Information (Lilacs) databases and textbooks. Related articles published before 1996, when relevant for discussing epilepsy in older people, were also included. Several population studies had shown an increased incidence of status epilepticus after the age of 60 years. Status epilepticus is a medical and neurological emergency that is associated with high morbidity and mortality, and is a major concern in the elderly compared to the general population. Prompt diagnosis and effective treatment of convulsive status epilepticus are crucial to avoid brain injury and reduce the fatality rate in this age group.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a key positive regulator of neural plasticity, promoting, for example, the actions of stimulant drugs of abuse such as cocaine. We discovered a surprising opposite role for BDNF in countering responses to chronic morphine exposure. The suppression of BDNF in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) enhanced the ability of morphine to increase dopamine (DA) neuron excitability and promote reward. In contrast, optical stimulation of VTA DA terminals in nucleus accumbens (NAc) completely reversed the suppressive effect of BDNF on morphine reward. Furthermore, we identified numerous genes in the NAc, a major target region of VTA DA neurons, whose regulation by BDNF in the context of chronic morphine exposure mediated this counteractive function. These findings provide insight into the molecular basis of morphine-induced neuroadaptations in the brain's reward circuitry.
Modeling work in neuroscience can be classified using two different criteria. The first one is the complexity of the model, ranging from simplified conceptual models that are amenable to mathematical analysis to detailed models that require simulations in order to understand their properties. The second criterion is that of direction of workflow, which can be from microscopic to macroscopic scales (bottom-up) or from behavioral target functions to properties of components (top-down). We review the interaction of theory and simulation using examples of top-down and bottom-up studies and point to some current developments in the fields of computational and theoretical neuroscience.



Neural processing faces three rather different, and perniciously tied, communication problems. First, computation is radically distributed, yet point-to-point interconnections are limited. Second, the bulk of these connections are semantically uniform, lacking differentiation at their targets that could tag particular sorts of information. Third, the brain's structure is relatively fixed, and yet different sorts of input, forms of processing, and rules for determining the output are appropriate under different, and possibly rapidly changing, conditions. Neuromodulators address these problems by their multifarious and broad distribution, by enjoying specialized receptor types in partially specific anatomical arrangements, and by their ability to mold the activity and sensitivity of neurons and the strength and plasticity of their synapses. Here, I offer a computationally focused review of algorithmic and implementational motifs associated with neuromodulators, using decision making in the face of uncertainty as a running example.
Serotonin (5-HT) shapes brain networks during development and modulates a wide spectrum of essential neuronal functions ranging from perception and cognitive appraisal to emotional responses in the mature brain. Deficits in 5-HT-moderated synaptic signaling fundamentally impact the pathophysiology and long-term outcome of neurodevelopmental disorders. Our understanding of how 5-HT-dependent modulation of circuit configuration influences social cognition and emotional learning has been enhanced by recent insight into the molecular and cellular mechanisms of synapse formation and plasticity. In this review, we discuss emerging concepts as to how defects in synaptic plasticity impact our biosocial brain and how recent findings regarding 5-HT's role in brain development and function provide insight into the cellular and physiological basis of neurodevelopmental disorders.
In this review, we propose a broader view of the role of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family in modulating brain function. We suggest that some of the FGF ligands together with the FGF receptors are altered in individuals with affective disorder and modulate emotionality in animal models. Thus, we propose that members of the FGF family may be genetic predisposing factors for anxiety, depression, or substance abuse; that they play a key organizing role during early development but continue to play a central role in neuroplasticity in adulthood; and that they work not only over extended time frames, but also via rapid signaling mechanisms, allowing them to exert an &quot;on-line&quot; influence on behavior. Therefore, the FGF family appears to be a prototype of &quot;switch genes&quot; that are endowed with organizational and modulatory properties across the lifespan, and that may represent molecular candidates as biomarkers and treatment targets for affective and addictive disorders.
Oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (VP) are two closely related neuropeptides, widely known for their peripheral hormonal effects. Specific receptors have also been found in the brain, where their neuromodulatory actions have meanwhile been described in a large number of regions. Recently, it has become possible to study their endogenous neuropeptide release with the help of OT/VP promoter-driven expression of fluorescent proteins and light-activated ion channels. In this review, I summarize the neuromodulatory effects of OT and VP in different brain regions by grouping these into different behavioral systems, highlighting their concerted, and at times opposite, effects on different aspects of behavior.
Endocannabinoids are key modulators of synaptic function. By activating cannabinoid receptors expressed in the central nervous system, these lipid messengers can regulate several neural functions and behaviors. As experimental tools advance, the repertoire of known endocannabinoid-mediated effects at the synapse, and their underlying mechanism, continues to expand. Retrograde signaling is the principal mode by which endocannabinoids mediate short- and long-term forms of plasticity at both excitatory and inhibitory synapses. However, growing evidence suggests that endocannabinoids can also signal in a nonretrograde manner. In addition to mediating synaptic plasticity, the endocannabinoid system is itself subject to plastic changes. Multiple points of interaction with other neuromodulatory and signaling systems have now been identified. In this Review, we focus on new advances in synaptic endocannabinoid signaling in the mammalian brain. The emerging picture not only reinforces endocannabinoids as potent regulators of synaptic function but also reveals that endocannabinoid signaling is mechanistically more complex and diverse than originally thought.

The unfolded protein response (UPR) is a signaling pathway required to maintain endoplasmic reticulum (ER) homeostasis and hepatic lipid metabolism. Here, we identify an essential role for the inositol-requiring transmembrane kinase/endoribonuclease 1 (IRE1)-X box binding protein 1 (XBP1) arm of the UPR in regulation of hepatic very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) assembly and secretion. Hepatocyte-specific deletion of Ire1 reduces lipid partitioning into the ER lumen and impairs the assembly of triglyceride (TG)-rich VLDL but does not affect TG synthesis, de novo lipogenesis, or the synthesis or secretion of apolipoprotein B (apoB). The defect in VLDL assembly is, at least in part, due to decreased microsomal triglyceride-transfer protein (MTP) activity resulting from reduced protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) expression. Collectively, our findings reveal a key role for the IRE1-XBP1s-PDI axis in linking ER homeostasis with regulation of VLDL production and hepatic lipid homeostasis that may provide a therapeutic target for disorders of lipid metabolism.
The conditions of everyday life are such that people often hear speech that has been degraded (e.g., by background noise or electronic transmission) or when they are distracted by other tasks. However, it remains unclear what role attention plays in processing speech that is difficult to understand. In the current study, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to assess the degree to which spoken sentences were processed under distraction, and whether this depended on the acoustic quality (intelligibility) of the speech. On every trial, adult human participants attended to one of three simultaneously presented stimuli: a sentence (at one of four acoustic clarity levels), an auditory distracter, or a visual distracter. A postscan recognition test showed that clear speech was processed even when not attended, but that attention greatly enhanced the processing of degraded speech. Furthermore, speech-sensitive cortex could be parcellated according to how speech-evoked responses were modulated by attention. Responses in auditory cortex and areas along the superior temporal sulcus (STS) took the same form regardless of attention, although responses to distorted speech in portions of both posterior and anterior STS were enhanced under directed attention. In contrast, frontal regions, including left inferior frontal gyrus, were only engaged when listeners were attending to speech and these regions exhibited elevated responses to degraded, compared with clear, speech. We suggest this response is a neural marker of effortful listening. Together, our results suggest that attention enhances the processing of degraded speech by engaging higher-order mechanisms that modulate perceptual auditory processing.
Sleep spindles are synchronized 11-15 Hz electroencephalographic (EEG) oscillations predominant during nonrapid-eye-movement sleep (NREMS). Rhythmic bursting in the reticular thalamic nucleus (nRt), arising from interplay between Ca(v)3.3-type Ca(2+) channels and Ca(2+)-dependent small-conductance-type 2 (SK2) K(+) channels, underlies spindle generation. Correlative evidence indicates that spindles contribute to memory consolidation and protection against environmental noise in human NREMS. Here, we describe a molecular mechanism through which spindle power is selectively extended and we probed the actions of intensified spindling in the naturally sleeping mouse. Using electrophysiological recordings in acute brain slices from SK2 channel-overexpressing (SK2-OE) mice, we found that nRt bursting was potentiated and thalamic circuit oscillations were prolonged. Moreover, nRt cells showed greater resilience to transit from burst to tonic discharge in response to gradual depolarization, mimicking transitions out of NREMS. Compared with wild-type littermates, chronic EEG recordings of SK2-OE mice contained less fragmented NREMS, while the NREMS EEG power spectrum was conserved. Furthermore, EEG spindle activity was prolonged at NREMS exit. Finally, when exposed to white noise, SK2-OE mice needed stronger stimuli to arouse. Increased nRt bursting thus strengthens spindles and improves sleep quality through mechanisms independent of EEG slow waves (&lt;4 Hz), suggesting SK2 signaling as a new potential therapeutic target for sleep disorders and for neuropsychiatric diseases accompanied by weakened sleep spindles.
The Neuregulin 1 (NRG1)/ErbB4 signaling pathway has been genetically and functionally implicated in the etiology underlying schizophrenia, and in the regulation of glutamatergic pyramidal neuron function and plasticity. However, ErbB4 receptors are expressed in subpopulations of GABAergic interneurons, but not in hippocampal or cortical pyramidal neurons, indicating that NRG1 effects on principal neurons are indirect. Consistent with these findings, NRG1 effects on hippocampal long-term potentiation at CA1 pyramidal neuron synapses in slices are mediated indirectly by dopamine. Here we studied whether NRG/ErbB signaling directly regulates interneuron intrinsic excitability by pharmacologically isolating ErbB4-expressing neurons in rat dissociated hippocampal cultures, which lack dopaminergic innervation. We found that NRG1 acutely attenuates ErbB4-expressing interneuron excitability by depolarizing the firing threshold; neurons treated with the pan-ErbB inhibitor PD158780 or negative for ErbB4 were unaffected. These effects of NRG1 are primarily attributable to decreased voltage-gated sodium channel activity, as current density was attenuated by 60%. In stark contrast, NRG1 had minor effects on whole-cell potassium currents. Our data reveal the direct actions of NRG1 signaling in ErbB4-expressing interneurons, and offer novel insight into how NRG1/ErbB4 signaling can impact hippocampal activity.
Neurophysiological studies in nonhuman species indicated that neurons in the superior colliculus (SC) are involved in the control of upper limb movements. These findings suggested that the SC represents a crucial hub in a general sensorimotor network, including skeletomotor as much as oculomotor functions. In contrast to the SC in the various animal models, the human SC is largely unknown territory. In particular, it is unknown whether findings of reach-related activity in the nonhuman SC can be extrapolated to humans. Using fMRI we found signal increases at superficial/intermediate and deep locations at the SC during the execution of arm movements. In contrast, signals related to saccade execution were confined to the superficial and intermediate locations. Although targets for reaching were presented in the left and right hemifields under central fixation, we found a lateralization of reach-related signals with respect to the active arm. In contrast, saccade-related activity was bilateral, in agreement with the bilateral target presentation and the resulting directions of saccades. Our results suggest that the human SC not only contributes to the coordination of eye movements and spatial shifts of attentions but also to the sensorimotor control of arm movements.
Oscillatory neural activity within the gamma band (25-90 Hz) is generally thought to be able to provide a timing signal for harmonizing neural computations across different brain regions. Using time-frequency analyses of the dynamics of gamma-band activity in the local field potentials recorded from monkey primary visual cortex, we found identical temporal characteristics of gamma activity in both awake and anesthetized brain states, including large variability of peak frequency, brief oscillatory epochs (&lt;100 ms on average), and stochastic statistics of the incidence and duration of oscillatory events. These findings indicate that gamma-band activity is temporally unstructured and is inherently a stochastic signal generated by neural networks. This idea was corroborated further by our neural-network simulations. Our results suggest that gamma-band activity is too random to serve as a clock signal for synchronizing neuronal responses in awake as in anesthetized monkeys. Instead, gamma-band activity is more likely to be filtered neuronal network noise. Its mean frequency changes with global state and is reduced under anesthesia.
Excitatory-inhibitory imbalance has been identified within specific brain microcircuits in models of Rett syndrome (RTT) and other autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). However, macrocircuit dysfunction across the RTT brain as a whole has not been defined. To approach this issue, we mapped expression of the activity-dependent, immediate-early gene product Fos in the brains of wild-type (Wt) and methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (Mecp2)-null (Null) mice, a model of RTT, before and after the appearance of overt symptoms (3 and 6 weeks of age, respectively). At 6 weeks, Null mice exhibit significantly less Fos labeling than Wt in limbic cortices and subcortical structures, including key nodes in the default mode network. In contrast, Null mice exhibit significantly more Fos labeling than Wt in the hindbrain, most notably in cardiorespiratory regions of the nucleus tractus solitarius (nTS). Using nTS as a model, whole-cell recordings demonstrated that increased Fos expression in Nulls at 6 weeks of age is associated with synaptic hyperexcitability, including increased frequency of spontaneous and miniature EPSCs and increased amplitude of evoked EPSCs in Nulls. No such effect of genotype on Fos or synaptic function was seen at 3 weeks. In the mutant forebrain, reduced Fos expression, as well as abnormal sensorimotor function, were reversed by the NMDA receptor antagonist ketamine. In light of recent findings that the default mode network is hypoactive in autism, our data raise the possibility that hypofunction within this meta-circuit is a shared feature of RTT and other ASDs and is reversible.
Genetically encoded calcium indicators (GECIs) are powerful tools for systems neuroscience. Recent efforts in protein engineering have significantly increased the performance of GECIs. The state-of-the art single-wavelength GECI, GCaMP3, has been deployed in a number of model organisms and can reliably detect three or more action potentials in short bursts in several systems in vivo. Through protein structure determination, targeted mutagenesis, high-throughput screening, and a battery of in vitro assays, we have increased the dynamic range of GCaMP3 by severalfold, creating a family of &quot;GCaMP5&quot; sensors. We tested GCaMP5s in several systems: cultured neurons and astrocytes, mouse retina, and in vivo in Caenorhabditis chemosensory neurons, Drosophila larval neuromuscular junction and adult antennal lobe, zebrafish retina and tectum, and mouse visual cortex. Signal-to-noise ratio was improved by at least 2- to 3-fold. In the visual cortex, two GCaMP5 variants detected twice as many visual stimulus-responsive cells as GCaMP3. By combining in vivo imaging with electrophysiology we show that GCaMP5 fluorescence provides a more reliable measure of neuronal activity than its predecessor GCaMP3. GCaMP5 allows more sensitive detection of neural activity in vivo and may find widespread applications for cellular imaging in general.
Episodic memory depends on a network of interconnected brain structures including the inferior temporal cortex, hippocampus, fornix, and mammillary bodies. We have previously shown that a moderate episodic memory impairment in monkeys with transection of the fornix is exacerbated by prior depletion of acetylcholine from inferotemporal cortex, despite the fact that depletion of acetylcholine from inferotemporal cortex on its own has no effect on episodic memory. Here we show that this effect occurs because inferotemporal acetylcholine facilitates recovery of function following structural damage within the neural circuit for episodic memory. Episodic memory impairment caused by lesions of the mammillary bodies, like fornix transection, was exacerbated by prior removal of temporal cortical acetylcholine. However, removing temporal cortical acetylcholine after the lesion of the fornix or mammillary bodies did not increase the severity of the impairment. This lesion order effect suggests that acetylcholine within the inferior temporal cortex ordinarily facilitates functional recovery after structural lesions that impair episodic memory. In the absence of acetylcholine innervation to inferotemporal cortex, this recovery is impaired and the amnesia caused by the structural lesion is more severe. These results suggest that humans with loss of cortical acetylcholine function, for example in Alzheimer's disease, may be less able to adapt to memory impairments caused by structural neuronal damage to areas in the network important for episodic memory.
A taste associated with emetic drugs produces conditioned disgust reactions in rats (predominantly gaping), unlike nonemetic drugs that can still produce conditioned taste avoidance but not conditioned disgust. That difference suggests nausea is a prerequisite for learning disgust reactions to tastes. Depletion of forebrain serotonin (5-HT) by 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) lesions of the dorsal raphe nucleus and median raphe nucleus prevents LiCl-induced conditioned disgust reactions (Limebeer et al., 2004). Here we demonstrate that partial depletion of 5-HT in the insular cortex (IC) prevents LiCl-induced conditioned disgust reactions. Furthermore, a double dissociation occurred in the partial regulation of disgust and taste avoidance by selective 5-HT(3) receptor antagonism/agonism in the posterior (granular) region of the IC and the anterior (dorsal agranular) region of the IC, respectively. Intracranial administration of the 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist, ondansetron (OND), to the posterior IC impaired the establishment of LiCl-induced conditioned gaping reactions, but not LiCl-induced conditioned taste avoidance (CTA). Likewise, posterior IC administration of the 5-HT(3) receptor agonist m-chlorophenylbiguanide (mCPBG) enhanced the establishment of LiCl-induced conditioned gaping and produced conditioned gaping on its own (which was prevented by intracranially administered OND), with no effect on CTA. On the other hand, anterior IC administration of OND partially reduced the establishment of LiCl-induced CTA, and mCPBG produced a weak CTA, both without effect on gaping. These results suggest that activation of 5-HT(3) receptors in the posterior IC is important for the production of nausea-induced conditioned disgust reactions, while activation of 5-HT(3) receptors in the anterior IC are involved in the production of CTA.

Receptors have been implicated in cognitive function, anxiety, depression, and the regulation of stress responses. In addition,  receptors have been shown to participate in the behavioral and motivational effects of psychostimulants. Recent studies have shown that  receptor antagonism prevents ethanol-induced conditioned place preference in mice and excessive drinking in alcohol-dependent or alcohol-preferring rats. Therefore, this study was designed to determine whether this role for  receptors extends to ethanol-seeking behavior using an animal model of relapse and tested whether the suppressant effect of a potent  receptor antagonist, BD1047, generalizes to natural reward-seeking behavior. Two separate groups of rats were trained to orally self-administer 10% (w/v) ethanol or a highly palatable reinforcer, 3%/0.125% (w/v) glucose/saccharin (SuperSac), in the presence of a discriminative stimulus (S). Following extinction, during which the reinforcers and S were withheld, the presentation of the ethanol or SuperSac S produced comparable recovery of responding. BD1047 (1-20 mg/kg) exerted similar behavioral effects on both ethanol S-induced and SuperSac S-induced reinstatement, with the prevention of conditioned reinstatement only at the highest BD1047 dose. The present results show that  receptor blockade under the present conditions exerts similar effects on conditioned reinstatement induced by ethanol-related and SuperSac-related stimuli, suggestive of overlapping neural mechanisms that control ethanol and natural reward seeking.
Recent advances have been made in our understanding of the deleterious effects of both ethanol and THC on adolescent behavior and brain development. However, very little is known about the combined effects of EtOH+THC during adolescence, a time in which these drugs are often used together. The purpose of this experiment was to: (1) determine whether EtOH and/or THC induced greater working memory impairment in adolescent than adult male rats using the novel object recognition (NOR) task and (2) determine whether the EtOH+THC combination would produce a more potent additive effect in adolescents than adults when compared to these drugs alone. NOR was performed with a 24h delay under each of the four drug conditions: vehicle; 1.5g/kg ethanol; 1.0mg/kg THC; and 1.5g/kg EtOH+1.0mg/kg THC, at 72h intervals. The results show that there was an age effect on working memory in NOR after the EtOH+THC challenge. Specifically, adolescent animals showed a preference for the familiar object whereas adults showed no preference for the novel or familiar object, the latter being characteristic of a classic working memory deficit. These effects were not dependent on changes in exploration across session, global activity across drug condition, or total object exploration. These novel findings clearly indicate that further understanding of this age-drug interaction is crucial to elucidating the influence that adolescent EtOH+THC use may have on repeated drug use and abuse later in life.
Heparan sulfate proteoglycans play important roles in embryogenesis, including the development of the central nervous system. However, their function in nerve regeneration is not yet understood. We previously reported that nerve injury induces the expression of heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycans and syndecan-1, a heparan sulfate proteoglycan, in injured hypoglossal motor neurons. In this study, we examined the expression of syndecan family members, including syndecan-1, in injured hypoglossal motor neurons after hypoglossal nerve axotomy. We could not detect any changes in expression after axotomy, except for syndecan-1. The expression of syndecan-1 was markedly increased on post-operative day 7. Syndecan-1 was localized not only in the cell bodies of hypoglossal motor neurons, but also in the injured hypoglossal nerve, and it accumulated in the terminals of regenerating fibers. Similarly, facial nerve axotomy and vagus nerve axotomy induced the expression of syndecan-1 in the facial nucleus, dorsal nucleus of vagus and ambiguous nucleus, respectively. However, sciatic nerve axotomy induced very little syndecan-1 expression in injured spinal motor neurons. These results suggest that syndecan-1 may have a crucial role in the survival of injured motor neurons and in nerve regeneration after injury. Our observations also reveal the diversity of peripheral motor neurons.
We used whole-head magnetoencephalography to investigate cortical activity during two oromotor activities foundational to speech production. 13 adults performed mouth opening and phoneme (/pa/) production tasks to a visual cue. Jaw movements were tracked with an ultrasound-emitting device. Trials were time-locked to both stimulus onset and peak of jaw displacement. An event-related beamformer source reconstruction algorithm was used to detect areas of cortical activity for each condition. Beamformer output was submitted to iterative K-means clustering analyses. The time course of neural activity at each cluster centroid was computed for each individual and condition. Peaks were identified and latencies submitted for statistical analysis to reveal the relative timing of activity in each brain region. Stimulus locked activations for the mouth open task included a progression from left cuneus to left frontal and then right pre-central gyrus. Phoneme generation revealed the same sequence but with bilateral frontal activation. When time locked to jaw displacement, the mouth open condition showed left frontal followed by right frontal-temporal areas. Phoneme generation showed a complicated sequence of bilateral temporal and frontal areas. This study used three unique approaches (beamforming, clustering and jaw tracking) to demonstrate the temporal progression of neural activations that underlie the motor control of two simple oromotor tasks. These findings have implications for understanding clinical conditions with deficits in articulatory control or motor speech planning.
In diabetes mellitus, it is expected to see a common, mainly sensitive, distal symmetrical polyneuropathy (DPN) involving a large proportion of diabetic patients according to known risk factors. Several other diabetic peripheral neuropathies are recognized, such as dysautonomia and multifocal neuropathies including lumbosacral radiculoplexus and oculomotor palsies. In this review, general aspects of DPN and other diabetic neuropathies are examined, and it is discussed why and how the general practitioner has to perform a yearly examination. At the present time, some consensus emerge to ask help from neurologist when faced to other forms of peripheral neuropathies than distal symmetrical DPN.
A woman was referred to us 4 days after the sudden onset of continuous rotatory vertigo. The diagnosis of a left vestibular neuronitis was made. During the investigations, a meningioma of the contralateral posterior fossa was discovered. Is there any relationship between the two disorders? The etiology of peripheral vestibular disorders remains poorly understood in most cases. Anomalies of cells surrounding the sensory organs have been demonstrated in post-mortem examination of the inner ear of patients with a vestibular deficit that could be caused by a &quot;biological stress&quot;. Therefore there may be a link between left vestibular deficit and the mass of the right posterior fossa, considered as a fortuitous discovery, at first.
The cause of Meniere's disease is unknown. The postmortem examination of the temporal bone reveals an &quot;endolymphatic hydrops&quot; of the inner ear. Classically, patients describe episodes of vertigo, fluctuations of hearing and tinnitus. But some report &quot;strange stories&quot; that deserve doctor's attention. This article explains why their history (as those suffering from any other vestibular disorder) is often particular, to recall the few knowledge of the disease, how the endolymphatic hydrops was considered as the cause of the disorder, while it is rather an epiphenomenon, and to show how one can believe, wrongly, that a therapy is efficient after a study that seems however at first correctly performed.
Since optogenetics was introduced in 2005, fundamental progress has been made in our understanding of the neural processes central to higher-order functions such as perception, cognition and emotion. Until the inception of optogenetics, science was lacking neuromodulatory tools that could target specific populations of neurons with the spatial and temporal precision necessary for casually linking neural activity patterns to behavior. Optogenetics has also provided invaluable insights on the neural circuit elements affected in psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, anxiety, depression and autism. Here we review experiments where optogenetics has been instrumental in adding new information about functions governing cognition, such as information processing. In addition, we review optogenetic findings shedding light on how changed information processing could underlie cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Brain Integration.
Alpha-synuclein is a natively unfolded protein playing a key role in the regulation of several neuronal synaptic functions in physiological and pathological conditions. Many studies, over the past years, have shown that it is actively involved in PD pathophysiology. Alpha-synuclein is integrated in a complex network of neuronal processes through the interaction with cytosolic and synaptic proteins. Hence, it is not the sole -synuclein pathology but its effects on diverse protein partners and specific cellular pathways in the membrane and/or cytosolic districts such as endoplasmic reticulum/Golgi, axonal and synaptic compartments of dopaminergic neurons, that may cause the onset of neuronal cell dysfunction and degeneration which are among the key pathological features of the PD brain. Here we summarize a series of experimental data supporting that -synuclein aggregation may induce dysfunction and degeneration of synapses via these multiple mechanisms. Taken together, these data add new insights into the complex mechanisms underlying synaptic derangement in PD and other -synucleinopathies. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Brain Integration.
Mood disorders, such as major depressive disorder (MDD), bipolar disorder and generalized anxiety disorder usually comprise mood related as well as cognitive symptoms and the interaction between these symptoms is still not clear. Most antidepressant drugs have a positive effect on mood but do not treat the cognitive dysfunctions or even aggravate the symptoms. In this review we will evaluate the association between mood and cognition in the context of mood disorders. In the first section we will summarize the brain circuits at the intersection between cognition and emotion, highlighting the role of the hippocampus. In the second section, we will survey the contribution of the glutamate and GABA systems in the pathophysiology of mood disorders, making an effort to understand the link between emotions and cognition and how novel therapeutic approaches deal with them. In the third section we will explore the monoamine involvement in the emotion/cognition duality in the context of mood disorders. Finally we will underline the role of synaptic plasticity and neurogenesis in depression. We consider that a broader knowledge about the integrative mechanisms involved in specific aspects of mood disorders is crucial in the development of more powerful and effective antidepressant drugs. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Brain Integration.
The intercalated paracapsular (IPC) islands are clusters of dopamine-D1-and -opioid 1-receptor rich GABAergic neurons which surround the rostral half of the basolateral complex of the amygdala (BLA) giving rise to several subgroups which can be further subdivided. IPC cells are small-sized and have an axonal and dendritic pattern which differs according to the group they belong. Functionally, IPC neurons are endowed with unique properties that set them apart from other amygdaloid interneurons and allow them to participate in integrative functions. Consistent with this role IPC cells usually remain confined within the amygdala where they receive BLA and cortical inputs and interact synaptically with each other. They project into both the central (CeA) and medial (MeA) amygdaloid nuclei. Their main effect at the network level seems to control the trafficking of nerve impulses to the main input (BLA) and output (CeA) stations of the amygdala. Such a task seems to be accomplished by providing feedforward inhibition to BLA neurons from putative inputs of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and to CeA from both mPFC and BLA projections. Current experimental evidence will be discussed suggesting that through feedforward inhibitory effects on specific amygdaloid nuclei IPC neurons participate in the maintenance of basal anxiety as well as in the modulation of unconditioned and conditioned fear, and in the process of fear extinction. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Brain Integration.
Many pathological processes are associated with a malfunction of one or multiple post-synaptic neurotransmitter receptors. It would seem that simple agonists or antagonists at these receptors should be able to correct the pathological condition. However, these drugs often fail due to serious side effects that are caused by suppressing post-synaptic responses necessary for normal brain function. Thus, there is a need for new drugs that can selectively target specific post-synaptic pathways. The dopamine and glutamate receptor systems have been implicated in many neuropsychiatric disorders. Dopamine, the predominant catecholamine in the mammalian brain, influences a variety of functions including locomotor activity, cognition, emotion and endocrine regulation. Glutamate is the principal excitatory neurotransmitter, involved in regulating neuronal circuit development, learning and memory. The overlap and convergence of both dopaminergic and glutamatergic projections in the brain provides a framework for complex neuronal interactions between these receptor systems. In this review, we will focus on interactions between the NMDA glutamate receptor and dopamine D1 and D2 receptors, and address the potential value of receptor heteromers in seeking novel therapeutic targets. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Brain Integration.
This article is focused on understanding the mechanisms for the interactions between the central catecholamine (CA) and oxytocin (OXY) neurons and their relevance for brain function especially social behaviour in the field of pair bonding. Such a topic is analysed under two perspectives namely the intercellular communication modes between CA and OXT neurons and the molecular integrative mechanisms at the plasma membrane level between their respective decoding systems. As a matter of fact, recent observations strongly indicate a major role of volume transmission and receptor-receptor interactions in the CA/OXT neuron interplay in the brain control of social behaviour and pair bonding. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Brain Integration.


Endocannabinoid signaling critically regulates emotional and motivational states via activation of cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1) in the brain. The nucleus accumbens (NAc) functions to gate emotional and motivational responses. Although expression of CB1 in the NAc is low, manipulation of CB1 signaling within the NAc triggers robust emotional/motivational alterations related to drug addiction and other psychiatric disorders, and these effects cannot be exclusively attributed to CB1 located at afferents to the NAc. Rather, CB1-expressing neurons in the NAc, although sparse, appear to be critical for emotional and motivational responses. However, the cellular properties of these neurons remain largely unknown. Here, we generated a knock-in mouse line in which CB1-expressing neurons expressed the fluorescent protein td-Tomato (tdT). Using these mice, we demonstrated that tdT-positive neurons within the NAc were exclusively fast-spiking interneurons (FSIs). These FSIs were electrically coupled with each other, and thus may help synchronize populations/ensembles of NAc neurons. CB1-expressing FSIs also form GABAergic synapses on adjacent medium spiny neurons (MSNs), providing feed-forward inhibition of NAc output. Furthermore, the membrane excitability of tdT-positive FSIs in the NAc was up-regulated after withdrawal from cocaine exposure, an effect that might increase FSI-to-MSN inhibition. Taken together with our previous findings that the membrane excitability of NAc MSNs is decreased during cocaine withdrawal, the present findings suggest that the basal functional output of the NAc is inhibited during cocaine withdrawal by multiple mechanisms. As such, CB1-expressing FSIs are targeted by cocaine exposure to influence the overall functional output of the NAc.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is critical for the endocrine, autonomic, and behavioral responses to stressors, and it has been shown to modulate fear and anxiety. The CRF receptor is widely expressed across a variety of cell types, impeding progress toward understanding the contribution of specific CRF-containing neurons to fear dysregulation. We used a unique CRF-Cre driver transgenic mouse line to remove floxed GABA(A)1 subunits specifically from CRF neurons [CRF-GABA(A)1 KO]. This process resulted in mice with decreased GABA(A)1 expression only in CRF neurons and increased CRF mRNA within the amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) and paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. These mice show normal locomotor and pain responses and no difference in depressive-like behavior or Pavlovian fear conditioning. However, CRF-GABA(A)1 KO increased anxiety-like behavior and impaired extinction of conditioned fear, coincident with an increase in plasma corticosterone concentration. These behavioral impairments were rescued with systemic or BNST infusion of the CRF antagonist R121919. Infusion of Zolpidem, a GABA(A)1-preferring benzodiazepine-site agonist, into the BNST of the CRF-GABA(A)1 KO was ineffective at decreasing anxiety. Electrophysiological findings suggest a disruption in inhibitory current may play a role in these changes. These data indicate that disturbance of CRF containing GABA(A)1 neurons causes increased anxiety and impaired fear extinction, both of which are symptoms diagnostic for anxiety disorders, such as posttraumatic stress disorder.
Recent reports show that fewer adolescents believe that regular cannabis use is harmful to health. Concomitantly, adolescents are initiating cannabis use at younger ages, and more adolescents are using cannabis on a daily basis. The purpose of the present study was to test the association between persistent cannabis use and neuropsychological decline and determine whether decline is concentrated among adolescent-onset cannabis users. Participants were members of the Dunedin Study, a prospective study of a birth cohort of 1,037 individuals followed from birth (1972/1973) to age 38 y. Cannabis use was ascertained in interviews at ages 18, 21, 26, 32, and 38 y. Neuropsychological testing was conducted at age 13 y, before initiation of cannabis use, and again at age 38 y, after a pattern of persistent cannabis use had developed. Persistent cannabis use was associated with neuropsychological decline broadly across domains of functioning, even after controlling for years of education. Informants also reported noticing more cognitive problems for persistent cannabis users. Impairment was concentrated among adolescent-onset cannabis users, with more persistent use associated with greater decline. Further, cessation of cannabis use did not fully restore neuropsychological functioning among adolescent-onset cannabis users. Findings are suggestive of a neurotoxic effect of cannabis on the adolescent brain and highlight the importance of prevention and policy efforts targeting adolescents.
New perspectives have emerged regarding the processes associated with depressive disorders and their many comorbid conditions. Particular attention has been paid to the potential role of inflammatory factors in promoting these illnesses. These inflammatory responses include those elicited by pathogenic stimuli, as well as sterile inflammatory processes, such as those related to severe or chronic stress. These diverse challenges may activate common processes in which cytokines, which are inflammatory signaling molecules, provoke the dysregulation of several growth factors, including brain-derived neurotrophic factor, fibroblast growth factor-2, macrophage migration inhibitory factor, and erythropoietin. The result of such dysregulation favors the development of depressive disorders and their comorbid illnesses, such as heart disease, diabetes, autoimmune conditions, and poststroke depression.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by -amyloid (A) plaques consisted primarily of aggregated A proteins and neurofibrillary tangles formed by hyperphosphorylated tau protein. Both A and hyperphosphorylated tau are toxic both in vivo and in vitro. Immunotherapy targeting A seems to provide a promising approach to reduce the toxic species in the brain. However, there is little evidence from clinical trials so far indicating the efficacy of A immunotherapy in cognitive improvement. Immunization with tau peptides or anti-tau antibodies could remove the tau aggregates and improve the cognitive function in preclinical study, which provides a novel strategy of AD therapy. In this article, we will summarize the immunotherapeutic strategies targeting either A or tau.
Dehydration is a powerful stimulus causing disequilibrium in homeostasis of water and electrolytes resulting from depletion in total body water. Most studies have focused on domestic and laboratory animals; however, the study of desert animals allows improved understanding about water balance and resistance to dehydration and associated behavioral changes, including those related to mood disorders. Meriones shawi (Shaw's Jird) is a desert rodent characterized by its resistance to long periods of thirst that can extend for several months. In the present study, M. shawi were subjected to water deprivation for 1 and 3 months. We used 5-HT immunohistochemistry to evaluate the effects of prolonged dehydration on the serotoninergic system in both dorsal and median raphe nuclei (DRN, MRN), which are the main sources of 5-HT input to several brain areas. In addition, a dark/light box was used to evaluate the anxiolytic-like or anxiogenic-like effects of dehydration on M. shawi. The results showed a reduction in the 5-HT immunolabelling in both DRN and MRN following 1 and 3 months of dehydration. This diminution of serotonin immunoreactivity was accompanied by noticeable changes in anxiety behavior of Meriones, with animals spending more time in the light box, suggesting anxiogenic-like effects caused by dehydration. Overall, the results indicate that dehydration is able to reduce serotoninergic neurotransmission, which might be involved in generating anxiety behavior in this desert animal.





The methylation status of the O(6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) gene is an important predictive biomarker for benefit from alkylating agent therapy in glioblastoma. Recent studies in anaplastic glioma suggest a prognostic value for MGMT methylation. Investigation of pathogenetic and epigenetic features of this intriguingly distinct behavior requires accurate MGMT classification to assess high throughput molecular databases. Promoter methylation-mediated gene silencing is strongly dependent on the location of the methylated CpGs, complicating classification. Using the HumanMethylation450 (HM-450K) BeadChip interrogating 176 CpGs annotated for the MGMT gene, with 14 located in the promoter, two distinct regions in the CpG island of the promoter were identified with high importance for gene silencing and outcome prediction. A logistic regression model (MGMT-STP27) comprising probes cg12434587 [corrected] and cg12981137 provided good classification properties and prognostic value (kappa = 0.85; log-rank p &lt; 0.001) using a training-set of 63 glioblastomas from homogenously treated patients, for whom MGMT methylation was previously shown to be predictive for outcome based on classification by methylation-specific PCR. MGMT-STP27 was successfully validated in an independent cohort of chemo-radiotherapy-treated glioblastoma patients (n = 50; kappa = 0.88; outcome, log-rank p &lt; 0.001). Lower prevalence of MGMT methylation among CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP) positive tumors was found in glioblastomas from The Cancer Genome Atlas than in low grade and anaplastic glioma cohorts, while in CIMP-negative gliomas MGMT was classified as methylated in approximately 50 % regardless of tumor grade. The proposed MGMT-STP27 prediction model allows mining of datasets derived on the HM-450K or HM-27K BeadChip to explore effects of distinct epigenetic context of MGMT methylation suspected to modulate treatment resistance in different tumor types.




Previous studies showed that people proactively gaze at the target of another's action by taking advantage of their own motor representation of that action. But just how selectively is one's own motor representation implicated in another's action processing? If people observe another's action while performing a compatible or an incompatible action themselves, will this impact on their gaze behaviour? We recorded proactive eye movements while participants observed an actor grasping small or large objects. The participants' right hand either freely rested on the table or held with a suitable grip a large or a small object, respectively. Proactivity of gaze behaviour significantly decreased when participants observed the actor reaching her target with a grip that was incompatible with respect to that used by them to hold the object in their own hand. This indicates that effective observation of action may depend on what one is actually doing, being actions observed best when the suitable motor representations may be readily recruited.
Humans can adapt to reversal of the visual field after long-term wear of reversing prism spectacles. Among various aspects of adaptation to reversed vision, adjustment of visually-guided behavior has been consistently found. On the other hand, there is relatively little quantitative evidence for 'perceptual adaptation', for example, restoration of perceptual harmony between the visual and tactile world. To elucidate perceptual adaptation to reversed vision, we conducted long-term experiments with continuous wear of reversing spectacles. Four human adult participants wore left-right reversing spectacles for 37 or 32days. Perceptual adaptation was examined by spatial left-right judgment tasks for visual, auditory, and somatosensory stimuli. In the visuo-motor (VM) and somato-visual (SV) tasks, correct responses disappeared completely at the beginning of prism wearing, but gradually restored, first in the VM task, and subsequently in the SV task. Moreover, the VM and SV tasks revealed aftereffects (incorrect responses) upon removal of the reversing prisms after the long adaptation period. In the auditory-motor (AM) task, responses were mostly correct irrespective of the reversed vision, but incorrect responses transiently appeared approximately when the adaptive change was first observed in the SV task. Moreover, starting from the period when these changes in the SV and AM tasks emerged, an adaptive sign of interhemispheric interaction was revealed by functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging. These results indicate that perceptual adaptation to reversed vision does occur, and that it proceeds to visuo-somatosensory reorganization, which seems to transiently accompany global cross-modal interactions.
It is well recognised that motivational factors can influence neuropsychological performance. The aim of this study was to explore individual differences in intrinsic motivation and reward-seeking and the effect of these on attentional and mnemonic processes, in the presence or absence of financial incentives. Forty participants (18-35years) completed two testing sessions where the Attentional Network Test (ANT) and the Newcastle Spatial Memory Test (NSMT) were administered. After a baseline assessment, participants were re-tested after randomisation to a non-motivated (control) group or to a motivated group, where payment was contingent upon performance. Performance in the motivated group was significantly improved compared to the control group on the NSMT (condition by session; F(1,33)=4.52, p=0.041) and the ANT, with participants increasing performance to cued presentations within the alerting network (F(1,36)=5.48, p=0.025) and being less distracted by incongruent stimuli in the executive control network (F(1,36)=6.74, p=0.014). There were significant negative correlations between the 'Interest/ Enjoyment' Intrinsic Motivation Inventory subscale and both NSMT between-search errors and ANT(alerting). In the motivated group, those who had higher self-reported internal motivation were less susceptible to- or affected by- the external motivation of financial incentive. The effects of motivational factors should not be overlooked when interpreting absolute levels of performance in neuropsychological processes.



Adipocyte progenitors are thought to play a fundamental role in white adipose tissue (WAT) plasticity, which enables dynamic modulation of WAT metabolic and cellular characteristics in response to various stimuli. In general, two main strategies have been used to identify adipocyte progenitor cells: fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS)-based prospective analysis and lineage tracing. Although FACS-isolation is highly useful in defining multipotential stem cell populations for in vitro analysis and transplantation, lineage tracing is essential to identify endogenous progenitors that do, in fact, differentiate into adipocytes in vivo. Our recent lineage tracing studies have shown that cells expressing the surface marker platelet-derived growth factor receptor  (PDGFR) give rise to white and brown adipocytes in adult WAT, depending on inductive cues. PDGFR(+) cells are a subpopulation of those expressing CD34 and Sca1, and have unique morphology whereby long dendritic processes contact numerous cell types in the microenvironment. The significant contribution of PDGFR(+) cells to browning and hyperplastic expansion of WAT leads us to propose that PDGFR(+) cells are remodeling stem cells in adult WAT. Application of advanced imaging technology and genetic tools to this progenitor population will allow greater understanding of cellular plasticity in adipose tissue.
Many environmental conditions show rhythmic changes across the 24-h day; these include changes in light intensity, ambient temperature, food availability, and presence or absence of predators. Consequently, many organisms have developed corresponding adaptations, which ensure that specific physiological and behavioral events occur at an appropriate time of the day. In mammals, the underlying mechanism responsible for synchronizing internal biochemical processes with circadian environmental cues has been well studied and is thought to comprise three major components: (1) photoreception by the retina and transmission of neural signals along the retinohypothalamic tract, (2) integration of photoperiodic information with an internal reference circadian pacemaker located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, and (3) dissemination of circadian information to target organs, via the autonomic nervous system and through humoral pathways. Given the importance that neuroendocrine rhythms play in coordinating normal circadian physiology and behavior, it is plausible that their perturbation during aging contributes to the etiology of age-related pathologies. This mini-review highlights some of the most dramatic rhythmic neuroendocrine changes that occur in primates during aging, focusing primarily on data from the male rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta). In addition to the age-associated attenuation of hormone levels and reduction of humoral circadian signaling, there are also significant age-related changes in intracrine processing enzymes and hormone receptors which may further affect the functional efficacy of these hormones. Rhesus macaques, like humans, are large diurnal primates and show many of the same physiological and behavioral circadian changes during aging. Consequently, they represent an ideal translational animal model in which to study the causes and consequences of age-associated internal circadian disruption and in which to evaluate novel therapies.
Rhesus monkeys provide a valuable model for studying the basis of cognitive aging because they are vulnerable to age-related decline in executive function and memory in a manner similar to humans. Some of the behavioral tasks sensitive to the effects of aging are the delayed response working memory test, recognition memory tests including the delayed nonmatching-to-sample and the delayed recognition span task, and tests of executive function including reversal learning and conceptual set-shifting task. Much effort has been directed toward discovering the neurobiological parameters that are coupled to individual differences in age-related cognitive decline. Area 46 of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) has been extensively studied for its critical role in executive function while the hippocampus and related cortical regions have been a major target of research for memory function. Some of the key age-related changes in area 46 include decreases in volume, microcolumn strength, synapse density, and 1- and 2-adrenergic receptor binding densities. All of these measures significantly correlate with cognitive scores. Interestingly, the critical synaptic subtypes associated with cognitive function appear to be different between the dlPFC and the hippocampus. For example, the dendritic spine subtype most critical to task acquisition and vulnerable to aging in area 46 is the thin spine, whereas in the dentate gyrus, the density of large mushroom spines with perforated synapses correlates with memory performance. This review summarizes age-related changes in anatomical, neuronal, and synaptic parameters within brain areas implicated in cognition and whether these changes are associated with cognitive decline.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder affecting both the hippocampus and the cerebral cortex. Reduced synaptic density that occurs early in the disease process seems to be partially due to the overactivation of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) leading to excitotoxicity. Recently, we demonstrated that amyloid-beta oligomers (AO), the species implicated in synaptic loss during the initial disease stages, induce endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress in cultured neurons. Here, we investigated whether AO trigger ER stress by an NMDAR-dependent mechanism leading to neuronal dysfunction and analyzed the contribution of GluN2A and GluN2B subunits of this glutamate receptor. Our data revealed that AO induce ER stress in mature hippocampal cultures, activating ER stress-associated sensors and increasing the levels of the ER chaperone GRP78. We also showed that AO induce NADPH oxidase (NOX)-mediated superoxide production downstream of GluN2B and impairs ER and cytosolic Ca2+ homeostasis. These events precede changes in cell viability and activation of the ER stress-mediated apoptotic pathway, which was associated with translocation of the transcription factor GADD153/CHOP to the nucleus and occurred by a caspase-12-independent mechanism. Significantly, ER stress took place after AO interaction with GluN2B subunits. In addition, AO-induced ER stress and hippocampal dysfunction were prevented by ifenprodil, an antagonist of GluN2B subunits, while the GluN2A antagonist NVP-AAM077 only slightly attenuated AO-induced neurotoxicity. Taken together, our results highlight the role of GluN2B subunit of NMDARs on ER stress-mediated hippocampal dysfunction caused by AO suggesting that it might be a potential therapeutic target during the early stages of AD.
Neuroferritinopathy is an autosomal dominant extrapyramidal movement disorder, caused by FTL gene mutations. Iron decreases the MR T2* decay time, therefore increasing the R2* (R2* = 1 /T2*), which correlates with brain tissue iron content. 3T structural and quantitative MR imaging assessment of R2* in 10 patients with neuroferritinopathy demonstrated a unique pattern of basal ganglia cavitation involving the substantia nigra in older patients and increasing thalamic R2* signal intensity detectable during 6 months. Increasing R2* signal intensity in the thalamus correlated with progression on a clinical rating scale measuring dystonia severity. Thalamic R2* signal intensity is a clinically useful method of objectively tracking disease progression in this form of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation.
Brain imaging provides ever more sensitive measures of structure and function relevant to human psychology and has revealed correlates for virtually every psychiatric disorder. Yet it plays no accepted role in psychiatric diagnosis beyond ruling out medical factors such as tumors or traumatic brain injuries. Why is brain imaging not used in the diagnosis of primary psychiatric disorders, such as depression, bipolar disease, schizophrenia, and ADHD? The present article addresses this question. It reviews the state of the art in psychiatric imaging, including diagnostic and other applications, and explains the nonutility of diagnostic imaging in terms of aspects of both the current state of imaging and the current nature of psychiatric nosology. The likely future path by which imaging-based diagnoses will be incorporated into psychiatry is also discussed. By reviewing one well-known attempt to use SPECT-scanning in psychiatric diagnosis, the article examines a real-world practice that illustrates several related points: the appeal of the idea of image-assisted diagnosis for physicians, patients and families, despite a lack of proven effectiveness, and the mismatch between the categories and dimensions of current nosology and those suggested by imaging.






Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a highly prevalent and substantially underdiagnosed sensorimotor disorder. Only relatively recently have the large impact on patient quality of life (QoL) and the economic burden associated with RLS become more widely recognized. QoL in patients with RLS has been shown to be worse than that of many other chronic conditions, including type 2 diabetes, clinical depression, and osteoarthritis. Sleep disturbance, a cardinal feature of RLS, is the most common and most destructive of its symptoms. More than two-thirds of RLS patients experience serious insomnia, and waking up several times per night is typical for this patient population. Moreover, RLS disrupts rest during waking hours, such as when the patient is sitting or relaxing. Thus, whether awake or asleep, the RLS patient finds little opportunity for the general restorative behaviors necessary for healthy human functioning, resulting in high rates of comorbidities including depression, anxiety, and hypertension. The direct and indirect costs related to RLS have been evaluated in a few studies. Although the cost studies are associated with certain limitations (eg, use of questionnaires), the results show that costs related to RLS are substantial. Healthcare utilization, primarily in the form of doctor visits, constitutes the largest proportion of direct expenditures for RLS in the United States. Indirect costs are also large, primarily due to productivity losses, which are as high as 20% in RLS patients. Effective treatment of RLS is necessary to limit the negative effects of RLS on QoL and to reduce costs associated with the condition.
Children with Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) are known to have cognitive, social, and behavioral deficits. Fifteen NF1-subjects (5 boys, 10 girls, mean age=13.4), and 15 healthy controls matched for age and sex were assessed on the presence of anxiety symptoms, using the Multidimensional Anxiety Scale for Children (MASC), self-report questionnaire. Significant group differences emerged with regard to MASC total (Z=-2.058, P=0.041) and anxiety disorder index (ADI; Z=-2.202, P=0.026), but not with regard to single scales. When the severity and visibility of NF1 were considered, correlation between severity and social anxiety, and severity and MASC total was found. This is the first study assessing anxiety symptoms in NF1 children and youths. A precocious psychological survey and intervention in NF1 subjects, may contribute to reduce the risk of psychiatric disorders in adulthood.
Psychiatric disorders are a leading cause of morbidity and mortality, yet their underlying pathophysiology remains unclear. Searches for a genetic cause of bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and major depressive disorder have yielded inconclusive results. There is increasing interest in the possibility that defects in the mitochondrial genome may play an important role in psychiatric illness. We undertook a review of the literature investigating mitochondria and adult psychiatric disorders. MEDLINE, PsycINFO, and EMBASE were searched from their inception through September 2011, and the reference lists of identified articles were reviewed for additional studies. While multiple lines of evidence, including clinical, genetic, ultrastructural, and biochemical studies, support the involvement of mitochondria in the pathophysiology of psychiatric illness, many studies have methodological limitations and their findings have not been replicated. Clinical studies suggest that psychiatric features can be prominent, and the presenting features of mitochondrial disorders. There is limited but inconsistent evidence for the involvement of mitochondrial DNA haplogroups and mitochondria-related nuclear gene polymorphisms, and for mitochondrial ultrastructural and biochemical abnormalities in psychiatric illness. The current literature suggests that mitochondrial dysfunction and mitochondrial genetic variations may play an important role in psychiatric disorders, but additional methodologically rigorous and adequately powered studies are needed before definitive conclusions can be drawn.
The acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are a family of proton-sensing channels expressed throughout the nervous system. Their activity is linked to a variety of complex behaviors including fear, anxiety, pain, depression, learning, and memory. ASICs have also been implicated in neuronal degeneration accompanying ischemia and multiple sclerosis. As a whole, ASICs represent novel therapeutic targets for several clinically important disorders. An understanding of the correlation between ASIC structure and function will help to elucidate their mechanism of action and identify potential therapeutics that specifically target these ion channels. Despite the seemingly simple nature of proton binding, multiple studies have shown that proton-dependent gating of ASICs is quite complex, leading to activation and desensitization through distinct structural components. This review will focus on the structural aspects of ASIC gating in response to both protons and the newly discovered activators GMQ and MitTx. ASIC modulatory compounds and their action on proton-dependent gating will also be discussed. This review is dedicated to the memory of Dale Benos, who made a substantial contribution to our understanding of ASIC activity.
Type 1 diabetes subjects are characterized by impaired direct pathway synthesis of hepatic glycogen that is unresponsive to insulin therapy. Since it is not known whether this is an irreversible defect of insulin-dependent diabetes, direct and indirect pathway glycogen fluxes were quantified in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats and compared with STZ rats that received subcutaneous or intraperitoneal insulin (I-SC or I-IP). Three groups of STZ rats were studied at 18 days post-STZ treatment. One group was administered I-SC and another I-IP as two daily injections of short-acting insulin at the start of each light and dark period for days 9-18. A third group did not receive any insulin, and a fourth group of nondiabetic rats was used as control. Glycogen synthesis via direct and indirect pathways, de novo lipogenesis, and gluconeogenesis were determined over the nocturnal feeding period using deuterated water. Direct pathway was residual in STZ rats, and glucokinase activity was also reduced significantly from control levels. Insulin administration restored both net glycogen synthesis via the direct pathway and glucokinase activity to nondiabetic control levels and improved the lipogenic pathway despite an inefficient normalization of the gluconeogenic pathway. We conclude that the reduced direct pathway flux is not an irreversible defect of insulin-dependent diabetes.
There is significant variability in diet-induced obesity (DIO) among humans and rodents, which has been associated with differences in intrinsic spontaneous physical activity (SPA). The orexin neuropeptides positively modulate SPA through multiple brain sites, but the effects of DIO on orexin's activity are not well understood. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that DIO sensitivity is mediated by decreased SPA and changes in the function of the orexins. As a DIO model, we used male Sprague-Dawley rats fed a high-fat (HF; 45% kcal from fat) or a low-fat (LF; 10% kcal from fat) diet for 10 wk. We measured SPA before and after HF or LF feeding and expression of orexin receptors by real-time PCR after dietary treatments. We tested DIO effects on orexin signaling by measuring SPA after injection of orexin A in the rostral lateral hypothalamus (RLH) before and after 10 wk of HF feeding. Finally, we tested whether daily orexin A RLH injections prevent DIO caused by HF feeding. Our results show that resistance to DIO is associated with an increase in SPA, SPA after injection of orexin A in RLH, and orexin receptor expression in sites that mediate orexin's effect on SPA, including RLH. We show that daily injections of orexin peptide in RLH prevent DIO without altering food intake. We estimate that the energetic cost of SPA after orexin A RLH injection accounts for approximately 61% of the extra caloric intake associated with HF intake, suggesting additional effects of orexins. In summary, our results suggest that variability in DIO sensitivity is mediated through adaptations in the activity of the orexin peptides and their receptors.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is one of the most common gastrointestinal ailments among those seeking health care for gastrointestinal disorders. Despite its prevalence, IBS pathophysiology is still not completely understood. Continued elucidation of IBS etiological mechanisms will lead to a greater appreciation of possible therapeutic targets. In the past decade, there has been increasing focus on the possible connection between increased intestinal mucosal permeability, inflammation, and visceral hypersensitivity. Increased permeability in subsets of IBS patients has been observed and the possible mechanisms underlying this defect are just beginning to be understood. The objectives of this review are to summarize the role of the healthy intestinal epithelium as a barrier between the lumen and the rest of the body with a focus on tight junctions; to examine the lines of evidence that suggest that different triggers lead to increased intestinal mucosal permeability and disruption of tight junctions in IBS patients; and to explore how this increased permeability may elicit immune responses that affect afferent nerves, resulting in the pain associated with IBS.


We selectively review the progress of research on the psychology of time during the past 125 years, starting with the publication of the first English-language psychological journal, The American Journal of Psychology. A number of important articles on the psychology of time appeared in this journal, including the widely cited early article by Nichols (1891). The psychology of time is a seminal topic of psychological science, and although it entered a phase of decline and even moribund neglect, the past several decades have seen a prominent renaissance of interest. This renewed vigor represents the rebirth of the recognition of the centrality of the psychology of time in human cognition and behavior. Our selective overview highlights a number of strands of progress and how they have helped lead to the present, in which the cognitive neuroscience of time and timing in the brain is one of the most fervent and fertile modern areas of brain research. We also discuss some remaining challenges and potential lines of progress.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative condition, respiratory failure being the commonest cause of death. Quality of life and survival can be improved by supporting respiratory function with non-invasive ventilation. Transcutaneous carbon dioxide monitoring is a non-invasive method of measuring arterial carbon dioxide levels enabling simple and efficient screening for respiratory failure. The aim of this study was to validate the accuracy of carbon dioxide level recorded transcutaneously with a TOSCA 500 monitor. It is a prospective, observational study of 40 consecutive patients with ALS, recruited from a specialist ALS clinic. The partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PCO(2)) in each patient was determined by both transcutaneous monitoring and by an arterialized ear lobe capillary blood sample. The carbon dioxide (CO(2)) levels obtained with these two methods were compared by Bland-Altman analysis. The results showed that the mean difference between arterialized and transcutaneous readings was - 0.083 kPa (SD 0.318). The Bland-Altman limits of agreement ranged from 0.553 to - 0.719 kPa. The difference was &lt;0.5 kPa in 90% of the recordings. Four of the 40 measurements had a difference of &gt;0.5 kPa, with a maximum recorded difference of 0.95 kPa. In conclusion, non-invasive carbon dioxide monitoring using a TOSCA monitor is a useful clinical tool in neurology practice. Users should be aware of the possibility of occasional inaccurate readings. A clinically unexpected or incompatible reading should be verified with a blood gas analysis, especially when a decision to provide ventilatory support is required.
Respiratory pacing has advanced the long-term management of respiratory failure secondary to neurological disorders. It has an established role in curtailing invasive mechanical ventilation after upper motor neuron lesions such as spinal cord injury. There is increasing interest to expand the application of intramuscular diaphragm pacing to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a progressive and fatal neurodegenerative disease. Although diaphragm pacing has been offered to ALS patients, evidence-based data to determine its benefits remain lacking. The limited current literature indicates progression of respiratory dysfunction in ALS patients despite diaphragm pacing. The data from clinical trials are inadequate to substantiate its survival and sleep benefits. Its advantages over non-invasive mechanical ventilation have not been directly investigated. Furthermore, there are cautions for ALS patients to consider when opting for diaphragm pacing. Progressive degeneration of the phrenic motor neurons in classic ALS will interrupt the transmission of pacer signals to sustain diaphragm contractions. Pacing protocols that are safe for other neurological conditions may be detrimental for ALS, at least as suggested by transgenic animal models. Issues inherent to the device warrant expert intervention in implanted patients. At present, clinical effectiveness and long-term safety concerns about diaphragm pacing in ALS remain to be addressed.
The prevalence of cigarette and alcohol consumption is high among young adult males during the reproductive period. The current study aimed to evaluate the impact of concurrent chronic administration of nicotine and ethanol on the quality of sperm in the rat. Fifty healthy Wistar male rats were randomly divided into five groups (n=10) and were given the following for a period of 50days: ethanol (E), nicotine (N), ethanol and nicotine (E/N); the control group (C) and an intact (I) group. Body weight as well as the weight, volume and dimensions of the testes and the weight of the cauda epididymidis and vas deference were measured. The concentration, motility, viability and membrane integrity of sperm were also assessed. There were no significant differences between body weight and all testis parameters including weight, volume and dimensions. The concentration and motility of sperm in the E/N group was significantly reduced compared with the control group (P&lt;0.01). Nevertheless, only a marginally significant decrease in sperm viability was found in the E/N group compared with the control group. The study indicates that concurrent chronic administration of ethanol and nicotine may disturb male reproductive function.
Disorders of lipid metabolism can cause variable clinical presentations, often involving skeletal muscle, alone or together with other tissues. A 19-year-old boy presented with a 2-year history of muscle pain, cramps, exercise intolerance and progressive weakness of proximal lower limbs. Examination revealed skeletal markers of Marfan syndrome in the form of increased arm span compared with height, Kyphoscoliois, moderate pectus excavatum, high arched palate and wrist sign. He also had mild neck flexor weakness and proximal lower limb weakness with areflexia. Pathologic findings revealed lipid-laden fine vacuoles in the muscle fibers. Possibility of carnitine deficiency myopathy was considered and the patient was started on carnitine and Co Q. The patient made remarkable clinical improvement over the next 2 months. This case is reported for rarity of the association of clinical markers of Marfan syndrome and lipid storage myopathy and sparse literature on lipid storage myopathy in the Indian context.
