
Psychoneuroimmunology (PNI) investigates the relations between the psychophysiological and immunophysiological dimensions of living beings. PNI brings together researchers in a number of scientific and medical disciplines, including psychology, the neurosciences, immunology, physiology, pharmacology, psychiatry, behavioral medicine, infectious diseases, and rheumatology. All are scientists with profound interest in interactions between the nervous and immune systems, and the relation between behavior and health. Despite the variety in domains and approaches to research, the outcome common to all research endeavors is the discovery of new information, of uncovered facts, of novel evidence, which contributes to the continuing generation of knowledge. In this paper we discuss psychoneuroimmune aspects of some conditions that are not routinely immediately associated with immunity, such as the condition of being the caregiver of somebody suffering from dementia; the effect on the brain-body modulations of aluminum, a metal that is not a component of the human body; and insomnia, a fairly common but disturbing disease, that even today lacks an effectual treatment.
Cell death and reactive oxygen species production have been suggested to be involved in neurodegeneration induced by the drugs of abuse. In this study we analyze the toxicity of the following drugs of abuse: heroin, morphine, d-amphetamine, and cocaine in undifferentiated PC12 cells, used as dopaminergic neuronal models. Our data show that opioid drugs (heroin and morphine) are more toxic than stimulant drugs (d-amphetamine and cocaine). Toxic effects induced by heroin are associated with a decrease in intracellular dopamine, an increase in DOPAC levels, and the formation of ROS, whereas toxic effects induced by amphetamine are associated with a decrease in intracellular dopamine and in ATP/ADP levels. In contrast with cocaine, both amphetamine and heroin induced features of apoptosis. The data suggest that the death of cultured PC12 cells induced by the drugs of abuse is correlated with a decrease in intracellular dopamine levels, which can be associated with an increased dopamine turnover and oxidative cell injury.
The abused drug 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) damages fine serotonergic fibers and nerve terminals in adult organisms; however, developing animals seem less susceptible to this effect. One proposed hypothesis is that neonates are less sensitive to MDMA neurotoxicity because they fail to show drug-induced hyperthermia. We tested this hypothesis by producing hyperthermia in neonatal rats for 2 hours after each of twice-daily MDMA (10 mg/kg sc) or saline injections given over the period from postnatal day (PD) 1 to 4. Other drug-treated and control litters were maintained at normothermic temperatures after injection. Differential core body temperatures were achieved by placing pups (without the dam) in humidified, thermostatically controlled incubators. Temperatures were monitored with a thermocouple probe at 30-minute intervals. Pups subsequently remained undisturbed until sacrifice at PD 25 and PD 60 for assessment of serotonergic damage by measuring 5-HT transporter (SERT) binding in the hippocampus and neocortex as well as 5-HT and 5-HIAA concentrations (PD 25 only). Neonatal MDMA exposure led to significant reductions in both SERT binding and 5-HT levels in the hippocampus at PD 25, independent of body temperature during treatment. Hippocampal SERT binding increased between PD 25 and PD 60 in both the MDMA and saline groups, but the MDMA-related deficit remained unchanged. Interestingly, the neocortex showed no effect of MDMA at PD 25, but SERT binding was significantly reduced at PD 60. Thus, MDMA can exert serotonergic neurotoxicity in developing animals in the absence of elevated body temperature. Hippocampal serotonergic innervation is damaged early, whereas neocortical effects emerge at a later time. Furthermore, the tendency for serotonergic recovery may be less after neonatal MDMA exposure than exposure of adult animals.

In this large cross-sectional population-based study, 51,272 persons responded to a headache questionnaire and were screened for hemochromatosis. Phenotypic hemochromatosis and the C282Y/C282Y genotype were both associated with an 80% increase in headache prevalence evident only among women. The reason for this association is unclear, but one may speculate that iron overload alters the threshold for triggering a headache by disturbing neuronal function.
The Canadian Medical Association's (CMA) Code of Ethics applies to all physicians, residents, and medical students in Canada. Learning about the code must be a part of every physician's education, and keeping current with it must be a part of every physician's continuing medical education. This article, based on a review of the 19 CMA codes of ethics issued from 1868 to 1996, shows how deeply the Code of Ethics is tied to the past, highlights those topics that have been part of every version, and demonstrates how the code changed over time. This article should assist medical educators as they develop teaching material on codes of medical ethics, and would be of interest to practising physicians.
Although relatively rare, retinopathy based on a disturbed metabolism of the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), with ensuing degeneration of photoreceptors, is a known complication of treatment with the 4-aminoquinolones, chloroquine (CQ) and hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), in autoimmune diseases. The reported frequency of retinopathy, however, is much lower for HCQ than for CQ (less than 0.08% versus 1-2%). To test whether the difference in toxicity between the two lysosomotropic drugs is related to different lysosomal influence, we exposed confluent RPE cell cultures to CQ or HCQ for 2 weeks. To induce lipofuscin (LF) formation, known to be accelerated by increased lysosomal pH and intra-lysosomal oxidation during degradation of auto-/heterophagocytosed material, such treatment was combined with feeding of cells with photoreceptor outer segments (POS) and hyperoxia (40% ambient oxygen). HCQ was found to be a less potent enhancer of lipofuscinogenesis compared to CQ, apparently due to its less effective inhibition of lysosomal degradative capacity (evaluated by vital staining of lysosomes with Lyso Tracker Red, and periodic acid-Schiff reaction). This conclusion is supported by the fact that NH4Cl, a non-fluorescent substance which acts similarly to 4-aminoquinolones, induced an increase in LF fluorescence paralleled by increased periodic acid-Schiff reactivity of RPE cells.

Since the first biofeedback (BFB) studies on pediatric pain were published in the early 1980s, most of the studies have focused on the treatment of pediatric migraine. More recently, BFB has also been evaluated in the treatment of tension headache in children. Not surprisingly, most of what we know about the efficacy and mechanisms of BFB in the treatment of children's pain problems concerns the treatment of childhood headache (HA). In this review, we provide a detailed summary of studies that have evaluated BFB in the treatment of childhood HAs with an emphasis on treatment outcome and maintenance of treatment success. Moreover, findings and hypotheses with regard to the mechanisms that may mediate the treatment effects of BFB are addressed. Finally, we discuss specific issues relating to the treatment of pain in children with BFB and outline future directions of research.


The Rorschach Comprehensive System was used to assess postoperative psychological functioning in transsexuals who applied for sex reassignment in adolescence. We investigated a group of 22 consecutive adolescent transsexuals, who were otherwise psychologically well adapted. Nineteen subjects provided valid Rorschach protocols before and after sex reassignment. The most notable change found was an increase in X + %, reflecting a decrease in both distorted perception and idiosyncratic perception. Little support was found for the idea of major psychological deterioration for the patients as a group. Rather, the results suggest stability in psychological functioning over time. The Rorschach findings are consistent with questionnaire data from earlier studies, with the exception that the Rorschach data may point to some improvement in reality testing.


The central point of this article is that the concept of memory as information storage in the brain is inadequate for and irrelevant to understanding the nervous system. Beginning from the sensorimotor hypothesis that underlies neuroscience--that the entire function of the nervous system is to connect experience to appropriate behavior--the paper defines memories as sequences of events that connect remote experience to present behavior. Their essential components are (a) persistent events that bridge the time from remote experience to present behavior and (b) junctional events in which connections from remote experience and recent experience merge to produce behavior. The sequences comprising even the simplest memories are complex. This is both necessary--to preserve previously learned behaviors--and inevitable--due to secondary activity-driven plasticity. This complexity further highlights the inadequacy of the information storage concept and the importance of extreme simplicity in models used to study memory.
The continuing explosion of scientific interest in the hippocampus began in the 1950s, initiated in large part by the recognition of the importance of the observations of hippocampectomized monkeys made by Klver and Bucy and the remarkable memory loss of patient H. M. following temporal lobe surgery. Subsequent to these studies, research and theories about the hippocampus grew exponentially in number and diversity. As yet, no theory of hippocampal function explains all of the phenomena discovered in the clinic or laboratory. In this article, experimental results that have been forgotten or ignored in most theories are presented. Adequate theories of hippocampal function must account for known, reliable postsurgical behavioral observations and consider the conditions under which anomalies are noted. Comprehensive theories will require new approaches in which the interactions of the hippocampus with the central nervous system are understood.
Many findings suggest that changes in circulating estrogen levels influence cognition, in some cases impairing performance and in others enhancing performance. One interpretation of these mixed effects is that estrogen biases the strategy used to solve a task. To test this idea, young adult female rats, ovariectomized for 21 days, were trained after acute hormone or control treatment in 2 very similar tasks with different cognitive requirements. One task required place learning and the other response learning. Rats given two 10-microg injections of estradiol 48 and 24 hr before training learned the place task significantly faster than did rats without estradiol. Conversely, rats without estradiol performed better on the response task than did rats with replacement. These data suggest that the cognitive actions of estrogen may be task-specific by modulating the relative contribution of different learning and memory systems.
The present study reports, for the first time, somatic and cardiac responses to acoustic startle in 2 groups of rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) with different rearing experiences. Both groups showed a significant direct relationship between startle amplitude and the intensity of the acoustic startle stimulus (80-120 dB) and rapid heart rate acceleration after a 120-dB stimulus. Monkeys reared with a same-age peer (PR) showed higher startle amplitudes than those reared with their mothers (MR), consistent with rearing effects in rodents. The MR monkeys, however, showed faster heart rate acceleration of greater overall magnitude than that of the PR group. The results are discussed with regard to a monkey model for neuropsychiatric disease.
Perception of complex communication sounds is a major function of the auditory system. To create a coherent precept of these sounds the auditory system may instantaneously group or bind multiple harmonics within complex sounds. This perception strategy simplifies further processing of complex sounds and facilitates their meaningful integration with other sensory inputs. Based on experimental data and a realistic model, we propose that associative learning of combinations of harmonic frequencies and nonlinear facilitation of responses to those combinations, also referred to as &quot;combination-sensitivity,&quot; are important for spectral grouping. For our model, we simulated combination sensitivity using Hebbian and associative types of synaptic plasticity in auditory neurons. We also provided a parallel tonotopic input that converges and diverges within the network. Neurons in higher-order layers of the network exhibited an emergent property of multifrequency tuning that is consistent with experimental findings. Furthermore, this network had the capacity to &quot;recognize&quot; the pitch or fundamental frequency of a harmonic tone complex even when the fundamental frequency itself was missing.
1. The abilities of a series of saturated N-acyl ethanolamines and related compounds to affect the ability of anandamide (AEA) to produce a Ca2+ influx into human embryonic kidney cells expressing the human vanilloid receptor (hVR1-HEK293 cells) has been investigated. 2. The C3:0, C4:0, C6:0 and C10:0 ethanolamides neither affected basal Ca2+-influx, nor the influx in response to a submaximal concentration of AEA (1 microM). In contrast, the C12:0, C17:0, C18:0 ethanolamides and the monounsaturated compound oleoylethanolamide (C18:1) greatly potentiated the response to AEA. Palmitoylethanolamide (C16:0) produced both a response per se and an augmentation of the response to AEA. 3. Lauroylethanolamide (C12:0) produced a leftward shift in the dose-response curve for AEA. EC50 values for AEA to produce Ca2+ influx into hVR1-HEK293 cells were 1.8, 1.5, 1.1 and 0.22 microM in the presence of 0, 1, 3 and 10 microM lauroylethanolamide, respectively. Lauroylethanolamide did not affect the dose - response curves to capsaicin. 4. Palmitoylethylamide was synthesized and found to be a mixed-type inhibitor (K(i(slope)) 4.1 microM, K(i(intercept)) 66 microM) of [3H]-AEA metabolism by rat brain membranes. 5. The -amide, -ethylamide, -isopropylamide, -butylamide, -cyclohexamide and -trifluoromethyl ketone analogues of palmitoylethanolamide had little or no effect on the Ca2+ influx response to 1 microM AEA. 6. There was no obvious relation between the abilities of the compounds to enhance the Ca2+ influx response to 1 microM AEA into hVR1-HEK293 cells and to prevent the hydrolysis of AEA by rat brain membranes. 7. It is concluded that although palmitoylethanolamide has entourage-like effects at VR1 receptors expressed on hVR1-HEK293 cells, other N-acyl ethanolamines have even more dramatic potentiating effects. It is possible that they may play an important role under conditions where their synthesis is increased, such as in severe inflammation.
Only recently have neuroimaging studies moved away from describing regions activated by noxious stimuli and started to disentangle subprocesses within the nociceptive system. One approach to characterizing the role of individual regions is to record brain responses evoked by different stimulus intensities. We used such a parametric single-trial functional MRI design in combination with a thulium:yttrium-aluminium-granate infrared laser and investigated pain, stimulus intensity and stimulus awareness (i.e. pain-unrelated) responses in nine healthy volunteers. Four stimulus intensities, ranging from warm to painful (300-600 mJ), were applied in a randomized order and rated by the subjects on a five-point scale (P0-4). Regions in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and the intraparietal sulcus differentiated between P0 (not perceived) and P1 but exhibited no further signal increase with P2, and were related to stimulus perception and subsequent cognitive processing. Signal changes in the primary somatosensory cortex discriminated between non-painful trials (P0 and P1), linking this region to basic sensory processing. Pain-related regions in the secondary somatosensory cortex and insular cortex showed a response that did not distinguish between innocuous trials (P0 and P1) but showed a positive linear relationship with signal changes for painful trials (P2-4). This was also true for the amygdala, with the exception that, in P0 trials in which the stimulus was not perceived (i.e. 'uncertain' trials), the evoked signal changes were as great as in P3 trials, indicating that the amygdala is involved in coding 'uncertainty', as has been suggested previously in relation to classical conditioning.
Multiple sclerosis is characterized by the infiltration of leukocytes into the CNS. As matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) facilitate the passage of leukocytes across matrix barriers, we tested the hypothesis that targeting MMPs could attenuate neuro-inflammation. We report that minocycline, a widely used generic drug with a good safety record, inhibited MMP activity, reduced production of MMP-9 and decreased the transmigration of T lymphocytes across a fibronectin matrix barrier. In addition, minocycline was efficacious against both mild and severe experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in mice, an animal model of multiple sclerosis. When severe EAE was produced, minocycline pre-treatment delayed the course of the disease: when maximal disease activity occurred in vehicle-treated EAE mice, minocycline animals were relatively normal and had minimal signs of inflammation and demyelination in the CNS. When tested in mice afflicted with mild EAE, minocycline attenuated the clinical severity of disease throughout the course of treatment. These results indicate that minocycline may constitute a safe and inexpensive therapy for multiple sclerosis.
This report identifies evidence of partially functional cerebral regions in catastrophically injured brains. To study five patients in a persistent vegetative state (PVS) with different behavioural features, we employed [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), MRI and magnetoencephalographic (MEG) responses to sensory stimulation. Each patient's brain expressed a unique metabolic pattern. In three of the five patients, co-registered PET/MRI correlate islands of relatively preserved brain metabolism with isolated fragments of behaviour. Two patients had suffered anoxic injuries and demonstrated marked decreases in overall cerebral metabolism to 30-40% of normal. Two other patients with non-anoxic, multifocal brain injuries demonstrated several isolated brain regions with relatively higher metabolic rates, that ranged up to 50-80% of normal. Nevertheless, their global metabolic rates remained &lt;50% of normal. MEG recordings from three PVS patients provide clear evidence for the absence, abnormality or reduction of evoked responses. Despite major abnormalities, however, these data also provide evidence for localized residual activity at the cortical level. Each patient partially preserved restricted sensory representations, as evidenced by slow evoked magnetic fields and gamma band activity. In two patients, these activations correlate with isolated behavioural patterns and metabolic activity. Remaining active regions identified in the three PVS patients with behavioural fragments appear to consist of segregated corticothalamic networks that retain connectivity and partial functional integrity. A single patient who suffered severe injury to the tegmental mesencephalon and paramedian thalamus showed widely preserved cortical metabolism, and a global average metabolic rate of 65% of normal. The relatively high preservation of cortical metabolism in this patient defines the first functional correlate of clinical- pathological reports associating permanent unconsciousness with structural damage to these regions. The specific patterns of preserved metabolic activity identified in these patients do not appear to represent random survivals of a few neuronal islands; rather they reflect novel evidence of the modular nature of individual functional networks that underlie conscious brain function. The variations in cerebral metabolism in chronic PVS patients indicate that some cerebral regions can retain partial function in catastrophically injured brains.
The aim of the present study was to determine how interhemispheric collaboration and visual attention in basic lexical tasks develop during early childhood. Two- to 6-year-old children were asked to name two different pictures presented simultaneously either one in each visual hemifield (bilateral condition) or both in a single hemifield (either right or left, unilateral condition). In the bilateral condition, children were overall more accurate in naming right visual field than left visual field pictures. This difference was significant for 2- and 3- to 4-year-old children, but not for 5- to 6-year-old children. These results show that the right and left cerebral hemispheres do not develop naming competencies equally well in early childhood. A second analysis, based on the order of report, showed that when 2- and 3- to 4-year-old children named both the left and the right visual field pictures, they named the right visual field picture first. In contrast, at the age of 5-6 years, children named the left visual field picture first and overall naming performance reached a ceiling level. Several interpretations are proposed to explain this shift of visual attention at the age of 5-6 years. In the unilateral condition, no difference was found between naming accuracy in the right and left visual fields, presumably because interhemispheric pathways are functional: visual stimuli presented to the right hemisphere can be processed by the most competent left hemisphere without degradation of information. This result confirms previous findings on the development of interhemispheric collaboration.
Neurotransmitters have become such an intrinsic part of our theories about brain function that many today are unaware of how difficult it was to prove their existence or the protracted dispute over the nature of synaptic transmission. The story is important not only because it is fascinating science history, but also because it exemplifies much of what is best in science and deserving to be emulated. The friendships formed among such major figures in this history as Henry Dale, Otto Loewi, Wilhelm Feldberg, Walter Cannon, and others extended over two world wars, enriching their lives and facilitating their research. Even the dispute-the &quot;war of the sparks and the soups&quot;--between neurophysiologists and pharmacologists over whether synaptic transmission is electrical or chemical played a positive role in stimulating the research needed to provide convincing proof.
Rasmussen's encephalitis (RE) is a cryptogenic progressive inflammatory disorder of the brain that causes severe neurological problems, including intractable focal epilepsy. In select patients, aggressive treatment using cerebral hemispherectomy may ameliorate the devastating cognitive decline that accompanies this disease, even if the epileptic focus appears broadly distributed. We present a case of histopathologically-confirmed RE evaluated using a multimodal process that explored the physical and functional aspects of the associated epilepsy. This process included magnetic resonance imaging, single photo emission computed tomography, electroencephalography, and magnetoencephalography (MEG). The findings indicate that functional brain imaging data may greatly assist the surgical treatment decision-making process in RE, especially when structural imaging fails to reveal definitive localizing information. In addition, MEG may provide insights about the cortical reorganization of somatosensory cortex following hemispherectomy.
Quantification of presynaptic terminals often requires laborious techniques that involve tissue preparation for ultrastructural analysis. Modern preembedding immunohistochemical techniques provide a high morphological resolution at the light microscope level, thus allowing us to identify immunostained presynaptic boutons using specific antibodies. When absolute density of boutons (D(a)) is analysed for comparison between control and deafferented nervous tissue, quantification may be distorted due to tissue shrinkage that follows deafferentiation. The magnitude of this effect must be, therefore, estimated to correct quantitative data. Using the superior colliculus (SC) as a model, an easily applicable protocol to quantify the density of small size labelled particles in control and deafferented nervous tissue is described. This protocol was used to analyse the effect of neonatal and adult enucleation on the adult pattern of cholinergic input to the rat SC. Statistical treatment of data demonstrated that neonatal enucleation caused a drastic increase in bouton density in the visual collicular layers, stratum zonale (SZ) and stratum griseum superficiale (SGS). The same lesion carried out in adult animals caused an increase in the bouton density exclusively in the SZ.
Consciousness combines information about attributes of the present multimodal sensory environment with relevant elements of the past. Information from each modality is continuously fractionated into distinct features, processed locally by different brain regions relatively specialized for extracting these disparate components and globally by interactions among these regions. Information is represented by levels of synchronization within neuronal populations and of coherence among multiple brain regions that deviate from random fluctuations. Significant deviations constitute local and global negative entropy, or information. Local field potentials reflect the degree of synchronization among the neurons of the local ensembles. Large-scale integration, or 'binding', is proposed to involve oscillations of local field potentials that play an important role in facilitating synchronization and coherence, assessed by neuronal coincidence detectors, and parsed into perceptual frames by cortico-thalamo-cortical loops. The most probable baseline levels of local synchrony, coherent interactions among brain regions, and frame durations have been quantitatively described in large studies of their age-appropriate normative distributions and are considered as an approximation to a conscious 'ground state'. The level of consciousness during anesthesia can be accurately predicted by the magnitude and direction of reversible multivariate deviations from this ground state. An invariant set of changes takes place during anesthesia, independent of the particular anesthetic agent. Evidence from a variety of neuroscience areas supporting these propositions, together with the invariant reversible electrophysiological changes observed with loss and return of consciousness, are used to provide a foundation for this theory of consciousness. This paper illustrates the increasingly recognized need to consider global as well as local processes in the search for better explanations of how the brain accomplishes the transformation from synchronous and distributed neuronal discharges to seamless global subjective awareness.
Sex hormones may exert neuroprotective effects in various models of brain lesions. Male and female Long-Evans rats were subjected to intracerebroventricular injections of 2 microg 192 IgG-saporin or vehicle. Starting 2 days before surgery, half the male rats were treated with estradiol for 7 days. Three weeks after surgery, they were sacrificed for histochemical staining of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and densitometric evaluations. The lesion induced a substantial to dramatic decrease of the AChE-positive fiber density in the cingulate, somatosensory, piriform, retrosplenial and perirhinal cortices, and in the hippocampus. Weak effects were found in the striatum. There was no significant decrease in the dorsal thalamus. Sex had no significant effect on AChE-positive staining in any brain area. In males, estradiol treatment did not alter the effects of 192 IgG-saporin. These results show that sex or estradiol treatment in male rats does not interfere with the immunotoxic effects of intracerebroventricular injections of 192 IgG-saporin on cholinergic projections from the basal forebrain.
Two fundamental requirements for multisensory integration are convergence of unisensory (e.g. visual and auditory) inputs and temporal alignment of the neural responses to convergent inputs. We investigated the anatomic mechanisms of multisensory convergence by examining three areas in which convergence occurs, posterior auditory association cortex, superior temporal polysensory area (STP) and ventral intraparietal sulcus area (VIP). The first of these was recently shown to be a site of multisensory convergence and the latter two are more well known as 'classic' multisensory regions. In each case, we focused on defining the laminar profile of response to the unisensory inputs. This information is useful because two major types of connection, feedforward and feedback, have characteristic differences in laminar termination patterns, which manifest physiologically. In the same multisensory convergence areas we also examined the timing of the unisensory inputs using the same standardized stimuli across all recordings. Our findings indicate that: (1) like somatosensory input [J. Neurophysiol., 85 (2001) 1322], visual input is available at very early stages of auditory processing, (2) convergence occurs through feedback, as well as feedforward anatomical projections and (3) input timing may be an asset, as well as a constraint in multisensory processing.
We examined the generally held belief that the postural control system is able to re-weight its available sensory inputs in order to optimize stance control in altered sensory environments. Our view is that previous accounts of sensory re-weighting provide only indirect evidence, which is subject to alternative explanations. The present results provide strong evidence for sensory re-weighting as the primary mechanism for changes observed in postural sway between conditions. Subjects were presented with small-amplitude, oscillatory visual and somatosensory stimuli at 0.20 and 0.28 Hz, respectively, in five conditions that manipulated the amplitudes of stimulus motion. Gain calculated in each trial with respect to each of the two stimuli was found to change systematically as stimulus motion amplitudes changed across condition. The observed pattern of gain rules out a constant-weight, linear account of posture and is consistent with the re-weighting hypothesis. Parameter fits of a third-order, linear stochastic model to postural sway trajectories in each condition showed that changes in gain across condition were primarily due to changes in coupling coefficients rather than changes in parameters that characterize the stability of the postural system. Visual gain was found to depend upon visual motion amplitude and touch gain was found to depend upon touch motion amplitude, indicating intra-modality dependencies. Visual gain also depended upon touch motion amplitude, indicating an inter-modality dependence. To our knowledge, simultaneous re-weighting of more than one sensory input has never been rigorously demonstrated. These techniques may be able to resolve the source of balance control deficits across populations with far more certainty than currently possible.
Integration of information from multiple senses is fundamental to perception and cognition, but when and where this is accomplished in the brain is not well understood. This study examined the timing and topography of cortical auditory-visual interactions using high-density event-related potentials (ERPs) during a simple reaction-time (RT) task. Visual and auditory stimuli were presented alone and simultaneously. ERPs elicited by the auditory and visual stimuli when presented alone were summed ('sum' ERP) and compared to the ERP elicited when they were presented simultaneously ('simultaneous' ERP). Divergence between the 'simultaneous' and 'sum' ERP indicated auditory-visual (AV) neural response interactions. There was a surprisingly early right parieto-occipital AV interaction, consistent with the finding of an earlier study [J. Cogn. Neurosci. 11 (1999) 473]. The timing of onset of this effect (46 ms) was essentially simultaneous with the onset of visual cortical processing, as indexed by the onset of the visual C1 component, which is thought to represent the earliest cortical visual evoked potential. The coincident timing of the early AV interaction and C1 strongly suggests that AV interactions can affect early visual sensory processing. Additional AV interactions were found within the time course of sensory processing (up to 200 ms post stimulus onset). In total, this system of AV effects over the scalp was suggestive of both activity unique to multisensory processing, and the modulation of 'unisensory' activity. RTs to the stimuli when presented simultaneously were significantly faster than when they were presented alone. This RT facilitation could not be accounted for by probability summation, as evidenced by violation of the 'race' model, providing compelling evidence that auditory-visual neural interactions give rise to this RT effect.
Crossmodal integration was studied in humans by presenting random sequences of auditory (brief noise bursts), visual (flashes), and audiovisual (simultaneous noise bursts and flashes) stimuli from a central location at irregular intervals between 600 and 800 ms. The subjects' task was to press a button to infrequent and unpredictable (P=0.15) target stimuli that could be either a more intense noise burst, a brighter flash, or a combination of the two. In accordance with previous studies, behavioral data showed that bimodal target stimuli were responded to much faster and were identified more accurately than the unimodal target stimuli. The neural basis of this crossmodal interaction was investigated by subtracting the ERPs to the auditory (A) and the visual (V) stimuli alone from the ERP to the combined audiovisual (AV) stimuli (i.e. interaction=AV-(A+V)). Using this approach, we replicated previous reports of both early (at around 40 ms) and late (after 100 ms) ERP interaction effects. However, it appears that the very early interaction effects can be largely accounted for by an anticipatory ERP that precedes both the unimodal and bimodal stimuli. In calculating the ERP interaction this slow shift is subtracted twice, resulting in an apparent shift of the opposite polarity that may be confounded with actual crossmodal interactions.
Long latency auditory brain potentials were recorded while subjects listened to bi-syllabic words spoken with an emotional expression and concurrently viewed congruent or incongruent facial expressions. Analysis of the auditory waveforms suggests the existence of a positive deflection around 240 ms post-stimulus with a clear posterior topography (the P2b component). This potential is subsequent upon the modality-specific auditory N1-P2 components and precedes the amodal N2-P3 complex. Congruent face-voice trials elicited an earlier P2b component than incongruent trials suggesting that auditory processing is delayed in the presence of an incongruent facial context. These electrophysiological results are consistent with previous behavioural studies showing an acceleration of reaction times for rating voice expressions that are part of congruent bimodal stimulus pairs. A source localisation analysis performed on the scalp EEG during the time-window corresponding to the P2b component disclosed a single dipole solution in the anterior cingulate cortex.
Behavioral and physiological studies have established that visual attention to a given feature or location can modulate early visual processing. In the present experiment, we asked whether auditory attention can likewise influence visual processing. We used a visual illusion, the motion aftereffect (MAE), to assess the effects of visual and auditory attention on motion processing in human area MT+. We acquired psychophysical and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data while subjects fixated and viewed moving and stationary stimuli in alternating blocks. For each of four motion conditions, we measured the duration of the subsequent MAE, the time for activity in MT+ to return to baseline after motion adaptation (decay time), and the magnitude of MT+ activity during motion adaptation. For each subject, we first obtained measures of motion processing in the absence of attentional demands, by comparing reversing and expanding motion conditions. Subjects perceived the MAE following adaptation to expanding but not reversing motion, as observed previously, and decay times in MT+ were selectively prolonged after expanding motion. We then assessed the effects of performing either a visual or an auditory attentional task during expanding motion adaptation. Performance of the attentional task, whether visual or auditory, produced a significant reduction of subsequent MAE perception and associated decay times in MT+, as compared to expanding motion with fixation only. Both attentional tasks also reduced the magnitude of activation during motion adaptation. These data show that auditory attention, like visual attention, can modify sensory processing at a remarkably early stage of the visual hierarchy.
For multisensory stimulation to effect perceptual and behavioral responses, information from the different sensory systems must converge on individual neurons. A great deal is already known regarding processing within the separate sensory systems, as well as about many of the integrative and perceptual/behavioral effects of multisensory processing. However, virtually nothing is known about the functional architecture that underlies multisensory convergence even though it is an integral step to this processing sequence. This paper seeks to summarize the findings pertinent to multisensory convergence, and to initiate the identification of specific convergence patterns that may underlie different multisensory perceptual and behavioral effects.
We report a failure to find a repetition deficit in recall following the rapid serial visual presentation (RSVP) of words within sentences, using adjectives rather than nouns as the critical items. In a series of experiments that ruled out participant and procedural differences as the source of the failure, both word class and list context were found to moderate the repetition deficit, but grammatical necessity did not. The presence in the list of sentences in which the repeated adjectives were separated by more than three words (i.e., more than 400 ms in RSVP) not only eliminated the repetition deficit for the recall of those sentences but also for the recall of sentences in which the repeated adjectives were separated by three or fewer words (i.e., less than 400 ms in RSVP). However, although substantially reduced, a repetition deficit with noun-based materials was still found in this list context. Matching the adjective-based sentences with the noun-based sentences in sentence length and position of the critical items revealed that the moderating effect of word-class on the repetition deficit was mediated by the biases in sentence structure that using different word classes tend to induce.
In the field of sensorimotor activities, progresses achieved over the last fifty years have been largely driven by the Reaction Time (RT) paradigm. Information processing models are set in the context of a global breakdown of sensorimotor activities in multiple concatenated stages, each aggregated in many fundamental operations that are functionally linked. If there is a consensus today about this breakdown, the way stages organize themselves in time however is still much debated. According to one hypothesis, there is no temporal overlap between each stages: the process occurs sequentially. According to another theory, the stages overlap over in time: the process occurs in a parallel manner. A behavioral analysis does not allow to determine between these two hypothesis because the RT represents the final product of the whole sensorimotor pathway, while the temporal organization of the processing of information depends on the nature of the transfer between individual stages. An all-or-nothing information transfer, also called discrete, leads to a sequential organization, while a progressive or continuous transfer brings about a parallel organization. Moreover, contrary to a preconceived notion, data obtained from classical neurophysiology are compatible with both a sequential organization and a parallel organization. Particularly, the great number of connections between the different elements of the nervous system has often seemed difficult to conciliate with a sequential organization. In fact, this argument is inadmissible because it stems from confusion between a temporal organization and an anatomical organization of the processing of information. More generally, our knowledge of the functional anatomy of sensorimotor activities imposes but few constraints on the temporal organization patterns of the processing of information. The lack of interest for the neurophysiological argument seems essentially due to the fact that theses arguments rest on research which is not aimed at the temporal organization of the sensorimotor information processing. Recently, approaches that integrate concepts and methods used in experimental psychology and neurosciences have contributed to putting in perspective the organization of information processing. Electromyography, EEG, reflexology and neuronal recording techniques have been used in the context of two inference logics. The first logic, that we call &quot;factual&quot;, is based on the study of functional relations between RT and certain neuronal events. The second logic, that we call &quot;chronometric&quot;, is based on the study of the relationships between RT and intervals resulting from the breakdown of the RT in relation to certain neuronal events. Generally speaking, most studies suggest that in tasks where the stimulus is composed of numerous attributes, information processing operates in parallel. On the other hand, when the stimulus is made up of a single attribute, information processing could be operating in a sequential manner. One weakness of this electrophysiological approach is that it has so far only examined relationships between physiological indicators and means RT. We propose here to offset these weaknesses by examining functional relationships between RT distribution variances and certain neuronal events linked to information processing.
Recent studies of human cancers and mutant mouse models have implicated the Nkx3.1 homeobox gene as having a key role in prostate carcinogenesis. Consistent with such a role, here we show that Nkx3.1 displays growth-suppressing activities in cell culture, and that aged Nkx3.1 mutant mice display histopathological defects resembling prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN), the presumed precursor of human prostate cancer. Using a tissue recombination approach, we found that PIN-like lesions from Nkx3.1 mutants can undergo progressively severe histopathological alterations after serial transplantation in nude mice. Our findings indicate that Nkx3.1 loss-of-function is a critical event in prostate cancer initiation, and that Nkx3.1 mutant mice accurately model early stages of prostate carcinogenesis. More generally, our tissue recombination assay provides an empirical test to examine the relationship of PIN to prostate carcinoma.
1. The aim is to study some roles of the hippocampal NMDA receptor, by modifying the expression of the essential NR1 subunit, with temporal and spatial restrictions in the central nervous system (CNS) of the rat. 2. Due to their neurotropism and the size of inserts they can accomodate, herpes simplex virus type-1 (HSV-1) derived amplicon vectors were used to transfer sequences, either in sense (+) or antisense (-) orientations, of the NR1 subunit gene, or of the green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene, into the CNS. 3. Vector expression in cell lines was followed by GFP autofluorescence, immunofluorescence and western blot. 4. The vectors were inoculated into the dorsal hippocampus of adult male Wistar rats, which were evaluated for habituation to an open field, and then, for expression of the transgenes, by autofluorescence and western blot; the expression mainly happened in pyramidal cells of CA1. 5. The animals injected with vectors carrying the NR1(+) transgene showed habituation to the new environment, as also happened with rats injected with vectors carrying only the GFP transgene. 6. In contrast, animals injected with vectors carrying NR1(-) sequence, did not show habituation. This might be retrograde amnesia or disability to record the trace, suggesting that the NR1 subunit in the dorsal hippocampus, is involved in habituation to a new environment. 7. HSV-1 derived amplicon vectors appear to be useful tools to modify endogenous gene expression, at a defined period, in restricted regions of the CNS.
We describe a simple and effective method for obtaining stable in vivo whole-cell recordings in cat visual cortex. The core of the new approach is to prevent brain pulsation by retaining the dura mater. After being treated with an enzyme (collagenase), the dura became soft enough to allow easy penetration by a patch-clamp electrode with negligible damage to the tip. The procedure is as simple as those used for extracellular recordings, and all the intricate steps required for conventional techniques are no longer necessary. The reliability of this approach is demonstrated by stable and sustained intracellular recordings and high-quality intracellular staining. The method is especially effective for studying small neurons in the superficial layers immediately below the dura.
Olfaction is critical to the host preference selection behavior of many disease-transmitting insects, including the mosquito Anopheles gambiae sensu stricto (hereafter A. gambiae), one of the major vectors for human malaria. In order to more fully understand the molecular biology of olfaction in this insect, we have previously identified several members member of a family of candidate odorant receptor proteins from A. gambiae (AgORs). Here we report the cloning and characterization of an additional AgOR gene, denoted as AgOr5, which shows significant similarity to putative odorant receptors in A. gambiae and Drosophila melanogaster and which is selectively expressed in olfactory organs. AgOr5 is tightly clustered within the A. gambiae genome to two other highly homologous candidate odorant receptors, suggesting that these genes are derived from a common ancestor. Analysis of the developmental expression within members of this AgOR gene cluster reveals considerable variation between these AgORs as compared to candidate odorant receptors from D. melanogaster.
We assessed the influence of schizophrenia on different olfactory tasks. Forty patients with schizophrenia (20 males and 20 females) and 40 control subjects (20 males and 20 females) were tested. The experiment included two sessions. Initially, 12 odorants were presented at a rate of one per minute. The subjects were asked to rate intensity, pleasantness, familiarity and edibility for each odour using linear rating scales. The odorants were then presented a second time and the subjects were asked to identify them. The results showed that the scores for pleasantness, familiarity, edibility and identification but not intensity were disturbed in patients when compared with control subjects. Furthermore, the familiarity judgement of male patients was more often deficient than that of female patients and they rated odorants as being inedible when the women judged them as neutral. Considered together, these data show that our olfactory test may be used in patients with schizophrenia for evidencing various dysfunctions specific to different types of olfactory processing that represent steps in the odour name identification process.
Selective learning (SL) is the ability to select items to learn from among other items. It requires the use of the executive processes of metacognitive control and working memory, which are considered to be mediated by the frontal cortex and its circuitry. We studied the efficiency with which verbal items of greater value are selectively learned from among items varying in value in 14 children ages 8-15 years who had sustained severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) and in 39 typically developing age-matched children. We hypothesized that children with TBI would be disproportionately compromised in selective learning efficiency in contrast to memory span when compared to normally developing children. The results supported our hypothesis, as children with TBI performed significantly worse than controls on a measure of selective learning efficiency, but the two groups performed similarly on a measure of word recall within the same task. Furthermore, the effect of TBI on performance was demonstrated to take place at the time of encoding, rather than at retrieval.
Although children born preterm are at risk for neuropsychological impairments at school age and adolescence, including difficulties with visual motor integration, spatial/constructional skills, attention, arithmetic, and nonverbal executive functions, specific neuropsychological outcome has not been investigated adequately in preschoolers. Application of cognitive neuroscience tasks offers the opportunity to characterize early executive functions in young children born preterm. In a preliminary sample of 29 preschool children born preterm (M birth gestational age = 32.4 weeks), executive function outcome was compared to that of fullterm controls by contrasting performance on two prototypic delayed-response-type paradigms, Delayed Alternation and Spatial Reversal. Preschoolers born preterm correctly retrieved the reward on fewer trials on Delayed Alternation than did matched controls. Furthermore, preschool children born preterm used problem-solving strategies that included more perseverative errors than controls. These preliminary findings highlight the utility of cognitive neuroscience paradigms to understand neuropsychological outcome in preschool children born preterm and suggest areas of developmental vulnerability that may include dorsolateral prefrontal circuits.
Wilson's disease is known for its protean manifestations; however involvement of the autonomic nervous system has not received much attention. Fifty patients with varying duration and severity of illness were evaluated for autonomic dysfunction clinically and electrophysiologically, using sympathetic skin response (SSR) and RR interval variability (RRIV) on deep breathing. The change in heart rate (AHR) was calculated from RRIV. Five patients had at least one autonomic symptom and one asymptomatic patient had significant postural hypotension. Absent SSR and abnormal AHR were noted in seven patients each. Overall, 13 patients had electrophysiological dysautonomia and an additional six had clinical dysautonomia. All had normal peripheral conductions and all but one had normal hepatic functions. Dysautonomia was more common among patients with neurological presentation (12/32) than non-neurological (1/18) (p = .012). Dysautonomia, often subclinical is common in Wilson's disease and is probably of central origin. It is more frequent among those with neurological presentation. Sympathetic and parasympathetic functions are equally affected.


Clinical diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD) is not always coincident with pathological findings. A better characterization of the disease from the results of studies in various areas of neuroscience can help in improving the rate of diagnostic certainty. Neurophysiology is among the techniques with better chances to furnish specific diagnostic cues on motor aspects of the disease. Neurophysiology provides quantifiable data using non-invasive, relatively inexpensive, methods. Neurophysiological tests can be applied with no previous preparation, and repeated many times without dangerous consequences. To be rewarding, however, neurophysiological examination should be done in close cooperation between the clinician who detects relevant specific signs, and the neurophysiologist who devises the most demonstrative methods to document those signs. In this review, we describe the neurophysiological correlate of symptoms and signs in patients with PD, and particularly their pathophysiological meaning, with special focus on those that could be more helpful to the neurologists in establishing differences with respect to other diseases presenting with parkinsonism.
Shepherd I. Franz was an important figure in psychology of the last century, and historians of psychology have given recognition to much of his work. However, his experimental work with animals and his pioneer investigations in experimental and clinical neuropsychology have been largely ignored. This article reviews his conceptual, assessment, and treatment contributions, including (1) his pioneering work on the use of learned behavior as a baseline for the study of cerebral ablations, (2) his interest in brain plasticity, (3) his development of comprehensive psychological assessment methods, and (4) his work on the rehabilitation of neurological patients with techniques derived from his animal experiments. His work predated much of what is now part of the conceptual substance of the experimental and clinical neurosciences.



Epilepsy is a disorder that afflicts more than 50 million people worldwide. Current antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), although effective in controlling seizures for the majority of individuals, remain far from ideal as therapeutics. There is a need for new drugs that act at different molecular targets than currently available AEDs and for new therapies designed to block the process of epileptogenesis. Because of their central role in modulating numerous physiological processes in the central nervous system, metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have been implicated in the pathophysiology of a variety of neurological conditions including epilepsy. mGluRs represent attractive new targets for therapeutic control of seizures and interruption of the epileptogenic process. We review the involvement of mGluRs in the induction and expression of epileptic seizures, their potential roles in the process of epileptogenesis, and their altered expression and function in the epileptic human brain.
The basal ganglia are implicated in a number of disorders including neurodegenerative motor diseases such as Huntington's and Parkinson's disease, as well as psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia and obsessive compulsive disorder. In recent years, a great deal of effort has been focused on determining the basal ganglia circuitry that underlies normal behavior, as well as many of these syndromes. This has led to a detailed understanding of both the normal and pathophysiological flow of information through the basal ganglia, and has provided the opportunity to begin developing novel pharmacological methods of intervention by targeting neuromodulatory receptors with in the basal ganglia circuit. One group of receptors that holds much promise for several basal ganglia disorders is the metabotropic glutamate receptors. Data from behavioral, neurochemical, neuroanatomical and electrophysiological studies has begun to reveal the functional roles that the metabotropic glutamate receptors play in modulating the basal ganglia circuit, and suggests that compounds selectively targeting these receptors may provide novel therapies for a variety of disorders including Parkinson's disease, addiction, and epilepsy.
The discovery of small molecules that inhibit beta-peptide and other amyloid fibril formation has been impeded by featureless structure-activity-relationships, low apparent efficacy of inhibition, and by the perception that protein-protein interactions are too diffuse to be proper medicinal chemistry targets. Atomic resolution structural information on the critical target species are lacking. Despite these difficulties, substoichiometric inhibitors of fibrillogenesis have been reported. By carefully defining assay systems and considering a spectrum of data from different types of measurements, medicinal chemistry can improve molecular structures and their measured effectiveness can be better understood. Compounds with good pharmacokinetic and toxicologic profiles that persist in the target tissue at useful concentrations may be as useful as would extremely high affinity inhibitors with less favorable biological properties.
DNA microarrays are used to quantify tens of thousands of DNA or RNA sequences in a single assay. Upon their introduction approximately six years ago, DNA microarrays were viewed as a disruptive technology that would fundamentally alter the scientific landscape. Supporting this view, the number of applications of DNA microarray technology has since expanded exponentially. Here, we review recent advances in microarray technology and selected new applications of the technology.
In the past year, knowledge of how information is relayed in the regulation of circadian rhythms has advanced considerably. Experiments using genetic knockout animals suggest that circadian photoreception consists of an integration of multiple signaling pathways. Versatility of clock proteins is seen in terms of their function in the central pacemakers versus the periphery. This versatility also extends to previously identified molecules, such as retinoid receptors, redox factors and mitogen-activated protein kinase, that have newly identified roles in circadian signaling pathways. Advances in circadian research over the past year include the common themes of redundancy and plasticity.
Target-derived neurotrophins are required for the growth and survival of innervating neurons. When released by postsynaptic targets, neurotrophins bind receptors (Trks) on nerve terminals. Activated Trks signal locally within distal axons and retrogradely through long axons to distant cell bodies in order to promote gene expression and survival. Although the mechanism of retrograde neurotrophin signaling is not fully elucidated, considerable evidence supports a model in which the vesicular transport of neurotrophin-Trk complexes transmits a survival signal that involves PI3K and Erk5. Other, non-vesicular modes of retrograde signaling are likely to function in parallel. Recent studies highlight the importance of the location of stimulation as a determinant of Trk signaling. Defects in signaling from distal axons to cell bodies may be causally related to neurodegenerative disorders.
The triptans (selective serotonin agonists) are becoming the first-line alternatives in the acute pharmacological treatment of migraine, at least for attacks of moderate-to-severe intensity. Although clinical trials demonstrate significant differences in efficacy between triptan tablets, they often appear similar in efficacy when used in clinical practice, particularly after dose adjustments. Most patients with migraine consider drugs that can be administered orally to be the most user-friendly. However, gastrointestinal absorption may be impaired during migraine attacks because gastric motility is inhibited, and there is a risk that nausea during the attack will culminate in vomiting. Furthermore, in addition to their antimigraine properties, triptans may prolong the gastric emptying time. For this reason the absorption of any triptan taken orally during the migraine attack will be erratic and treatment effects inconsistent. Despite these barriers to good efficacy and high reliability, the tablet is the most commonly used triptan formulation.
The neuromuscular junction is a prototype synapse and it is also the site of well-characterised autoimmune and hereditary disorders. In the presynaptic terminal, voltage-gated potassium channels and voltage-gated calcium channels are subtly altered in genetic disorders and mutations in the enzyme that synthesises acetylcholine have been demonstrated in a particular form of hereditary myasthenia syndrome. Recent advances have revealed agrin, muscle-specific kinase (MuSK) and rapsyn as important signalling elements in the development and maintainance of the molecular architecture of the postsynaptic membrane. This is proving relevant to seronegative myasthenia gravis, with the discovery of anti-MuSK antibodies, and to a type of congenital myasthenic syndrome, in which acetylcholine receptor deficiency is due to mutations in rapsyn.
The possible role of 5-HT(6) receptor antagonists in the treatment of learning and memory disorders has stimulated significant recent work in this area. The first selective antagonists of this receptor were identified by Roche (Ro 04-6790 and Ro 63-0563) and SmithKline Beecham (SB-271046), although they only had poor to modest brain penetration, respectively. Recently, several structurally different series of selective antagonists have been reported. Glennon s group and Merck Sharp &amp; Dohme have discovered N,N-dimethyl-1-benzenesulfonyl-5-methoxytrypt amine as a reasonably selective, high affinity antagonist, while Allelix have gone on to find that a 6-bicyclopiperazinyl-1-naphthylsulfonylindole had improved affinity and selectivity. Roche have reported subsequently on more lipophilic analogs of Ro 04-6790 that appear to penetrate the brain better. Reversing the sulfonamide linkage of SB-271046 led to a new series of compounds, producing SB-357134, which also had increased CNS penetration. A series of selective partial agonists containing a 4-piperazinylquinoline system has also been described. Recent studies in the Morris water maze with both Ro 04-6790 and SB-271046 have concluded that 5-HT(6) receptor antagonists improved retention performance, although these results are open to interpretation. Other behavioural studies have also implicated a role for 5-HT(6) in cognition enhancement and this has been supported by in vivo microdialysis studies that showed SB-271046 produced an increase in extracellular glutamate levels in the frontal cortex. However, we have been unable to replicate these effects with either SB-271046 or Ro 04-6790, and clearly further work is required before we can be certain of the functional role of this receptor.
Several lines of evidence indicate that G-protein coupled receptors (GPCR) may exist in a state that allows a tonic level of stimulation in vivo (constitutive activity). Several native forms of GPCR, when expressed in recombinant cell lines, display significant signal transduction stimulation in the absence of activating ligand. Many GPCR, including three serotonin receptors, display robust constitutive activation upon the mutation of a single amino acid, indicating mutations producing inappropriate constitutive activation may be etiological factors in diseases. If constitutive activity of GPCR is as common a phenomenon as some researchers suspect, this would suggest significant alterations in the classical model of ligand-receptor interactions. One of the most significant implications of constitutive activity for pharmacologists and medicinal chemists, is the possibility of developing drugs that lower the level of constitutive activity. Such compounds have been termed inverse agonists . These drugs, in theory, would have different physiological effects, and therefore possibly different therapeutic potential, than classical competitive receptor antagonists ( neutral antagonists ). Theoretical issues concerning constitutive activity in the GPCR family and some of the evidence supporting the existence of constitutive activity in the GPCR family is reviewed. Studies are presented demonstrating the procedures for producing and characterizing constitutive activated forms of serotonin receptors, including the demonstration of inverse agonist activity of drugs on these receptors.
The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is a triploblastic ecdysozoan, which, although it contains too few cells during embryogenesis to create discernible germ &quot;layers,&quot; deploys similar programs for germ layer differentiation used in animals with many more cells. The endoderm arises from a single progenitor, the E cell, and is selected from among three possible fates by a three-state combinatorial regulatory system involving intersecting cell-intrinsic and intercellular signals. The core gene regulatory cascade that drives endoderm development, extending from early maternal regulators to terminal differentiation genes, is characterized by activation of successive tiers of transcription factors, including a sequential cascade of redundant GATA transcription factors. Each tier is punctuated by a cell division, raising the possibility that intercession of one cell cycle round, or DNA replication, is required for activation of the next tier. The existence of each tier in the regulatory hierarchy is justified by the assignment of a unique task and each invariably performs at least two functions: to activate the regulators in the next tier and to perform one other activity distinct from that of the next tier. While the regulatory inputs that initiate endoderm development are highly divergent, they mobilize a gene regulatory network for endoderm development that appears to be common to all triploblastic metazoans. Genome-wide functional genomic approaches, including identification of &gt;800 transcripts that exhibit the same regulatory patterns as a number of endoderm-specific genes, are contributing to elucidation of the complete endoderm gene regulatory network in C. elegans. Dissection of the architecture of the C. elegans endoderm network may provide insights into the evolutionary plasticity and origins of this germ layer.
In zebrafish, cells at the lateral edge of the neural plate become Rohon-Beard primary sensory neurons or neural crest. Delta/Notch signaling is required for neural crest formation. ngn1 is expressed in primary neurons; inhibiting Ngn1 activity prevents Rohon-Beard cell formation but not formation of other primary neurons. Reducing Ngn1 activity in embryos lacking Delta/Notch signaling restores neural crest formation, indicating Delta/Notch signaling inhibits neurogenesis without actively promoting neural crest. Ngn1 activity is also required for later development of dorsal root ganglion sensory neurons; however, Rohon-Beard neurons and dorsal root ganglion neurons are not necessarily derived from the same precursor cell. We propose that temporally distinct episodes of Ngn1 activity in the same precursor population specify these two different types of sensory neurons.


It has become increasingly clear that males and females differ even more dramatically than we previously thought. Not only do they exhibit differing responses to stress and environmental experience, but they can also respond in opposite directions. In rats, it has been shown that exposure to an acute stressful event can enhance subsequent learning in males while dramatically impairing learning in females. These opposite effects of stress on memory formation are accompanied by similarly opposite effects on neuroanatomical measures, such as dendritic spines in the hippocampal formation. Moreover, these opposite effects of stress are mediated by different hormonal systems between the sexes. These unique responses to stressful experience in male versus female rats may be used to model sex differences in mental illness, such as those that exist for depression and posttraumatic stress disorder.
Gender and aging moderate brain-behavior relationships. Advances in neuroscience enable integration of neurobehavioral, neuroanatomic, and neurophysiology measures. Here we present neurobehavioral studies thai examine cognitive and emotion processing in healthy men and women and highlight the effects of sex differences and aqinq. Neuroanatomic studies with maqnetic resonance imaging (MRI) indicate that the progressive decrease in brain volume affects froniotemporal brain regions in men more than in Vi/omen, Functional imaging methods suggest sex differences in rate of blood flow, pattern of glucose metabolism, and receptor activity. The role of ovarian hormones is important in elucidating the observed relationships. A life span perspective on gender differences through the integration of available methodologies will advance understanding healthy people and the effects of brain disorders.
One of the goals of developmental neuroscience in the post-genomic era is to clarify functions of a huge number of anonymous genes of which only DNA sequences are identified. More convenient methods for genetic manipulation in vertebrates, especially mammals, could help us to identify functions of the novel genes. Here we introduce a novel gene transfer technology using electroporation (EP), which is a simple and powerful strategy for genetic analysis. We have applied this method to cultured mammalian embryos in order to understand the function of specific genes in the developing brain. We have also performed EP in developing fetuses in utero guided by ultrasound image. The combination of these techniques in addition to analysis of genetic mutants will clarify functions of individual genes, gene interactions, and the molecular mechanisms underlying the brain development.
Alzheimer's disease is a chronic neurodegenerative disease causing progressive impairment of memory and other cognitive functions. A number of sequential events are suggested to be associated with different pathological aspects observed in Alzheimer's disease, the so-called amyloid cascade hypothesis. Mismetabolism of the beta-amyloid precursor protein, as a result of mutations in the amyloid precursor protein gene or as results of impaired cleavage, leads to the formation of nonfibrillar and fibrillar amyloid-beta deposits. Glial cells are attracted to and activated by these amyloid-beta deposits. After activation, these cells secrete inflammatory mediators and reactive oxygen species, which can aggravate the aggregation of amyloid-beta. Some of the products released by activated glial cells, as well as amyloid-beta itself, can induce or promote neurodegeneration. Several mechanisms, such as mitotic reentry, apoptosis and cytoskeletal changes are suggested to be involved in neuronal loss. This review will outline several pathological mechanisms in Alzheimer's disease as well as some means of therapeutic intervention following the amyloid cascade hypothesis.
Four emotionally arousing stimuli were used to probe the behavior of monkeys with bilateral ablations of the entorhinal and perirhinal cortex. The monkeys' behavioral changes were then contrasted with those observed earlier (M. Meunier, J. Bachevalier, E. A. Murray, L. Mlkov, &amp; M. Mishkin, 1999) in monkeys with either neurotoxic or aspiration lesions of the neighboring amygdala. Rhinal cortex ablations yielded several subtle behavioral changes but none of them resembled any of the disorders typically seen after amygdalectomies. The changes produced by rhinal damage took mainly the form of heightened defensiveness and attenuated submission and approach responses; that is, just the opposite of some of the most distinctive symptoms following amygdala damage. These findings raise the possibility that the rhinal cortex and amygdala have distinct, interactive functions in normal behavioral adaptation to affective stimuli.
Isoflavone phytoestrogens are growing increasingly popular because of their reported cardiovascular and anticarcinogenic properties, but the effects of these compounds in the brain are largely unknown. In a previous study, we found that an isoflavone supplement, containing a mixture of soy phytoestrogens, inhibited estrogen-dependent female sexual behavior and was antiestrogenic for both ER alpha- and ER beta-dependent gene expression in the hypothalamus. Here we examined the impact of the soy isoflavone genistein, a major component of the supplement, on estrogen-dependent female sexual behavior and ER alpha- and ER beta-dependent gene expression in the rat brain. Genistein, at a dietary concentration of 100 or 500 ppm had no effect on lordosis behavior in rats. However, at 500 ppm genistein had differential activity through ER alpha and ER beta in the hypothalamus. Genistein had no effect, in either the presence or absence of 17 beta-E2, on oxytocin receptor density in the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, an estrogen-dependent action thought to be regulated via ER alpha. However, genistein increased ER beta mRNA expression in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus by 24%, whereas 17 beta-E2 decreased ER beta mRNA expression by 26%, a process likely mediated by ER beta itself. These results suggest that at this dose, genistein has antiestrogenic action through ER beta in the paraventricular nucleus but negligible activity through ER alpha in the brain.
Developmental exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) interferes with masculinization and defeminization of male sexual behaviors and gonadotropin release patterns. We previously demonstrated that the mRNA encoding the arylhydrocarbon receptor (AhR), a protein that mediates TCDD effects, is found in brain regions that control reproductive functions, most notably in the preoptic area (POA). The pattern of distribution of the AhR gene closely overlaps that of an enzyme necessary for Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) synthesis, glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) 67. To test the hypothesis that GABAergic neurons in the POA are targets of TCDD during development, we used dual-label in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISHH) to co-localize GAD and AhR mRNAs in the region. In addition, we used ISHH to determine the effects of TCDD (1 microg/kg body weight, gestational day 15) on GAD 67 gene expression in POA regions in pups examined on postnatal day 3. We found that virtually all GABAergic neurons in the POA expressed the AhR gene. Furthermore, GAD 67 mRNA levels were higher in females than in males in the rostral POA/anteroventral periventricular nucleus (rPOA/AVPV) and in the rostral portion of the medial preoptic nucleus (MPN). TCDD abolished sex differences in the rPOA/AVPV but had no effect in the rostral MPN. In the caudal MPN, there were no sex differences in GAD 67 gene expression, but TCDD depressed expression specifically in males. Our findings demonstrate that GABAergic neurons in the brain are targets of TCDD and may mediate developmental effects of this contaminant on reproductive function.
Data accumulated over the past four decades have led to the widespread recognition that neurogenesis, the birth of new neurons, persists in the hippocampal dentate gyrus and rostral forebrain subventricular zone (SVZ) of the adult mammalian brain. Neural precursor cells located more caudally in the forebrain SVZ are thought to also give rise to glia throughout life. The continued production of neurons and glia suggests that the mature brain maintains an even greater potential for plasticity after injury than was previously recognized. Underscoring this idea are recent findings that seizures induced by various experimental manipulations increase neurogenesis in the adult rodent dentate gyrus. Although neurogenesis and gliogenesis in persistent germinative zones are altered in adult rodent models of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), the effects of seizure-induced neurogenesis in the epileptic brain, in terms of either a pathological or reparative role, are only beginning to be explored. Emerging data suggest that altered neurogenesis in the epileptic dentate gyrus may be pathological and promote abnormal hyperexcitability. However, the presence of endogenous neural progenitors in other proliferative regions may offer potential strategies for the development of anti-epileptogenic or neuronal replacement therapies.
A brief review of kindling is provided, which highlights some important points of historical interest often overlooked by researchers. These points include the fact that the original rating scale of convulsive seizures presented by Racine 'EEG Clin. Neurophysiol 32 (1972) 281'. was based on amygdala kindling, and may not be applicable to kindling from other sites. The functional anatomy of these convulsive seizures was similarly addressed. Also emphasized was the observation that kindling results ultimately in spontaneous seizures, seemingly identical to those seen in models of status epilepticus (SE), and can provide a unique perspective on those seizures because of its controlled natural history and minimal brain damage. Much of the recent work described here focused on genetic susceptibility versus resistance to kindling, as witnessed by the Fast and Slow kindling rat strains. The results of those studies indicated substantial strain differences in GABAergic function in different limbic structures associated with GABA(A) subunit expression, spontaneous miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPCs) and behavioral comorbidities. We concluded the review with our recent attempt to discover consistent and unique gene profile differences associated with the different seizure predispositions of the Fast and Slow kindling rat strains.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and tissue segmentation were used to quantify grey matter, white matter and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) volumes in the brains of 32 males with chronic schizophrenia and 32 healthy males. Tissue volumes in the frontal, temporal, parietal, and occipital regions were measured separately. Males with schizophrenia had significant reductions of grey and white matter volumes in the temporal regions compared with controls. Patients also had significantly smaller white matter volumes in the cerebrum and increased CSF volumes in the frontal and the temporal regions as well as the cerebrum. The findings of the present study suggest that volumes of grey and white matter are reduced in the temporal region of males with chronic schizophrenia. The volume of white matter in the whole brain also appears to be reduced. Among the different brains regions, grey matter reduction was significant only in the temporal region.
The structure, function, and composition of the basement membrane of the glomerular capillaries of the mammalian kidney have been extensively studied, in light of the membrane's important physiological role in glomerular filtration of macromolecules and of its frequent involvement in renal diseases. An analytical mathematical model, based on the fiber matrix theory, was developed to describe the dynamics of the permselective function of the glomerular capillary barrier using mainly its hemodynamic and morphometric variables. The glomerular basement membrane was represented as a homogeneous three-dimensional meshwork of fibers of uniform length (L(f)), radius (R(f)), and packing density (N(fv)) and characterized by a local Darcy permeability (a measure of the intrinsic hydraulic conductance of the glomerular basement membrane). The model was appropriate for simulating in vivo fractional clearance data of neutral test macromolecules from an experimental rat model. We believe that the L(f) and R(f) best-fit numerical values, characterizing a glomerular basement membrane geometrical arrangement, may represent diagnostic measures for renal function in health and disease. That is, these parameters may signify new insights for the diagnosis of some human nephropathies and possibly may explain the beneficial effects and/or sites of action of some pharmacological modifiers (e.g., angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors).
The aim of the present study was to ascertain the neural correlates for the integration of visual information with the control of the reach-to-grasp action in the healthy human brain. Nine adult subjects (18-38 years; four females and five males) were scanned using functional magnetic resonance imaging while reaching-to-grasp a three-dimensional target. Results demonstrated differential activation of the parietal cortices according to the number of potential targets to be taken into account before movement initiation and the variability of target location. Comparing conditions where a target object that can appear at an unpredictable location with conditions where the target object appears at a predictable location revealed activations in the left superior parietal lobule, the left parieto-occipital sulcus and the right intraparietal sulcus. Results are discussed in terms of visual selective attention and action planning.
Narp is an immediate early gene product that acts extracellularly to cluster AMPA receptors at excitatory synapses. The present study tested the hypothesis that drugs of abuse alter Narp expression and thereby influence AMPA receptor transmission in addiction-related circuits. Immunohistochemical studies demonstrated the existence of Narp-positive cells in hippocampus, prefrontal cortex (PFC) and nucleus accumbens (NAc), with lower levels of staining in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). To study the effects of psychomotor stimulants, Narp levels were quantified by Western blotting and normalized to actin. There were no differences in Narp levels in any brain region between rats treated with repeated saline injections, a single amphetamine injection (5 mg/kg), repeated amphetamine injections (5 mg/kg x 5 days), or repeated cocaine injections (20 mg/kg twice daily x 7 days). We also examined the possible role of Narp in individual differences in responding to a novel environment, a predictor of behavioural responses to psychomotor stimulant drugs including the propensity to acquire drug self-administration. Narp levels in the PFC, but not other regions, were significantly correlated with locomotor activity in a novel environment. These findings suggest that differential Narp expression in the PFC may be involved in determining individual vulnerability to drugs of abuse, perhaps by influencing the activity of its excitatory projections.
Adult Long-Evans male rats sustained injections of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine into the fimbria-fornix (2.5 microg/side) and the cingular bundle (1.5 microg/side) and/or to intraseptal injections of 192 IgG-saporin (0.4 microg/side) in order to deprive the hippocampus of its serotonergic and cholinergic innervations, respectively. Sham-operated rats were used as controls. The rats were tested for locomotor activity (postoperative days 18, 42 and 65), spontaneous T-maze alternation (days 20-29), beam-walking sensorimotor (days 34-38), water maze (days 53-64) and radial maze (days 80-133) performances. The cholinergic lesions, which decreased the hippocampal concentration of ACh by about 65%, induced nocturnal hyperlocomotion, reduced T-maze alternation, impaired reference-memory in the water maze and working-memory in the radial maze, but had no effect on beam-walking scores and working-memory in the water maze. The serotonergic lesions, which decreased the serotonergic innervation of the hippocampus by about 55%, failed to induce any behavioural deficit. In the group of rats given combined lesions, all deficits produced by the cholinergic lesions were observed, but the nocturnal hyperlocomotion and the working-memory deficits in the radial maze were attenuated significantly. These results suggest that attenuation of the serotonergic tone in the hippocampus may compensate for some dysfunctions subsequent to the loss of cholinergic hippocampal inputs. This observation is in close concordance with data showing that a reduction of the serotonergic tone, by pharmacological activation of somatodendritic 5-HT(1A) receptors on raphe neurons, attenuates the cognitive disturbances produced by the intrahippocampal infusion of the antimuscarinic drug, scopolamine. This work has been presented previously [Serotonin Club/Brain Research Bulletin conference, Serotonin: From Molecule to the Clinic (satellite to the Society for Neuroscience Meeting, New Orleans, USA, November 2-3, 2000)].
RNA expression profiles in rat brain were examined 24 h after ischemic stroke, intracerebral haemorrhage, kainate-induced seizures, insulin-induced hypoglycemia, and hypoxia and compared to sham- or untouched controls. Rat oligonucleotide microarrays were used to compare expression of over 8000 transcripts from three subjects in each group (n = 27). Of the somewhat less than 4000 transcripts called 'present' in normal or treated cortex, 5-10% of these were up-regulated 24 h after ischemia (415), haemorrhage (205), kainate (187), and hypoglycemia (302) with relatively few genes induced by 6 h of moderate (8% oxygen) hypoxia (15). Of the genes induced 24 h after ischemia, haemorrhage, and hypoglycemia, approximately half were unique for each condition suggesting unique components of the responses to each of the injuries. A significant component of the responses involved immune-process related genes likely to represent responses to dying neurons, glia and vessels in ischemia; to blood elements in haemorrhage; and to the selectively vulnerable neurons that die after hypoglycemia. All of the genes induced by kainate were also induced either by ischemia, haemorrhage or hypoglycemia. This strongly supports the concept that excitotoxicity not only plays an important role in ischemia, but is an important mechanism of brain injury after intracerebral haemorrhage and hypoglycemia. In contrast, there was only a single gene that was down-regulated by all of the injury conditions suggesting there is not a common gene down-regulation response to injury.
Olfactory neurons (ON) which are located in the olfactory epithelium are responsible of odorous molecule detection. A unique feature of these cells is their continuous replacement throughout life due to the proliferation and differentiation of local neural precursors, the basal cells. Thus, experimental destruction of all ON induces a stimulation of basal cell division followed by tissue regeneration. The fact that ON precursors display such proliferative and neurogenic activity in adults makes these cells particularly attractive as a potential tool for nervous system repair. However, basal cell proliferation and, thus, ON production, decrease in relation to age; mostly during the first months of life. Therefore, we aimed to seek whether the ability of ON precursors to yield new functional ON in regenerative conditions was consequently impaired in adult. ZnSO4 intranasal perfusion administered to young (1 month) and adult (6 months) mice leads in a few days to total ON destruction and to hyposmia. Tissue and function restoration occurred in the following weeks in both mice groups and was preceded by a transient peak of cell division. In adults, although neurogenesis in the impaired olfactory epithelium was less efficient than in young mice, neural precursors retain their ability to provide new functional ON as indicated by the butanol detection recovery. This was achieved more rapidly than total ON regeneration, suggesting that a reduced number of reconnected ON may be sufficient for odor discrimination.
Severed adult CNS axons can extend over long distances when a permissive 'milieu', such as grafted Schwann cells or ensheathing cells, is provided. Moreover, functional blocking of endogenous inhibitory factors, such as Nogo-A or proteoglycans, enhances the regeneration of axotomized neurons. Here we examine whether guidance cues available during the development of axonal pathways could also potentiate the regeneration of lesioned adult circuits. The Cajal-Retzius cells in the hippocampus are transient pioneer neurons that guide entorhino-hippocampal afferents to their target layers. By using an in vitro model of axotomy of the entorhino-hippocampal pathway we show that Cajal-Retzius cells triggered the regeneration of the axotomized entorhino-hippocampal pathway. Furthermore, the regrowth induced by Cajal-Retzius cells was robust and its pattern was indistinguishable from that of the unlesioned entorhino-hippocampal pathway. Thus, regenerating axons regrew in a layer-specific fashion towards the appropriate target layers, making synaptic contacts with target pyramidal neurons. Interestingly, the ability of lesioned entorhinal axons to regrow was maintained for at least 9 days after axotomy. These results show that the growth-promoting cells controlling the development of neural circuits will be a relevant approach to promoting the regeneration of lesioned adult CNS pathways.
Metaplasticity refers to the activity-dependent modification of the ability of synapses to undergo subsequent synaptic plasticity. Here, we have addressed the question of whether metaplasticity contributes to the induction of long-term depression (LTD) by low-frequency stimulation (LFS). The experiments were conducted using standard extracellular recording techniques in stratum radiatum of area CA1 in hippocampal slices made from adult Sprague-Dawley rats. The degree of LTD induction was found to be a nonlinear function of the number of pulses during a 1-Hz LFS. Little LTD was observed following 600 or 900 pulses, but a significant LTD occurred following 1200 pulses of LFS, whether delivered in one episode, or in two bouts of 600 pulses given 10 min apart. A similar pattern was observed for 3 Hz LFS. The data support the suggestion that pulses occurring early in the LFS train prime synapses for LTD induction, as triggered by later occurring stimuli. The priming effect lasted at least 120 min, when tested by giving two bouts of 1 Hz LFS (600 pulses each) at different intervals. Neither heterosynaptic nor homosynaptic stimulation by itself was sufficient to prime LTD. However, a combination of the stimuli, induced by increased stimulus strength during the LFS, appeared necessary for inducing the effect. An N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist markedly reduced total LTD induction, regardless of whether it was administered during the first or second LFS in a protocol employing two bouts of 600 pulse LFS, 30 min apart. These findings strongly support the hypothesis that NMDA receptor-dependent metaplasticity processes contribute to the induction of LTD during standard LFS protocols.
The nucleus accumbens (NAc) represents a critical site for the rewarding properties of diverse classes of drugs of abuse. Glutamatergic afferents to the NAc are involved in the actions of psychostimulants and opioids, while the potentiation of dopaminergic neurotransmission in the NAc is a common feature of abused drugs, including cannabinoids. Cannabinoid receptors (CB1) are densely expressed in regions that provide excitatory innervation to the NAc, such as the amygdala, the cortex and the hippocampus. Recent in vitro evidence suggests that indeed cannabinoids modulate glutamatergic synapses in the NAc. In this study we recorded extracellularly from neurons in the shell of the NAc which responded to the stimulation of the baso-lateral amygdala (BLA) or the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) in urethane anaesthetized rats. BLA or PFC stimulation induced generation of action potentials in NAc neurons. This excitatory effect was strongly inhibited by the synthetic cannabinoid agonists WIN 55212,2 (0.062-0.25 mg/kg, i.v.) and HU-210 (0.125-0.25 mg/kg, i.v.) or the psychoactive principle of Cannabis delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (1.0 mg/kg, i.v.). Neither the D1 or D2 dopamine receptor antagonists (SCH23390 0.5-1.0 mg/kg, sulpiride 5-10 mg/kg, i.v.) or the opioid antagonist naloxone (1.0 mg/kg, i.v.) were able to reverse the action of cannabinoids, while the selective CB1 receptor antagonist/reverse agonist SR141716A (0.5 mg/kg, i.v.) fully suppressed the action of cannabinoid agonists, whereas per se had no significant effect. These results provide evidence that cannabinoids, in common with other drugs of abuse, in vivo strongly inhibit the excitability of neurons in the shell of the NAc.
The present study investigated the role of alpha2A-adrenoceptor subtype in the regulation of noradrenaline and dopamine release in the medial prefrontal cortex. The effect of local introduction of the alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist dexmedetomidine (10-9-10-8 m) on noradrenaline and dopamine release was investigated in alpha2A-adrenoceptor knockout and control mice by using in vivo microdialysis. Furthermore, to reveal a possible distinction between regulation of baseline and peak release, we sampled the dialysate during both rest and handling-induced mild stress. Baseline noradrenaline and dopamine concentrations did not differ between alpha2A-adrenoceptor knockout and control mice. Dexmedetomidine decreased, in a concentration-dependent manner, noradrenaline and dopamine levels in both genotypes. However, the effect of dexmedetomidine on noradrenaline release was attenuated in the alpha2A-adrenoceptor knockout mice, whereas the effect on dopamine release did not differ between the genotypes. The first handling episode increased noradrenaline and dopamine levels to the same extent in both genotypes. However, in alpha2A-adrenoceptor knockout mice the noradrenaline and dopamine levels remained elevated in the samples following the first handling whilst, in the control mice, transmitter levels returned to baseline levels. In control mice the handling-induced peak noradrenaline and dopamine levels were lower after the administration of dexmedetomidine than during the first handling episode, but in alpha2A-adrenoceptor knockout mice no drug effect on handling-induced peak noradrenaline and dopamine levels was found. Our results suggest that the release of noradrenaline in the medial prefrontal cortex is mainly regulated via alpha2A-adrenoceptors, whilst other alpha-adrenoceptor subtypes play a significant role in the regulation of dopamine release.
Evidence from several studies indicates that expression of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and IL-1 type I receptor is particularly high in hippocampus, and it has recently been shown that the concentration of IL-1beta is increased in the hippocampus of the aged rat. Here we report that this increase is coupled with an increase in expression of IL-1 type I receptor and increased activity of IL-1 receptor-associated kinase. The evidence presented indicates that the age-related increase in activity of the mitogen-activated protein kinases, Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38, was accompanied by enhanced caspase-3 activity. Analysis of colocalization of activated caspase-3 with activated p38 (p-p38) suggested that p-p38 was necessary for activation of caspase-3; while in vitro analysis indicated that the IL-1beta-induced increase in caspase-3 activity was abrogated by the p38 inhibitor, SB203580. The IL-1beta-induced increase in caspase-3 activity in vitro was also abrogated by vasoactive intestinal peptide, which is a JNK inhibitor; however, colocalization of activated JNK (p-JNK) and activated caspase-3 did not clearly identify JNK as an upstream activator of caspase-3. We propose that these changes are indicative of cell death in aged hippocampus and suggest that they contribute to the age-related decrease in long-term potentiation in perforant path granule cell synapses.

The objective of this study was to compare in a single blind manner, over a period of 12 weeks, the efficacy and tolerability of two different titration regimens of sertraline in the treatment of OCD: 150 mg/day reached at day five from the beginning of therapy (rapid titration regimen) versus 150 mg/day reached at day 15 from the beginning (slow titration regimen). Patients with a DSM-IV diagnosis of OCD and a Y-BOCS greater or equal to 16 were randomly assigned to receive one of the two dosing regimens; an upper target dose of 150 mg/day was selected on the basis of a review of mean dosages used in flexible-dose sertraline studies. The primary efficacy measure was the Y-BOCS, which was completed at baseline and every 2 weeks. Thirty-two patients referred to the Anxiety and Mood Disorders Unit of the University of Turin were included in the study. Seventeen were assigned to the rapidly escalating dose regimen and 15 to the other titration regimen. Twenty-seven (84.4%) patients completed the 12 weeks of the study: 14 (82.4%) patients in the rapid and 13 (86.7%) in the slow titration regimen. The ANOVA analysis showed a significant difference between treatment groups at week 4 and 6 in favor of the rapid titration regimen group; this difference faded afterwards. Both titration regimens were effective in reducing OC symptoms and were well tolerated: no differences in drop-out or in adverse event rates emerged between the two groups. Limitations of the present study are the single-blind design and the lack of power to detect differences in tolerability.
In order to assess the role played by area V6A in visuomotor control, two adult green monkeys ( Cercopithecus aethiops) were subjected to small, bilateral lesions in the anterior bank of the parieto-occipital sulcus. Before and after the lesions, monkeys were tested for naturally designed reaching, grasping and picking-up pieces of food from various positions on a plate and from a differently oriented narrow slit. All movements were recorded with closed circuit TV and analysed offline on a single-photogram basis for defective reaching and wrist orientation. V6A lesions provoked parietal weakness, reluctance to move, and specific deficits in reaching, wrist orientation and grasping. Recovery from the observed deficits was rapid, even after a second, contralateral lesion was given, creating a bilateral lesion. Thus, together with previous anatomical and electrophysiological data, these results directly support the hypothesis that area V6A is part of the network involved in the control of reaching movements and wrist orientation.
It has been established that repeated presentation of a transient target motion stimulus such as a constant-velocity ramp leads to the build up of steady state (SS), anticipatory smooth pursuit eye movements after two or three presentations. Each SS response is then composed of the anticipatory component of nonvisual origin, a visual component associated with the stimulus presentation and another nonvisual component that represents the decay of the response after extinction of the stimulus. Here we investigated the interactions that occur when each motion stimulus was itself a sequence containing more than one ramp component. Ramp components had a velocity of 15 degrees /s or 30 degrees /s to left or right and were separated by gaps of 200 ms duration. In an initial experiment, responses to 2-ramp stimuli were examined and compared with responses to the single-ramp stimuli from which they were constituted. We present evidence that the anticipatory, nonvisual components of the double-ramp response result from the linear summation of the nonvisual components of the responses to the constituent single-ramp components. In a 2nd experiment, we examined responses to a wide variety of 4-ramp sequences and again found evidence that, in the SS, the responses were formed from the linear summation of the constituent single-ramp components. Regression analysis performed on the velocity at onset of each ramp component indicated that this nonvisual part of the response was predictive of the upcoming ramp component. To confirm this, unexpected changes were introduced into single ramp components of the 4-ramp sequence after at least five prior presentations of the sequence had allowed a SS response to be established. Subjects continued to initiate a response to the modified component that was appropriate in velocity and direction for the corresponding part of the previous sequence and inappropriate for the newly modified stimulus. This preprogrammed response persisted unmodified for more than 170 ms after onset of the modified ramp component. In contrast, in the second presentation of the new sequence, the anticipatory component of the response was highly correlated with the SS response of the new sequence, but not with that of the prior sequence, showing that the preprogrammed response had been modified very rapidly. Similar behaviour was observed whichever of the 4-ramp components was modified, indicating that the velocity and direction of the anticipatory response to each component had been preprogrammed. The results suggest that velocity information related to at least four elements of a sequence can be temporarily stored and subsequently released with appropriate temporal order to form an anticipatory response throughout the whole sequence.
Recent neurophysiological evidence suggests that cognitive factors shape neural activity in cortical areas such as parietal (area 5), premotor, and primary motor cortex. The implication of these findings is that behavioral signatures of cognitive factors and movement-specific factors should likewise be interdependent. The present study provides evidence of this interdependence in both behavioral (reaction time) and electrophysiological (P300) measures. Subjects performed a two-choice pointing task, in which the angular distance between the two required movement directions (task metrics) and the probability of the two responses was varied. In a control condition, a single reaction was required in response to both stimuli to test for the influence of stimulus metrics. Results from the pointing task showed a clear interaction between the metrics and effects of probability. When the potential targets were widely separated (120 degrees), stimulus probability influences reaction time and P300 amplitude in the classic fashion (longer reaction times and larger P300 amplitudes to less probable responses). When pointing to targets that were narrowly separated (20 degrees), probability had no effect: both rare and frequent targets were &quot;functionally frequent.&quot; The same interaction was not observed in the control condition, indicating that metrics were primarily influencing movement preparation rather than stimulus processing. The results are consistent with the theoretical framework of dynamic field theory and demonstrate that metrics are an important factor that must be taken into account when assessing the processes associated with movement preparation.
The alpha-secretase-derived form of the amyloid precursor protein (sAPPalpha), which is released from neurons in an activity-dependent manner, has been shown to promote long-term survival of hippocampal and cortical neurons in culture and can protect those neurons against excitotoxic and ischemic injury in culture and in vivo. The signal transduction pathway(s) activated by sAPPalpha has not been established. We now report that sAPPalpha activates the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI(3)K)-Akt kinase signaling pathway in cultured hippocampal neurons. sAPPalpha also stimulates phosphorylation of p42 (ERK1) and p44 (ERK2) mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases by a PI(3)K-independent pathway. Treatment of neurons with sAPPalpha protects them against death induced by trophic factor deprivation and exposure to glutamate, and these survival-promoting effects of sAPPalpha are abolished or attenuated when either PI(3)K or p42/p44 MAP kinases are selectively blocked. Exposure of neurons to sAPPalpha resulted in a decrease in the level of IkappaBbeta and an increase in NF-kappaB DNA binding activity, both of which were blocked by wortmannin, suggesting that the transcription factor NF-kappaB may be a downstream target of the PI(3)K-Akt pathway that may play a role in the cell survival-promoting action of sAPPalpha. These findings suggest that the PI(3)K-Akt pathway and p42/p44 MAP kinases mediate responses of neurons to sAPPalpha in physiological and pathological settings, with implications for synaptic plasticity and the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
The rat neural cell line RN33B has a remarkable ability to undergo region-specific neuronal differentiation after transplantation into the CNS. To further study its neurogenic properties in vivo, we used a recombinant lentiviral vector to genetically label the cells with the Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) gene before implantation into the striatum/cortex, hippocampus, or mesencephalon of newborn rats. Three weeks after implantation, about 1-2% of the GFP-expressing cells had developed morphologies typical of neurons, astrocytes, or oligodendrocytes, the rest remained as either immature or undifferentiated nestin-positive cells. At 15-17 weeks postgrafting, the immature cells had disappeared in most graft recipients and only cells with neuronal or glial morphologies remained in similar numbers as at 3 weeks. The GFP distributed throughout the expressing cells, revealing fine morphological details, including dendrites with spines and extensive axonal projections. In all forebrain regions, the grafted cells differentiated into neurons with morphologies characteristic for each site, including large numbers of pyramidal-like cells in the cortex and the hippocampus, giving rise to dense projections to normal cortical target regions and to the contralateral hippocampus, respectively. In lower numbers, it was also possible to identify GFP-positive granulelike cells in the hippocampus, as well as densely spiny neurons in the striatum. In the mesencephalon by contrast, cells with astrocytic features predominated. The ability of the grafted RN33B cells to undergo region-specific differentiation into highly specialized types of forebrain projection neurons and establish connections with appropriate targets suggests that cues present in the microenvironment of the neonatal rat brain can effectively guide the development of immature progenitors, also in the absence of ongoing neurogenesis.
Numerous in vitro and cell culture experiments indicate that oxidative damage decreases astrocyte glutamate transport activity, and it has been proposed that products of lipid peroxidation, particularly 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, may contribute to neurodegenerative diseases via inhibition of glutamate or glucose transporter activity. We have directly tested the hypothesis that lipid peroxidation products impair glutamate and glucose transport in vivo. Lipid peroxidation products that irreversibly modify protein lysyl residues caused a two- to sixfold elevation in extracellular glutamate in striatum and cerebral cortex of both freely moving and anesthetized rats undergoing microdialysis. No concomitant change in extracellular glucose concentrations was observed. Furthermore, lipid peroxidation product-evoked extracellular glutamate appeared to be derived from nonneuronal sources. Our results demonstrate a biochemical mechanism whereby oxidative damage products can increase extracellular glutamate levels in vivo, providing support for the proposal that oxidative damage leads to inhibition of glutamate transport and thereby may contribute to the progression of neurodegenerative diseases.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) results in abnormal locomotor and pain syndromes in humans. In a rodent SCI model, T13 unilateral spinal hemisection results in bilateral mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia, partly by interruption of tonic descending serotonin (5-HT) inhibition. In the current study, we examined changes in density and distribution of 5-HT and 5-HT(T) in cervical (C8) and lumbar (L5) enlargements after T13 spinal hemisection and studied the effects of intrathecally delivered 5-HT (10, 21, and 63 microg), 5-HT antagonist methysergide (125 microg/kg), and 5-HT reuptake inhibitor fluvoxamine (75 microg/kg) on pain-related behaviors. Thirty-day-old male Sprague-Dawley rats were spinally hemisected and sacrificed at 3 (n = 20) and 28 (n = 20) days postsurgery for immunohistochemistry, Western blot, and ELISA analysis and compared against sham-operated animals (n = 10). At day 3, C8 5-HT levels were not significantly changed but at L5 there was a significant decrease in ipsilateral 5-HT in laminae I-II followed by incomplete recovery at 28 days postinjury. At both 3 and 28 days postinjury, C8 5-HT(T) levels were not significantly changed, but at L5 there was significant ipsilateral up-regulation of 5-HT(T) in laminae I-II. A second group of animals (n = 30) was hemisected and, starting at 28 days postinjury, behaviorally tested with intrathecal compounds. Increasing doses of 5-HT attenuated both fore- and hindlimb mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia, and effects of endogenous 5-HT were attenuated by methysergide and enhanced with fluvoxamine, all without locomotor alterations. Sham controls (n = 10) were unaffected. Thus, permanent changes occur in 5-HT and 5-HT(T) after SCI, denervation 5-HT supersensitivity develops, and modulation of 5-HT attenuates pain-related behaviors. Insight gained by these studies may aid in the understanding of dynamic 5-HT systems which will be useful in treating chronic central pain after SCI.
The rapidly accumulating amount of information concerning gene and protein expression patterns produced by functional genomics, proteomics and bioinformatics is presently providing new targets for drug development. Furthermore, the analysis of gene expression in cells and tissues affected by a disease may reveal the underlying metabolic pathways and cellular processes affected. Finally, changes in gene expression may be used in either diagnostics or the monitoring of drug responses. This review focuses on advances in the use of functional genomics in neurological and neuropsychiatric diseases and neuropsychopharmacology. Although the number of published studies in this field is still limited, it already appears that this strategy may become a fruitful means in the analysis of the aetiology of neuropsychiatric disorders and the search for novel neuropharmacological drugs.
The relatively new family of G-protein-coupled metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) is comprised of eight cloned subtypes, which are classified into three groups based on their sequence homology, signal transduction mechanisms and receptor pharmacology. It is now well-established that mGluRs in the central nervous system are essential for neuroplasticity associated with normal brain functions but are also critically involved in various neurological and psychiatric disorders. Recent anatomical and behavioural evidence suggests an important role of mGluRs in peripheral tissues in animal models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain. Once the cellular effects of peripheral mGluR activation and inhibition are better understood, certain peripheral mGluR subtypes may become important novel therapeutic targets for the relief of pain associated with peripheral tissue injury. Peripherally acting drugs that modulate nociceptive processing through mGluRs should have the advantage of lacking the central side effects commonly observed with drugs interfering with glutamatergic transmission in the central nervous system.
The 293 cell line was derived by transformation of primary cultures of human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells with sheared adenovirus (Ad)5 DNA. A combination of immunostaining, immunoblot, and microarray analysis showed that 293 cells express the neurofilament (NF) subunits NF-L, NF-M, NF-H, and a-internexin as well as many other proteins typically found in neurons. Three other independently derived HEK lines, two transformed by Ad5 and one by Ad12, also expressed NFs, as did one human embryonic retinal cell line transformed with Ad5. Two rodent kidney lines transformed with Ad12 were also found to express NF proteins, although several rodent kidney cell lines transformed by Ad5 DNA and three HEK cell lines transformed by the SV40 early region did not express NFs. These results suggest that human Ads preferentially transform human neuronal lineage cells. We also demonstrate that the widely used HEK293 cells have an unexpected relationship to neurons, a finding that may require reinterpretation of many previous studies in which it was assumed that HEK293 cells resembled more typical kidney epithelial cells.
alpha-Lipoic acid (LA), an antioxidant with broad neuroprotective capacity, is thought to act by scavenging reactive oxygen species and stimulation of glutathione synthesis. LA shows structural resemblance to dithiolethiones, like anethole dithiolethione (ADT). ADT protects against oxidative damage, primarily by induction of phase II detoxication enzymes, in particular NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase (NQO1) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST). Therefore, we investigated whether LA, like ADT, is capable also of inducing these protective enzymes. Our data show that LA, like ADT, induces a highly significant, time- and concentration dependent, increase in the activity of NQO1 and GST in C6 astroglial cells. The LA or ADT mediated induction of NQO1 was further confirmed by quantitative PCR and western blot analysis. This work for the first time unequivocally demonstrates LA mediated upregulation of phase II detoxication enzymes, which may highly contribute to the compounds' neuroprotective potential. Moreover, the data support the notion of a common mechanism of action of LA and ADT.
In muscle, mutant genes can be targeted and corrected directly by intramuscular (i.m.) injection of corrective DNA, or by ex vivo delivery of DNA to myogenic cells, followed by cell transplantation. Short fragment homologous replacement (SFHR) has been used to repair the exon 23 nonsense transition at the Xp21.1 dys locus in cultured cells and also, directly in tibialis anterior from male mdx mice. Whilst mdx dys locus correction can be achieved in up to 20% of cells in culture, much lower efficiency is evident by i.m. injection. The major consideration for application of targeted gene correction to muscle is delivery throughout relevant tissues. Systemically injected bone marrow (BM)-derived cells from wt C57BL/10 ScSn mice are known to remodel mdx muscle when injected into the systemic route. Provided that non muscle-derived cell types most capable of muscle remodeling activity can be more specifically identified, isolated and expanded, cell therapy seems presently the most favorable vehicle by which to deliver gene correction throughout muscle tissues. Using wt bone marrow as a model, this study investigates systemic application of bone marrow-derived cells as potential vehicles to deliver corrected (ie wt) dys locus to dystrophic muscle. Intravenous (i.v.) and intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of wt BM were given to lethally and sub-lethally irradiated mdx mice. Despite both i.v. and surviving i.p. groups containing wt dys loci in 100% and less than 1% of peripheral blood nuclei, respectively, both groups displayed equivalent levels of wt dys transcript in muscle RNA. These results suggest that the muscle remodeling activity observed in systemically injected BM cells is not likely to be found in the hemopoietic fraction.
Neurexins are neuron-specific vertebrate proteins with hundreds of differentially spliced isoforms that may function in synapse organization. We now show that Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans express a single gene encoding only an alpha-neurexin, whereas humans and mice express three genes, each of which encodes alpha- and beta-neurexins transcribed from separate promoters. The neurexin genes are very large (up to 1.62 Mb), with the neurexin-3 gene occupying almost 2% of human chromosome 14. Although invertebrate and vertebrate neurexins exhibit a high degree of evolutionary conservation, only vertebrate neurexins are subject to extensive alternative splicing that uses mechanisms ranging from strings of mini-exons to multiple alternative splice donor and acceptor sites. Consistent with their proposed role in synapse specification, neurexins thus have evolved from relatively simple genes in invertebrates to diversified genes in vertebrates with multiple promoters and extensive alternative splicing.
Numerous studies in vivo and in vitro have demonstrated that ethanol disrupts neuromorphogenesis. However, it has not been determined what role, if any, is played by non-neuronal cells in mediating this effect. We recently reported that ethanol inhibits dendritic development in low-density cultures of fetal rat hippocampal pyramidal neurons (Yanni and Lindsley, 2000: Dev Brain Res 120:233-243). In this culture system, cortical astrocytes precondition neuronal culture media for 2 days before the addition of neurons, which then develop on a separate substrate in coculture with the astrocytes. To determine whether astrocyte response to ethanol mediates the effects of ethanol on neurons, the present study compared dendritic development of neurons after 6 days in medium containing 400 mg/dl ethanol in coculture with live astrocytes and in conditioned medium from astrocytes that were never exposed to ethanol. The same experiment was also performed with and without ethanol present during astrocyte preconditioning of the medium. The effects of ethanol differed depending on when it was added to the cultures relative to addition of newly dissociated neurons. However, the effects of ethanol were not related to whether neurons were cocultured with live astrocytes. When astrocytes preconditioned the medium normally, ethanol added at plating inhibited dendritic development of neurons regardless of whether they were maintained in coculture with live astrocytes or in conditioned medium. In surprising contrast, the presence of ethanol during astrocyte preconditioning of the media had a growth promoting effect on subsequent dendrite development despite the continued presence of ethanol in the medium. Thus, astrocytes release soluble factors in response to ethanol that can protect neurons from the inhibitory effects of ethanol on dendritic growth, but the timing of neuronal exposure to these factors, or their concentration, may influence their activity.

Certain features of chronic daily headache, namely, increased headache frequency, expansion of headache area, and cutaneous allodynia, may imply sensitization of central nociceptive neurons in the trigeminal pathway. Repetitive activation of the trigeminal nerve can lead to a biologic and functional change in trigeminal nucleus caudalis neurons, characterized by a decrease in nociceptive threshold and receptive field expansion. Suppression of the endogenous pain control system can facilitate the process of central sensitization. Evidence of such suppression in patients with chronic daily headache includes decreased platelet serotonin, up-regulation of 5-HT2A receptors, increased platelet nitric oxide production, and increased levels of substance P and nerve growth factor in the cerebrospinal fluid. Results from a number of animal experiments have indicated that chronic analgesic exposure leads to changes in serotonin content and density of 5-HT2A receptors in the central nervous system. This plasticity of the serotonin-dependent pain control system may accelerate the process of sensitization; a biologic outcome that is expressed clinically by the development of chronic daily headache associated with analgesic overuse.
The purpose of this paper is to illustrate how interactions occurring within the auditory periphery are relevant to the interpretation of neurophysiological data obtained in recent studies seeking to find physiological correlates of 'the precedence effect'. Similar information was presented orally at the recent International Symposium on the Central Auditory System held in Salamanca, Spain. The physiological data of interest are responses from single neural units in the inferior colliculus recorded following stimulation by successive pairs of binaural clicks. We show how peripheral, monaural, within-filter interactions of such successive clicks can produce internal values of interaural temporal differences (ITDs) and interaural intensitive differences (IIDs) that can differ greatly from those present in the external stimulus. These interactions can produce unintended internal ITDs and IIDs that are well 'outside the tuning range' of the single unit being studied. When this occurs, the responses of the single units to the pairs of clicks would be expected to diminish. We also discuss how hair cell-related adaptation and compression can also lead to diminished responses. It is suggested that effects resulting from peripheral interactions should be taken into account or evaluated quantitatively before other factors, including central inhibition, are invoked.
Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were made from neurons in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC) in brain slices from rat (8-13 days old). ICC neurons were classified by their discharge pattern in response to depolarizing and hyperpolarizing current injection. Excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were elicited by stimulation of synaptic inputs under the condition that the synaptic inhibition was suppressed by strychnine and picrotoxin. EPSCs in all tested types of ICC neurons showed posttetanic, long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression with tetanic stimulation. The potentiated EPSCs consisted of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor and NMDA receptor mediated components. The magnitude of LTP was larger when the intracellular concentration of the calcium buffer ethylene glycol-bis (beta-aminoethyl ether)-N,N,N',N'-tetracetic acid (EGTA) was lower and stimulation frequency was higher in cells with rebound firing patterns. Blocking N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in rebound cells prevented generation of LTP. These results suggest that excitatory synaptic transmission in ICC neurons can be modified. LTP in the auditory midbrain may be important for activity-dependent, adaptive changes in response to normal and pathological stimulus conditions.
Brain slice studies of neurons in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC) indicate that excitatory responses evoked by electrical stimulation of the lateral lemniscus consist of two components, an early, rapid response mediated by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors and a later, a slower one mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. The early response can be selectively blocked by AMPA receptor antagonists (1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide disodium [NBQX]; or 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione) [CNQX], and the later one by NMDA receptor antagonists ((+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid [CPP]; or (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid) [APV]. Both AMPA and NMDA receptor-mediated responses can be elicited at resting potential, although the NMDA response is voltage dependent and makes a greater contribution when the cell membrane is depolarized. In vivo studies indicate that both AMPA and NMDA receptors contribute to sound-evoked responses. Both AMPA and NMDA receptor antagonists reduce the firing rate of single neurons in the ICC to contralaterally presented tones. Both classes of antagonist lower evoked activity over a wide range of sound intensities from threshold to maximum sound pressure levels. Thus, both NMDA and AMPA receptors contribute to responses over the full dynamic range of auditory sensitivity. The AMPA receptor antagonist, NBQX, is more effective than the NMDA receptor antagonist, CPP, in blocking responses of onset cells. Furthermore, NBQX and CPP have preferential effects in blocking the early or late responses of neurons that exhibited sustain activity to a 100 ms tone. Excitatory responses to sinusoidally amplitude-modulated stimuli are also reduced by application of either AMPA or NMDA antagonists. However, the synchrony of firing of action potentials to the modulation period (vector strength) is largely unaffected. The data suggest that the synchrony of firing of neurons in the inferior colliculus is determined primarily by the pattern of activity at lower levels of the auditory pathway and/or the local intrinsic properties of the cells.
The synaptic mechanisms underlying excitation in the rat's central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC) were examined by making whole-cell patch clamp recordings in brain slice preparations of the auditory midbrain. Responses were elicited by current pulse stimulation of the lateral lemniscus and recordings were made in ICC using either current clamp or voltage clamp methods. The excitatory postsynaptic responses in either current or voltage clamp mode consisted of two distinct components, an early component that could be blocked by bath application of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonists, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) or 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide (NBQX), and a later component that could be blocked by application of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists, (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV) or (+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP). Both AMPA and NMDA receptor-mediated responses were present at resting potential and could be isolated pharmacologically by application of receptor antagonists. Voltage clamp experiments revealed that the NMDA receptor-mediated current was voltage-dependent and increased in magnitude as the cell membrane was depolarized. This NMDA receptor-mediated response was enhanced at resting potential when Mg(2+) was eliminated from the bath solution. The ratio of response amplitudes associated with the late and early components, an estimate of the relative contribution of NMDA and AMPA receptor types, changed with age. There was a progressive decline in the ratio between 9 and 13 days of age, but no further reduction between days 13 and 16. The data show that both AMPA and NMDA receptors are important for determining excitatory responses in the ICC and that both receptor types probably play a role in auditory processing after the onset of hearing.
The mammalian auditory system consists of a large number of cell groups, each containing its own complement of neuronal cell types. In recent years, much effort has been devoted to the quantitation of auditory neurons with common morphological, connectional, pharmacological or functional features. However, it is difficult to place these data into the proper quantitative perspective due to our lack of knowledge of the number of neurons contained within each auditory nucleus. To this end, we have employed unbiased stereological methods to estimate neuron number in the cochlear nuclei, superior olivary complex, lateral lemniscus, inferior colliculus and medial geniculate body. Additionally, we generated a three-dimensional model of the superior olivary complex. The utility of unbiased stereological estimates of auditory nuclei is discussed in the context of various experimental paradigms.
The purpose of the study was to investigate dysfunctions in families with a member suffering from endogenous monopolar depression during the acute phase by means of a case-control study, and to consider the possibilities of psychiatric intervention for families with a patient in the course of monopolar depression. Twenty patients with monopolar depression during the acute phase and family members living in the same household (Depressive families) were compared with twenty-seven non-clinical college students and their family members (Control families) with regard to family functioning assessed by the Family Assessment Device (FAD). Depressive families reported significantly worse family functioning than Control families, especially in three areas: Problem Solving, Communication, and General Functioning. Members of Depressive families also perceived their family functioning to be significantly poorer than that of Control families, in the areas of Problem Solving, Communication, Roles, Affective Responsiveness, Affective Involvement and General Functioning, which yielded the same result as a comparison between depressive couples and control couples. The pattern of family dysfunction that was found in the present study, especially in the three areas of family functioning, Problem Solving, Communication, and General Functioning, emphasizes the importance of appropriate family intervention to improve the family's competence in problem solving and to promote better communication in the family during the acute phase of endogenous monopolar depression. Additionally such family dysfunction has been similarly observed in North American studies, indicating that diverse problems emerge beyond differences in the cultural background of families containing a patient with endogenous monopolar depression.
The concept of psychopathy and its neurobiological basis are discussed. Structural (computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging) and functional (positron emission tomography, functional magnetic resonance imaging, single photon emission tomography) studies in antisocial and psychopathic samples are reviewed in this article.
Benzylidene anabaseines are agonists selective for vertebrate alpha7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR), while they exhibit antagonist activity toward vertebrate alpha4beta2-nAChR. To investigate the effects of benzylidene anabaseines on insect nAChRs, we performed [3H]epibatidine-binding assays and neurophysiological experiments using American cockroach (Periplaneta americana) nerve-cord preparations. Of the six compounds tested, 3-benzylideneanabaseine (BA) and 6'-chloro-3-benzylideneanabaseine (CBA) displayed the highest potency in the binding assays, with K(i)s of 35.0 and 21.2nM, respectively. The introduction of a nitro group at the 4-position of the phenyl group led to a decrease in affinity by two orders of magnitude, while that of a chlorine atom at the 6'-position had little effect on affinity. In neurophysiological experiments, BA at 3.3 microg/ml increased the spike frequency observed with the nerve preparation, as observed with nicotine at 16.6 microg/ml. These findings suggest that benzylidene anabaseines act as high-affinity agonists in P. americana nAChRs and that they might therefore prove useful as probes for insect nAChRs.
It has been suggested that dual-action antidepressants acting on both serotonin and noradrenaline pathways in the brain may offer superior therapeutic benefit over classical antidepressants, particularly in severe depression. Directly acting dual-action antidepressant drugs include venlafaxine and milnacipran. In addition, mirtazapine and nefazodone, may indirectly potentiate serotonergic and noradrenergic transmission, although evidence that they do indeed do so in vivo is limited. Meta-analysis of clinical trials suggests that venlafaxine has a more rapid onset of action than selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and the same may also be true for milnacipran and mirtazapine. Efficacy, both in terms of extent of antidepressant effect and in the proportion of patients responding, is probably superior to that of SSRIs, at least for venlafaxine and milnacipran. In terms of tolerability, all dual-action drugs clearly appear to be better tolerated than tricyclic antidepressants. Mirtazapine and nefazodone have specific side-effect profiles as a result of their antagonist action at biogenic amine and other receptors. Milnacipran, and to a lesser extent venlafaxine, are slightly better tolerated than SSRIs.
Survival motor neuron (SMN) interacting protein 1 (SIP1) interacts with SMN protein and plays a crucial role in the biogenesis of spliceosomes. We have identified three novel splicing variants of the SIP1 (SIP1-beta, -gamma and -delta), in addition to the full-length SIP1-alpha. SIP1-alpha as found to be ubiquitously expressed at high levels in the various normal tissues examined. In contrast, SIP1-beta and -gamma were expressed at very low levels in these tissues. In muscle specimens from patients with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), the expression of SIP1-alpha was dramatically decreased compared to that observed in the normal tissues. In addition, the expression of SIP1-beta was significantly increased in tissues derived from patients with either disease. These findings suggest that an aberrant alternative splicing event in SIP1 occurs tissues derived from patients with the motor neuron diseases, and contributes to the pathological process of SMA and ALS.
Recent modeling of language development and intervention for children with disabilities has increasingly focused on the interactions between adults and children. These models have resulted in a number of recent advances in the behavioral treatment of language abilities in children with disabilities. Because these interventions are associated with substantial growth in a number of skills including speech, grammar and vocabulary, these paradigms may provide a useful model for studying neurological development of these aspects of language. The purpose of this paper is to discuss the potential neurodevelopmental ramifications of this type of theoretical model for facilitating language growth in children with and without disabilities. Indeed, because intervention can sometimes trigger rapid advances in language skills and presumably, associated neurological organization, this may prove to be a very useful paradigm for understanding the neurological correlates of language growth.

The neuronal storage diseases are a rare group of disorders with profound clinical consequences including severe mental retardation and death in early childhood. A subset of these disorders, those with elevated levels of GM2 ganglioside, are further characterized by the reinitiation of primary dendrites on mature cortical neurons. These ectopic dendrites are unusual as primary dendrite initiation is normally confined to a narrow developmental window. Thus, ectopic dendritogenesis appears to be a recapitulation of the normal developmental program temporally displaced. Consequently, understanding ectopic dendritogenesis should offer insights into both the pathogenesis of the neuronal storage diseases as well as mechanisms of normal CNS development. Using a feline model of GM2 gangliosidosis, we compared patterns of gene expression in normal newborn and mature diseased animals (both undergoing active primary dendritogenesis) with normal, mature controls (where primary dendritogenesis has ceased). From this work, we have identified two genes that appear to function in primary dendrite initiation. One, tomoregulin, is an integral membrane protein with both EGF- and follistatin-like motifs in its extracellular domain. The second, Tristanin, is a member of the positive regulatory domain (PRD) family of a zinc-finger transcription factors. Both genes are up regulated in the disease state, and both show a shift in their intracellular location to the nucleus in diseased animals that is not observed in age matched controls. In normal mouse brain, tomoregulin and Tristanin reveal developmental patterns consistent with a role in dendrite initiation and show changes in subcellular localization similar to that observed in the cat.
Neuronal migration is an essential process in the development of the central nervous system (CNS). The movement of neuronal precursors from their birthplaces to their ultimate position in the adult brain is regulated by extrinsic and intrinsic signals. The understanding of the extracellular factors that regulate neuronal migration has increased significantly in the last few years. In this review, we will discuss the latest insights into the roles of the extracellular matrix (ECM), cell adhesion molecules (CAMs), soluble and membrane-bound factors, neurotransmitters and ion channels in the migration of neurons.
The perinatal age window is characterized by vulnerability to age-specific patterns of injury. Hypoxia/ischemia occurs in a number of settings both in term and preterm neonates, yet the patterns of response appear dependent upon the age of the infant. In the preterm neonate, hypoxic/ischemic insults result in selective white matter injury, termed periventricular leukomalacia (PVL), with little or no cortical pathology. However, in term babies, hypoxic encephalopathy is the most common cause of seizures, and also can result in cortical infarction. Extracellular glutamate accumulates in the setting of hypoxia/ischemia, and excess activation of glutamate receptors has been implicated in hypoxic/ischemic cellular death. Glutamate receptors are developmentally regulated in both neuronal and glial cells within the brain. Using rodent models, we have shown that hypoxia/ischemia results in selective white matter injury in postnatal day (P) seven rat pups, while hypoxia causes seizures in P10-12 rats, but not at younger or older ages. We have further demonstrated that antagonists of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) glutamate receptor subtype block white matter injury at P7 and seizures at P10. We have shown that AMPA receptors are relatively overexpressed in oligodendrocytes (OLs) within white matter at P7 and in neurons in cortex and hippocampus at P10. Hence maturational patterns of glutamate receptor expression correlate with age-specific regional susceptibility to injury to hypoxia/ischemia. While glutamate receptor blockade represents a rational strategy in the treatment of perinatal hypoxic/ischemic brain injury, it is unclear what role variations in their expression play in normal development and plasticity. Further investigation of patterns of glutamate receptor subunit expression in human brain and in experimental animal models is necessary to determine potential age specific strategies as well as adverse effects.
The MRRC at Children's Hospital/Harvard Medical School is focused on research in genetics and neuroscience. Both clinical and basic science approaches are abundant. Major interdisciplinary programs, particularly in the areas of neonatal brain injury, human cerebral cortical malformations, and human neuromuscular disorders, interdigitate basic and clinical research in cohesive research programs. The core research support facilities serve as the nidus for this large research effort, encompassing 65 externally funded clinical and basic scientists.



After evaluating general features and attributes of the agent notion, the overlap of features in candidate (attribute) cores, and several less central features, the paper addresses agent and related theory in neuroscience, observing how agent notions have penetrated portions of this field and how the field itself emphasizes and further develops some agent themes via, e.g. schema theory, neural net-artificial intelligence (AI) comparisons, and other research. In remaining sections, models for development of memory strategies in children are presented, illustrating cooperative and competitive neural modeling agents, an active role for a &quot;human agent in the loop,&quot; and integrating broadly-based neural network (NN) modeling with other bio-inspired models.

Hepatoblastoma is a poorly understood rare pediatric liver tumour. We have previously shown that the IGF-axis is seriously disrupted in this tumour type. With the recent discovery that several other proteins also have the potential to bind to IGFs called insulin-like growth factor binding protein related proteins (IGFBP-rPs), we undertook an examination of several such genes in a series of hepatoblastomas with matched normal liver tissue. The expression profiles obtained reveal that the expression of these genes are also disturbed in these tumours, and may have implications for our understanding of the IGF-axis and its importance in this disease.
A defect in neurotransmission involving gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) in schizophrenia was first proposed in the early 1970s. Since that time, a considerable effort has been made to find such a defect in components of the GABAergic system. After a brief introduction focusing on historical perspectives, this paper reviews post-mortem and other biological studies examining the following components of the GABAergic system in schizophrenic subjects: the GABA biosynthetic enzyme, glutamate decarboxylase; free GABA; the GABA transporter; the GABAA, GABAB and benzodiazepine receptors; and the catabolic enzyme GABA transaminase. Additionally, post-mortem studies using morphology or calcium-binding protein to identify GABAergic neurons are also reviewed. Substantial evidence argues for a defect in the GABAergic system of the frontal cortex in schizophrenia which is limited to the parvalbumin-class of GABAergic interneurons.
An important method for removing the effect of ocular artefact from the EEG is 'EOG correction'. This method estimates the proportion of ocular artefact that is in the EEG, and removes it by subtraction. To date, EOG correction research has focused on problems relating to the estimation of the correction coefficients. Using both mathematical rationale and empirical data, this paper addresses issues relating to the subtraction phase, such as the magnitude of error that can be expected due to EOG correction. Using ERP methodology, principal component and regression analyses, it is shown that the N1P2 complex propagates forward to the horizontal and radial (but not vertical) electrooculograms (EOG), and it is shown mathematically that this will result in EOG-correction error. Assuming an accurate estimate of ocular contamination of the EEG, maximal subtraction-phase error of the N1P2 complex was found to be a prefrontal attenuation of 15-22%, decreasing to central and occipital enhancements of 3-4% and 13-14%, respectively. The magnitude of this subtraction-phase error is compared to between-subject ERP variability and to error associated with EOG rejection (omitting data contaminated by ocular artefact). It is argued that such EOG correction error is small relative to both artefact rejection procedures and to normal variability found in ERP studies, and that it is less pernicious than artefact rejection procedures.
Evaluation of outcome measures can provide policymakers with valuable information on the effectiveness of psychiatric rehabilitation. Two specific challenges in collecting outcome measures for psychiatric rehabilitation programs are heterogeneity of outcomes and difficulty with follow-up. These two challenges were illustrated in the process of evaluating Rose Hill Center, a rural residential psychiatric rehabilitation program. The original design was to conduct interviews with former residents and family members and verify healthcare utilization. The difficulty of locating people and their reluctance to participate conspired to lower the follow-up rates. The design was modified to improve the follow-up rate but decrease the details of specific outcomes. The results showed a high but biased follow-up rate, with more information obtained for people who graduated from the program. The residents with planned discharge showed excellent outcomes in terms of living situation, working situation, healthcare utilization, and low severity of current symptoms. High compliance with medication spoke to the program's philosophy of including the residents in the decision-making process. The dual challenges of heterogeneity of outcomes and difficulty in follow-up that limit efforts to document the value of psychiatric rehabilitation are discussed.


The external-ear transfer function for big brown bats (Eptesicus fuscus) contains two prominent notches that vary from 30 to 55 kHz and from 70 to 100 kHz, respectively, as sound-source elevation moves from -40 to +10 degrees. These notches resemble a higher-frequency version of external-ear cues for vertical localization in humans and other mammals. However, they also resemble interference notches created in echoes when reflected sounds overlap at short time separations of 30-50 micros. Psychophysical experiments have shown that bats actually perceive small time separations from interference notches, and here we used the same technique to test whether external-ear notches are recognized as a corresponding time separation, too. The bats' performance reveals the elevation dependence of a time-separation estimate at 25-45 micros in perceived delay. Convergence of target-shape and external-ear cues onto echo spectra creates ambiguity about whether a particular notch relates to the object or to its location, which the bat could resolve by ignoring the presence of notches at external-ear frequencies. Instead, the bat registers the frequencies of notches caused by the external ear along with notches caused by the target's structure and employs spectrogram correlation and transformation (SCAT) to convert them all into a family of delay estimates that includes elevation.


Neuronal cell death is the primary underlying pathogenic lesion in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Despite intense research efforts, the mechanisms that contribute to neuronal cell death have not been clarified. In this debate we address the question, Is AD a vascular or metabolic disorder? Here we defend the hypothesis that the cerebromicrovasculature is a key player in the pathogenesis of AD. Evidence is presented that vascular amyloid beta (Abeta) is more closely associated with tau pathology than the distribution of diffuse or neuritic plaque Abeta. Furthermore, brain endothelial cells are identified as important regulators of the neuronal microenvironment, including Abeta levels. Finally, evidence is presented that brain endothelial cells undergo cellular and biochemical changes in AD and that the release of neurotoxic factors from these dysfunctional cells contributes to the neuronal cell loss characteristic of AD.
A temporal compound is a complex pattern associated with a sequence of brief (30-100 msec) acoustic events whose identity can be distinguished but whose order cannot be reported. In the present study, two frequency glides were concatenated to form a 400-msec temporal compound consisting of 10 40-msec glides. Fourteen young adults were asked to discriminate these temporal compounds in a same-different paradigm employing a dichotic probe technique. Results supported the hypotheses that same judgments of temporal compounds involve global, or right hemisphere, processing and that different judgments of temporal compounds involve analytical, or left hemisphere, processing. Event-related potential (ERP) data revealed an interaction between side attended (right or left) and type of judgment (same or different). Same stimuli presented from the left side elicited greater ERP responses than different stimuli presented from the left side; conversely, different stimuli presented from the right side elicited greater ERP responses than same stimuli presented from the right side. Reaction times showed the &quot;fast-same&quot; effect, consistently observed in this paradigm.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is formed by brain endothelial cells lining the cerebral microvasculature, and is an important mechanism for protecting the brain from fluctuations in plasma composition, and from circulating agents such as neurotransmitters and xenobiotics capable of disturbing neural function. The barrier also plays an important role in the homeostatic regulation of the brain microenvironment necessary for the stable and co-ordinated activity of neurones. The BBB phenotype develops under the influence of associated brain cells, especially astrocytic glia, and consists of more complex tight junctions than in other capillary endothelia, and a number of specific transport and enzyme systems which regulate molecular traffic across the endothelial cells. Transporters characteristic of the BBB phenotype include both uptake mechanisms (e.g. GLUT-1 glucose carrier, L1 amino acid transporter) and efflux transporters (e.g. P-glycoprotein). In addition to a role in long-term barrier induction and maintenance, astrocytes and other cells can release chemical factors that modulate endothelial permeability over a time-scale of seconds to minutes. Cell culture models, both primary and cell lines, have been used to investigate aspects of barrier induction and modulation. Conditioned medium taken from growing glial cells can reproduce some of the inductive effects, evidence for involvement of diffusible factors. However, for some features of endothelial differentiation and induction, the extracellular matrix plays an important role. Several candidate molecules have been identified, capable of mimicking aspects of glial-mediated barrier induction of brain endothelium; these include TGFbeta, GDNF, bFGF, IL-6 and steroids. In addition, factors secreted by brain endothelial cells including leukaemia inhibitory factor (LIF) have been shown to induce astrocytic differentiation. Thus endothelium and astrocytes are involved in two-way induction. Short-term modulation of brain endothelial permeability has been shown for a number of small chemical mediators produced by astrocytes and other nearby cell types. It is clear that endothelial cells are involved in both long- and short-term chemical communication with neighbouring cells, with the perivascular end feet of astrocytes being of particular importance. The role of barrier induction and modulation in normal physiology and in pathology is discussed.
Streptomycin sulfate (1.2 g/kg i.m.) was administered for 5 consecutive days to 5-7-day-old white Leghorn chicks; this causes damage to semicircular canal hair cells that ultimately regenerate to reform the sensory epithelium. During the recovery period, electrophysiological recordings were taken sequentially from anterior semicircular canal primary afferents using an indentation stimulus of the canal that has been shown to mimic rotational stimulation. Chicks were assigned to an early (14-18 days; n = 8), intermediate (28-34 days; n = 5), and late (38-58 days; n = 4) period based on days after treatment. Seven untreated chicks, 15-67 days old, provided control data. An absence of background and indent-induced discharge was the prominent feature of afferents in the early period: only &quot;silent&quot; afferents were encountered in 5/8 experiments. In several of these chicks, fascicles of afferent fibers were seen extending up to the epithelium that was void of hair cells, and intra- and extracellular biocytin labeling revealed afferent processes penetrating into the supporting cell layer of the crista. In 3/8 chicks 74 afferents could be characterized, and they significantly differed from controls (n = 130) by having a lower discharge rate and a negligible response to canal stimulation. In the intermediate period there was considerable variability in discharge properties of 121 afferents, but as a whole the number of &quot;silent&quot; fibers in the canal nerve diminished, the background rate increased, and a response to canal stimulation detected. Individually biocytin-labeled afferents had normal-appearing terminal specializations in the sensory epithelium by 28 days poststreptomycin. In the late period, afferents (n = 58) remained significantly different from controls in background discharge properties and response gain. The evidence suggests that a considerable amount of variability exists between chicks in the return of vestibular afferent function following ototoxic injury and that the secretory function of regenerating hair cells might become functional before their transducer function.
In the present study, the involvement of GABA(B) binding parameters were analyzed in partial hepatectomized (PH), lead nitrate (LN) induced hyperplastic and N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) treated neoplastic rat livers at the peak DNA synthesis. The receptor up-regulated significantly in NDEA treated group compared with respective control. The affinity of the receptor decreased in PH while it increased in LN treated rats. In the other groups, the binding parameters remained unaltered. The displacement analysis using GABA(B) receptor agonist, [3H]baclofen, against baclofen showed a shift in affinity of the receptor towards high-affinity in PH rats and towards low-affinity in LN treated rats. Baclofen dose-dependently induced EGF mediated DNA synthesis in primary hepatocyte cultures. Also, it significantly reduced the TGFbeta1 suppression of EGF induced DNA synthesis. The effect of baclofen on hepatocyte DNA synthesis was abolished by the addition of G(i)-protein inhibitor, pertussis toxin, suggesting the involvement of GABA(B) receptor mechanisms in hepatocyte DNA synthesis. Baclofen alone could not elicit any significant change in DNA synthesis. Thus, our results show that GABA(B) receptor enhancement induce hepatic neoplasia. Also, baclofen is seen to act as a potent co-mitogen, triggering DNA synthesis in primary cultures of rat hepatocytes, mediated through the G(i) protein coupled GABA(B) receptors.


Delayed neuronal death in the hippocampal CA1 region after transient forebrain ischemia may share its underlying mechanism with neurodegeneration and other modes of neuronal death. The precise mechanism, however, remains unknown. In the postischemic hippocampus, conjugated ubiquitin accumulates and free ubiquitin is depleted, suggesting impaired proteasome function. The authors measured regional proteasome activity after transient forebrain ischemia in male Mongolian gerbils. At 30 minutes after ischemia, proteasome activity was 40% of normal in the frontal cortex and hippocampus. After 2 hours of reperfusion, it had returned to normal levels in the frontal cortex, CA3 region, and dentate gyrus, but remained low for up to 48 hours in the CA1 region. Thus, the 26S proteasome was globally impaired in the forebrain during transient ischemia and failed to recover only in the CA1 region after reperfusion. The authors also measured 20S and 26S proteasome activities directly after decapitation ischemia (at 5 and 20 minutes) by fractionating the extracts with glycerol gradient centrifugation. Without adenosine triphosphate (ATP), only 20S proteasome activity was detected in extracts from both the hippocampus and frontal cortex. When the extracts were incubated with ATP in an ATP-regenerating system, 26S proteasome activity recovered almost fully in the frontal cortex but only partially in the hippocampus. Thus, after transient forebrain ischemia, ATP-dependent reassociation of the 20S catalytic and PA700 regulatory subunits to form the active 26S proteasome is severely and specifically impaired in the hippocampus. The irreversible loss of proteasome function underlies the delayed neuronal death induced by transient forebrain ischemia in the hippocampal CA1 region.
Catecholamine regulated protein 40 (CRP40) has been shown to be expressed in the central nervous system (CNS) of several mammalian species where it may function in a similar manner to members of the heat shock protein (HSP) family. Immunohistochemical and immunoblotting techniques were utilized to investigate whether CRP40 is expressed in normal rat retinas. In addition, changes in CRP40 expression were studied following optic nerve transection. The immunohistochemical results showed that CRP40 is expressed in the normal rat retina. The protein was found to be highly expressed in the ganglion cell layer (GCL), the inner nuclear layer (INL) and the outer plexiform layer (OPL). In addition, a low level of CRP40 was found in the inner plexiform layer (IPL), and in the inner segment layer (ISL). No expression was found in the outer nuclear layer (ONL) of normal rat retina. The immunoblotting results show that CRP40 expression decreased in a time-dependent fashion after the optic nerve transection. This decrease indicates that the expression of CRP40 is dependent on the neuron's normal physiological state and that it plays an important function in physiological and pathological conditions in the retina.
In order to develop the diagnosis of hemi-inattention in patients with right hemispheric cerebrovascular accident (RCVA), the initial starting point of cancellation performance was studied in seven commonly used visual cancellation tasks, an Object Finding task, and a blindfold Tactuo-motor search task. The subject groups consisted of 34 patients with RCVA and 31 healthy subjects. Patients were divided into groups of contralateral neglect and no neglect. One additional case of ipsilesional neglect and one of nonlateralised attentional disorder in relation to early orienting bias, are reported. Patients with contralateral neglect showed a strong tendency to start their cancellation performance on the right. Also, half of the nonneglect patient group demonstrated right bias in initiating their cancellation performance, suggesting the presence of a subclinical hemi-inattention group. Contrary to expectations, also a small proportion of normal subjects were right-biased. Task dependent differences in the assessment of early rightward orienting bias were found.

Exciting new developments in the psychopharmacology of wakefulness are clarifying the neurotransmitters, pathways, and drugs that impact this important physiologic state. Selectively inducing normal wakefulness without stimulating external vigilance may lead to therapeutic benefits not only in sleep disorders but also in cognitive disorders and conditions associated with fatigue.
Many studies have reported the effectiveness of antidepressants in patients with so-called &quot;anxious depression&quot;. This is the first report aimed at studying the beneficial therapeutic effects of fluoxetine alone on anxiety dimension in first episode drug naive patients suffering from DSM-IV major depression (MDD) and double depression (DD). Twenty-two outpatients (11 women and 11 men) were recruited in a University clinic for the treatment of a first episode pure MDD (n = 13) or DD (n = 9). All of the patients were drug naive, had Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSD) and Anxiety (HRSA) scores &gt; or = 15, and were interviewed using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV-Patient edition. Fluoxetine alone (20 mg daily) was used in an attempt to treat depression with comorbid anxiety symptoms. A series of clinical- and self-rating scales (i.e., HRSD, HRSA, Beck Depression Inventory, and Stait Trait Anxiety Inventory) were used to measure the psychopathology at day 0, and every 10 days until day 50. In the whole group, there were statistically significant changes, starting from the baseline, in depression and anxiety symptoms after 10 days of treatment. Self evaluated anxiety, however, improved after 20 days. Furthermore, at day 50, the patients with comorbid DD experienced a major improvement (diminished anxiety symptoms) compared to pure MDD patients. This open study suggests that depression and anxiety symptoms in first-episode drug-naive patients with anxious depression diminished very quickly with fluoxetine.
Membrane leaves the rhabdom of Limulusphotoreceptors either by transient shedding at dawn or throughout the day by light-driven shedding. We examined whether the light trigger for transient shedding and the light drive for light-driven shedding are localized properties of the illuminated photoreceptors or whether they are an array property of the retina. Four experiments were conducted during which the lateral eye was exposed to one of a variety of different illumination patterns for a day, fixed, dissected and cut into serial frozen sections. Immunocytochemistry with different antibodies to Limulus opsin and arrestin revealed the results of the two processes in a distinguishable way. Eyes stimulated with whole-eye illumination had both types of shedding or just light-driven shedding when transient shedding was blocked by cutting the optic nerve. Eyes exposed to whole-eye darkness had neither type of shedding. However, when only half of an eye was exposed to light, the dark half had the same kinds of shedding as the lighted half. We conclude that the signals to trigger or drive shedding must be communicated laterally from illuminated ommatidia to unilluminated ommatidia. Rhabdom shedding is an array property.
The L-system amino acid transporter on the RBE4 cell line, a well established in vitro model of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), was characterised with the aim to evaluate this in vitro BBB model as tool for the systematic exploration of this endogenous carrier system for drug delivery to the CNS. Transport of L-[3H]-leucine in RBE4 cells was rapid, Na+-independent, bidirectional and followed the principles of trans-stimulation. The inhibition profile of L-leucine uptake was consistent with transport mediated by the L-system amino acid carrier with strong inhibition by large neutral amino acids (LNAA) such as L-phenylalanine and 2-aminobicyclo-heptanecarboxylic acid (BCH), whereas small neutral, basic and acidic amino acids had no significant effect. The transport of L-leucine into the RBE4 cells was saturable and followed single carrier Michaelis-Menten kinetics with Km 107 +/- 10 microM. Vmax 9.13 +/- 0.45 nmol/min/mg protein and KD 1.36 +/- 0.13 microl/min/mg protein. The kinetic constants of L-leucine transport, as well as the ranking of the kinetic constants of the transport of other LNAA investigated, correspond to those of the BBB in vivo. The characteristics of the LNAA transport in RBE4 cells suggest that transport is mediated by a system with characteristics similar to the L1 subtype of amino acid transporter, with carrier specificity equivalent to the L1 carrier system at the BBB in vivo. The study shows that the RBE4 cell line is a very suitable tool for the detailed examination of structure-transport relationships with respect to carrier-mediated drug delivery to the CNS via the L-system amino acid carrier at the BBB. The strength of this in vitro BBB model lies in the combination of the advantages of a cell line, being inexpensive, reproducible and easy to maintain, with the brain endothelium-specific expression of transport systems, to produce an efficient assay for the screening of potential neuropharmaceuticals targeted to specific transport routes to enhance CNS drug delivery.


Endothelin is a vasoactive peptide that has been shown to play an important role in vascular homeostasis. Recently, endothelin and its receptors have been found in ocular tissues where it appears to have a regulatory function. Endothelin is found in both the aqueous and vitreous humors and its concentration is elevated in glaucoma patients and in animal models of glaucoma. In the current review, the authors present information about the distribution of endothelin and endothelin receptors in the eye and the ocular actions of endothelins. Specifically, endothelin/aqueous humor dynamics, endothelin/nitric oxide interactions, endothelin and ischemia, and endothelin/optic nerve head effects. Observations concerning the potential role of endothelin in glaucoma pathophysiology is presented and discussed relative to its effects on the optic nerve head and in relation to glaucoma theories.
The International Society for the History of the Neurosciences (ISHN) defines &quot;neurosciences&quot; broadly, and we want to encourage the widest possible range of scholarly approaches to our subject. However, this deliberate inclusiveness could potentially cause problems with internal coherency in our organization and in the scholarship that we are trying to create. In other words, we need to avoid the pitfalls of the internalist-externalist tension without losing the benefits of both perspectives. In fact, I think that there is a large and interesting &quot;gray zone,&quot; where the boundary between these supposedly separate approaches is both artificial and porous. This should be one of the most rewarding intellectual domains for the study of neuroscience history, because our subject is always culturally loaded by the mind/body problem and by the assumptions that it entails. Of course, neuroscience history is also influenced by all of the other cultural and scientific aspects of the milieus in which it is conducted. Understanding neuroscience history in all of its multiple historical contexts will require the participation of a wide range of scholarly viewpoints. To keep ourselves coherent in the process, we will have to educate each other.
The purpose of this article is to critically review citation classics of 19th-century members of the American Neurological Association (ANA), and to elaborate what these works contributed and why they continue to be important. Most classic articles of 19th-century American neurologists were initial or early descriptions of clinical conditions, diseases, or procedures. These include descriptions by Beard of the Jumping Frenchmen of Maine; by Sachs of &quot;amaurotic family idiocy&quot; (Tay-Sachs disease); by Hun of the lateral medullary syndrome; by Mitchell of phantom limbs; and by Dana of familial tremor. Few of these were the initial description, although most were clear and fairly complete by modern standards. Several citation classics were cited mainly as a point of comparison with later events or developments, including those by Corning on spinal anesthesia, Bartholow on electrical stimulation of the brain, Mitchell on the status of American psychiatry, and Starr on childhood brain tumors. The reports of Corning, Bartholow, and Mitchell have been the subjects of continued controversy. The only examples of basic neuroscience among the citation classics are the classic studies by Onuf and Collins involving ablation of portions of the sympathetic chain in cats, and Onuf's description of the nucleus of Onuf in the human spinal cord. Onuf's basic science work was made possible by a unique and short-lived multidisciplinary research environment created at the New York State Pathological Institute for the scientific investigation of insanity and neurologic diseases.
Hermann Helmholtz made monumental contributions to the neural sciences in the second half of the nineteenth century. Among his earliest achievements were experiments that challenged vitalism, microscopic studies on the structure of the nerve cell and its processes, and the first reasonable estimates of the speed of nerve transmission based on physiological experiments. In this, the first of a two-part article, we review Helmholtz's early contributions in biographical context and with reference to Johannes Mller's own thoughts. We reveal how Johannes Mller, considered by many to be the greatest physiologist of the first half of the nineteenth century, helped to launch and shape Helmholtz's career. We also show that Helmholtz was only willing to accept some of his mentor's theories, even though he had great admiration for Mller. The point will be made that Helmholtz owed a great debt to Mller, but even from his student days in Berlin he was an independent thinker with his own agenda, and never his strict disciple.
The year 2001 marks the 250th anniversary of la Mettrie's death. This paper commemorates his stormy life and the contribution he made to the neurosciences. Trained as a physician, la Mattrie soon fell out with both the medical and ecclesiastical authorities and was exiled first to the Netherlands and then to Frederick the Great's circle of intellectuals at Sans Souci (Berlin). The two works which are of greatest interest to the readers of this journal are the 1745 Histoire Naturelle de l'me (retitled Trait de l'me in 1751) and the 1747 l'Homme Machine. Both are collected in the 1751 Oeuvres Philosophiques. This paper reviews these two ground-breaking tracts noting that, although they are both materialistic, and hence worthy of the odium theologicum into which they fell, they are not materialistic in the Cartesian sense. La Mettrie is dismissive of the Cartesian concept of inanimate matter and the related notion of the 'beast-machine'. Instead, he sees an unbroken continuity between humans and the rest of nature. His vision is in many ways far ahead of its time and prefigures some of the dilemmas and concerns which our evolutionary neuroscience presents today: how is consciousness related to the goings on in the cerebrum? How can we be held responsible for what we do if all is material? His biographer, Raymond Boissier, writes that we can recognise in him an obscure predecessor of Lamarck and a prophet of things to come.
Microglia, the major immune effector cells in the CNS, become activated when the brain suffers injury. In this study, we observed that prothrombin, a zymogen of thrombin, induced NO release and mRNA expression of inducible NO synthase, IL-1beta, and TNF-alpha in rat brain microglia. The effect of prothrombin was independent of the protease activity of thrombin since hirudin, a specific inhibitor of thrombin, did not inhibit prothrombin-induced NO release. Furthermore, factor Xa enhanced the effect of prothrombin on microglial NO release. Kringle-2, a domain of prothrombin distinct from thrombin, mimicked the effect of prothrombin in inducing NO release and mRNA expression of inducible NO synthase, IL-1beta, and TNF-alpha. Prothrombin and kringle-2 both triggered the same intracellular signaling pathways. They both activated mitogen-activated protein kinases and NF-kappaB in a similar pattern. NO release stimulated by either was similarly reduced by inhibitors of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase pathway (PD98059), p38 (SB203580), NF-kappaB (N-acetylcysteine), protein kinase C (Go6976, bisindolylmaleimide, and Ro31-8220), and phospholipase C (D609 and U73122). These results suggest that prothrombin can activate microglia, and that, in addition to thrombin, kringle-2 is a domain of prothrombin independently capable of activating microglia.
The integration of physiological functions in living organisms corresponds to the reconstruction of a biological system from its components. This calls for a sound theoretical framework based on the rigorous definition of the elementary physiological function within the context of multiple levels of biological organization. One of the main problems encountered in the neurosciences is that of extending the current theory of automata, as used in the study of artificial neural networks, to real neural networks. The difficulty arises because the theory of automata fails to take into account the various levels of biological organization involved in nervous activity. This article recalls the main elements of G. A. Chauvet's novel n-level field theory, i.e., the properties of non-symmetry and non-locality of functional interactions, and the S-propagator formalism that governs the propagation of a functional interaction across the different levels of the structural organization of a biological system. The neural field equations derived from this theory allow the inclusion of multiple organizational levels of a biological system into the analysis by incorporating specific local models into a global non-local model. The main advantage of the method presented here is the simplification obtained by breaking down the physiological function into its components according to the time scales and space scales of operation. Moreover, the method takes into account the non-locality of the functional interaction, assuming it to be propagated at finite velocity in a continuous and hierarchical space. Finally, this approach allows the systematic study of physiological functions within a single theoretical framework, the complexity of which could be progressively increased by integrating specific local models as new findings become available.
A 69-year-old man presented with a cholesteatoma in the right mastoid process and a vestibular schwannoma at the left internal acoustic meatus. Cholesteatoma co-existing with a vestibular schwannoma has not been documented previously in the contemporary literature. The clinical dilemma in the management of his progressive bilateral hearing loss is discussed. He presented with dizziness and bilateral hearing loss worse on the right side. Pressure over the mastoid process elicited vertigo and nystagmus. He had no history of previous operation or infection in the ear canal. Audiograms confirmed high-tone hearing loss. Radiological investigations revealed a symptomatic cholesteatoma on the right side and an incidental vestibular schwannoma on the left. We have elected to manage both lesions conservatively. Bilateral cholesteatoma and bilateral vestibular schwannomas have been previously reported. Co-existing lesions, as in our patient have, however, not been reported previously. The management options of his hearing loss are discussed.
Within the neuropeptide Y (NPY) family of peptides, pancreatic polypeptide is the most divergent across species. It differs in 20 of 36 positions between human and chicken. In mammals, it binds primarily to the Y4 receptor, to which NPY and peptide YY (PYY) bind with lower affinities. Because of these large sequence differences in pancreatic polypeptide, we decided to characterise the chicken Y4 receptor. We report here that Y4 displays the least sequence conservation among the Y-family receptors, with only 57-60% overall amino acid identity between chicken and mammals, compared with 64-83% for the Y1, Y2 and Y5 receptors. After expression of the chicken Y4 receptor in COS-7 cells, (125)I-labelled porcine (p) PYY bound with a K(d) of 20 pM. In competition with (125)I-pPYY, chicken pancreatic polypeptide bound with high affinity at 140 pM. Interestingly, chicken PYY bound with even greater affinity at 68 pM. The affinity of NPY, 160 pM, was similar to that of pancreatic polypeptide. Chicken Y4 is less sensitive than is mammalian Y4 to truncation of the amino terminus of the NPY molecule. RT-PCR revealed expression in several peripheral organs, including adipose tissue and oviduct. In brain, Y4 mRNA was detected in the brainstem, cerebellum and hippocampus. In situ hybridisation to brain sections showed expression in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus in the brainstem. Thus the chicken Y4 receptor is less selective and anatomically more widespread than that in mammals, probably reflecting the original properties of the Y4 receptor.
A Phase I, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-dose, escalation study of the purine derivative, AIT-082 (Neotrofin, NeoTherapeutics, Inc.) was conducted in healthy elderly volunteers. This trial was designed to evaluate single-dose safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics. Potential cognitive domains that might benefit from AIT-082 were preliminarily investigated. AIT-082 is currently being developed as a potential treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Preclinical studies indicate that AIT-082 has memory-enhancing properties, stimulates neuritogenesis, and upregulates neurotrophic factors. Subjects received a single oral dose of AIT-082 or placebo on a weekly basis for 5 wk. All patients received a placebo dose at baseline. Six subjects received increasing doses of AIT-082 over the next 4 wk at doses of 0.6, 2.0, 6.0, and 20.0 mg of AIT-082 per kilogram of body weight. Two subjects received placebo throughout the trial. Nine subjects were recruited. One subject was withdrawn after the third treatment visit owing to poor venous access. There were no serious adverse events. The drug was well-tolerated. The time to peak drug concentration was approx 85 min with an elimination half-life of approx 17.6 h. Performance on the Number Comparison, Symbol Digit, and Trails A tests improved with AIT-082 dosing compared to baseline (placebo). In conclusion, AIT-082 was rapidly absorbed by the oral route with a half-life suitable for once daily dosing. No problems with tolerability or safety were demonstrated.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is a neurotrophin required for differentiation, development, and survival of the sympathetic nervous system, with many of its biological effects being mediated via trkA receptors. There is a need for a standard quantitative bioassay for NGF, to be used in basic research and in pharmaceutical studies. The objective of the present research was to develop a selective, quantitative, and reliable bioassay for NGF, using a morphological criterion: neurite cell outgrowth. In addition, we aimed to apply the aforementioned bioassay to measure NGF administered to mice. Pheochromocytoma PC12 cell variants including wild-type cultures, and a trkA-overexpressing stable transfectant PC12-6.24-I, PC12nnr5, and PC12EN lacking trkA receptors, were used. Dose-response curves were generated with NGF beta-subunit (2.5S) purified from mouse submaxillary glands. Our results demonstrated that the bioassay was sensitive to 0.3-20 ng/mL, and selective, as neurite outgrowth was not seen by any other growth factor other than NGF. In addition, variant clones PC12nnr5 and PC12EN, lacking trkA receptors, did not respond to NGF. The bioassay detected NGF in serum of mice injected with NGF. This novel developed bioassay can serve as a model system for various neuroscience purposes.

Calcium is recognized as an important intracellular messenger with a pivotal role in the regulation of many cytosolic and nuclear processes. Gangliosides of various types, especially GM1, are known to have a role in some aspects of Ca2+ regulation, operating through a variety of mechanisms that are gradually coming to light. The present study provides evidence for a sodium-calcium exchanger in the nuclear envelope of NG108-15 neuroblastoma cells that is potently and specifically activated by GM1. Immunoblot analysis revealed an unusually tight association of GM1 with the exchanger in the nuclear envelope but not with that in the plasma membrane. Exchanger and associated GM1 were located in the inner membrane of the nuclear envelope, suggesting this system could function to transfer Ca2+ between nucleoplasm and the envelope lumen. The GM1-enhanced exchange was blocked by cholera toxin B subunit while C2-ceramide, a recently discovered inhibitor of the exchanger, blocked all transfer. Exchanger activity was significantly elevated in nuclei isolated from cells that were induced to differentiate by KCl + dibutyryl-cAMP, a treatment previously shown to promote up-regulation of nuclear GM1 in conjunction with axonogenesis. Similar enhancement was achieved by addition of exogenous GM1 to nuclei from undifferentiated cells. These results suggest a prominent role for nuclear GM1 in regulation of nuclear Ca2+ homeostasis.
An involvement of the D(3) dopamine receptor in the regulation of extracellular dopamine has been suggested. However, the mechanisms mediating this effect are unclear. We have used the technique of no net flux microdialysis under transient conditions to examine the influence of the D(3) -preferring agonist (+)-PD128907 upon extracellular dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens of the mouse. (+)-PD 128907 (0.1 mg/kg intraperitoneally) significantly decreased extracellular dopamine. This decrease was associated with a marked increase in the extraction fraction, which suggests an increase in dopamine clearance. The ability of D(3) -preferring compounds to modulate dopamine uptake was investigated in vitro using rotating disk electrode voltammetry. (+)-PD 128907 (10 nm) significantly increased the initial clearance rate of 3 microm dopamine in rat nucleus accumbens tissue suspensions. Kinetic analysis revealed no change in the apparent K (m) of uptake but it showed a 33% increase in V (max). In contrast, the D(3) antagonist GR 103691 (10 nm) significantly decreased dopamine uptake. Consistent with the low levels of D(3) receptors in the dorsal striatum, neither compound affected uptake in tissue suspensions from this brain region. These data indicate that D(3) receptor activation increases dopamine uptake in the nucleus accumbens and suggest that this receptor subtype can regulate extracellular dopamine by modulating the DA transporter activity.
Glycosphingolipids and cholesterol form lateral assemblies, or lipid 'rafts', within biological membranes. Lipid rafts are routinely studied biochemically as low-density, detergent-insoluble complexes (in non-ionic detergents at 4 degrees C; DIGs, detergent-insoluble glycosphingolipid/cholesterol microdomains). Recent discrepancies recommended a re-evaluation of the conditions used for the biochemical analysis of lipid rafts. We have investigated the detergent insolubility of several known proteins present in the glycosphingolipid/cholesterol-rich myelin membrane, using four detergents representing different chemical classes (TX-100, CHAPS, Brij 96 and TX-102), under four conditions: detergent extraction of myelin either at (i) 4 degrees C or (ii) 37 degrees C, or at 4 degrees C after pre-extraction with (iii) saponin or (iv) methyl-beta-cyclodextrin (MbetaCD). Each detergent was different in its ability to solubilize myelin proteins and in the density of the DIGs produced. Brij 96 DIGs floated to a lower density than other detergents tested, possibly representing a subpopulation of DIGs in myelin. DIGs pre-extracted with saponin were denser than DIGs pre-extracted with MbetaCD. Furthermore, pre-extraction with MbetaCD solubilized proteolipid protein (known to associate with cholesterol), whereas pre-extraction with saponin did not, suggesting that saponin is less effective as a cholesterol-perturbing agent than is MbetaCD. These results demonstrate that DIGs isolated by different detergents are not necessarily comparable, and that these detergent-specific DIGs may represent distinct biochemical, and possibly physiological, entities based on the solubilities of specific lipids/proteins in each type of detergent.
Postsynaptic interactions between dopamine and glutamate receptors in the nucleus accumbens are critical for acute responses to drugs of abuse and for neuroadaptations resulting from their chronic administration. We tested the hypothesis that D(1) dopamine receptor stimulation increases phosphorylation of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR1 at the protein kinase A phosphorylation site (Ser845). Nucleus accumbens cell cultures were prepared from postnatal day 1 rats. After 14 days in culture, GluR1 phosphorylation was measured by western blotting using phosphorylation site-specific antibodies. The D(1) receptor agonist SKF 81297 increased Ser845 phosphorylation in a concentration- dependent manner, with marked increases occurring within 5 min. This was prevented by the D(1) receptor antagonist SCH 23390 and the protein kinase A inhibitor H89, and reproduced by forskolin. The D(2) receptor agonist quinpirole attenuated the response to D(1) receptor stimulation. Neither D(1) nor D(2) receptor agonists altered GluR1 phosphorylation at Ser831, the site phosphorylated by protein kinase C and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II. In other systems, phosphorylation of GluR1 at Ser845 is associated with enhancement of AMPA receptor currents. Thus, the present results suggest that AMPA receptor transmission in the nucleus accumbens may be augmented by concurrent D(1) receptor stimulation.
To begin to understand the modulatory role of glutamate in the inner retina, we examined the mechanisms underlying metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5)-dependent Ca(2+) elevations in cultured GABAergic amacrine cells. A partial sequence of chicken retinal mGluR5 encompassing intracellular loops 2 and 3 suggests that it can couple to both G(q) and G(s). Selective activation of mGluR5 stimulated Ca(2+) elevations that varied in waveform from cell to cell. Experiments using high external K(+) revealed that the mGluR5-dependent Ca(2+) elevations are distinctive in amplitude and time course from those engendered by depolarization. Experiments with a Ca(2+) -free external solution demonstrated that the variability in the time course of mGluR5-dependent Ca(2+) elevations is largely due to the influx of extracellular Ca(2+). The sensitivity of the initial phase of the Ca(2+) elevation to thapsigargin indicates that this phase of the response is due to the release of Ca(2+) from the endoplasmic reticulum. Pharmacological evidence indicates that mGluR5-mediated Ca(2+) elevations are dependent upon the activation of phospholipase C. We rule out a role for L-type Ca(2+) channels and cAMP-gated channels as pathways for Ca(2+) entry, but provide evidence of transient receptor potential (TRP) channel-like immunoreactivity, suggesting that Ca(2+) influx may occur through TRP channels. These results indicate that GABAergic amacrine cells express an avian version of mGluR5 that is linked to phospholipase C-dependent Ca(2+) release and Ca(2+) influx, possibly through TRP channels.
Sensory cues from male rats, such as odours and vaginal-cervical stimulation (VCS), play a modulatory role in female rat sexual behaviour. For example, exposure to male odours and VCS appears to be at least partially responsible for increases in sexual behaviour following repeated mating of oestradiol-primed female rats. Although there is evidence that VCS influences sexual behaviour via a ligand-independent progestin receptor (PR)-dependent mechanism, the mechanism by which odours influence sexual behaviour is not known. We tested the hypothesis that, similar to VCS, the effects of male odours on sexual behaviour are mediated by progestin receptors. Female rats were injected with the progestin antagonist, RU486, or oil vehicle and were then exposed to male-soiled bedding or clean bedding. Although exposure to male-soiled bedding resulted in higher levels of Fos immunoreactivity in brain areas associated with female sexual behaviour, the progestin antagonist did not reduce this effect. Furthermore, there was minimal coexpression of odour-induced Fos and progestin receptors in brain areas associated with female sexual behaviour. Together, these results suggest that the effects of male odours are not mediated by a PR-dependent mechanism. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that oestrogen receptor (ER)-containing cells are involved in the effects of olfactory cues. Although there was virtually no coexpression of ERbeta and odour-induced Fos in brain areas associated with female sexual behaviour, exposure to male odours slightly increased the number of cells coexpressing ER(alpha) and odour-induced Fos in the posterodorsal medial amygdala. Although, these results do not support the hypothesis that the effects of odours are mediated by a PR-dependent mechanism, they suggest that integration of male odours and hormonal cues may occur in ER(alpha)-containing cells in the posterodorsal medial amygdala.
To understand the short-term dynamics of the circulating T cell receptor V beta (TCRBV) repertoire in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS), we monitored the TCRBV profiles of untreated MS patients and healthy controls. Expansions of TCRBV genes in MS patients were significantly more frequent than in controls (P&lt;0.001), were predominantly oligoclonal (80%) and were significantly correlated with immune responses to myelin basic protein (MBP) (P&lt;0.02) and with inflammatory disease activity detected by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (P&lt;0.05). Autoreactive T cell responses against myelin antigens may be implicated in perturbations of TCR repertoire in untreated MS patients, detectable even in the absence of clinically evident manifestations.
We tested patients with celiac disease (CD) for the presence of serum anti-ganglioside antibodies. Six of twenty-seven patient sera were reactive against brain gangliosides by an agglutination immunoassay. Neurological examination in all six revealed the presence of distal sensory loss, consistent with the diagnosis of peripheral neuropathy. When tested by ELISA for antibodies to isolated GM1, GM2, GD1a, GD1b, GT1b, and GQ1b gangliosides, all six were positive for IgG antibodies to at least one. The neuropathy of celiac disease may be autoimmune and associated with anti-ganglioside antibodies. The presence of IgG reactivity furthermore implicates a T cell-mediated response to ganglioside antigens.
Antibodies to sulfated glucuronyl glycolipids (SGGLs) have been reported in sera of patients with peripheral neuropathies including patients with IgM gammopathy. However, the role of anti-SGGL antibodies in the pathogenesis of neuropathy remains unclear. In order to study the role of antibodies to SGGLs in the pathogenesis of neuropathy, Lewis female rats were injected with purified SGPG mixed with keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) and emulsified with equal amount of complete Freund's adjuvant. High titer anti-SGPG antibodies were detected by ELISA in sera of all rats inoculated with SGPG. All anti-SGPG antibodies cross-reacted with human myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG). None of the sensitized rats exhibited clinical signs of neuropathy. Histological examination showed that there was no demyelination or axonal damage in peripheral nerves. Our data demonstrate that SGPG is a highly immunogenic glycolipid but high titer antibodies against it do not produce an experimental autoimmune neuropathy in Lewis rats.
It has been suggested that Golli proteins, structurally related to myelin basic proteins (MBPs), have a role in autoimmune processes. We studied the expression of these proteins in multiple sclerosis (MS) and determined that the number of Golli-immunoreactive (ir) cells was significantly higher around lesions of chronic MS than in control white matter. Golli proteins were expressed in the adult oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs), activated microglia/macrophages, and some demyelinated axons around MS lesions. Their expression in adult OPCs indicates remyelination attempts, whereas the expression in the subpopulation of microglia/macrophages suggests roles in the immune processes of MS. In addition, Golli proteins may be markers of axonal transection, which is characteristic for MS.







The hypothesis that tumor growth depends on neovascularization has been broadly used in oncology research. TNP-470 is a fumagillin synthetic analog that is isolated from Aspergillus fumigatus, and experimental studies suggested that it shows antitumor effect mediated by its strong antiangiogenic effect. Because limited experience exists about the antitumoral effect of TNP-470 in cerebral tumors, we have carried out a study in order to evaluate the effect of TNP-470 on tumor growth and the vascular area in an experimental malignant neuroectodermic tumor growing in the subcutaneous space of immunocompetent Wistar rats. Our results showed a significant tumor growth inhibition in animals treated with TNP-470 when compared to those in the control group (intratumoral injections were administered in 30 mg/kg dose, three times a week on alternate days during four consecutive weeks). Since the quantitative analysis of tumor vascular parameters--number of microvessels and total intratumor vascular area--in the experimental groups did not show significant statistical differences, we conclude that TNP-470 has a significant antitumor effect on our neuroectodermic tumor, but this effect is mediated by other antineoplastic mechanisms that are independent of its previously described angiostatic capacity.
A patient with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) presented with an isolated unilateral adduction deficit and ptosis. Investigations were negative until the onset of limb weakness and fatigue 2 years later. At that time, electroneuromyography, cerebrospinal fluid examination, and magnetic resonance imaging confirmed the diagnosis of CIDP. Thus, ophthalmic signs can precede extremity and bulbar signs with a long latency in CIDP.
The distribution and lineage of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1)-positive cells was investigated in 43 lesions from the brain tissue of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). Numerous VCAM-1-positive macrophages/microglia were detected at the edges of MS lesions. Quantitative analysis of 6 active, 7 chronic active, and 4 chronic inactive MS lesions identified most VCAM-1-positive cells at the actively demyelinating borders of active (102/mm3) and chronic active (29/mm3) lesions, but rarely in chronic inactive lesions (4/mm3). Further, approximately 17% of the VCAM-1-positive cells closely apposed or surrounded oligodendrocyte perikarya at the edges of active and chronic active lesions that were sites of ongoing demyelination. Endothelial cells were VCAM-1-negative in both lesion and non-lesion MS brain tissue. This report is the first to document direct microglial interaction with oligodendrocytes in MS.
In previous experiments, on-line modulation of the gain of visual-motor transmission for pursuit eye movements was demonstrated in monkeys by showing that the response to a brief perturbation of target motion was strongly enhanced during pursuit relative to during fixation. The present paper elaborates the properties of on-line gain control by recording the smooth-pursuit eye movements of human subjects during tracking of a spot target. When perturbations consisted of one cycle of a 5-Hz sine wave, responses were significantly larger during pursuit than during fixation. Furthermore, responses grew as a function of eye/target velocity at the time of the perturbation and of perturbation amplitude. Thus human pursuit, like monkey pursuit, is modulated by on-line gain control. For larger perturbations consisting of a single sine wave at 2.8 Hz, +/-19 degrees/s, the degree of enhancement depended strongly on the phase of the perturbation. Enhancement was present when &quot;peak-first&quot; perturbations caused the target speed to increase first and was attenuated when &quot;peak-last&quot; perturbations caused target speed to decrease first. This effect was most profound when the perturbation was 2.8 Hz, +/-19 degrees/s but was also present when the amplitude of the peak-last perturbation was +/-5 degrees/s. For peak-last perturbations, the eye velocity evoked by the later peak of the perturbation was inversely related to that evoked by the preceding trough of the perturbation. We interpret these effects of perturbation phase as evidence that peak-last perturbations cause a decrease in the on-line gain of visual-motor transmission for pursuit. We conclude that gain control is modulated dynamically as behavioral conditions change. Finally, when perturbations were presented as a sequence of three large, peak-last sine waves starting at the onset of target motion at 10 degrees /s, repeating the conditions used in prior studies on humans, we were able to replicate the prior finding that the response to the perturbations was equal during pursuit and fixation. We conclude that on-line gain control modulates human pursuit and that it can be probed most reliably with small, brief perturbations that do not affect the on-line gain themselves.
Endogenous reactive oxygen species (ROS) can act as modulators of neuronal activity, including synaptic transmission. Inherent in this process, however, is the potential for oxidative damage if the balance between ROS production and regulation becomes disrupted. Here we report that inhibition of synaptic transmission in rat hippocampal slices by H2O2 can be followed by electrical hyperexcitability when transmission returns during H2O2 washout. As in previous studies, H2O2 exposure (15 min) reversibly depressed the extracellular population spike (PS) evoked by Schaffer collateral stimulation. Recovery of PS amplitude, however, was typically accompanied by mild epileptiform activity. Inclusion of ascorbate (400 microM) during H2O2 washout prevented this pathophysiology. No protection was seen with isoascorbate, which is a poor substrate for the stereoselective ascorbate transporter and thus remains primarily extracellular. Epileptiform activity was also prevented by the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP5) during H2O2 washout. Once hyperexcitability was induced, however, AP5 did not reverse it. When present during H2O2 exposure, AP5 did not alter PS depression by H2O2 but did inhibit the recovery of PS amplitude seen during pulse-train stimulation (10 Hz, 5 s) in H2O2. Inhibition of glutamate uptake by l-trans-2,4-pyrrolidine dicarboxylate (PDC; 50 microM) during H2O2 washout markedly enhanced epileptiform activity; coapplication of ascorbate with PDC prevented this. These data indicate that H2O2 exposure can cause activation of normally silent NMDA receptors, possibly via inhibition of redox-sensitive glutamate uptake. When synaptic transmission returns during H2O2 washout, enhanced NMDA receptor activity leads to ROS generation and consequent oxidative damage. These data reveal a pathological cycle that could contribute to progressive degeneration in neurological disorders that involve oxidative stress, including cerebral ischemia.
The functional significance of cyclooxygenases (COX-1 and -2), the key enzymes that convert arachidonic acid (AA) to prostaglandins (PGs) in brain, is unclear, although they have been implicated in cellular functions and in some neurologic disorders, including stroke, epilepsy, and Alzheimer's disease. Recent evidence that COX-2 is expressed in postsynaptic dendritic spines (which are specialized structures involved in synaptic signaling) and is regulated by synaptic activity implies participation of COX-2 in neuronal plasticity. However, direct evidence is lacking. Here we demonstrate that selective COX-2 inhibitors significantly reduced postsynaptic membrane excitability, back-propagating dendritic action potential-associated Ca2+ influx, and long-term potentiation (LTP) induction in hippocampal dentate granule neurons, while a COX-1 inhibitor is ineffective. All of these actions were effectively reversed by exogenous application of PGE2 but not of PGD2 or PGF(2alpha). Our results indicate that COX-2-generated PGE2 regulates membrane excitability and long-term synaptic plasticity in hippocampal perforant path-dentate gyrus synapses.
The acoustic environment for an echolocating bat can contain multiple objects that reflect echoes so closely separated in time that they are almost completely overlapping. This results in a single echo with a spectrum characterized by deep notches due to interference. The object of this study was to document the possible selectivity, or lack thereof, of auditory neurons to the temporal separation of biosonar signals on a coarse (ms) and fine (micros) temporal scale. We recorded single-unit activity from the auditory cortex of big brown bats while presenting four protocol designs using wideband FM signals. The protocols simulated a pair of partially overlapping echoes where the separation between the first and second echo varied between 0 and 72 micros, a pulse followed by a single echo at varying delay from 0 to 30 ms, a pulse followed at a fixed delay by a pair of partially overlapping echoes that had a varying temporal separation of 0-72 micros, and a pulse followed, with a varying delay between 0 and 30 ms, by a pair of echoes that themselves had a fixed temporal separation on a microsecond time scale. About half of the cortical units showed increased spike counts to pairs of partially overlapping echoes at particular separations (6-72 micros) compared with a baseline stimulus at 0-micros separation. For many neurons tested with a pulse followed by two overlapping echoes, we observed a sensitivity to the coarse delay between the pulse and pair of overlapping echoes and to the separation between the two echoes themselves. The sensitivity to the partial overlap between the two echoes was not tuned to a single temporal separation. For bats, this means that the absolute range to the closest reflector and range between reflectors may be jointly encoded across a small population of single units. There are several possible neuronal mechanisms for encoding the separation between two nearby echoes based on the sensitivity to spectral notches.
We develop a new analysis of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) input to a cortical simple cell, demonstrating that this input is the sum of two terms, a linear term and a nonlinear term. In response to a drifting grating, the linear term represents the temporal modulation of input, and the nonlinear term represents the mean input. The nonlinear term, which grows with stimulus contrast, has been neglected in many previous models of simple cell response. We then analyze two scenarios by which contrast-invariance of orientation tuning may arise. In the first scenario, at larger contrasts, the nonlinear part of the LGN input, in combination with strong push-pull inhibition, counteracts the nonlinear effects of cortical spike threshold, giving the result that orientation tuning scales with contrast. In the second scenario, at low contrasts, the nonlinear component of LGN input is negligible, and noise smooths the nonlinearity of spike threshold so that the input-output function approximates a power-law function. These scenarios can be combined to yield contrast-invariant tuning over the full range of stimulus contrast. The model clarifies the contribution of LGN nonlinearities to the orientation tuning of simple cells and demonstrates how these nonlinearities may impact different models of contrast-invariant tuning.
When monkeys view two targets moving in different directions and are given no cues about which to track, the initiation of smooth pursuit is a vector average of the response evoked by each target singly. In the present experiments, double-target stimuli consisted of two identical targets moving in opposite directions along the preferred axis of pursuit for the neuron under study for 200 ms, followed by the continued motion for 800 ms of one target chosen randomly. Among the neurons that showed directional modulation during pursuit, recordings revealed three groups. The majority (32/60) showed responses that were intermediate to, and statistically different from, the responses to either target presented alone. Another large group (22/60) showed activity that was statistically indistinguishable from the response to the target moving in the preferred (n = 15) or opposite (n = 7) direction of the neuron under study. The minority (6/60) showed statistically higher firing during averaging pursuit than for either target presented singly. We conclude that many pursuit-related neurons in the frontal pursuit area (FPA) carry signals related to the motor output during averaging pursuit, while others encode the motion of one target or the other. Microstimulation with 200-ms trains of pulses at 50 microA while monkeys performed the same double-target tasks biased the averaging eye velocity in the direction of evoked eye movements during fixation. The effect of stimulation was compared with the predictions of three different models that placed the site of vector averaging upstream from, at, or downstream from the sites where the FPA regulates the gain of pursuit. The data were most consistent with a site for pursuit averaging downstream from the gain control, both for double-target stimuli that presented motion in opposite directions and in orthogonal directions. Thus the recording and stimulation data suggest that the FPA is both downstream and upstream from the sites of vector averaging. We resolve this paradox by suggesting that the site of averaging is really downstream from the site of gain control, while feedback of the eye velocity command from the brain stem and/or cerebellum is responsible for the firing of FPA neurons in relation to the averaged eye velocity. We suggest that eye velocity feedback allows FPA neurons to continue firing during accurate tracking, when image motion is small, and that the persistent output from the FPA is necessary to keep the internal gain of pursuit high and permit accurate pursuit.
Anatomical and physiological studies have shown that the &quot;frontal pursuit area&quot; (FPA) in the arcuate cortex of monkeys is involved in the control of smooth pursuit eye movements. To further analyze the signals carried by the FPA, we examined the activity of pursuit-related neurons recorded from a discrete region near the arcuate spur during a variety of oculomotor tasks. Pursuit neurons showed direction tuning with a wide range of preferred directions and a mean full width at half-maximum of 129 degrees. Analysis of latency using the &quot;receiver operating characteristic&quot; to compare responses to target motion in opposite directions showed that the directional response of 58% of FPA neurons led the initiation of pursuit, while 19% led by 25 ms or more. Analysis of neuronal responses during pursuit of a range of target velocities revealed that the sensitivity to eye velocity was larger during the initiation of pursuit than during the maintenance of pursuit, consistent with two components of firing related to image motion and eye motion. FPA neurons showed correlates of two behavioral features of pursuit documented in prior reports. 1) Eye acceleration at the initiation of pursuit declines as a function of the eccentricity of the moving target. FPA neurons show decreased firing at the initiation of pursuit in parallel with the decline in eye acceleration. This finding is consistent with prior suggestions that the FPA plays a role in modulating the gain of visual-motor transmission for pursuit. 2) A stationary eccentric cue evokes a smooth eye movement opposite in direction to the cue and enhances the pursuit evoked by subsequent target motions. Many pursuit neurons in the FPA showed weak, phasic visual responses for stationary targets and were tuned for the positions about 4 degrees eccentric on the side opposite to the preferred pursuit direction. However, few neurons (12%) responded during the preparation or execution of saccades. The responses to the stationary target could account for the behavioral effects of stationary, eccentric cues. Further analysis of the relationship between firing rate and retinal position error during pursuit in the preferred and opposite directions failed to provide evidence for a large contribution of image position to the firing of FPA neurons. We conclude that FPA processes information in terms of image and eye velocity and that it is functionally separate from the saccadic frontal eye fields, which processes information in terms of retinal image position.
We have used double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)-mediated RNA interference (RNAi) to disrupt neuronal nitric oxide (NO) synthase (nNOS) gene function in the snail Lymnaea stagnalis and have detected a specific behavioral phenotype. The injection of whole animals with synthetic dsRNA molecules targeted to the nNOS-encoding mRNA reduces feeding behavior in vivo and fictive feeding in vitro and interferes with NO synthesis by the CNS. By showing that synthetic dsRNA targeted to the nNOS mRNA causes a significant and long-lasting reduction in the levels of Lym-nNOS mRNA, we verify that specific RNAi has occurred. Importantly, our results establish that the expression of nNOS gene is essential for normal feeding behavior. They also show that dsRNA can be used in the investigation of functional gene expression in the context of whole animal behavior, regardless of the availability of targeted mutation technologies.
We have examined the underlying coordinate frame for pursuit learning by testing how broadly learning generalizes to different retinal loci and directions of target motion. Learned changes in pursuit were induced using double steps of target speed. Monkeys tracked a target that stepped obliquely away from the point of fixation, then moved smoothly either leftward or rightward. In each experimental session, we adapted the response to targets moving in one direction across one locus of the visual field by changing target speed during the initial catch-up saccade. Learning occurred in both presaccadic and postsaccadic eye velocity. The changes were specific to the adapted direction and did not generalize to the opposite direction of pursuit. To test the spatial scale of learning, we examined the responses to targets that moved across different parts of the visual field at the same velocity as the learning targets. Learning generalized partially to motion presented at untrained locations in the visual field, even those across the vertical meridian. Experiments with two sets of learning trials showed interference between learning at different sites in the visual field, suggesting that pursuit learning is not capable of spatial specificity. Our findings are consistent with the previous suggestions that pursuit learning is encoded in an intermediate representation that is neither strictly sensory nor strictly motor. Our data add the constraint that the site or sites of pursuit learning must process visual information on a fairly large spatial scale that extends across the horizontal and vertical meridians.
We studied the importance of the hippocampus and subiculum for anterograde and retrograde memory in the rat using social transmission of food preference, a nonspatial memory task. Experiment 1 asked how long an acquired food preference could be remembered. In experiment 2, we determined the anterograde amnesic effects of large lesions of the hippocampus that included the subiculum. In experiment 3, large lesions of the hippocampus that included the subiculum were made 1, 10, or 30 d after learning to determine the nature and extent of retrograde amnesia. Normal rats exhibited memory of the acquired food preference for at least 3 months after learning. Hippocampal lesions that included the subiculum produced marked anterograde amnesia and a 1-30 d temporally graded retrograde amnesia. The results show the importance of the hippocampus and related structures for nonspatial memory and also demonstrate the temporary role of these structures in long-term memory.
Keratan sulfate proteoglycans (KSPGs) are extracellular matrix molecules that appear to establish boundaries for axonal growth in the developing brain and spinal cord. In vitro studies confirm that KSPGs define inhibitory boundaries to extending neurites. The aim of the current study was to investigate whether KSPGs are expressed after spinal cord injury (SCI) and thereby might act as potential inhibitors of axonal growth. Adult Fischer 344 rats were subjected to spinal cord lesions, and the temporal and spatial expression of KSPGs was examined using the 5D4 monoclonal anti-KSPG antibody. In the intact spinal cord, a subpopulation of microglia expressed 5D4-KSPG throughout the white and gray matter. Within 24 hr of injury, 5D4-KSPG immunoreactivity substantially increased and appeared on cellular profiles in close proximity to the spinal cord lesion site, peaking 3 d after injury. Double immunolabeling revealed that 5D4-KSPG expression arose from multiple cell types at the lesion site, including reactive microglia, macrophages, and oligodendrocyte progenitors. Astrocytes were not identified as a source of 5D4-KSPG. The robust and extensive production of 5D4-KSPG at sites of SCI precedes the expression of other putatively inhibitory proteoglycan molecules such as chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans. This is the first demonstration that KSPGs are expressed after SCI in a temporal and spatial relationship that could exert an early and important role in modulating axonal growth after SCI.
The present study uses the embryonic chick to examine in vivo the mechanisms and regulation of Schwann cell programmed cell death (PCD) in spinal and cranial peripheral nerves. Schwann cells are highly dependent on the presence of axons for survival because the in ovo administration of NMDA, which excitotoxically eliminates motoneurons and their axons by necrosis, results in a significant increase in apoptotic Schwann cell death. Additionally, pharmacological and surgical manipulation of axon numbers also affects the relative amounts of Schwann cell PCD. Schwann cells undergoing both normal and induced PCD display an apoptotic-like cell death, using a caspase-dependent pathway. Furthermore, axon elimination results in upregulation of the p75 and platelet-derived growth factor receptors in mature Schwann cells within the degenerating ventral root. During early development, Schwann cells are also dependent on axon-derived mitogens; the loss of axons results in a decrease in Schwann cell proliferation. Axon removal during late embryonic stages, however, elicits an increase in proliferation, as is expected from these more differentiated Schwann cells. In rodents, Schwann cell survival is regulated by glial growth factor (GGF), a member of the neuregulin family of growth factors. GGF administration to chick embryos selectively rescued Schwann cells during both normal PCD and after the loss of axons, whereas other trophic factors tested had no effect on Schwann cell survival. In conclusion, avian Schwann cells exhibit many similarities to mammalian Schwann cells in terms of their dependence on axon-derived signals during early and later stages of development.
Neuronal activity regulated pentraxin (Narp) has been implicated in the aggregation of AMPA-type glutamate receptors (GluR) at excitatory synapses. In the present paper, we examine the role of endogenous Narp in excitatory synapse formation by using novel, dominant-negative Narp mutants (dnNarp) that selectively bind endogenous Narp and prevent its accumulation at synapses. Axons from neurons transfected with wild-type Narp showed an increase in their ability to cluster AMPA receptors on spinal neurons, whereas axons from neurons transfected with dnNarp showed a marked decrease in their ability to induce GluR1 clusters on contacted dendrites. Despite their marked effect at excitatory synapses, dnNarp and wild-type Narp had no effect on the postsynaptic clustering of the inhibitory protein gephyrin or the percentage of contacts associated with staining for the presynaptic vesicle proteins GAD or synaptophysin. Use of the dnNarp mutants to suppress endogenous Narp expression by postsynaptic dendrites showed a complementary role for dendritic Narp in the clustering of synaptic AMPA receptors, as well as a reduction in the total number of excitatory synapses on transfected neurons. Together these experiments suggest an important role for Narp in the formation of excitatory synapses in cultured spinal neurons.
The dunce (dnc) and rutabaga (rut) mutations of Drosophila affect a cAMP-dependent phosphodiesterase and a Ca(2+)/CaM-regulated adenylyl cyclase, respectively. These mutations cause deficiencies in several learning paradigms and alter synaptic transmission, growth cone motility, and action potential generation. The cellular phenotypes either are Ca(2+) dependent (neurotransmission and motility) or mediate a Ca(2+) rise (action potential generation). However, interrelations among these defects have not been addressed. We have established conditions for fura-2 imaging of Ca(2+) dynamics in the &quot;giant&quot; neuron culture system of Drosophila. Using high K(+) depolarization of isolated neurons, we observed a larger, faster, and more dynamic response from the growth cone than the cell body. This Ca(2+) increase depended on an influx through Ca(2+) channels and was suppressed by the Na(+) channel blocker TTX. Altered cAMP metabolism by the dnc and rut mutations reduced response amplitude in the growth cone while prolonging the response within the soma. The enhanced spatial resolution of these larger cells allowed us to analyze Ca(2+) regulation within distinct domains of mutant growth cones. Modulation by a previous conditioning stimulus was altered in terms of response amplitude and waveform complexity. Furthermore, rut disrupted the distinction in Ca(2+) responses observed between the periphery and central domain of growth cones with motile filopodia.
Synapsin III is the most recently identified member of the synapsin family, a group of synaptic vesicle proteins that play essential roles in neurotransmitter release and neurite outgrowth. Here, through the generation and analysis of synapsin III knock-out mice, we demonstrate that synapsin III regulates neurotransmitter release in a manner that is distinct from that of synapsin I or synapsin II. In mice lacking synapsin III, the size of the recycling pool of synaptic vesicles was increased, and synaptic depression was reduced. The number of vesicles that fuse per action potential was similar between synapsin III knock-out and wild-type mice, and there was no change in the quantal content of EPSCs; however, IPSCs were greatly reduced in synapsin III-deficient neurons. The density and distribution of synaptic vesicles in presynaptic terminals did not appear to be different in synapsin III knock-out mice in comparison to wild-type littermates. In addition to the changes in neurotransmitter release, we observed a specific delay in axon outgrowth in cultured hippocampal neurons from synapsin III knock-out mice. Our data indicate that synapsin III plays unique roles both in early axon outgrowth and in the regulation of synaptic vesicle trafficking.
The Mller cell is the principal glial cell of the vertebrate retina. The primary conductance in Mller cells is the inwardly rectifying potassium channel Kir4.1 (BIR10 and KAB-2), which is highly concentrated at the endfeet at the vitreal border and to processes enveloping blood vessels. Such asymmetric and clustered distribution of Kir4.1 channels in Mller cells is thought to be critical for the buffering of extracellular potassium concentration in retina. Herein we investigated whether the distribution and functional properties of Kir4.1 channels are dependent on expression of the Dp71, a dystrophin isoform expressed in Mller cells. Kir4.1 distribution was determined in mouse retinal sections and whole mounts using anti-Kir4.1 antibodies and confocal microscopy. In Mller cells from wild-type mice, Kir4.1 is highly clustered in their endfeet and perivascular processes. In contrast, in Mller cells from the mdx(3Cv) mouse, which lacks the expression of Dp71, the Kir4.1 immunoreactivity is evenly distributed throughout the cell membrane. Surface expression of Kir4.1 is not affected in mdx(3Cv) Mller cells as current density of barium-sensitive inward currents in mdx(3Cv) Mller cells are not different from wild type. Focal extracellular potassium increases in isolated Mller cells shows that Kir channels in the mdx(3Cv) cells, as opposed to wild type, are less prominently concentrated in their endfeet. In summary, our data indicate that Dp71 is critical for the clustering but not membrane expression of Kir4.1 in mouse Mller cells. These results point to a new role for dystrophin in glial cells.
CASK, an adaptor protein of the plasma membrane, is composed of an N-terminal calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein (CaM) kinase domain, central PSD-95, Dlg, and ZO-1/2 domain (PDZ) and Src homology 3 (SH3) domains, and a C-terminal guanylate kinase sequence. The CaM kinase domain of CASK binds to Mint 1, and the region between the CaM kinase and PDZ domains interacts with Velis, resulting in a tight tripartite complex. CASK, Velis, and Mint 1 are evolutionarily conserved in Caenorhabditis elegans, in which homologous genes (called lin-2, lin-7, and lin-10) are required for vulva development. We now demonstrate that the N-terminal CaM kinase domain of CASK binds to a novel brain-specific adaptor protein called Caskin 1. Caskin 1 and a closely related isoform, Caskin 2, are multidomain proteins containing six N-terminal ankyrin repeats, a single SH3 domain, and two sterile alpha motif domains followed by a long proline-rich sequence and a short conserved C-terminal domain. Unlike CASK and Mint 1, no Caskin homolog was detected in C. elegans. Immunoprecipitations showed that Caskin 1, like Mint 1, is stably bound to CASK in the brain. Affinity chromatography experiments demonstrated that Caskin 1 coassembles with CASK on the immobilized cytoplasmic tail of neurexin 1, suggesting that CASK and Caskin 1 coat the cytoplasmic tails of neurexins and other cell-surface proteins. Detailed mapping studies revealed that Caskin 1 and Mint 1 bind to the same site on the N-terminal CaM kinase domain of CASK and compete with each other for CASK binding. Our data suggest that in the vertebrate brain, CASK and Velis form alternative tripartite complexes with either Mint 1 or Caskin 1 that may couple CASK to distinct downstream effectors.
Accumulation of alpha-synuclein has been associated with neurodegenerative disorders, such as Lewy body disease and multiple system atrophy. We previously showed that expression of wild-type human alpha-synuclein in transgenic mice results in motor and dopaminergic deficits associated with inclusion formation. To determine whether different levels of human alpha-synuclein expression from distinct promoters might result in neuropathology mimicking other synucleopathies, we compared patterns of human alpha-synuclein accumulation in the brains of transgenic mice expressing this molecule from the murine Thy-1 and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) promoters. In murine Thy-1-human alpha-synuclein transgenic mice, this protein accumulated in synapses and neurons throughout the brain, including the thalamus, basal ganglia, substantia nigra, and brainstem. Expression of human alpha-synuclein from the PDGF promoter resulted in accumulation in synapses of the neocortex, limbic system, and olfactory regions as well as formation of inclusion bodies in neurons in deeper layers of the neocortex. Furthermore, one of the intermediate expressor lines (line M) displayed human alpha-synuclein expression in glial cells mimicking some features of multiple system atrophy. These results show a more widespread accumulation of human alpha-synuclein in transgenic mouse brains. Taken together, these studies support the contention that human alpha-synuclein expression in transgenic mice might mimic some neuropathological alterations observed in Lewy body disease and other synucleopathies, such as multiple system atrophy.
The lipid mediators generated by phospholipases A(2) (PLA(2)), free arachidonic acid (AA), eicosanoids, and platelet-activating factor, modulate neuronal activity; when overproduced, some of them become potent neurotoxins. We have shown, using primary cortical neuron cultures, that glutamate and secretory PLA(2) (sPLA(2)) from bee venom (bv sPLA(2)) and Taipan snake venom (OS2) elicit synergy in inducing neuronal cell death. Low concentrations of sPLA(2) are selective ligands of cell-surface sPLA(2) receptors. We investigated which neuronal arachidonoyl phospholipids are targeted by glutamate-activated cytosolic calcium-dependent PLA(2) (cPLA(2)) and by sPLA(2). Treatment of (3)H-AA-labeled cortical neurons with mildly toxic concentrations of sPLA(2) (25 ng/ml, 1.78 nM) for 45 min resulted in a two- to threefold higher loss of (3)H-AA from phosphatidylcholine (PC) than from phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and in minor changes in other phospholipids. A similar profile, although of greater magnitude, was observed 20 hr posttreatment. Glutamate (80 microM) induced much less mobilization of (3)H-AA than did sPLA(2) and resulted in a threefold greater degradation of (3)H-AA PE than of (3)H-AA PC by 20 hr posttreatment. Combining sPLA(2) and glutamate resulted in a greater degradation of PC and PE, and the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801 only blocked glutamate effects. Thus, activation of the arachidonate cascade induced by glutamate and sPLA(2) under experimental conditions that lead to neuronal cell death involves the hydrolysis of different (perhaps partially overlapping) cellular phospholipid pools.

We show that a broad class of visual illusions, including illusory motion, can be explained by the effects of negative afterimages. Two new illusions, illusory shading and illusory tilting, are devised on the basis of the proposed explanation. The general feature of these illusions is an alternation between a high-contrast (white or black) and a low-contrast (gray) local input signal, which can be caused either by eye motion over patterns of varied luminance or by a change in such patterns over time. A simple model of the local signal dynamics qualitatively reproduces the illusory effects by adding the negative afterimage to the original visual stimulus.
We investigated the involvement of nitric oxide (NO) in the phosphorylation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate-responsive element-binding protein (CREB) in the spinal cord of rats during central sensitization after intradermal capsaicin injection. CREB and phosphorylated CREB (p-CREB) were measured by immunoblotting. The level of p-CREB increased by 20 minutes, peaked between 20 and 60 minutes after capsaicin injection, and started to decrease after 150 minutes. CREB itself did not show an obvious change after capsaicin injection. The p-CREB expression on the ipsilateral side of the spinal dorsal horn, but not on the contralateral side, increased significantly after capsaicin injection. The increase in p-CREB induced by capsaicin injection was partially blocked by pretreatment with N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), an NO synthase inhibitor, administered through a microdialysis fiber placed across the spinal cord. D-NAME, an inactive form of L-NAME, had no effect. CREB phosphorylation, not the level of CREB, was induced within 20 minutes by microdialysis administration of SIN-1, an NO donor. These results indicate that CREB phosphorylation in the spinal cord results from both endogenous and exogenous NO release and that p-CREB may play a role in central sensitization or in longer-term changes in gene expression induced by strong peripheral noxious stimulation.
The formalin test is commonly used as a model of persistent pain. Besides producing pain behavior, hind paw formalin injection induces the expression of the immediate-early gene, c-fos. A current controversy is whether noxious stimulus-induced Fos protein immunoreactivity can be considered a proxy (biomarker) of nociception in the spinal cord. We investigated this issue by exploiting our recent demonstration of genotype-dependent behavioral differences in response to formalin injection among inbred mouse strains. Accordingly, 6 inbred and 2 outbred strains were administered formalin (5% in 25 microL) into the ventral hind paw, monitored for licking behavior, and then sacrificed at 90 minutes after injection for Fos protein immunocytochemistry. Significant strain differences were observed in both licking behavior and Fos counts in superficial and deep laminae. We observed a significant correlation among strains between licking behavior in the late phase (10 to 60 minutes) of the formalin test and Fos expression in laminae V-VI (but not laminae I-II) of the dorsal horn (r = 0.94). These findings reinforce the use of the Fos technique to study the neuronal processing underlying pain but suggest that Fos labeling reliably reflects tonic pain behavior only in neurons located in the neck of the dorsal horn in mice.
The expression of the tumour-associated glycoprotein 90K in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma (MM) has not been described. This study used enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA) to measure 90K in pleural effusions (PEs) and sera from patients with MM (n=28), lung cancer (LC) (n=14) and benign pleural disease (BPD) (n=15). Immunohistochemistry was used to investigate 90K expression in MM and LC tissue sections. The expression of 90K was further evaluated in vitro by ELISA and western blot analysis of conditioned media and cellular extracts of MM, LC and normal human mesothelial (NHM) cell cultures. Finally, the relationships between 90K expression in MM and patient age and survival were studied. The mean 90K level was significantly higher (p&lt;0.05) in PEs of MM patients (11.0+/-6.6 microg/ml) than in LC (6.1+/-3.2 microg/ml) or BPD (6.2+/-5.0 microg/ml) patients. Immunohistochemistry showed a positive reaction for 90K in MM biopsy sections and positive staining limited to inflammatory infiltrates in LC sections. The level of 90K was significantly higher in cell culture media of MM than of LC or NHM (p&lt;0.001). Bands representing proteins with molecular weight of approximately 90 kDa were detected by western blot in MM cellular extracts. An inverse correlation between PE 90K levels and MM patient age (r=-0.45; p=0.017) and a positive correlation between serum 90K levels and MM patient survival (r=0.62; p=0.006) were detected by linear regression analysis. Kaplan-Meier univariate analysis showed increased survival probability for MM patients with serum 90K level &gt;7.3 microg/ml (log rank, p&lt;0.05). This is the first report in MM of the expression of 90K and of its potential diagnostic and prognostic application.
Our goal was to determine whether local injections of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) promote early stages of regeneration after nerve transection. Sciatic nerves were transected bilaterally in 2 groups of 10 adult mice. In the first group, 15 microg (20 microL) of VIP were injected twice daily into the gap between transected ends of the right sciatic nerve for 7 days (4 mice) or 14 days (6 mice). The same number of mice in the second group received placebo injections (20 microL of 0.9% sterile saline) in the same site, twice daily, for the same periods. After 7 days, axon sizes, relationships with Schwann cells and degree of myelination were compared in electron micrographs of transversely sectioned distal ends of proximal stumps. Fourteen days after transection, light and electron microscopy were used to compare and measure axons and myelin sheaths in the transection gap, 2-mm distal to the ends of proximal stumps. Distal ends of VIP-treated proximal stumps contained larger axons 7 days after transection. More axons were in 1:1 relationships with Schwann cells and some of them were surrounded by thin myelin sheaths. In placebo-treated proximal stumps, axons were smaller, few were in 1:1 relationships with Schwann cells and no myelin sheaths were observed. In VIP-treated transection gaps, measurements 14 days after transection showed that larger axons were more numerous and their myelin sheaths were thicker. Our results suggest that in this nerve transection model, local administration of VIP promotes and accelerates early myelination and growth of regenerating axons.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the psychometric properties of the Depressive Personality Disorder Inventory (DPDI; Huprich, Margrett, Barthelemy, &amp; Fine, 1996). The DPDI was found to have strong internal consistency in both an undergraduate and a veteran, psychiatric outpatient population. The DPDI had significant, positive correlations with other measures of depressive personality, supporting its convergent validity. These relationships remained even after controlling for state-like depression, suggesting that the DPDI has incremental validity. The DPDI also significantly predicted scores on measures of interpersonal loss, even after controlling for state-like depression, suggesting that the DPDI has good construct validity. In support of discriminant validity, the DPDI was more correlated with another measure of depressive personality than it was with measures of other personality disorders. Finally, the DPDI had strong diagnostic efficiency statistics: (a) Sensitivity = .82, (b) Specificity = .80, (c) Positive Predictive Power = .75, (d) Negative Predictive Power = .86, and (e) Overall Diagnostic Power = .81. It appears that the DPDI has good psychometric properties.
Consistent with their clinical effects in attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), the stimulants methylphenidate and amphetamine reduce motor hyperactivity in juvenile male rats with neonatal 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of the forebrain dopamine (DA) system. Since stimulants act on several aminergic neurotransmission systems, we investigated underlying mechanisms involved by comparing behavioral actions of d-methylphenidate, selective inhibitors of the neuronal transport of DA [GBR-12909 (1-[2-[bis(4-fluorophenyl)methoxy]ethyl]-4-[3-phenylpropyl]piperazine dihydrochloride), amfonelic acid], serotonin [5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), citalopram, fluvoxamine], and norepinephrine (NE; desipramine, nisoxetine) in 6-OHDA lesioned rats. Selective dopamine lesions were made using 6-OHDA (100 microg, intracisternal) on postnatal day (PD) 5 after desipramine pretreatment (25 mg/kg, s.c.) to protect noradrenergic neurons. Rats were given test agents or vehicle, intraperitoneally, before recording motor activity for 90 min at PD 25 in a novel environment. d-Methylphenidate stimulated motor activity in sham controls and antagonized hyperactivity in lesioned rats. Selective DA transport inhibitors GBR-12909 and amfonelic acid greatly stimulated motor activity in sham control subjects, too, but did not antagonize hyperactivity in lesioned rats. In contrast, all selective 5-HT and NE transporter antagonists tested greatly reduced motor hyperactivity in 6-OHDA lesioned rats but did not alter motor activity in sham controls. The findings indicate that behavioral effects of stimulants in young rats with neonatal 6-OHDA lesions may be mediated by release of NE or 5-HT and support interest in using drugs that increase activity of norepinephrine or serotonin to treat ADHD.
The first endocannabinoid, anandamide, was discovered in 1992. Since then, two other endocannabinoid agonists have been identified, 2-arachidonyl glycerol and, more recently, noladin ether. Here, we report the identification and pharmacological characterization of a novel endocannabinoid, virodhamine, with antagonist properties at the CB1 cannabinoid receptor. Virodhamine is arachidonic acid and ethanolamine joined by an ester linkage. Concentrations of virodhamine measured by liquid chromatography atmospheric pressure chemical ionization-tandem mass spectrometry in rat brain and human hippocampus were similar to anandamide. In peripheral tissues that express the CB2 cannabinoid receptor, virodhamine concentrations were 2- to 9-fold higher than anandamide. In contrast to previously described endocannabinoids, virodhamine was a partial agonist with in vivo antagonist activity at the CB1 receptor. However, at the CB2 receptor, virodhamine acted as a full agonist. Transport of [(14)C]anandamide by RBL-2H3 cells was inhibited by virodhamine. Virodhamine produced hypothermia in the mouse and acted as an antagonist in the presence of anandamide both in vivo and in vitro. As a potential endogenous antagonist at the CB1 receptor, virodhamine adds a new form of regulation to the endocannabinoid system.
Slice preparations are typically used to study the effects of pharmacological manipulations on the electrophysiological activity of mature neurons. However, the severing of afferent inputs is known to significantly change the natural membrane activity of the neuron. To study the effects of local pharmacological manipulations on neurons in the intact brain, we combined the methods of microdialysis and intracellular recording in vivo. After implantation of a microdialysis probe into the prefrontal cortex (PFC) or striatum, intracellular recordings were conducted within approximately 500 microm of the active surface of the probe. The spontaneous membrane activity, passive membrane properties, and intracellularly and synaptically evoked responses of striatal and cortical neurons recorded during perfusion of artificial cerebral spinal fluid were not different from that of neurons recorded in intact animals. Moreover, in the PFC, local perfusion with glutamate or N-methyl-D-aspartate depolarized neurons and increased spike activity. Conversely, local perfusion of tetrodotoxin hyperpolarized neurons while markedly reducing spontaneous membrane depolarizations and eliminating spike activity. In the striatum, local perfusion of the gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline rapidly depolarized neurons and increased spontaneous spike activity. Given that striatal and PFC neurons recorded in animals undergoing microdialysis in the current study exhibited electrophysiological properties similar to those recorded in intact controls, it is likely that the effects of local microdialysis on ongoing synaptic activity, neuronal excitability, and endogenous neurotransmitter levels are minimal. We conclude that the use of local microdialysis with intracellular recording is a powerful method for studying local receptor regulation of synaptic activity in vivo.
It has been proposed that extracellular ATP may be involved in visceral mechanosensory transduction by activating ligand-gated ion channels (P2X receptors). In this study, we have investigated the effects of the P2X(3) agonist alpha,beta-methylene ATP (alpha,beta-meATP) and antagonist 2',3'-O-trinitrophenyl-ATP (TNP-ATP) on pelvic afferents innervating the urinary bladder using an in vitro mouse bladder-pelvic nerve preparation. Intravesical application of alpha,beta-meATP (0.03-1 mM) increased multifibre discharges in a concentration-dependent manner. The agonist potentiated, whereas TNP-ATP (0.03 mM) attenuated, the multifibre responses to bladder distensions. Single-unit analysis revealed that both high threshold (HT) fibres (&gt; 15 mmHg; known to be associated with nociception) and low threshold (LT) fibres (&lt; 15 mmHg; probably associated with non-nociceptive events) could be induced to discharge by intravesical alpha,beta-meATP (1 mM, 0.1 ml). The response of the vast majority (21/22, 95.5 %) of HT fibres to bladder distensions was enhanced with a significantly reduced threshold and an increased peak response after exposure to the agonist. On the other hand, 59.7 % (46/77) of LT fibres showed a greater peak and a slightly reduced threshold for response to bladder distension in the presence of alpha,beta-meATP. An additional 11 'silent' fibres became mechanosensitive after exposure to alpha,beta-meATP. TNP-ATP (0.03 mM) did not affect the threshold of LT fibres, but it reduced the peak response of some (22/51, 43.1 %) LT fibres. Conversely, the antagonist resulted in a markedly elevated threshold and reduced peak activity in the majority (13/16, 81.3 %) of HT fibres. The results support the view that P2X(3) receptor-mediated mechanisms contribute to both nociceptive and non-nociceptive (physiological) mechanosensory transduction in the urinary bladder.
Voltage-gated potassium channels, Kv1.1, Kv1.2 and Kv1.6, were identified as PCR products from mRNA prepared from nodose ganglia. Immunocytochemical studies demonstrated expression of the proteins in all neurons from ganglia of neonatal animals (postnatal days 0-3) and in 85-90 % of the neurons from older animals (postnatal days 21-60). In voltage clamp studies, alpha-dendrotoxin (alpha-DTX), a toxin with high specificity for these members of the Kv1 family, was used to examine their contribution to K(+) currents of the sensory neurons. alpha-DTX blocked current in both A- and C-type neurons. The current had characteristics of a delayed rectifier with activation positive to -50 mV and little inactivation during 250 ms pulses. In current-clamp experiments alpha-DTX, used to eliminate the current, had no effect on resting membrane potential and only small effects on the amplitude and duration of the action potential of A- and C-type neurons. However, there were prominent effects on excitability. alpha-DTX lowered the threshold for initiation of discharge in response to depolarizing current steps, reduced spike after-hyperpolarization and increased the frequency/pattern of discharge of A- and C-type neurons at membrane potentials above threshold. Model simulations were consistent with these experimental results and demonstrated how the other major K(+) currents function in response to the loss of the alpha-DTX-sensitive current to effect these changes in action potential wave shape and discharge.
Nitric oxide (NO) regulates the release of catecholamines from the adrenal medulla but the molecular targets of its action are not yet well identified. Here we show that the NO donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP, 200 microM) causes a marked depression of the single Ca(V)1 L-channel activity in cell-attached patches of bovine chromaffin cells. SNP action was complete within 3-5 min of cell superfusion. In multichannel patches the open probability (NP(o)) decreased by approximately 60 % between 0 and +20 mV. Averaged currents over a number of traces were proportionally reduced and showed no drastic changes to their time course. In single-channel patches the open probability (P(o)) at +10 mV decreased by the same amount as that of multichannel patches (approximately 61 %). Such a reduction was mainly associated with an increased probability of null sweeps and a prolongation of mean shut times, while first latency, mean open time and single-channel conductance were not significantly affected. Addition of the NO scavenger carboxy-PTIO or cell treatment with the guanylate cyclase inhibitor ODQ prevented the SNP-induced inhibition. 8-Bromo-cyclicGMP (8-Br-cGMP; 400 microM) mimicked the action of the NO donor and the protein kinase G blocker KT-5823 prevented this effect. The depressive action of SNP was preserved after blocking the cAMP-dependent up-regulatory pathway with the protein kinase A inhibitor H89. Similarly, the inhibitory action of 8-Br-cGMP proceeded regardless of the elevation of cAMP levels, suggesting that cGMP/PKG and cAMP/PKA act independently on L-channel gating. The inhibitory action of 8-Br-cGMP was also independent of the G protein-induced inhibition of L-channels mediated by purinergic and opiodergic autoreceptors. Since Ca(2+) channels contribute critically to both the local production of NO and catecholamine release, the NO/PKG-mediated inhibition of neuroendocrine L-channels described here may represent an important autocrine signalling mechanism for controlling the rate of neurotransmitter release from adrenal glands.
Older people admitted to hospital often develop acute temporary confusion. Earlier studies have focused on problems in providing care to the confused, causes of the confusion and the key aspects of caring. The aims of this study were to describe, from a nursing perspective, how older people experienced the phenomenon of temporary confusion and to describe the older peoples' reasoning when they described their experiences. Interviews with five older informants who had recovered from their confusional state were conducted and analysed using the phenomenological method. Two phenomena were studied, 'being temporarily confused' and 'reasoning about experiences of temporary confusion', each was found to be represented by four inter-related constituents. The phenomena can be understood as aspects of suffering and power imbalance between staff and older people.
The critical flicker fusion threshold (CFFT) is thought to index alertness and cortical arousal. Sedative drugs reduce CFFT while psychostimulants increase it. Procyclidine is an anticholinergic that is used to control the extrapyramidal side-effects of antipsychotics in schizophrenia. This study examined the effects of clinically relevant doses of oral procyclidine administration on CFFT and heart rate in two separate experiments (Experiment 1, drug dose: 10 mg, n = 16; Experiment 2, drug dose: 15 mg, n = 12) involving healthy subjects using a double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over design. 10 mg procyclidine had no significant effect on CFFT, heart rate or self-ratings of mood, but the 15 mg dose significantly lowered CFFT at 1 h and 2 h after procyclidine administration, increased drowsiness ratings and produced a drop in heart rate. The effects observed in this study may have implications for treatment compliance of schizophrenic patients, choice of antipsychotics, prescribing to patients with heart disease and monitoring of cardiac function under treatment. Further investigations are required to quantify the effects of procyclidine on CFFT and cardiac function in patients with schizophrenia.
Several lines of evidence suggest a link between cocaine-primed craving and depressive symptomatology. The purpose of this study was to directly relate these two clinical phenomena. Thirty-three cocaine-dependent subjects were rated on the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSD) at baseline and then administered an i.v. bolus of cocaine (0.2 mg/kg). Multiple regression analysis revealed that only the HRSD score was an independent predictor of cocaine-primed craving (F= 4.09; d.f. = 10,22; r = 0.81, p &lt; 0.003) when baseline spontaneous craving during early withdrawal, age, gender, frequency of use, time since last use, monetary expenditure on cocaine and the Addiction Severity Index Drug Composite Scores were considered. These data support the hypothesis that depressive symptomatology affects cocaine-primed craving and that this relationship is relatively specific to symptoms defined by the HRSD and is not seen with a number of other clinical and demographic variables.
Clinical augmentation strategies have shown that some improvement in antidepressant efficacy can be achieved by combining the beta-adrenergic/serotonin (5-HT)1A/1B receptor antagonist (+/-)pindolol with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). This has lead to the hypothesis that a combination of a 5-HT1A receptor antagonist with an SSRI will lead to a faster onset of antidepressant action. Although there is a significant accumulation of acute preclinical data supporting this rationale, until recently, there have been no investigations examining the chronic effects of combining an SSRI with a 5-HT1A receptor antagonist. Here, we determined the chronic effects of fluoxetine (10 mg/kg o.d.), administered in combination with the selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY-100635 (1 mg/kg b.i.d.), on serotonergic neurotransmission in the frontal cortex using in-vivo microdialysis. Following chronic administration of fluoxetine +/- WAY-100635, functional changes in serotonergic neurotransmission, as well as 5-HT1A autoreceptors, were assessed by administering fluoxetine or (+/-) 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin [(+/-) 8-OH-DPAT] 24 h after the last chronic dose. Chronic administration of WAY-100635 alone produced no detectable change in the functional status of the 5-HT1A receptor. However, fluoxetine alone produced a time-dependent adaptation in serotonergic transmission such that fluoxetine (acutely administered on day 15) was able to produce a two-fold increase in extracellular 5-HT levels but the decrease in response to 8-OH-DPAT was completely attenuated. These data indicate that the fluoxetine-induced adaptation was mediated by desensitization of the 5-HT1A receptor. WAY-100635 given chronically in combination with fluoxetine blocked the SSRI-induced desensitization of the 5-HT1A receptor. Furthermore, chronic treatment with this combination produced no tolerance in terms of its ability to acutely increase forebrain 5-HT levels. These data suggest that augmentation of an SSRI by combined pharmacotherapy with a 5-HT1A antagonist would be effective upon prolonged exposure.


Telomerase activity and telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) expression are elevated in human malignancies. We have investigated telomerase activity measured by the telomeric repeat amplification protocol (TRAP) assay and hTERT levels by real-time RT-PCR in stage I non-small-cell lung carcinomas. The purposes of our study included the comparison of these two techniques in the assessment of telomerase function and the evaluation of their prognostic significance. Telomerase activity and hTERT levels were determined in 90 stage I non-small-cell lung carcinoma patients, using TRAP assay and real-time RT-PCR, respectively. Variables were analyzed by the chi(2) and Fisher exact tests. Survival was analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier method. Multivariate analysis was performed with the Cox's proportional hazards model. Telomerase activity was elevated in 60 (67%) carcinomas. hTERT was elevated in 43 (48%) carcinomas. Only 21 (23%) tumors had low telomerase function by both TRAP and hTERT expression levels. Telomerase activity and hTERT were significantly correlated (p = 0.017), although 35 cases displayed discordant results. Both telomerase activity and hTERT levels were significantly associated with poor patient overall and disease-free survival (p = 0.019 and p = 0.018 for TRAP, and p = 0.011 and p = 0.012 for hTERT, respectively). Among the 21 patients with tumors displaying low telomerase function, defined by both TRAP and hTERT expression levels, only one succumbed to the disease (p = 0.0053). Our results suggest that the two techniques used in this study evaluate separate aspects of telomerase function and their combination provides powerful prognostic information in lung cancer patients.
The practice of neurorehabilitation in the clinic has undergone a paradigm shift as a result of influences from basic and clinical research. I have identified six areas of knowledge that by advancing so rapidly have brought about this paradigm shift: first, the increased understanding of how the CNS is reorganised after training or injury; second, the knowledge of how declarative and procedural memory operates and how this can influence rehabilitation therapy; third, a greater appreciation of the chemical factors that promote learning and neural remodelling; fourth, the fact that computational neuroscience can teach us how complex behaviour can emerge from the interaction of thousands of neurons; fifth, the influence of evidence-based medicine on neurorehabilitation; and sixth, the importance of reliable outcome measures for both injury and treatment. These are young scientific disciplines that offer great opportunities for further research. The complexity of neurorehabilitation will also require greater attention to a substantially neglected problem, the incorporation of techniques that have been proven effective in clinical trials into routine and effective clinical practice.
Three different Pax6 promoters -- P0, P1, and P alpha -- show differential activity in the developing eye and spinal cord. To examine promoter usage during forebrain development, we performed in situ hybridization and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction to detect transcripts initiated from each promoter. Promoter-specific transcripts are expressed within subdomains of total Pax6 expression, but differ from one another in their spatial localization and expression over time. Additionally, we identified a novel P0-initiated transcript and detected a developmentally regulated antisense transcript.
GDNF and the GDNF receptors, c-Ret, GFR alpha 1 and 2 mRNA is expressed in the developing chicken retina. GDNF labelling was mainly found in embryonic day 4-5 retina but weak labelling could also be found over scattered retinal cells at later stages. c-ret labelling was found over ganglion cells, amacrine and horizontal cells; the preferred GDNF receptor (GFR alpha 1) over amacrine and horizontal cells; and the less preferred GDNF receptor (GFR alpha 2) over ganglion cells, amacrine cells and photoreceptors.

When participants switch between relevant stimulus dimensions in speeded classification tasks, task-switching cost is reduced by advance preparation. Previous studies in which speeded classification tasks were used have suggested that this effect results from attending to the relevant stimulus dimension. Because selective attention to the relevant stimulus dimension in same-different judgments is relatively poor (e.g., Santee &amp; Egeth, 1980), it was predicted that advance task preparation for a shift in the relevant stimulus dimension would be compromised. This prediction was borne out in two experiments comparing dimension shifts (shape vs.fill) with task rule shifts (same? vs. different? and shifts in the mapping of right-left keys to yes and no responses (yes-no vs. no-yes). The results indicate that advance attentional selection of the relevant dimension is an optional preparatory strategy in task switching, employed only in conditions enabling flexible refocusing of attention.
Expression of the mRNAs encoding the astrocytic (EAAT1, EAAT2) and neuronal (EAAT3, EAAT4) excitatory amino acid transporters and the AMPA-type glutamate receptor subunits GluR2 and GluR3 was investigated in postmortem cerebellar extracts from a patient with olivopontocerebellar atrophy (OPCA) and in material from three age-matched controls. Decreased expression in the steady state level of EAAT4 mRNA in the OPCA sample was correlated with the selective loss of Purkinje cells. Neuropathological evaluation revealed reactive gliosis and concomitantly increased expression of the mRNA encoding astrocytic glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Expression of the mRNAs encoding the AMPA receptor subunits GluR2 and GluR3 subunits was found to be decreased in OPCA suggesting that excitotoxic mechanism could play a role in the pathogenesis of the selective neuronal cell death in this disorder.
Sphingomyelin is a major lipid in the bilayer of subcellular membranes of eukaryotic cells. Different sphingomyelinases catalyze the initial step in the catabolism of sphingomyelin, the hydrolysis to phosphocholine and ceramide. Sphingomyelinases have been postulated to generate ceramide as a lipophilic second messenger in intracellular signaling pathways involved in cell proliferation, differentiation, or apoptosis. To elucidate the function of the first cloned Mg(2+)-dependent, neutral sphingomyelinase (nSMase 1) in sphingomyelin catabolism and its potential role in signaling processes in a genetic and molecular approach, we have generated an nSMase 1-null mutant mouse line by gene targeting. The nSMase 1-deficient mice show an inconspicuous phenotype and no accumulation or changed metabolism of sphingomyelin or other lipids, despite grossly reduced nSMase activity in all organs except brain. We also addressed the recent proposal that nSMase 1 possesses lysophospholipase C activity. The unaltered metabolism of lysophosphatidylcholine or lyso-platelet-activating factor excludes the proposed role of nSMase 1 as a lysophospholipase C.
FGF-2 is a potent neurotrophic factor for several populations of CNS neurons and has been shown to protect hippocampal neurons from glutamate-induced cell death in vitro and in vivo. Mechanisms underlying the neurotrophic and protective actions of FGF-2 have been resolved only in part. Using glutamate-treated cultured hippocampal neurons we show that FGF-2 shares its neuroprotective capacity with GDNF. Hippocampal neurons express glial-cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), its receptors c-Ret and the lipid-anchored GDNF family receptor-alpha1 (GFRalpha-1), and the FGF receptor 1 (FGFR I). Neutralizing antibodies to GDNF abolish the neuroprotective effect of FGF-2. In support of the notion that GDNF is required to permit the protective effects of FGF-2 we find that FGF-2 up-regulates GDNF and GFRalpha-1 in hippocampal neurons. Furthermore, FGF-2-induced GDNF causes enhanced phosphorylation of c-Ret and the signaling components Akt and Erk. A putative downstream target of FGF-2 and GDNF are bcl-2 gene family members, whose mRNAs are differentially up-regulated by the two factors. Together, these data suggest that GDNF is an important protective factor for glutamate-lesioned hippocampal neurons and an essential mediator of the neuroprotective actions of FGF-2.


The first three transmembrane segments (M1-M3) of human nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) have been implicated in determining the efficacy of nicotine by studies of alpha3/alpha4 subunit chimeras. Nicotine has full efficacy on the alpha4beta2 nAChR and partial efficacy on the alpha3beta2 nAChR. Now, we have exchanged individually three amino acids between the alpha4 and the alpha3 subunits at positions 226(M1), 258(M2), and 262(M2). Also, similar exchanges were made in the beta2 and beta4 subunits at positions 224(M1), 226(M1), and 254(M2) (using alpha subunit numbering). Expression of these mutated nAChRs in Xenopus laevis oocytes showed that the mutated M1 amino acids were important in influencing the potency of ACh and nicotine. It is hypothesized that these M1 amino acids affect the stability between the resting and activated states of the nAChR. M2 amino acids altered the efficacy of nicotine, usually without altering its potency. When the residue located at position 258 in the M2 region of the alpha subunit was valine (as in the alpha3 subunit), the resulting nAChR exhibited partial efficacy for nicotine that was voltage-dependent. Therefore, we believe that these M2 amino acids contribute to the formation of a binding site for nicotine in the alpha3beta2 nAChR channel, which results in a low-affinity channel block, causing the lower efficacy of nicotine on this nAChR.
The actions of the anticonvulsant gabapentin [1-(aminomethyl)cyclohexaneacetic acid, Neurontin] have been somewhat enigmatic until recently, when it was claimed to be a gamma-aminobutyric acid-B (GABA(B)) receptor agonist acting exclusively at a heterodimeric complex containing the GABA(B(1a)) splice variant (Mol Pharmacol 2001;59:144-152). In this study, we have investigated the effects of gabapentin on recombinant GABA(B(1a)) and GABA(B(1b)) receptors coexpressed with GABA(B(2)) in five different functional recombinant assays, its ability to inhibit [(3)H]GABA binding in a GABA(B) receptor-selective binding assay using rat synaptic membranes, and its ability to inhibit transient lower esophageal sphincter relaxations in Labrador retriever dogs. Up to a concentration of 1 mM, gabapentin displayed no agonistic effects on either the GABA(B(1a,2)) or the GABA(B(1b,2)) heterodimer, when these were expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes or mammalian cells and assayed by means of electrophysiology, calcium mobilization, inositol phosphate, and fluorometry assays. Gabapentin did not displace [(3)H]GABA from GABA(B) receptor sites in rat synaptic membranes. Finally, in contrast to the classic GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen, gabapentin was unable to inhibit transient lower esophageal sphincter relaxations in dogs. Because of high levels of GABA(B(1a)) in the canine nodose ganglion, this finding indirectly supports the inactivity of gabapentin on the GABA(B(1a,2)) heterodimer demonstrated in various in vitro assays. In light of these results, we find it highly questionable that gabapentin is a GABA(B) receptor agonist. Hence, the anticonvulsive effects of the compound have to arise from GABA(B) receptor-independent mechanisms. This also implies that the first GABA(B) receptor splice variant-selective ligand remains to be discovered.
To clarify the molecular nature of the pathogenesis in X-linked Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD), we monitored the expression of 2400 genes in control and EDMD fibroblasts by using complementary DNA (cDNA) microarray techniques. A total of 60 genes whose expression was altered in EDMD fibroblasts when compared with control fibroblasts were identified. Twenty-eight genes whose expression was altered with the emerin deficiency were rescued by infection with a recombinant adenovirus expressing emerin. The altered expression in five genes, including the lamin A/C gene, was confirmed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Our preliminary results suggest a correlation between disease similarity and gene expression. We conclude that the cDNA microarray is a very efficient tool to clarify genetic and pathological features of diseases.
Although many genes that predispose for epilepsy in humans have been determined, those that underlie the classical syndromes of idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE) have yet to be identified. We report that an Ala322Asp mutation in GABRA1, encoding the alpha1 subunit of the gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor subtype A (GABA(A)), is found in affected individuals of a large French Canadian family with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy. Compared with wildtype receptors, GABA(A) receptors that contain the mutant subunit show a lesser amplitude of GABA-activated currents in vitro, indicating that seizures may result from loss of function of this inhibitory ligand-gated channel. Our results confirm that mutation of GABRA1 predisposes towards a common idiopathic generalized epilepsy syndrome in humans.
The mechanism by which dopaminergic neurons are selectively lost in Parkinson disease (PD) is unknown. Here we show that accumulation of alpha-synuclein in cultured human dopaminergic neurons results in apoptosis that requires endogenous dopamine production and is mediated by reactive oxygen species. In contrast, alpha-synuclein is not toxic in non-dopaminergic human cortical neurons, but rather exhibits neuroprotective activity. Dopamine-dependent neurotoxicity is mediated by 54 83-kD soluble protein complexes that contain alpha-synuclein and 14-3-3 protein, which are elevated selectively in the substantia nigra in PD. Thus, accumulation of soluble alpha-synuclein protein complexes can render endogenous dopamine toxic, suggesting a potential mechanism for the selectivity of neuronal loss in PD.
Humans effortlessly interpret speech and music, whose patterns can contain sound durations up to thousands of milliseconds. How nervous systems measure such long durations is unclear. We show here that model neurons containing physiological slow conductances are 'naturally' sensitive to duration, replicate known duration-sensitive neurons and can be 'tuned' to respond to a wide range of specific durations. In addition, these models reproduce several other properties of duration-sensitive neurons not selected for in model construction. These data, and the widespread presence of slow conductances in nervous systems, suggest that slow conductances might play a major role in duration measurement.
Complex traits, including many disease-related traits, are influenced by multiple genes. Bivariate approaches that associate one gene with one trait are yielding to multivariate methods to synthesize the effects of multiple genes, integrate results across independent studies, and aid in the identification of coordinated pathways and interactions between loci.
Stress is a biologically significant factor that, by altering brain cell properties, can disturb cognitive processes such as learning and memory, and consequently limit the quality of human life. Extensive rodent and human research has shown that the hippocampus is not only crucially involved in memory formation, but is also highly sensitive to stress. So, the study of stress-induced cognitive and neurobiological sequelae in animal models might provide valuable insight into the mnemonic mechanisms that are vulnerable to stress. Here, we provide an overview of the neurobiology of stress memory interactions, and present a neural endocrine model to explain how stress modifies hippocampal functioning.
As part of a structure-activity study focused on the Phe(4) residue of nociceptin (NC) (1-13)NH(2), we identified two highly potent and selective agonists for the OP(4) receptor, [(pF)Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2) and [(pNO(2))Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2), whose in vitro pharmacological profiles have been described in the companion paper. In the present study, we investigated the actions of [(pF)Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2) and compared it with those of NC(1-13)NH(2) in a battery of vivo assays. In the locomotor activity test in mice, 1 nmol NC(1-13)NH(2) given intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) caused a significant decrease (about 70% inhibition) in activity for the first 15 min following injection; [(pF)Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2), at the same dose, exerted a similar inhibitory effect that continued until the end of the observation period (30 min). This effect was prevented by the selective OP(4) receptor antagonist [Nphe(1)]NC(1-13)NH(2) (10 nmol, i.c.v.). In the tail-withdrawal assay in mice, [(pF)Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2) mimicked the effects of NC(1-13)NH(2) producing pronociceptive and antimorphine effects following i.c.v. administration. In both experimental paradigms, the actions of [(pF)Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2) were longer lasting (&gt;60 min) compared to those of NC(1-13)NH(2) (ca. 30 min). In unanaesthetised normotensive mice, bolus intravenous (i.v.) injection of 100 nmol/kg of [(pF)Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2) decreased mean blood pressure and heart rate; these effects were longer lasting than those elicited by the same dose of NC(1-13)NH(2). I.c.v. administration of [(pF)Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2) dose-dependently stimulated feeding in rats, and was about tenfold more potent than NC(1-13)NH(2).Collectively, the present data demonstrate that, in a variety of in vivo assays, NC(1-13)NH(2) and [(pF)Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2) mimicked the actions of NC. [(pF)Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2) was more potent and its in vivo effects were longer lasting than those of NC(1-13)NH(2) and NC.
Phe(4) in the nociceptin (NC) sequence has been identified as the most critical residue for receptor interaction. In the present study, we investigated the pharmacological activity of a series of NC(1-13)NH(2) analogues, in which the hydrogen atom in the para position of Phe(4) was substituted with F, NO(2), CN, Cl, Br, I, CH(3), OH or NH(2). In receptor binding studies, performed using CHO cells expressing the recombinant human NC receptor (CHO(hOP4)) and in rat cerebral cortex membranes, [(pF)Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2), [(pNO(2))Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2), and [(pCN)Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2) displayed higher affinity than NC(1-13)NH(2). The affinity of [(pCl)Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2) was essentially identical to that of NC(1-13)NH(2), while the remaining compounds displayed reduced affinity. In a series of functional assays (stimulation of GTPgammaS binding in CHO(hOP4)cells and rat cerebral cortex membranes and inhibition of cAMP accumulation in CHO(hOP4) cells), the para substituted analogues behaved as full agonists (with the exception of [(pOH)Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2) which acted as a partial agonist in the GTPgammaS binding assays) with the following rank order potency:[(pF)Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2) and [(pNO(2))Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2) were either inactive or displayed micromolar potencies in cAMP accumulation experiments performed on cells expressing classical opioid receptors. All compounds were full agonists in isolated tissues from various species (guinea pig ileum, mouse colon and mouse/rat vas deferens) with the exception of [(pOH)Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2) which displayed partial agonist/weak antagonist activities. The rank order of potency was similar to that found in the other assays. The effects of all analogues were not modified by naloxone. The selective OP(4) receptor antagonist [Nphe(1)]NC(1-13)NH(2), tested in all preparations against one or both of the highly potent derivatives [(pF)Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2) and [(pNO(2))Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2), showed pA(2) values similar to those found against NC, the pA(2) in the GTPgammaS binding/rat cerebral cortex assay being much higher (ca. 7.5) than in the other functional assays (ca. 6). This study further supports the notion that Phe(4) of NC is the critical residue for receptor occupation and activation. Moreover, as part of this study, we have identified two novel, highly potent and selective agonists for the OP(4) receptor, [(pF)Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2) and [(pNO(2))Phe(4)]NC(1-13)NH(2).
Cosine tuning is ubiquitous in the motor system, yet a satisfying explanation of its origin is lacking. Here we argue that cosine tuning minimizes expected errors in force production, which makes it a natural choice for activating muscles and neurons in the final stages of motor processing. Our results are based on the empirically observed scaling of neuromotor noise, whose standard deviation is a linear function of the mean. Such scaling predicts a reduction of net force errors when redundant actuators pull in the same direction. We confirm this prediction by comparing forces produced with one versus two hands and generalize it across directions. Under the resulting neuromotor noise model, we prove that the optimal activation profile is a (possibly truncated) cosine--for arbitrary dimensionality of the workspace, distribution of force directions, correlated or uncorrelated noise, with or without a separate cocontraction command. The model predicts a negative force bias, truncated cosine tuning at low muscle cocontraction levels, and misalignment of preferred directions and lines of action for nonuniform muscle distributions. All predictions are supported by experimental data.
Acetylcholine (ACh) plays an important role in a wide variety of cognitive tasks, such as perception, selective attention, associative learning, and memory. Extensive experimental and theoretical work in tasks involving learning and memory has suggested that ACh reports on unfamiliarity and controls plasticity and effective network connectivity. Based on these computational and implementational insights, we develop a theory of cholinergic modulation in perceptual inference. We propose that ACh levels reflect the uncertainty associated with top-down information, and have the effect of modulating the interaction between top-down and bottom-up processing in determining the appropriate neural representations for inputs. We illustrate our proposal by means of an hierarchical hidden Markov model, showing that cholinergic modulation of contextual information leads to appropriate perceptual inference.
In the temporal difference model of primate dopamine neurons, their phasic activity reports a prediction error for future reward. This model is supported by a wealth of experimental data. However, in certain circumstances, the activity of the dopamine cells seems anomalous under the model, as they respond in particular ways to stimuli that are not obviously related to predictions of reward. In this paper, we address two important sets of anomalies, those having to do with generalization and novelty. Generalization responses are treated as the natural consequence of partial information; novelty responses are treated by the suggestion that dopamine cells multiplex information about reward bonuses, including exploration bonuses and shaping bonuses. We interpret this additional role for dopamine in terms of the mechanistic attentional and psychomotor effects of dopamine, having the computational role of guiding exploration.
Knowledge of the effect of dopamine on corticostriatal synaptic plasticity has advanced rapidly over the last 5 years. We consider this new knowledge in relation to three factors proposed earlier to describe the rules for synaptic plasticity in the corticostriatal pathway. These factors are a phasic increase in dopamine release, presynaptic activity and postsynaptic depolarisation. A function is proposed which relates the amount of dopamine release in the striatum to the modulation of corticostriatal synaptic efficacy. It is argued that this function, and the experimental data from which it arises, are compatible with existing models which associate the reward-related firing of dopamine neurons with changes in corticostriatal synaptic efficacy.
We have studied the neurotoxicity of amyloid-beta (Abeta) after a single unilateral intravitreal injection. Within the retina apoptotic cells were seen throughout the photoreceptor layer and the inner nuclear layer but not in the ganglion cell layer at 48 h after injection of Abeta(1-42) compared to vehicle control and control peptide. At 5 months, there was a significant reduction in total cell numbers in the ganglion cell layer in Nissl stained retinas. There was glial cell dysfunction with upregulation of glial fibrillary acidic protein and a reduction in the expression of Mller cell associated proteins in the injected retinas. These results suggest an indirect cytotoxic effect of Abeta on retinal neurons and an important role for dysfunction of Mller glia in mediating Abeta neurotoxicity.
Strong evidence supports that nitric oxide (NO) alters cell signaling pathways involving arachidonic acid (AA). Little is known, however, about the reciprocal modulation of nitrergic pathways by AA. The effects of exogenous AA on signal transduction of M1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors were investigated in a model system of stably transfected Chinese hamster ovary cells. AA concentration-dependently inhibited the effects of carbachol in producing NO (IC50 = 191 microM) but did not alter inositol phosphate production or M1 receptor binding. AA inhibited both carbachol-induced transient and sustained increase in intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i; IC50 = 11 and 12 microM, respectively). Furthermore, AA-induced increase in [Ca2+]i cross-desensitizes with thapsigargin, but AA does not inhibit Ca(2+)-ATPase activity. These data support the concept that AA concentration-dependently inhibits receptor-mediated NO production at the level of calcium mobilization.
The otolith organs in the vestibular system are excellent detectors of linear accelerations. However, any measurement of linear acceleration is ambiguous between a tilt in a gravitational field and an inertial acceleration. Angelaki et al. have put forward a general hypothesis about how inertial accelerations can be computed based on vestibular signals (J. Neurosci. 19 (1999) 316). We have constructed a realistic, detailed model of the relevant systems to test this hypothesis. The model produces useful predictions about what kinds of neurons should be found in the vestibular nucleus if such a computation is actually performed in the vestibular system. The model is constructed using general principles of neurobiological simulation (J. Neurophys. 84 (2000) 2113).
The time-dependent action of aldosterone was analyzed on the regulation of mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) mRNAs in the brain. Bilaterally adrenalectomized rats were injected subcutaneously with a single low dose of aldosterone (0.01 mg/kg, s.c.). By means of in situ hybridization MR and GR mRNA levels were studied in autoradiograms 2, 4, 8 and 24 h after the hormone injection in brain regions related to stress responses, i.e. subregions of the dorsal hippocampus (CA1 to CA4 and dentate gyrus), the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, and the septum. The findings show a biphasic regulation of MR mRNA levels in the medial septal nucleus with substantial increases after 4 h (79% increase) followed by substantial decreases in MR mRNA levels after 24 h (71% decrease), whereas no changes in MR mRNA levels were observed in the lateral septal nucleus. A negative autoregulation of hippocampal MR mRNA levels was observed only in the CA2 subregion (38% decrease) at the 8-hour time interval. Over the same time interval a negative cross-regulation of GR mRNA by aldosterone was observed in all hippocampal subfields (32-57% decrease) except in CA2. No changes in GR mRNA levels were found in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus. The time-dependent action of corticosterone (10 mg/kg, s.c.) was analyzed in the same animal model revealing no changes in MR mRNA levels in the medial and lateral septal nuclei. The present findings suggest that the medial septal nucleus shows a unique responsiveness to aldosterone in the adrenalectomized model in terms of biphasic changes in MR mRNA levels. Activated MR in the medial septal nucleus may therefore take part in the regulation of septo-hippocampal cholinergic pathways and thus of limbic circuits.
To assess the effects of age, gender and body mass index on the maximum tolerated volume of a nutrient drink and postprandial symptoms in health. Healthy adolescents (15 M, 15 F, aged 13-17 years) and adults (15 M, 25 F, aged 19-51 years) ingested Ensure (1 kcal mL-1) at a rate of 30 mL min-1. The maximum tolerated volume was recorded. Thirty minutes later, bloating, fullness, nausea and pain were rated using visual analogue scales. The Mann-Whitney test was used for comparisons between groups using body mass index and maximum tolerated volume as covariates. Age-related differences in maximum tolerated volume were noted between adolescents and adults, and were observed in both genders. Adults had higher scores for bloating and pain, and lower scores for fullness. Gender-related differences in maximum tolerated volume were noted in the group as a whole, and separately for adolescents and adults. Females had higher scores for nausea and pain. Gender and age-related differences in the maximum tolerated volume of a nutrient drink and postprandial symptoms should be considered in future studies of upper gastrointestinal symptoms in disease. Body mass index does not appear to influence maximum tolerated volume beyond its association with age and gender.
In Friston et al. ((2002) Neuroimage 16: 465-483) we introduced empirical Bayes as a potentially useful way to estimate and make inferences about effects in hierarchical models. In this paper we present a series of models that exemplify the diversity of problems that can be addressed within this framework. In hierarchical linear observation models, both classical and empirical Bayesian approaches can be framed in terms of covariance component estimation (e.g., variance partitioning). To illustrate the use of the expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm in covariance component estimation we focus first on two important problems in fMRI: nonsphericity induced by (i) serial or temporal correlations among errors and (ii) variance components caused by the hierarchical nature of multisubject studies. In hierarchical observation models, variance components at higher levels can be used as constraints on the parameter estimates of lower levels. This enables the use of parametric empirical Bayesian (PEB) estimators, as distinct from classical maximum likelihood (ML) estimates. We develop this distinction to address: (i) The difference between response estimates based on ML and the conditional means from a Bayesian approach and the implications for estimates of intersubject variability. (ii) The relationship between fixed- and random-effect analyses. (iii) The specificity and sensitivity of Bayesian inference and, finally, (iv) the relative importance of the number of scans and subjects. The forgoing is concerned with within- and between-subject variability in multisubject hierarchical fMRI studies. In the second half of this paper we turn to Bayesian inference at the first (within-voxel) level, using PET data to show how priors can be derived from the (between-voxel) distribution of activations over the brain. This application uses exactly the same ideas and formalism but, in this instance, the second level is provided by observations over voxels as opposed to subjects. The ensuing posterior probability maps (PPMs) have enhanced anatomical precision and greater face validity, in relation to underlying anatomy. Furthermore, in comparison to conventional SPMs they are not confounded by the multiple comparison problem that, in a classical context, dictates high thresholds and low sensitivity. We conclude with some general comments on Bayesian approaches to image analysis and on some unresolved issues.
This paper reviews hierarchical observation models, used in functional neuroimaging, in a Bayesian light. It emphasizes the common ground shared by classical and Bayesian methods to show that conventional analyses of neuroimaging data can be usefully extended within an empirical Bayesian framework. In particular we formulate the procedures used in conventional data analysis in terms of hierarchical linear models and establish a connection between classical inference and parametric empirical Bayes (PEB) through covariance component estimation. This estimation is based on an expectation maximization or EM algorithm. The key point is that hierarchical models not only provide for appropriate inference at the highest level but that one can revisit lower levels suitably equipped to make Bayesian inferences. Bayesian inferences eschew many of the difficulties encountered with classical inference and characterize brain responses in a way that is more directly predicated on what one is interested in. The motivation for Bayesian approaches is reviewed and the theoretical background is presented in a way that relates to conventional methods, in particular restricted maximum likelihood (ReML). This paper is a technical and theoretical prelude to subsequent papers that deal with applications of the theory to a range of important issues in neuroimaging. These issues include; (i) Estimating nonsphericity or variance components in fMRI time-series that can arise from serial correlations within subject, or are induced by multisubject (i.e., hierarchical) studies. (ii) Spatiotemporal Bayesian models for imaging data, in which voxels-specific effects are constrained by responses in other voxels. (iii) Bayesian estimation of nonlinear models of hemodynamic responses and (iv) principled ways of mixing structural and functional priors in EEG source reconstruction. Although diverse, all these estimation problems are accommodated by the PEB framework described in this paper.
Functional neuroimaging studies have shown that different cognitive functions activate overlapping brain regions. An activation overlap may occur because a region is involved in operations tapped by different cognitive functions or because the activated area comprises subregions differentially involved in each of the functions. To investigate these issues, we directly compared brain activity during episodic retrieval (ER) and working memory (WM) using event-related functional MRI (fMRI). ER was investigated with a word recognition test, and WM was investigated with a word delayed-response test. Two-phase trials distinguished between retrieval mode and cue-specific aspects of ER, as well as between encoding/maintenance and retrieval aspects of WM. The results revealed a common fronto-parieto-cerebellar network for ER and WM, as well as subregions differentially involved in each function. Specifically, there were two main findings. First, the results differentiated common and specific subregions within the prefrontal cortex: (i) left dorsolateral areas were recruited by both functions, possibly reflecting monitoring operations; (ii) bilateral anterior and ventrolateral areas were more activated during ER than during WM, possibly reflecting retrieval mode and cue-specific ER operations, respectively; and (iii) left posterior/ventral (Broca's area) and bilateral posterior/dorsal areas were more activated during WM than during ER, possibly reflecting phonological and generic WM operations, respectively. Second, hippocampal and parahippocampal regions were activated not only for ER but also for WM. This result suggests that indexing operations mediated by the medial temporal lobes apply to both long-term and short-term memory traces. Overall, our results show that direct cross-function comparisons are critical to understand the role of different brain regions in various cognitive functions.
Cerebral venous thrombosis is a rare complication of ulcerative colitis. We report a case of 29 year old male who developed superior sagittal, left lateral and sigmoid sinus thrombosis secondary to ulcerative colitis. He was successfully treated with low molecular weight heparin and steroids.
Schizencephaly is a rare congenital anomaly of the brain, characterized by formation of abnormal unilateral or bilateral clefts in the cerebral hemispheres. It often manifests with partial seizures, mental retardation and hemiparesis. Only two cases of schizencephaly associated with psychosis have been reported in the literature. A patient of schizencephaly, who had bipolar affective disorder is described. It has been compared with the earlier two reported cases of schizencephaly associated with pyschosis.
A 28-year-old Malay man presented with progressive paraparesis over a period of 6 months. Magnetic resonance imaging of the spine revealed a thoracic intramedullary spinal cord tumor at the T-7 level with homogeneous enhancement following intravenous gadolinium administration. Laminectomy and partial decompression of the tumor was performed. Histological examination of the tumor revealed features of spindle cell hemangioendothelioma. The patient was managed with limited field radiotherapy followed by systemic interferon therapy. Good neurological improvement was seen subsequently. The patient has survived 48 months with growth restraint at the primary site, although residual neurological deficit persists. Immunotherapy should be considered as a treatment modality for intramedullary hemangioendothelioma of the spinal cord after surgery and radiotherapy.
A 59-year-old woman presented with a rare middle fossa dural arteriovenous fistula (AVF) unrelated to the cavernous sinus manifesting only as subarachnoid hemorrhage. Angiography revealed shunts between the meningeal branches of both the internal and external carotid arteries and the sphenobasal sinus. The AVF drained into the superficial middle cerebral vein (SMCV) which had a varix and an anastomosis to a superior cerebral vein. The arterial supply vessels were eliminated surgically and the sinus was excised. Bleeding did not recur and there was no venous infarction. Dural AVF of the sphenoparietal sinus is associated with pulsatile exophthalmos and dural AVF of the sphenopetrosal sinus with tinnitus, but dural AVF of the sphenobasal sinus has no obvious symptom. Simple interruption of the SMCV at the penetration of the arachnoid membrane was possible because of the absence of a draining vessel to preserve AVF patency, but the arteries were eliminated in this patient to prevent formation of another AVF.
Neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and neuritic plaques (NPs) are two major histopathological lesions in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although their aetiological relationship is unclear, both NFTs and dystrophic neurites of NPs display immunoreactivity for ubiquitin. This suggests that dysfunction in ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis and the resulting accumulation of ubiquitin-conjugated proteins may contribute to the origination of dystrophic neurites and NFTs. We recently discovered a novel constituent of neuropathological protein aggregates, ubiquitin-binding protein p62, with evidence that the accumulation of ubiquitin-conjugated proteins and p62 into cytoplasmic inclusions might be interconnected. In the present work we examined in detail the role of p62 in AD-type pathology, i.e. NFTs, NPs and neuropil threads. Using immunohistochemistry for p62, ubiquitin and hyperphosphorylated tau, we analysed parietal cortical samples of 15 clinicopathologically verified AD cases and nine nondemented aged subjects with abundant NPs. We found that p62 immunoreactivity appears early during neurofibrillary pathogenesis and is invariably and stably present in NFTs. In contrast, p62 was absent or barely detectable in neuropil threads. Furthermore, NP-associated dystrophic neurites were generally devoid of p62, regardless of their content of hyperphosphorylated tau and/or ubiquitin. The results suggest that early involvement of p62 might be critical in the aggregation of hyperphosphorylated tau into perikaryal aggregates, i.e. NFTs.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic, multisystem, autoimmune disease in which neuropsychiatric involvement occurs in about 50% of patients and carries a poor prognosis. Despite extensive research, the precise mechanisms of nervous tissue injury remain the least well understood. This article summarizes the important clinical neuropsychiatric features of SLE and, reviewing classical histopathological and more recent experimental studies, discusses theories concerning their presumed pathogenesis. The distinctive production of diverse autoantibodies seems to be related to defective clearance of apoptotic cells. Antibody-mediated neural cell injury and rheological disturbances represent the two principal suggested mechanisms of tissue injury. An interplay between these processes, underlying genetic factors, their modification by hormones, complicated by a number of secondary factors, may explain the wide spectrum of features encountered in this disease.
The stimulant properties of cocaine have been extensively investigated in the mouse using either intraperitoneal (i.p.) or subcutaneous (s.c.) administration of drug. However, cocaine use in humans often involves intravenous (i.v.) administration of drug. The purpose of this study was to develop a methodology for studying i.v. cocaine-induced activity in the mouse, which allows within-session determination of the dose-response function, and assessment of the development of behavioral sensitization and conditioned activity. The stimulant effects of i.v. cocaine (3-25 mg/kg) were investigated in C57BL/6J and A/J mice both acutely and following repeated treatments (four treatments at 48 hour intervals), in addition to the conditioned activating properties of the cocaine-paired context. Cocaine produced a dose-dependent increase in measures of motor activity in both strains of mice. Repeated cocaine treatments resulted in the development of behavioral sensitization to the stimulant properties of the drug at all doses tested, and exposure to the cocaine-paired context in the absence of drug revealed the development of conditioned activity. While both C57BL/6J and A/J strains displayed these phenomena, differences were observed between ambulation and total beam breaks, highlighting differences between multiple behavioral end-points. Both strains of mice displayed conditioned activity of a higher magnitude than their response to novelty, in addition to a positive relationship between the number of drug-environment pairings and the magnitude of the conditioned response. In summary, these data extend to the i.v. route of administration previous observations on cocaine-induced activity and conditioned activity.
This paper introduces the use of wavelet analysis to follow the temporal variations in the coupling between oscillatory neural signals. Coherence, based on Fourier analysis, has been commonly used as a first approximation to track such coupling under the assumption that neural signals are stationary. Yet, stationary neural processing may be the exception rather than the rule. In this context, the recent application to physical systems of a wavelet-based coherence, which does not depend on the stationarity of the signals, is highly relevant. This paper fully develops the method of wavelet coherence and its statistical properties so that it can be practically applied to continuous neural signals. In realistic simulations, we show that, in contrast to Fourier coherence, wavelet coherence can detect short, significant episodes of coherence between non-stationary neural signals. This method can be directly applied for an 'online' quantification of the instantaneous coherence between two signals.


Dopaminergic neurotransmission has been implicated in the motor activating effects induced by the local infusion of NMDA in the ventral hippocampus (VH). The nucleus accumbens and the ventral tegmental area (VTA) have been proposed to be the main loci where dopamine is acting as a positive modulator of the VH NMDA receptor-mediated motor activating effects. However, the existence of a relatively high dopamine innervation and dopamine receptor density in the VH suggests the possibility of local dopamine/NMDA receptor interactions. This hypothesis was tested by studying the effects of the bilateral local VH infusion of NMDA (0.05, 0.1, 0.5 and 1.0 microg/side), the dopamine D1/D5 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (1 microg/side) and the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist raclopride (1 and 5 microg/side). Neither SCH 23390 nor raclopride induced any significant change in motor activity compared with the vehicle control group, but both compounds significantly antagonized the motor activation induced by NMDA. SCH 23390 (1 microg/side) was more potent that raclopride (minimal effective dose: 5 microg/side). These results demonstrate the existence of a strong tonic facilitating effect of dopamine, acting preferentially at dopamine D1/D5 receptors, on NMDA receptor-mediated effects in the VH.
We investigated how, under certain circumstances, the expression of psychomotor sensitization comes to be context-specific. Rats that had previously sustained 6-hydroxydopamine-induced unilateral dopamine depletion received repeated injections of d-amphetamine (AMPH) or saline in group-specific environments, and rotational behavior was measured as an index of psychomotor activation. Following these treatments some groups were given electroconvulsive shock (ECS), when memories of the drug experience were reactivated (and therefore vulnerable to disruption), in order to produce retrograde amnesia. Animals given an AMPH challenge in the environment in which they received drug treatments (Paired) expressed robust sensitization. Animals given an AMPH challenge in a context that was never paired with drug administration (Unpaired) did not express sensitization. A saline challenge in the AMPH paired context produced a conditioned rotational response (CR). ECS had no effect in Control animals, no effect on the expression of sensitization in Paired animals, and no effect on the expression of the CR in Paired animals. However, ECS did affect Unpaired groups: unlike Unpaired animals given sham ECS, Unpaired animals given ECS expressed robust sensitization. Thus, without ECS, the expression of sensitization must have been suppressed in the Unpaired animals (who had the same drug history as Paired animals), and ECS released this otherwise suppressed sensitization. Based on these and other findings, we propose that three memory mechanisms regulate context-specificity of AMPH sensitization: (1) Repeated drug administration induces sensitization of the neural substrate that mediates the unconditional response (UR) to the drug, a form of non-associative learning; (2) An inhibitory process can block the expression of neural sensitization in contexts where the drug is not expected, a process we speculate may involve a form of inhibitory occasion-setting; (3) An excitatory conditioned response (CR) can amplify the sensitized response in a context where the drug is expected. It is suggested that the ability of drug-associated contexts to modulate the expression of neural sensitization via occasion-setting may combine with the ability of a drug-associated context to produce conditioned responses, together providing powerful associative control over not only behavioral sensitization, but in addicts, over craving and relapse.
Body weight of man and animals is under homeostatic control mediated by the adjustment of food intake. It is discussed in this review that besides signals reporting energy deficits, optimized programs of body clocks take part in feeding behaviour as well. Circadian light- and food-entrainable clocks determine anticipatory adaptive behavioural and physiological mechanisms, promoting or inhibiting food intake. In fact these clocks form the constraints within which the homeostatic regulation of feeding behaviour is operating. Therefore, a strong interaction between circadian and homeostatic regulation must occur. In this homeostatic control, a wide variety of regulatory negative feedback mechanisms, or satiety signals, play a dominant role. In this respect several gut hormones and body temperature function as 'short-term' satiety factors and determine meal sizes and intermeal intervals. Leptin, secreted by fat cells in proportion to the size of adipose tissue mass, is probably an important determinant of the 'long-term' regulation of feeding behaviour by setting the motivational background level for feeding behaviour. Thus, initiation or termination of meals at any particular point in time, depends on the resultant of all satiety signals and on constraints imposed by circadian light- and food-entrainable oscillators.
Substantial evidence from preclinical laboratory studies indicates that prenatal stress (PS) affects the hormonal and behavioural development of offspring. In the following review, the effects of PS in rodents and non-human primates on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) reactivity to stress, morphological changes in the brain, motor behaviour and learning are surveyed. PS has been found to alter baseline and stress-induced responsivity of the HPA axis and levels and distribution of regulatory neurotransmitters, such as norepinepherine, dopamine, serotonin and acetylcholine and to modify key limbic structures. In rodents and non-human primates, PS affected learning, anxiety and social behaviour. The relevance of these findings to humans is discussed with respect to (a) the effect of administration of exogenous corticosteroids in pregnancy and (b) maternal state and trait anxiety during gestation and its relation to foetal autonomic regulation as putative predisposing factors in the pathogenesis of behavioural developmental delays in children.
Pentylenetetrazol (PTZ), a GABA(A) receptor antagonist and prototypical anxiogenic drug, has been extensively utilized in animal models of anxiety. PTZ produces a reliable discriminative stimulus which is largely mediated by the GABA(A) receptor. Several classes of compounds can modulate the PTZ discriminative stimulus including 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(3), NMDA, glycine, and L-type calcium channel ligands. Spontaneous PTZ-lever responding is seen in trained rats during withdrawal from GABA(A) receptor compounds such as chlordiazepoxide and diazepam, and also ethanol, morphine, nicotine, cocaine, haloperidol, and phencyclidine. This effect is largely mediated by the GABA(A) receptor, which suggests that anxiety may be part of a generalized withdrawal syndrome mediated by the GABA(A) receptor. There are also important hormonal influences on PTZ. Corticosterone plays some role in mediation of its anxiogenic effects. There is a marked sex difference in response to the discriminative stimulus effects of PTZ, and estrogens appear to protect against its anxiogenic effects. Further work with the PTZ drug discrimination is warranted for characterization of anxiety during withdrawal, and the hormonal mechanisms of anxiety.
How the motor-related cortical areas modulate the activity of the output nuclei of the basal ganglia is an important issue for understanding the mechanisms of motor control by the basal ganglia. The cortico-subthalamo-pallidal 'hyperdirect' pathway conveys powerful excitatory effects from the motor-related cortical areas to the globus pallidus, bypassing the striatum, with shorter conduction time than effects conveyed through the striatum. We emphasize the functional significance of the 'hyperdirect' pathway and propose a dynamic 'center-surround model' of basal ganglia function in the control of voluntary limb movements. When a voluntary movement is about to be initiated by cortical mechanisms, a corollary signal conveyed through the cortico-subthalamo-pallidal 'hyperdirect' pathway first inhibits large areas of the thalamus and cerebral cortex that are related to both the selected motor program and other competing programs. Then, another corollary signal through the cortico-striato-pallidal 'direct' pathway disinhibits their targets and releases only the selected motor program. Finally, the third corollary signal possibly through the cortico-striato-external pallido-subthalamo-internal pallidal 'indirect' pathway inhibits their targets extensively. Through this sequential information processing, only the selected motor program is initiated, executed and terminated at the selected timing, whereas other competing programs are canceled.
The pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves the deposition of amyloid in the brain and the extensive loss of neurons. The mechanisms subserving neuronal death in the disease remain unclear, although it has been postulated that this is due to apoptosis. There is compelling evidence that inflammatory processes play a role in disease progression and pathology. Amyloid plaque deposition is accompanied by the association of microglia with the senile plaque, and this interaction stimulates these cells to undergo phenotypic activation and the subsequent elaboration of proinflammatory and neurotoxic products. This review focuses on the mechanisms by which neurons are lost in AD and the role microglial proinflammatory products play in neuronal death.
It is believed that sensory functions are organized in a hierarchical and parallel manner. The sense of smell differs in several aspects from other senses: odors can immediately elicit emotional evocations, they are remembered after a long time, and they are difficult to label. This raises the question of whether odorous stimuli may be processed differently from the other sensory stimuli. New data from brain imaging studies suggest that this is not the case and that the specific characteristics of the sense of smell can be attributed to the engagement of limbic structures at an early stage in the signal processing.

One of the most important questions raised by modern psychiatry and experimental psychopathology is the origin of mental diseases. More concisely, clinical and experimental neurosciences are increasingly concerned with the factors that render one individual more vulnerable than another to a given pathological outcome. Animal models are now available to understand the sources of individual differences for specific phenotypes prone to behavioral disadaptations. Over the last 10 years we have explored the consequences of environmental perinatal manipulations in the rat. We have shown that prenatal stress is at the origin of a wide range of physiological and behavioral aberrances such as alterations in the activity of the hormonal stress axis, increased vulnerability to drug of abuse, emotional liability, cognitive impairments and predisposition to pathological aging. Taken together, these abnormalities define a bio-behavioral syndrome. Furthermore, the cognitive disabilities observed in prenatally-stressed rats were recently related to an alteration of neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus, thus confirming the impact of early life events on brain morphology. A second model (handling model) has also been developed in which pups are briefly separated from their mothers during early postnatal life. In contrast with prenatally-stressed animals, handled rats exhibited a reduced emotion response when confronted with novel situations and were protected against age-induced impairments of both the hormonal stress axis and cognitive functions. Taken together, the results of these investigations show that the bio-behavioral phenotype that characterizes each individual is strongly linked to the nature and timing of perinatal experience. Furthermore, data collected in prenatally-stressed animals indicate that this model could be used profitably to understand the etiology and pathophysiology of affective disorders.
In Japan, neuropsychological assessment of dementing illnesses has been done mainly using Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and a revised version of Hasegawa Dementia Scale (HDS-R). However, because of a lack of appropriately designed test domains, early detection of senile dementia and/or cognitive impairment is hardly possible, even if using these batteries. This paper is to introduce a Japanese Version of RBANS (Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status) which was originally developed by Randolph and revised by us. The entire battery of Japanese Version RBANS took less than 30 minutes to administer, and yielded scaled scores for five cognitive domains such as immediate memory, visuospatial/constructional ability, language, attention, and delayed memory. On RBANS, abnormal cognitive decline in the older adult was much easily detected, being compared to MMSE and HDS-R: 52 normal volunteer subjects ranging from 24 to 80 years old showed a significant (p &lt; 0.05 on t test) impairment of delayed and immediate memories due to ageing. The aged (60-79) subjects with average scores of MMSE and HDS-R being over 25, significantly showed impairment of both immediate memory (list and story learnings) and delayed memory (list, story and figure recalls). The present data suggest that the Japanese Version RBANS is useful for both detecting and characterizing early dementia, and should be widely utilized for a neuropsychological screening battery in the clinical practice throughout Japan.
A number of good animal models have been developed in recent years that provide insights into the mechanisms of neuropathic pain. It now becomes evident that there are two separate peripheral components influencing neuropathic pain: one dependent on the hyperexcitability of axotomized dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and the other independent of this hyperexcitability. The purpose of this review is to consider one of these components, the hyperexcitability of axotomized DRG neurons, as one of the important mechanisms underlying neuropathic pain. Several hours after nerve lesions, some axotomized DRG neurons become hyperexcitable and begin to show ongoing discharges that last many days or weeks. These ectopic discharges then enter the spinal cord and induce central sensitization, the underlying central mechanism for the generation of pain and allodynia. Although the exact causes of the development of hyperexcitability and ectopic discharges are not clear, various ion channels seem to play important roles, particularly sodium channels. In addition, important modulatory factors for ectopic discharges are purinergic and adrenergic components of the sympathetic nervous system. These findings suggest that manipulating sodium channels and/or adrenergic and purinergic receptors on axotomized DRG cells may give neuropathic pain sufferers some relief that is not available from present treatment regimens.
Treatment resistant OCD subjects, defined as those patients who undergo an adequate trial of SRI (clomipramine or SSRI) and do not respond or show unsatisfactory results, account for 40-50% of all patients. Once the appropriateness of the trial has been assessed, several options exist for the clinicians. If clomipramine or citalopram have been used, an appropriate strategy consists in giving the same drug intravenously. Double-blind studies exist on the efficacy of clomipramine IV, while data are missing for citalopram. Another option that should be considered first, although data are scarce, is the addition of a cognitive behavioral therapy, when available, in the forms of exposure and response prevention. When such options are not suitable or available, augmentation of the ongoing SRI with another compound represents the preferable strategy. Double-blind, placebo-controlled studies have shown the efficacy of adding pindolol (7.5 mg/d), risperidone (2 mg/d) and olanzapine (5-10 mg/d). Other agents have been proposed, but data emerging from double-blind studies were negative or contradictory. Another option available is switching from CMI to SSRI, or vice versa, or from SSRI to SSRI. Data regarding such treatment strategy, however, are highly preliminary, based on a couple of open label reports and on studies performed in treatment resistant depression. An unresolved question is whether augmentation should be preferred to switching. No data exist in OCD; a practical approach would suggest augmentation first, considering that response should be obtained faster than by switching compound. When all the available and effective strategies prove uneffective, clinicians should consider switching the patient to other compounds in monotherapy, such as venlafaxine, sumatriptan, inositol, although research is strongly needed before conclusions on the efficacy of such compounds can be drawn.
This study was undertaken to analyse kinetic tremor during a compensatory tracking task performed with the index fingers. Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) (n=21) and control subjects (n=30) were tested using a laser system transducing displacement. All participants underwent a clinical examination. Nine characteristics quantifying the tracking task and tremor were applied to the processed displacement or velocity signal. The discriminating power of each characteristic was evaluated using differences between group means (p values), maximum percentage discrimination, and number of outliers in the patient group. All nine characteristics showed significant differences between means of the two groups using Welch-modified t-tests for unequal variances. The most discriminating characteristics reflected differences in the frequency distribution of the movement (proportional power in the 3-4Hz range, harmonicity and median frequency). These differences were rarely visible and did not correlate highly with tremor amplitude or with clinical ratings of tremor. Control subjects had residual spectral power from the tracking oscillations leaking above 3Hz, while most patients had a small 'kinetic tremor' in the 7-12Hz range. The maximum discrimination was moderate, 63% in the best case. Combining representative information about proportional power during posture (recorded in the same subjects) and tracking gave a much higher discrimination (90%) with respect to the 96.7th percentile of the control group. These results suggest that information coming from postural and kinetic tremors can be combined to isolate a subclinical feature of PD symptomatology. This feature could be used to re-evaluate the classic distinction made between the akineto-rigid and tremulous forms of PD and is independent of tremor amplitude.
The main source of expiratory drive to respiratory muscles in the rat is thought to be the caudal expiratory neurones. However, their projections to the spinal cord and the coordination of the population activity with the respiratory cycle are largely unknown. We examined their bulbospinal projections using antidromic activation, and the coordination of their activity using cross-correlation. Of 76 expiratory neurones examined, 40% projected to the C2 segment of the spinal cord, all unilaterally and all but 4 to the contralateral side. Thirteen contralateral axons were located in the ventromedial funiculus, when activation thresholds were less than 25 microA. For 29 neurones, the mean (+/- SEM) conduction velocity, calculated from the single-point activation and a measure of the direct distance between recording and stimulating electrodes, was 7.4 +/- 0.4 m/s. We calculated 88 cross-correlograms from ipsilateral pairs of expiratory neurones recorded on the same side of the medulla, and 176 contralateral pairs recorded from opposite sides of the medulla. All of the latter were featureless, but 23% of cross-correlograms for ipsilateral pairs displayed broad peaks at time zero, which we interpreted as due to activation of both neurones from a common source. We conclude that in the adult rat, approximately half of the caudal expiratory neurones project unilaterally and contralaterally to the spinal cord and, although common activation serves to coordinate some of the ipsilateral population, we suggest that neither common activation nor excitatory cross-connections exist as sufficient means for coordinating left and right populations to the same respiratory rhythm.
The selective H(3) receptor agonist (R)-alpha-methylhistamine [(R)-alpha-MeHA] stimulates drinking in the adult rat. In the present study, we investigated the role of the H(3) receptor in mediating this behavior in a new dipsogenia model using the CD-1 mouse. In addition, the putative inverse agonists ciproxifan, thioperamide and clobenpropit; the reported antagonist (1R,2R)-4-[2-(5,5-dimethylhex-1-ynyl)cyclopropyl]imidazole (GT-2331); and the putative neutral antagonist/weak partial agonist proxyfan were evaluated for possible differences in pharmacological activity in this new model. Water intake increased over baseline in a dose-related manner following intraperitoneal administration of 80, 160 or 240 micromol/kg (R)-alpha-MeHA, but this effect was dependent on age (P30&lt;P60&lt;P80=P120). [3H]-N-alpha-methylhistamine binding studies showed no change in H(3) receptor density for the whole mouse brain at these ages. All subsequent studies employed P80 mice dosed with 240 micromol/kg (R)-alpha-MeHA. Ciproxifan (0.001-30 micromol/kg), thioperamide (0.01-10 micromol/kg), clobenpropit (0.1-30 micromol/kg) and GT-2331 (0.03-10 micromol/kg) attenuated drinking dose-dependently, blocking the response completely at the highest doses in each case. In contrast, proxyfan (0.001-10 micromol/kg) only partially attenuated drinking elicited by (R)-alpha-MeHA: coadministration of proxyfan and ciproxifan resulted in an attenuation of ciproxifan's effects. This new dipsogenia model provides the first in vivo behavioral evidence for possible pharmacological differences between three putative H(3) receptor inverse agonists, GT-2331 and proxyfan.
In an open study, we determined whether there were sex differences in the mood ratings of non-deprived light smokers and nonsmokers under baseline conditions and after completing a battery of cognitive tests that were mildly stressful. Male and female students who were light smokers (5-12 cigarettes a day) were tested immediately after smoking their usual cigarette, at a time that they normally smoked. They were compared with a group of male and female students who were nonsmokers and did not differ on age, IQ, personality measures, anxiety or depression. Compared with the nonsmokers, both male and female smokers felt overall significantly more discontented, troubled, tense, quarrelsome, furious, impatient, hostile, annoyed and disgusted and experienced greater dizziness. The performance of distracting cognitive tasks did not reveal anxiolytic effects of smoking, and after performance of these tasks, both smokers and nonsmokers became more discontented and anxious. In addition, after the cognitive testing, both male and female smokers showed greater increases than nonsmokers in feeling spiteful, rebellious, incompetent and in sweating, suggesting that they experienced greater mood changes in response to cognitive stress. There were no overall differences between the smokers and nonsmokers in the performance of divided or sustained attention tasks or in episodic memory. It is unlikely that either nicotine withdrawal or differences in cognitive performance could account for the greater anxiety, discontent and aggressive mood that was found in smokers.
Previous studies have shown that mice develop conditioned place preference (CPP) when ethanol is administered by intraperitoneal (ip) or intravenous (iv) injection. The present studies examined CPP in mice using the intragastric (ig) route of administration. Inbred mice were surgically implanted with chronic intragastric cannulae and exposed to an unbiased place conditioning procedure in which infusion of ethanol (2 or 4 g/kg) was paired with a conditioned stimulus (CS+). A different CS was paired with water. In Experiments 1-2, ethanol was infused just before exposure to CS+. Contrary to previous studies involving intraperitoneal injection, infusion of 4 g/kg ig ethanol produced a significant conditioned place aversion (CPA). However, when a 5-min delay was inserted between infusion and CS exposure (Experiments 3-4), the same dose produced CPP. These outcomes are not consistent with expectations derived from a recent study in selectively bred rats, suggesting that sensitivity to ethanol reward is enhanced by intragastric administration. However, the finding that intragastric ethanol can produce either CPP or CPA depending on dose and injection timing is consistent with previous intraperitoneal ethanol studies in mice. Although the parameters differ for each route of administration, it appears that the same underlying processes can be invoked to explain how manipulation of injection timing affects the direction of ethanol-induced place conditioning. More specifically, in both cases, CPA can be attributed to an initial, short-lived aversive effect, whereas CPP can be attributed to a delayed rewarding effect of ethanol.
Agmatine, a noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist, was examined for its role in water maze place learning, contextual and auditory-cued (discrete) fear learning and conditioned taste aversion learning, when administered systemically. Male Wistar rats were given saline or 1, 5, 10 or 50 mg/kg agmatine ip 20 min prior to or 30 min following daily training sessions in a hidden-platform (place learning) water maze task. Agmatine did not affect latencies to find the hidden platform or preference for the training quadrant during probe trials. When administered 20 min prior to contextual or auditory-cued fear-conditioning sessions, these doses of agmatine evoked a linear dose-dependent impairment in the magnitude of learned fear to the contextual stimuli when assessed during extinction trials 24 h later, but had no effect on the magnitude of learned fear to the auditory stimulus. Inferences of baseline motor activity and ability to respond to the presentation of footshock stimuli were not affected by the treatment. Injections of 50 mg/kg agmatine concurrently with a malaise-evoking agent following presentations to a novel sucrose solution abolished learned taste aversions; this agent did not evoke conditioned taste aversions alone. These studies indicate that systemically administered agmatine selectively impairs behavioral inferences of specific types of learning and memory.
Two types of cannabinoid receptor have been discovered so far, CB(1) (2.1: CBD:1:CB1:), cloned in 1990, and CB(2) (2.1:CBD:2:CB2:), cloned in 1993. Distinction between these receptors is based on differences in their predicted amino acid sequence, signaling mechanisms, tissue distribution, and sensitivity to certain potent agonists and antagonists that show marked selectivity for one or the other receptor type. Cannabinoid receptors CB(1) and CB(2) exhibit 48% amino acid sequence identity. Both receptor types are coupled through G proteins to adenylyl cyclase and mitogen-activated protein kinase. CB(1) receptors are also coupled through G proteins to several types of calcium and potassium channels. These receptors exist primarily on central and peripheral neurons, one of their functions being to inhibit neurotransmitter release. Indeed, endogenous CB(1) agonists probably serve as retrograde synaptic messengers. CB(2) receptors are present mainly on immune cells. Such cells also express CB(1) receptors, albeit to a lesser extent, with both receptor types exerting a broad spectrum of immune effects that includes modulation of cytokine release. Of several endogenous agonists for cannabinoid receptors identified thus far, the most notable are arachidonoylethanolamide, 2-arachidonoylglycerol, and 2-arachidonylglyceryl ether. It is unclear whether these eicosanoid molecules are the only, or primary, endogenous agonists. Hence, we consider it premature to rename cannabinoid receptors after an endogenous agonist as is recommended by the International Union of Pharmacology Committee on Receptor Nomenclature and Drug Classification. Although pharmacological evidence for the existence of additional types of cannabinoid receptor is emerging, other kinds of supporting evidence are still lacking.
We study the propagation of traveling solitary pulses in one-dimensional networks of excitatory and inhibitory neurons. Each neuron is represented by the integrate-and-fire model, and is allowed to fire only one spike. Two types of propagating pulses are observed. During fast pulses, inhibitory neurons fire a short time before or after the excitatory neurons. During slow pulses, inhibitory cells fire well before neighboring excitatory cells, and potentials of excitatory cells become negative and then positive before they fire. There is a bistable parameter regime in which both fast and slow pulses can propagate. Fast pulses can propagate at low levels of inhibition, are affected by fast excitation but are almost unaffected by slow excitation, and are easily elicited by stimulating groups of neurons. In contrast, slow pulses can propagate at intermediate levels of inhibition, and are difficult to evoke. They can propagate without slow excitation, but slow excitation makes their propagation substantially more robust. Fast pulses can propagate in a wider parameter regime if inhibition decays slowly with time, whereas slow pulses can propagate in a wider parameter regime if the passive time constant of inhibitory cells is large. Strong inhibitory-to-inhibitory conductance eliminates the slow pulses and converts the fast traveling pulses into irregular pulses, in which the inhibitory neurons segregate into two groups that have different firing delays with respect to their neighboring excitatory cells. In general, the velocity of the fast pulse increases with the axonal conductance velocity c, but there are cases in which it decreases with c. We suggest that the fast and slow pulses observed in our model correspond to the fast and slow propagating activity observed in experiments on neocortical slices.
The present study was conducted to establish the window of opportunity for the administration of a regimen of MgCl2 pharmacotherapy following focal injury to the brain. Rats were subjected to unilateral electrolytic lesions of the sensorimotor cortex (SMC) and administered a regimen of MgCl2 (1.0 mmol/kg) or 0.9% saline (1.0 ml/kg) beginning either 15 min, 8 h or 24 h after injury. Subsequent injections were administered 24 and 72 h after the initial treatment. Behavioral testing assessed recovery of function on several sensorimotor behaviors for 24 days following injury. The results of the present study suggest that treatment with a regimen of MgCl2 significantly facilitated recovery of function on the forelimb--&gt;forelimb and vibrissae--&gt;forelimb placing tests when administered 15 min, 8 h or 24 h after injury compared with saline-treated rats. Recovery of locomotor placing was significantly facilitated at 15 min and 8 h but not at 24 h compared with saline-treated rats. In addition, the ability of MgCl2 to limit neuronal loss in the ipsilateral ventral posterior lateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus was seen at only the 15-min treatment interval. These results suggest that the window of opportunity for MgCl2 pharmacotherapy is 24 h, task dependent and is much shorter for protecting neurons in the VPL.
The data reported by Nizhnikov et al. [Newborn rats first suckling experience: taste differentiation and suckling plasticity (2002)] do not support the authors' claim that they shed light on suckling mechanisms. A number of accepted criteria for identifying suckling are discussed in this review. The ingestion of various fluids through a plastic tube by neonatal or other rats does not meet any of these criteria. Thus, while the data reported by Nizhnikov et al. [Newborn rats first suckling experience: taste differentiation and suckling plasticity (2002)] are of interest from the perspective of infant capabilities, they do not shed light on the determinants of actual nipple attachment or suckling as they may naturally occur.
Image quality issues such as field of view (FOV) and resolution are important for evaluating &quot;presence&quot; and simulator sickness (SS) in virtual environments (VEs). This research examined effects on postural stability of varying FOV, image resolution, and scene content in an immersive visual display. Two different scenes (a photograph of a fountain and a simple radial pattern) at two different resolutions were tested using six FOVs (30, 60, 90, 120, 150, and 180 deg.). Both postural stability, recorded by force plates, and subjective difficulty ratings varied as a function of FOV, scene content, and image resolution. Subjects exhibited more balance disturbance and reported more difficulty in maintaining posture in the wide-FOV, high-resolution, and natural scene conditions.
Fumarase catalyzes the reversible conversion of fumarate to S- malate during the operation of the ubiquitous Kreb's cycle. Previous studies have shown that the active site includes side chains from three of the four subunits within the tetrameric enzyme. We used a clinically observed human mutation to narrow our search for potential catalytic groups within the fumarase active site. Offspring homozygous for the missense mutation, a G-955-C transversion in the fumarase gene, results in the substitution of a glutamine at amino acid 319 for the normal glutamic acid. To more fully understand the implications of this mutation, a single-step site-directed mutagenesis method was used to generate the homologous substitution at position 315 within fumarase C from Escherichia coli. Subsequent kinetic and X-ray crystal structure analyses show changes in the turnover number and the cocrystal structure with bound citrate.
Attention is reported to be maintained by monoamines, acetylcholine and amino acids systems. Changes in the releases of these neurotransmitters during the three stages comprising quiet wake (QW) and two arousal states (AW), which are activated from different sources, were investigated. Norepinephrine releases during AW were significantly higher than that during QW. Conversely, the levels of acetylcholine and serotonin that were released did not change significantly among these three stages. The interesting observation was the dissociation of the increase between glutamate and dopamine releases in the two AW states. The results indicate that attention level is related to the amount of norepinephrine release, and that attention quality is related to the interaction between dopamine and glutamate releases.
Ten male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to 1-h light and 1-h dark (LD 1 : 1) cycles for 50 days. They were then released into constant darkness (DD) for 104 days. Exposure to LD 1 : 1 caused gradual disruption of circadian rhythms in their ambulatory and drinking activities until, finally, all the animals lost their circadian behavioural rhythms. After their release into DD, eight rats showed free-running circadian behavioural rhythms, whereas the remaining two rats showed circadian arrhythmicity for approximately 50 days in DD before they restored their free-running rhythms spontaneously.
Previous studies have suggested that schizophrenia patients do not utilize contextual information efficiently to modulate attentional performance. The goal of the current study was to compare the utilization of context in modulating responses to irrelevant information on the Stroop task between a group of schizophrenia outpatients and matched controls. A single-trial version of the Stroop task was used to investigate performance on the Stroop task under three expectancy conditions. Eleven schizophrenia outpatients (on and off antipsychotic medication) and sixteen matched controls were tested. The schizophrenia patients showed: (1) augmented facilitation; (2) interference comparable to normals; and (3) normal ability to reduce interference under certain experimental circumstances. Schizophrenia patients were able to utilize contextual information under certain conditions and could modulate the magnitude of irrelevant word interference, although they were not able to overcome the prepotent tendency to read the word during the Stroop task as effectively as normals, which was reflected in greater Stroop facilitation. This suggests that the integrity or impairment of cognitive control functions in schizophrenia is related to the complexity of the context representation required to support that function.
The neighborhood activation model (NAM; P. A. Luce &amp; Pisoni, 1998) of spoken word recognition was applied to the problem of predicting accuracy of visual spoken word identification. One hundred fifty-three spoken consonant-vowel-consonant words were identified by a group of 12 college-educated adults with normal hearing and a group of 12 college-educated deaf adults. In both groups, item identification accuracy was correlated with the computed NAM output values. Analysis of subsets of the stimulus set demonstrated that when stimulus intelligibility was controlled, words with fewer neighbors were easier to identify than words with many neighbors. However, when neighborhood density was controlled, variation in segmental intelligibility was minimally related to identification accuracy. The present study provides evidence of a common spoken word recognition system for both auditory and visual speech that retains sensitivity to the phonetic properties of the input.







Tachykinin peptides are found in brainstem regions involved in central chemoreception and they may play a modulatory role in ventilatory response to hypercapnia. We determined whether tachykinin peptide containing neurons are activated by CO(2) by combining in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry (IHH). Experiments were performed in 21-day-old rats exposed to 12% CO(2) for 1 h. c-Fos expression was identified by IHH on free floating sections (40 microm) that were mounted and then hybridized with anti-sense 35S labeled ribonucleotide probe of the rat preprotachykinin A (PPT-A) gene. Sections were analyzed for expression of the PPT-A gene, c-Fos protein and colocalization of PPT-A gene with c-Fos protein. Within the chemosensory region of the nucleus tractus solitarius (nTS), 19% of c-Fos positive cells expressed PPT-A mRNA after hypercapnic loading. In medullary raphe nuclei, 64% of c-Fos positive cells expressed the PPT-A gene after exposure to CO(2), while 21% of c-Fos labeled neurons in parapyramidal nuclei also expressed PPT-A mRNA. These results indicate that a subpopulation of CO(2) activated neurons within the nTS and in the parapyramidal and midline regions of the ventral aspect of the medulla oblongata express the PPT-A gene, suggesting that these are substance P- or neurokinin A-containing neurons. Furthermore, these peptides may play a role in modulation of respiratory and cardiovascular responses to changes in CO(2)/H(+) content of the extracellular fluid.
An increasingly important number of studies are reclaiming themes from the fields of the cognitive sciences and the neurosciences. It seems essential, in the face of this multiplication of the lines of research, often very different in their object and their methodology, to recall the general theoretical paradigm of the cognitive sciences, in order to shed light on the links between the different researches and this theoretical model. Moreover, the best validation of a theoretical model remaining in medicine is that of its practical application. It is today fundamental to explore the field of cognitive research for its possible impact on the domains of clinical presentation and management of patients with schizophrenia. This article proposes to address these different points.


A considerable body of evidence suggests that the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex is dysfunctional in schizophrenia. However, relatively few studies have explored the involvement of other areas of the frontal cortex. Research suggests that the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) plays an important role in decision making processes. We assessed the decision making cognition of first-episode and chronic schizophrenic patients with a novel task sensitive to orbitofrontal dysfunction. Both first-episode and chronic patients with schizophrenia took longer than matched controls to make decisions, and both groups were also impaired on a measure of risk adjustment. The impairment in these measures was more severe in the chronic patients than in the first-episode patients, and only the chronic patients made significantly fewer optimal decisions than controls. These results contribute to increasing evidence of orbitofrontal dysfunction in schizophrenia, and suggest that disease progression or the effects of long term antipsychotic medication may influence performance on this task.
This article reinterprets the debate between orthodox followers of the Pavlovian reflex theory and Soviet &quot;cybernetic physiologists&quot; in the 1950s and 60s as a clash of opposing man-machine metaphors. While both sides accused each other of &quot;mechanistic,&quot; reductionist methodology, they did not see anything &quot;mechanistic&quot; about their own central metaphors: the telephone switchboard metaphor for nervous activity (the Pavlovians), and the analogies between the human brain and a computer (the cyberneticians). I argue that the scientific utility of machine analogies was closely intertwined with their philosophical and political meanings and that new interpretations of these metaphors emerged as a result of political conflicts and a realignment of forces within the scientific community and in society at large. I suggest that the constant travel of man-machine analogies, back and forth between physiology and technology has blurred the traditional categories of the &quot;mechanistic&quot; and the &quot;organic&quot; in Soviet neurophysiology, as perhaps in the history of physiology in general.



Only a small fraction of people with epilepsy in developing countries has access to medical facilities. Even with effective treatment, their psychosocial needs are often overlooked in the absence of obvious disability. In rural areas, community-based rehabilitation programmes assist in the integration of people with disabilities into employment and the community. However, the functional impairment associated with epilepsy is not well recognised in intervention programmes in developing countries. We report, for the first time, the social activities of children with epilepsy and their peers in rural India. We employed a cross-sectional design using a new age and sex-specific social activity questionnaire. Population screening in the context of a community-based rehabilitation programme identified 88 children with epilepsy and 250 randomly selected controls. A trained interviewer administered the questionnaire to mothers in Bengali. Girls' activities were principally domestic, whilst boys' were mostly outdoors and involved peers. All groups of children with epilepsy had significant social deficits, equally for boys and girls in the age range from 2 to 18 years (p &lt; 0.05). Boys with epilepsy had limited peer group activities, and parents conferred fewer responsibilities to school age and adolescent children compared to controls. The nature and degree of deficits were beyond the constraints imposed by neurological impairment. Our findings in pre-schoolers were consistent with parental attitudes of overprotection found in previous research. We conclude that social integration needs active and early promotion among children with epilepsy. The assessment of remediable risk and protective factors in the family and community is an important practical area for research in community-based rehabilitation.
This review considers psychological interventions involving relaxation and guided imagery targeting immune functions. The review provides evidence of immune control accompanied by reports of enhanced mood and well-being. Three recent investigations of the author and his colleagues with self-hypnosis training incorporating imagery of the immune system are outlined. In two studies, hypnosis buffered the effects of stress on immune functions in medical students at exam time, and the comparison of self-hypnosis with and without immune imagery confirmed advantages to targeted imagery for both immune function and mood, and importantly, fewer winter viral infections. The implications for health were investigated in a third study in patients with virulent and chronic herpes simplex virus-2 HSV-2). Six weeks of training almost halved recurrence, improved mood and reduced levels of clinical depression and anxiety. Immune functions were up-regulated, notably functional natural killer cell activity to HSV-1. Individual differences in hypnotic susceptibility and absorption have typically been found to predict efficacy. New replicable evidence is reviewed of the importance of cognitive activation, a personality difference whose neurophysiological underpinning is consistent with left hemispheric preferential influences over the immune system. Now that the validation of psychological interventions includes advantages for health, this field of enquiry, which has been characterised by modest, small scale, largely preliminary studies, warrants a greater investment in research.
To study putative brain circuits involved in habituation to stress, rats were exposed daily (30 min for 15 days) to an environment in the presence (Chronic) or absence (Acute) of loud noise (105 dB sound pressure level--SPL A Scale). Behavioral and endocrine measures of stress were taken throughout this habituation period, and both measures displayed strong habituation in the Chronic group. All rats were killed immediately after the day 16 exposure, constituting an acute stressor for the Acute group, and regional brain activity was assessed using c-fos mRNA induction with in situ hybridization. Hearing damage could not easily explain these results because additional rats exposed to a similar stress protocol exhibited no changes in auditory brainstem evoked potentials. c-fos mRNA induction in the central auditory system was similar between the Acute and Chronic groups, particularly at lower auditory processing levels, also arguing against a simple reduction in auditory processing in the chronically stressed rats. However, c-fos mRNA expression was reduced in chronically, as compared to acutely, stressed rats in several regions previously implicated in audiogenic stress (lateral septum, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, some preoptic areas, and the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus). Interestingly, the orbitofrontal cortex was the only region displaying higher c-fos mRNA induction in the chronically as compared to acutely stressed rats. This region has connections to several stress-responsive areas and may thus be a critical region actively inhibiting stress.



The release and clearance of electrically evoked catecholamine (CA) in the ventral portion of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTV) in mouse brain slices was evaluated with fast-scan cyclic voltammetry at carbon-fiber microelectrodes (CFME). Uptake in this region was observed to be markedly slower than in the caudate putamen (CPu). Clearance rates were reduced in the BSTV in both norepinephrine transporter knockout (NET KO) and dopamine transporter knockout (DAT KO) mice when compared to results in wild-type (WT) mice. However, uptake was faster in the BSTV in both the DAT and NET KO mice than in the CPu of DAT KO mice. This indicates that both transporters play a role in CA clearance in the BSTV. The transporters restrict extracellular CA to the general area of the BSTV, as revealed by the diminished signal as the CFME is moved sequentially further and further from the site where CA release is evoked. However, in slices from the DAT KOs and NET KOs, CA release could be observed outside of the BSTV region during such experiments. These results show that the low rate uptake in the BSTV facilitates extrasynaptic diffusion of catecholamine, but that uptake still regulates and limits the range of the transmitter to the region. Slower clearance from the extracellular fluid allows the released CA to act as a volume transmitter and diffuse to distant sites within the region to exert its neurochemical action.
We previously established lines of transgenic Xenopus laevis expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) or GFP fusion proteins in the rod photoreceptors of their retinas under control of the X. laevis opsin promoter, which permits easy identification of transgenic animals by fluorescence microscopy. However, GFP tags can alter the properties of fusion partners, and in many circumstances a second selectable marker would be useful. The transgene constructs we used also encode a gene that confers resistance to the antibiotic G418 in cultured mammalian cells. In this study, we show that F2 transgenic offspring of these animals are more resistant to G418 toxicity than their non-transgenic siblings, as are primary transgenic X. laevis. G418 resistance can be used as a selectable marker in transgenic X. laevis, and possibly other aquatic transgenic animals.
Although misfolding of the cellular prion protein PrP(C) into an alternative form, denoted PrP(Sc), is a key event in prion infections, the normal function of PrP(C) remains to be clearly defined. Many PrP(C)-binding proteins have been identified, but authentication of these interactions in functional assays is incomplete. Doppel (Dpl), a recently discovered PrP-like protein, might provide a new avenue by which to explore physiological and pathological functions of PrP. For example, overexpression of Dpl causes apoptotic cerebellar cell death that is abrogated by PrP(C), indicating that these two proteins can act in a common pathway. Despite our incomplete understanding of PrP(C), immunological targeting of this PrP(Sc) precursor has produced encouraging results, indicating a potential point of intervention against these fatal diseases.
Optimal motor control relies on internal representations of the actual, desired and predicted states of our limbs and the external world. Only certain components of these internal representations are available to awareness. We suggest that impairments of the components of internal representations might underlie a broad variety of neuropsychiatric symptoms, including the anarchic hand sign, phantom limbs, utilization behaviour and delusions of control.
Cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) with a CD8(+) phenotype have the potential to recognize and attack major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-expressing brain cells. Most brain cells, including neurons, can be stimulated to present peptides to CD8(+) CTLs by MHC class I molecules, and are susceptible to CTL-mediated cytotoxicity in culture. In disease-affected brain parenchyma, CD8(+) CTLs outnumber other T-cell subtypes. They show clonal expansion in several inflammatory and degenerative CNS diseases, such as multiple sclerosis (MS), virus-induced inflammatory brain diseases and paraneoplastic neurological disorders. In MS, damage of axons is closely linked to the CD8(+) CTLs, and protection against CTL-mediated damage should be considered as a new therapeutic approach in MS and other neuroinflammatory diseases.
Launching a new neuroscience laboratory requires knowledge of purchasing, budgeting and personnel management. The usual training of scientific investigators omits these areas, at a time when experimental complexity is growing and Internet-based commerce offers new purchasing options. This review highlights laboratory start-up maxims and their applications to web-based purchasing, cost containment and budgeting.
Neurotrophins promote neuronal survival and differentiation by binding to two classes of cell surface receptors: members of the Trk-family receptor tyrosine kinases and p75(NTR), a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily. The discoveries that the unprocessed proneurotrophin peptide is both a preferential high-affinity ligand for p75(NTR) (with minimal affinity for trkA) and a potent inducer of p75(NTR)-mediated neuronal cell death are likely to change our understanding of neurotrophin physiology and our ability to manipulate their signaling pathways.
Laying down new memories has long been thought to involve interactions between the hippocampus and multiple regions of the neocortex. Functional neuroimaging studies performed over the past four years provide evidence for this proposal. A recent electrophysiological study offers a possible mechanism by which interactions between brain regions take place during memory formation.
1. Many neurodegenerative diseases, cancer and infections of the brain become more prevalent as populations become older. Despite major advances in neuroscience, the blood-brain barrier (BBB) ensures that many potential therapeutic cannot reach the central nervous system (CNS). The BBB is formed by the complex tight junctions between the endothelial cells of the brain capillaries and their low endocytic activity. This results in the capillary wall that behaves as a continuous lipid bilayer and prevents the passage of polar and lipid-insoluble substances. It is, therefore, the major obstacle to drugs that may combat diseases affecting the CNS. 2. Several strategies for delivering drugs to the CNS have been developed. These enhance the capacity of therapeutic molecules to cross the BBB by modifying the drug itself, or by coupling it to a vector for receptor-mediated or adsorption-mediated transcytosis. 3. The current challenge is to develop drug-delivery systems that ensure that drugs cross the BBB in a safe and effective manner. This review focuses on the strategies developed to enhance drug delivery across the BBB.
An important approach in visual neuroscience considers how the function of the early visual system relates to the statistics of its natural input. Previous studies have shown how many basic properties of the primary visual cortex, such as the receptive fields of simple and complex cells and the spatial organization (topography) of the cells, can be understood as efficient coding of natural images. Here we extend the framework by considering how the responses of complex cells could be sparsely represented by a higher-order neural layer. This leads to contour coding and end-stopped receptive fields. In addition, contour integration could be interpreted as top-down inference in the presented model.


Nerve fibres play an important role in the regulation of gastric emptying. The aims of this study were to clarify the distribution, projections and origin of neuronal type nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-, vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAchT)- and peptide-containing nerve fibres of the rat pyloric sphincter. Extrinsic and local denervations of the sphincter were performed in order to reveal the origin and projections of the various nerve fibre populations. Pylorus from control and denervated animals were processed for the immunocytochemical demonstration of cholecystokinin (CCK), enkephalin, gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP), somatostatin, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), neuropeptide Y (NPY), pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP), substance P (SP), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), galanin, NOS, VAchT and TH. VAchT, TH, nNOS, and all of the peptides investigated were found in nerve fibres innervating the pyloric sphincter, and coexistence of several putative neurotransmitters were revealed. Extrinsic denervation caused a total loss of NPY/TH-, SP/CGRP- and SP/CGRP/VIP/NOS/PACAP-containing nerve fibres. Local denervation immediately proximal to the sphincter markedly reduced the numbers of VIP/NOS/galanin- and VIP/NOS/galanin/PACAP +/- NPY-containing fibres within the sphincter suggesting an origin of these fibres in myenteric ganglia in the antral region; denervation at the level of the oxyntic-pyloric border had no effect. Local denervation immediately distal to the sphincter caused a marked decrease in VAchT-, SP/enkephalin-, enkephalin-, somatostatin-, CCK- and GRP-containing fibres within the sphincter suggesting that these emanate from the duodenum. The latter procedure also reduced the number of SP/CGRP-containing fibres of extrinsic origin within the pyloric sphincter.

nPKC delta is a phospholipid-dependent and calcium-independent PKC isoform, whose over expression in BL6T murine melanoma cells, modifies their proliferative and metastatic potential in vivo. We focus here on the possible relationship between the subcellular localisation of nPKC delta and distinct phase of the cell cycle. Our findings show a dynamic localisation of nPKC delta in dependence of the phase of the cell cycle. Actually, this isoform is preferentially localised to the cytoplasm in serum-starved cells, shifting to the nucleus during the S-phase and becoming peri-nuclear, associated to the Golgi apparatus, in G2-M phase. Therefore, taken together our findings demonstrate that the subcellular localisation of nPKC delta changes dynamically during the cell cycle in dependence of the requirement of the enzyme at a particular place of the cell.
The vestibular system is known to participate in cardiovascular regulation during movement and postural alterations. The present study considered whether lesions of two regions of the posterior cerebellar vermis (the nodulus and uvula) that provide inputs to vestibular nucleus regions that affect control of blood pressure would alter cardiovascular responses during changes in posture. Blood pressure and heart rate were monitored in awake cats during nose-up tilts up to 60 degrees in amplitude before and following aspiration lesions of the nodulus or uvula; in most animals, cardiovascular responses were also recorded following the subsequent removal of vestibular inputs. Lesions of the nodulus or uvula did not affect baseline blood pressure or heart rate, although cardiovascular responses during nose-up tilts were altered. Increases in heart rate that typically occurred during 60 degrees nose-up tilt were attenuated in all three animals with lesions affecting both dorsal and ventral portions of the uvula; in contrast, the heart rate responses were augmented in the two animals with lesions mainly confined to the nodulus. Furthermore, following subsequent removal of vestibular inputs, uvulectomized animals, but not those with nodulus lesions, experienced more severe orthostatic hypotension than has previously been reported in cerebellum-intact animals with bilateral labyrinthectomies. These data suggest that the cerebellar nodulus and uvula modulate vestibulo-cardiovascular responses, although the two regions play different roles in cardiovascular regulation.
Our past work has shown that the C-terminal fragment of amyloid precursor protein (APP) translocated to the nucleus in neurons destined for delayed excitotoxic degeneration. To test whether nuclear APP fragments also play a role in the progressive loss of dopaminergic (DA) substantia nigra compacta (SNc) neurons, we performed unilateral medial forebrain bundle (MFB) transection on APP wild type (WT) and on mice with disruption of the APP gene (KO). In WT mice immunoreactivity for APP C-terminal, beta-amyloid and Alz90 epitopes appeared in the nuclei of axotomized DA neurons at 3 days post-lesion (dpl), persisted at 7 dpl and was absent in 14 dpl mice. APP N-terminal immunoreactivity was restricted to the cytosol at all time points, precluding the possibility of full length APP in the nucleus. Nuclear localization of APP epitopes was absent in neurons of the contralateral SNc or in neurons of the ipsilateral ventral tegmental area and SN reticulata. The presence of APP C-terminal and Alz90 domains was confirmed by Western blotting performed on the nuclear fraction of the SN ipsilateral to the axotomy. Quantitative morphometric analysis revealed that WT mice demonstrated earlier and more profound loss of tyrosine hydroxylase+SNc neurons than did KO mice. These data showed that a novel nuclear C-terminal fragment appeared coincident with SNc neuron degeneration, and that APP deficiency correlated with significant neuroprotection in vivo.
Cellular energy metabolism is largely sustained by mitochondrial beta-oxidation of saturated and unsaturated fatty acids. To study the role of unsaturated fatty acids in cellular lipid and energy metabolism we generated a null allelic mouse, deficient in 3,2-trans-enoyl-CoA isomerase (ECI) (eci(-/-) mouse). ECI is the link in mitochondrial beta-oxidation of unsaturated and saturated fatty acids and essential for the complete degradation and for maximal energy yield. Mitochondrial beta-oxidation of unsaturated fatty acids is interrupted in eci(-/-)mice at the level of their respective 3-cis- or 3-trans-enoyl-CoA intermediates. Fasting eci(-/-) mice accumulate unsaturated fatty acyl groups in ester lipids and deposit large amounts of triglycerides in hepatocytes (steatosis). Gene expression studies revealed the induction of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor activation in eci(-/-) mice together with peroxisomal beta- and microsomal omega-oxidation enzymes. Combined peroxisomal beta- and microsomal omega-oxidation of the 3-enoyl-CoA intermediates leads to a specific pattern of medium chain unsaturated dicarboxylic acids excreted in the urine in high concentration (dicarboxylic aciduria). The urinary dicarboxylate pattern is a reliable diagnostic marker of the ECI genetic defect. The eci(-/-) mouse might be a model of a yet undefined inborn mitochondrial beta-oxidation disorder lacking the enzyme link that channels the intermediates of unsaturated fatty acids into the beta-oxidation spiral of saturated fatty acids.
Iba1 is a macrophage/microglia-specific calcium-binding protein that is involved in RacGTPase-dependent membrane ruffling and phagocytosis. In this study, we introduced Iba1 into Swiss 3T3 fibroblasts and demonstrated the enhancement of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-induced membrane ruffling and chemotaxis. Wortmannin treatment did not completely suppressed this enhanced membrane ruffling in Iba1-expressing cells, whereas it did in Iba1-nonexpressing cells, suggesting that the enhancement is mediated through a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-independent signaling pathway. Porcine aorta endothelial cells transfected with expression constructs of Iba1 and PDGF receptor add-back mutants were used to analyze the signaling pathway responsible for the Iba1-induced enhancement of membrane ruffling. In the absence of Iba1 expression, PDGF did not induced membrane ruffling in cells expressing the Tyr-1021 receptor mutant, which is capable of activating phospholipase C-gamma (PLC-gamma) but not PI3K. In contrast, in the presence of Iba1 expression, membrane ruffling was formed in cells expressing the Tyr-1021 mutant. In addition, Rac was shown to be activated during membrane ruffling in cells expressing Iba1 and the Tyr-1021 mutant. Furthermore, dominant negative forms of PLC-gamma completely suppressed PDGF-induced Iba1-dependent membrane ruffling and Rac activation. These results indicate the existence of a novel signaling pathway where PLC-gamma activates Rac in a manner dependent on Iba1.
The present study examined the role of mitogen - activated protein kinases (MAPKs) in inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) induction by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or interferon - gamma (IFN - gamma) in the murine microglial cell line BV2 cells. LPS rapidly (&lt;2 h) induced iNOS mRNA expression whereas IFN - gamma did not within 8 h after stimulation. LPS activated three MAPK subtypes, extracellular signal - regulated kinase (ERK), p38 and c - Jun N - terminal kinase (JNK) as early as 15 min after stimulation. In contrast, IFN - gamma activated only ERK after 6 h of stimulation and did not alter the activity of p38 and JNK. LPS-induced iNOS expression was markedly decreased by the p38 inhibitor SB203580, but not by the MAPK or ERK kinase inhibitor PD98059. IFN - gamma - induced nitric oxide (NO) generation was partially inhibited by PD98059 and SB203580 only in combination. The results demonstrate that MAPKs differentially mediate NO production by LPS - and IFN - gamma in BV2 cells.
As monkeys perform schedules containing several trials with a visual cue indicating reward proximity, their error rates decrease as the number of remaining trials decreases, suggesting that their motivation and/or reward expectancy increases as the reward approaches. About one-third of single neurons recorded in the anterior cingulate cortex of monkeys during these reward schedules had responses that progressively changed strength with reward expectancy, an effect that disappeared when the cue was random. Alterations of this progression could be the basis for the changes from normal that are reported in anterior cingulate population activity for obsessive-compulsive disorder and drug abuse, conditions characterized by disturbances in reward expectancy.
A key issue in signal transduction is how signaling pathways common to many systems-so-called canonical signaling cassettes-integrate signals from molecules having a wide spectrum of activities, such as hormones and neurotrophins, to deliver distinct biological outcomes. The neuroendocrine cell line PC12, derived from rat pheochromocytoma, provides an example of how one canonical signaling cassette-the Raf --&gt; mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) --&gt; extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway-can promote distinct outcomes, which in this case include neuritogenesis, gene induction, and proliferation. Two growth hormones, epidermal growth factor (EGF) and nerve growth factor (NGF), use the same pathway to cause PC12 proliferation and differentiation, respectively. In addition, pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP), a neurotransmitter that also causes differentiation, uses the same canonical cassette as NGF but in a different way. The Connections Map for PC12 Cell Differentiation brings into focus the complex array of specific cellular responses that rely on canonical signal transduction systems.



Aberrant expression of the sensory neuron specific (SNS) sodium channel Na(v)1.8 has been demonstrated in cerebellar Purkinje cells in experimental models of multiple sclerosis (MS) and in human MS. The aberrant expression of Na(v)1.8, which is normally present in primary sensory neurons but not in the CNS, may perturb cerebellar function, but the mechanisms that trigger it are not understood. Because axotomy can provoke changes in Na(v)1.8 expression in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, we tested the hypothesis that axotomy can provoke an up-regulation of Na(v)1.8 expression in Purkinje cells, using a surgical model that transects axons of Purkinje cells in lobules IIIb-VII in the rat. In situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry did not reveal an up-regulation of Na(v)1.8 mRNA or protein in axotomized Purkinje cells. Hybridization and immunostaining signals for the sodium channel Na(v)1.6 were clearly present, demonstrating that sodium channel transcripts and protein were present in experimental cerebella. These results demonstrate that axotomy does not trigger the expression of Na(v)1.8 in Purkinje cells.
When the axon of a motoneuron is transected, axonal regrowth occurs to reconnect it to the correct target. During the regeneration period, a large amount of new membrane synthesis is required for the axons to extend. Choline is an important metabolite in all cells because of the major contribution of phosphatidylcholine and sphingomyelin to the production of membranes. Therefore, choline uptake is necessary for axonal elongation. We cloned rat choline transporter-like protein 1 (rCTL1) as an upregulated gene in the axotomized facial motor nucleus by differential display polymerase chain reaction using adult rat facial nerve axotomy model. rCTL1 belongs to the choline transporter-like protein family, which takes up choline. We investigated the changes in rCTL1 mRNA levels in the facial motor nucleus of adult rats following axotomy by in situ hybridization. In the facial motoneurons signals of rCTL1 mRNA were rarely expressed, were transiently increased following axotomy and gradually returned to the control level. These results suggest that rCTL1 is involved in activated choline uptake for membrane synthesis in motoneurons following nerve transection.
Several techniques enable to inject intracellularly neurons with dyes and to use light and electron microscopy to correlate the physiological data with the morphological properties of the neuron. However, the ultrastructure of the neuron is usually obscured by the injected dye thus notably precluding the analysis of the postsynaptic specialisation and that of the other organelles. To overcome this problem, we have developed a technique based on fluorophore- and ultra small gold-conjugated streptavidins. We report, that this method facilitates the identification of intracellular organelles of the biocytin-filled neuron and of postsynaptic densities. This method is valid for the study of early postnatal neurons that are particularly refractory to this type of analysis. The procedure introduced here consists of the following steps: (1) injection of biocytin into the neuron by a patch-clamp pipette, (2) aldehyde fixation, (3) reaction with a fluorophore-conjugated streptavidin, (4) analysis with a fluorescence microscope, (5) formation of avidin-biotin complexes (ABC), (6) reaction with an ultra small gold-conjugated streptavidin, (7) silver enhancement of gold, (8) postfixation with osmium tetroxide and embedding in resin, (9) ultrathin sectioning and analysis with an electron microscope. Using this method, we show that in early postnatal hippocampal neurons, that have been injected with biocytine, it is possible to determine the morphology of the dendritic and axonal trees (including very thin details such as spines and filopodia) and to identify the localisation of the symmetric and asymmetric synapses on dendrites of the injected neuron.
The detection of extracellular potentials by means of multi-electrode arrays (MEA) is a useful technique for multi-site long-term monitoring of cultured neuronal activity with single-cell resolution. To optimize the geometry of the MEA it is advantageous to localize the cellular compartments that constitute the generators of these signals. For this purpose, an in vitro technique for the detection of extracellular signals with subcellular resolution has been developed. It makes use of easy-to-manufacture large-tip pipettes, monitoring of electrode-cell gap resistance for precise electrode positioning and low-density (100 cells/mm(2)) dissociated hippocampal cultures. Negative monophasic extracellular spikes, typically 60 microV, were measured over putative axonal processes and monophasic, biphasic and triphasic signals were recorded over the soma. A compartmental simulation suggests that different somatic conductance densities of Na(+) (1-10 mS/cm(2)) and K(+) (5-10 mS/cm(2)) channels can produce characteristic somatic extracellular potentials, with a variety of shapes similar to those observed experimentally.
Studying the dynamics of neural activity via electrical recording, relies on the ability to detect and sort neural spikes recorded from a number of neurons by the same electrode. We suggest the wavelet packets decomposition (WPD) as a tool to analyze neural spikes and extract their main features. The unique quality of the wavelet packets-adaptive coverage of both time and frequency domains using a set of localized packets, facilitate the task. The best basis algorithm utilizing the Shannon's information cost function and local discriminant basis (LDB) using mutual information are employed to select a few packets that are sufficient for both detection and sorting of spikes. The efficiency of the method is demonstrated on data recorded from in vitro 2D neural networks, placed on electrodes that read data from as many as five neurons. Comparison between our method and the widely used principal components method and a sorting technique based on the ordinary wavelet transform (WT) shows that our method is more efficient both in separating spikes from noise and in resolving overlapping spikes.
Commonly, a neuron must separate a small, rare event carried by one of its inputs from the noise carried by many others. In this issue of Neuron, demonstrate that to solve this problem, the rod bipolar neuron in mouse retina selectively amplifies a rod's single-photon signal only when it is larger than average. This nonlinearity rejects nearly three-fourths of the single-photon signals. Yet, by also rejecting noise, it provides nearly optimal filtering near absolute visual threshold.
Polymorphisms in the interleukin-1 genes, IL-1A and IL-1B, have been associated with AD, but not in all studies. The authors genotyped the IL-1A(-889) and IL-1B(-511) polymorphisms in large independent cohorts of 503 control individuals and 395 patients with AD, and a further 100 with brain Abeta load. No evidence was found of risk for AD with these variants, nor of an effect on age at onset. However, an impact of IL-1B(-511) on Abeta(40) load (p &lt; 0.05) was detected.
A reduction in the number of acetylcholine receptors (AChR) on the postsynaptic membrane is characteristic of MG. This may be inherited (AChR deficiency syndrome) or acquired (MG). The authors report two sisters with AChR deficiency caused by heteroallelic mutations in the AChR epsilon-subunit gene. The younger sister developed MG at 34 years. This unusual case raises the possibility that genetic defects of the AChR might be a factor in the etiology of autoimmune MG.
Subcortical band heterotopia (SBH) is seen predominantly in females, resulting from mutations in the X-linked doublecortin (DCX) gene, and can present with mild mental retardation and epilepsy. Males carrying DCX mutations usually demonstrate lissencephaly and are clinically much more severely affected. This article reports two cases of males with SBH indistinguishable from the female phenotype, both resulting from somatic mosaicism for DCX mutation.

Fragile X syndrome, the most common inherited form of human mental retardation, is caused by mutations of the Fmr1 gene that encodes the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). Biochemical evidence indicates that FMRP binds a subset of mRNAs and acts as a regulator of translation. However, the consequences of FMRP loss on neuronal function in mammals remain unknown. Here we show that a form of protein synthesis-dependent synaptic plasticity, long-term depression triggered by activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors, is selectively enhanced in the hippocampus of mutant mice lacking FMRP. This finding indicates that FMRP plays an important functional role in regulating activity-dependent synaptic plasticity in the brain and suggests new therapeutic approaches for fragile X syndrome.
In the current investigation, retinofugal projections to midbrain and thalamic nuclei of Monodelphis domestica were investigated using wheat-germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP). Large intraocular injections of WGA-HRP were placed into the eye, and patterns of labeled axon terminals were related to nuclear boundaries in tissue that was stained for Nissl or reacted for cytochrome oxidase (CO). Our results demonstrate that the major projection from the retina is to the contralateral dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGNd) and the superior colliculus (SC). Connections were also observed with the contralateral pretectal nucleus (PRT), the lateral posterior nucleus (LP), and the ventral division of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGNv). Ipsilateral connections were with the LGNv and LGNd. These findings are consistent with reports in other marsupials as well as with studies in a number of eutherian mammals. Thus, there appears to be a common pattern of retinofugal projections that all mammals share, probably due to retention from a common ancestor. However, some features such as a lack of ipsilateral input to the SC (which are absent only in certain species like Monodelphis, platypus, and echidnas) may represent a primitive state retained from a common ancestor. When comparisons of retinofugal connections and LGNd organization are made across taxa, three types of organization are observed: a homogenous LGNd with a high degree of binocular overlap of projections; a partially differentiated LGNd with some segregation of eye-specific inputs; and a fully segregated structure with a large degree of segregation of eye-specific inputs. We discuss the factors that contribute to the organization observed in extant mammals and conclude that phylogeny and lifestyle appear to be the underlying factors contributing to the organization of the LGNd.
Although hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is generally thought of in terms of a poisonous gas, it is endogenously produced in the brain from cysteine by cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS). H2S functions as a neuromodulator as well as a smooth muscle relaxant. Here we show that the levels of H2S are severely decreased in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients compared with the brains of the age matched normal individuals. In addition to H2S production CBS also catalyzes another metabolic pathway in which cystathionine is produced from the substrate homocysteine. Previous findings, which showed that S-adenosyl-l-methionine (SAM), a CBS activator, is much reduced in AD brain and that homocysteine accumulates in the serum of AD patients, were confirmed. These observations suggest that CBS activity is reduced in AD brains and the decrease in H2S may be involved in some aspects of the cognitive decline in AD.
The effect of L-AP4, a group III mGluR agonist, on sensory synaptic transmission in the lamprey spinal cord has been analyzed. Paired recordings were made between cutaneous mechanosensory neurons (dorsal cells) and postsynaptic spinobulbar giant interneurons. L-AP4 reduced the monosynaptic dorsal cell-evoked EPSP, but at concentrations higher (200-500 microM) than those necessary to depress reticulospinal axon-evoked EPSPs. Stimulation of the dorsal column, which contains dorsal cell axons and the axons of putative nociceptive and theromosensory axons, elicited compound EPSPs that were consistently depressed by L-AP4. Sensory inputs in the lamprey are thus inhibited by group III mGluRs.
Early hypotheses that normal brain aging involves widespread loss of neurons have been revised in light of accumulating evidence that, in most regions of the brain, the number of neurons is stable throughout adulthood and senescence. It is not clear, however, that all aspects of neuronal structure are similarly maintained, and anatomical changes are likely to contribute to age-related declines in cognitive function. The extent and pattern of dendritic branches is one likely target for age-dependent regulation since dendrites remain plastic into adulthood and since dendrites, as the site of most synapses, critically regulate neuronal function. This study quantified the dendritic extent and geometry of superficial and deep pyramidal neurons in the medial frontal cortex of Brown Norway rats from young adulthood through senescence. This region of cortex is of specific interest given its involvement in a variety of cognitive functions that change with age. In the present study, age-related changes in dendritic extent were found to occur with remarkable specificity. Superficial, but not deep, pyramidal neurons exhibited ongoing dendritic growth after 2 months-of-age and then dendritic regression after 18 months-of-age. Apical and basal dendrites were similarly regulated; in each arbor adult growth and regression were limited to terminal dendritic segments. The focal specificity of age-related changes suggests several possible regulatory mechanisms, including regional changes in trophic support and in neuronal activity. Although restricted to specific neuronal populations, dendritic regression in aged animals is likely to contribute to cognitive changes associated with senescence.
Mitochondrial outer membrane permeability is conferred by a family of porin proteins. Mitochondrial porins conduct small molecules and constitute one component of the permeability transition pore that opens in response to apoptotic signals. Because mitochondrial porins have significant roles in diverse cellular processes including regulation of mitochondrial ATP and calcium flux, we sought to determine their importance in learning and synaptic plasticity in mice. We show that fear conditioning and spatial learning are disrupted in porin-deficient mice. Electrophysiological recordings of porin-deficient hippocampal slices reveal deficits in long and short term synaptic plasticity. Inhibition of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore by cyclosporin A in wild-type hippocampal slices reproduces the electrophysiological phenotype of porin-deficient mice. These results demonstrate a dynamic functional role for mitochondrial porins and the permeability transition pore in learning and synaptic plasticity.
Intracellular filamentous aggregates comprised of alpha-synuclein such as Lewy bodies and glial cytoplasmic inclusions are the defining hallmarks of a subset of neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, and multiple system atrophy. We have analyzed biochemical and structural properties of alpha-synuclein filaments assembled in vitro or extracted from brains of patients with multiple system atrophy and found that both types of filaments are insoluble to detergents and partially resistant to proteinase K digestion. Immunoelectron microscopy and immunoblot analysis showed that both amino and carboxyl termini of alpha-synuclein in in vitro assembled filaments were degraded by proteinase K treatment, whereas the central portion of alpha-synuclein is resistant to proteinase K and retains filamentous structures. Protein sequencing and mass spectrometric analyses of the proteinase K-resistant, minimal fragment of 7 kDa revealed that amino acid residues 31-109 of alpha-synuclein constitute the core unit of the filaments. These observations suggest that the central half of the alpha-synuclein polypeptide, containing five tandem repeats as well as a part of the carboxyl-terminal acidic region, forms the core structure of alpha-synuclein filaments, which is coated by the amino- and carboxyl-terminal portions at the periphery.
We have studied the pharmacological regulation of mitochondrial activity in a human neuroblastoma cell line. Cyclosporin A was found to directly alter mitochondrial membrane potential and to decrease mitochondrial permeability as measured using calcein. The estrogen receptor ligands tamoxifen, nafoxidine and clomiphene were identified as agents which affect mitochondrial membrane potential in a cyclosporin A-like manner. Also when mitochondrial permeability was measured using calcein, tamoxifen, nafoxidine and clomiphene were effective in inhibiting dye loss from mitochondria. Nafoxidine and cyclosporin A inhibit effects of mastoparan on SH-SY5Y mitochondria. These studies indicate that estrogen receptor ligands appear to affect mitochondria in a cyclosporin A-like manner in human neuroblastoma cells.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) is a regulator of feeding behavior. The effect of serotonin on food intake is believed to be primarily mediated via 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2C) receptors, which both are expressed in hypothalamic regions implicated in regulation of feeding behavior. Using an antiserum to the 5-HT(1A) receptor, immunoreactive neurons were observed in the rat supraoptic, paraventricular, arcuate and ventromedial nuclei and lateral hypothalamic area. 5-HT(1A) receptor immunoreactivity was demonstrated in neuropeptide Y-, agouti-related peptide-, proopiomelanocortin- and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript-containing neurons of the arcuate nucleus. In the lateral hypothalamus, 5-HT(1A) receptor immunoreactivity was observed in melanin-concentrating hormone- and orexin-containing neurons. The results suggest that serotonin via postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors affects the release of peptides regulating food intake.
The present study investigated whether serotonin (5-HT) agonists could inhibit the ability of arginine-vasopressin (AVP) to induce a form of scent marking called flank marking by their actions in the medial preoptic-anterior hypothalamus (MPOA-AH). DOI, a 5-HT2A,2B,2C receptor agonist, did not inhibit AVP-induced flank marking, but mCPP a 5-HT2A antagonist and 5-HT2B,2C agonist inhibited AVP-induced flank marking. In addition, the finding that 8-OH-DPAT, CGS-12066A and SC53116 also inhibited AVP-induced flank marking suggests that 5-HT could also inhibit flank marking by acting through 5-HT1A, 5-HT7, 5-HT1B and/or 5-HT4 receptor subtypes. These data support the hypothesis that 5-HT acts within the MPOA-AH to inhibit the ability of AVP to induce flank marking.
The present study was carried out to examine whether estrogen modulates the drinking response caused by activation of neural pathways from the subfornical organ (SFO) to the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) in the female rat. Microinjection of angiotensin II (ANG II) into the SFO elicited drinking in ovariectomized female rats that were treated with either propylene glycol (PG) vehicle or estradiol benzoate (EB). The amount of water intake induced by the ANG II injection was significantly greater in the PG-treated than in the EB-treated animals. In both groups, previous injections of either saralasin, an ANG II antagonist, or phentolamine, an alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist, bilaterally into the PVN resulted in the significant attenuation of the drinking response to ANG II, whereas similar injections of saline vehicle into the PVN were without effect. These results suggest that the circulating estrogen may act to reduce the drinking response that is mediated through angiotensinergic and alpha-adrenergic mechanisms in the PVN in response to angiotensinergic activation of SFO efferent projections.
An unbiased functional screening with brain cDNA library from an Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain identified a novel 24-residue peptide Humanin (HN), which suppresses AD-related neurotoxicity. As the 1567-base cDNA containing the open reading frame (ORF) of HN is 99% identical to mitochondrial 16S ribosomal RNA as well as registered human mRNA, it was elusive whether HN is produced in vivo. Here, we raised anti-HN antibody and found that long cDNAs containing the ORF of HN (HN-ORF) produced the HN peptide in mammalian cells, dependent on the presence of full-length HN-ORF. Immunoblot analysis detected a 3-kDa protein with HN immunoreactivity in the testis and the colon in 3-week-old mice and in the testis in 12-week-old mice. HN immunoreactivity was also detected in an AD brain, but little in normal brains. This study suggests that HN peptide could be produced in vivo, and would provide a novel insight into the pathophysiology of AD.
The effects of intralesion grafts of serotonergic precursors on locomotor recovery and development of chronic pain were assessed after chronic spinal cord hemisection injury (SCI) in rats. Serotonin- and brain-derived neurotrophic factor-secreting (RN46A-B14) and RN46A-vector-only cells were transplanted into the site of T13 lateral hemisection 10 days following injury in immunosuppressed animals, and locomotor and pain related behaviors were assessed weekly for 28 days. There were significant improvements in the degree of spontaneous locomotor recovery, but no significant difference was found in the magnitude of development of mechanical allodynia or thermal hyperalgesia in any transplant group. From these results, we conclude that intraparenchymal engraftment of RN46A-B14 cells is largely ineffective in influencing somatosensory outcomes after SCI, in contrast with the efficacy of dorsal intrathecal placement.
A critical issue in developmental cognitive neuroscience is the extent to which the functional neuroanatomy underlying task performance differs in adults and children. Direct comparisons of brain activation in the left frontal and extrastriate cortex were made in adults and children (aged 7 to 10 years) performing single-word processing tasks with visual presentation; differences were found in circumscribed frontal and extrastriate regions. Conceivably, these differences could be attributable exclusively to performance discrepancies; alternatively, maturational differences in functional neuroanatomy could exist despite similar performance. Some of the brain regions examined showed differences attributable to age independent of performance, suggesting that maturation of the pattern of regional activations for these tasks is incomplete at age 10.


Counting objects in histological sections is often a necessary, sometimes an unexpected part of a research project. The recent literature shows that the subject of counting is of particular interest to readers of the Journal of Comparative Neurology but that it is also contentious and difficult. Even a brief review of past issues of the Journal shows that there are many misconceptions about counting and that there remain issues that have received little or no attention. Counts are subject to many errors. Some reports include readily recognizable errors, others fail to include all of the information that is needed for an evaluation of their accuracy. This review is above all a plea for adequate information about the methods used for counts in all publications. It serves to help those who are new to quantitative methods in histology; it considers some of the basic issues arising for anyone undertaking counts, or reviewing manuscripts that include counts. In particular, it considers recently introduced or re-introduced counting methods that depend on accurate measures along the axis perpendicular to the plane of the sections, and looks at the difficulties inherent in these measures.
The adeno-associated virus vector is a good tool for gene transfer into skeletal muscle, but the length of a gene that can be incorporated is limited. To develop a gene therapy for Duchenne muscular dystrophy, we generated a series of rod-truncated micro-dystrophin cDNAs: M3 (one rod repeat, 3.9 kb), AX11 (three rod repeats, 4.4 kb), and CS1 (four rod repeats, 4.9 kb). These micro-dystrophins, driven by a CAG promoter, were used to produce transgenic (Tg) mdx mice and all three micro-dystrophins were shown to localize at the sarcolemma together with the expression of dystrophin-associated proteins. Among them, CS1 greatly improved dystrophic phenotypes of mdx mice and contractile force of the diaphragm in particular was restored to the level of normal C57BL/10 mice. AX11 modestly ameliorated the dystrophic pathology, but, importantly, M3-Tg mdx mice still showed severe dystrophic phenotypes. These data suggest that the rod structure, and its length in particular, is crucial for the function of micro-dystrophin.
The effect of heterosexual social experience on brain metabolic capacity was investigated by measuring the activity of cytochrome oxidase, a rate-limiting enzyme in oxidative metabolism. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were kept nave or allowed to copulate with receptive females three (3 F males) or 16 times (16 F males). Throughout the vomeronasal system and other limbic areas, 16 F males had elevated metabolic capacity relative to nave and 3 F males, whereas no significant differences in brain metabolism were found between 3 F and nave males. Behavioral differences were also found between 3 F and 16 F males. In a second experiment, we assessed differences in brain metabolism between sexually active and inactive males given only one opportunity to copulate and found no significant difference in neural metabolism between these males. This suggests that the differences found in the first experiment were primarily driven by differences in repeated experience rather than by sexual performance between 16 F and 3 F males. We speculate that these changes in brain metabolic capacity could be related to immediate early gene expression during copulation and could underlie the long-term behavioral changes accompanying heterosexual social experience.
Estrogen treatment offers neuro-protection in animal experiments in which excitotoxic mechanisms destroy neurons. In a model of delayed neuronal degeneration that depends on excitotoxicity, we tested whether females had an altered susceptibility, and whether physiologic doses of estrogen administered after the brain insult would protect susceptible neurons. Females were ovariectomized, exposed to striatal-pallidal ibotenic acid injury that caused delayed degeneration of substantia nigra neurons, and treated with 17 beta -estradiol (30 microg, subcutaneously every other day, beginning 2 days after the striatal injury) or vehicle. At 6 and 8 days post lesion, the 17beta-estradiol treatment group maintained over 87 and 70% of control nigral neuron number, respectively. Physiologic levels of estrogen delivered days after the excitotoxic stress completely protected neurons in the substantia nigra reticulata 6 days post lesion and slowed degeneration 8 days post lesion.
The neuropeptides pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) are implicated in the photic entrainment of circadian rhythms in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN). We now report that mice carrying a null mutation of the VPAC(2) receptor for VIP and PACAP (Vipr2(-/-)) are incapable of sustaining normal circadian rhythms of rest/activity behavior. These mice also fail to exhibit circadian expression of the core clock genes mPer1, mPer2, and mCry1 and the clock-controlled gene arginine vasopressin (AVP) in the SCN. Moreover, the mutants fail to show acute induction of mPer1 and mPer2 by nocturnal illumination. This study highlights the role of intercellular neuropeptidergic signaling in maintenance of circadian function within the SCN.
UV/Visible spectroscopy has been used to monitor the progress of the formation of benzimidazole from the reaction between 1,2-diaminobenzene and formic acid. The reaction was performed at three concentration levels, each becoming more dilute so that at the most dilute level direct UV monitoring from the reaction sample was possible. At each level the reaction was conducted by conventional and by microwave heating. The success of the microwave reaction at the most dilute levels encourages the construction of a microwave reactor/UV/Vis spectrometer hybrid instrument for the monitoring of this and other reactions.
Neuropilin-1 (Npn-1) is a receptor for both semaphorin 3A (Sema3A) and vascular endothelial growth factor 165 (VEGF(165)). To understand the role Npn-1 plays as a receptor for these structurally and functionally unrelated ligands, we set out to identify structural features of Npn-1 that confer binding to Sema3A or VEGF(165). We constructed Npn-1 variants containing deletions within the &quot;a&quot; and &quot;b&quot; domains of Npn-1. More than 16 variants were expressed in COS-1 cells and tested for alkaline phosphatase-Sema3A as well as alkaline phosphatase-VEGF(165) binding. Our results indicate that each of the two Npn-1 CUB domains and the amino-terminal coagulation factor V/VIII domain (CF V/VIII) are essential for Sema3A binding, but only the amino-terminal Npn-1 CF V/VIII domain is required for binding to VEGF(165). Guided by the structure of the bovine spermadhesin CUB domain, point mutants targeting defined surfaces of the Npn-1 a1 CUB domain were generated and tested for Sema3A and VEGF(165) binding. One Npn-1 variant, Npn-1(2ABC), exhibits complete loss of Sema3A binding while retaining normal VEGF(165) binding. Moreover, co-immunoprecipitation experiments show that Npn-1(2ABC) can form a signaling complex with the VEGF(165) signaling receptor KDR/VEGFR-2. These results establish the identity of contact sites between Npn-1 and its semaphorin ligands, and they provide a foundation for understanding how Npn-1 functions as a receptor for distinct classes of ligands in vivo.
Antagonistic and reciprocal interactions are known to exist between adenosine and dopamine receptors in the striatum. In the present study, double immunofluorescence experiments with confocal laser microscopy showed a high degree of colocalization of adenosine A(2A) receptors (A(2A)R) and dopamine D(2) receptors (D(2)R) in cell membranes of SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells stably transfected with human D(2)R and in cultured striatal cells. A(2A)R/D(2)R heteromeric complexes were demonstrated in coimmunoprecipitation experiments in membrane preparations from D(2)R-transfected SH-SY5Y cells and from mouse fibroblast Ltk(-) cells stably transfected with human D(2)R (long form) and transiently cotransfected with the A(2A)R double-tagged with hemagglutinin. Long term exposure to A(2A)R and D(2)R agonists in D(2)R-cotransfected SH-SY5Y cells resulted in coaggregation, cointernalization and codesensitization of A(2A)R and D(2)R. These results give a molecular basis for adenosine-dopamine antagonism at the membrane level and have implications for treatment of Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia, in which D(2)R are involved.
Interactions between subtypes of dopamine, glutamate and adenosine receptors seem to play an important integrative role in the function of striatal gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic efferent neurons. Recent behavioral and biochemical studies suggest the existence of specific interactions between adenosine A2A receptors (A(2A)R), dopamine D2 receptors (D2R) and the group I metabotropic mGlu5 receptors (mGlu5R) in the dorsal striatum. The dual-probe approach in vivo microdialysis technique in freely moving rats was used to study the role of mGlu5R/A2AR/D2R interactions in the modulation of the ventral striopallidal GABA pathway. Perfusion of a selective mGlu5R agonist (CHPG) in the nucleus accumbens facilitated GABA release in the ipsilateral ventral pallidum. This effect was strongly potentiated by co-perfusion with the A2AR agonist CGS 21680. Co-perfusion with the D2R agonist quinpirole counteracted the increase in pallidal GABA levels induced by CGS 21680 and by CGS 21680 plus CHPG. These results demonstrate that mGlu5R/A2AR/D2R interactions play an important modulatory role in the function of the ventral striopallidal GABA pathway, which might have implications for the treatment of schizophrenia and drug addiction.

Can we now build artificial animals? A combination of robot technology and neuroethological knowledge is enabling the development of realistic physical models of biological systems. And such systems are not only of interest to engineers. By exploring identified neural control circuits in the appropriate functional and environmental context, new insights are also provided to biologists.
Bird fanciers have known for centuries that songbirds learn their songs. This learning has striking parallels to speech acquisition: like humans, birds must hear the sounds of adults during a sensitive period, and must hear their own voice while learning to vocalize. With the discovery and investigation of discrete brain structures required for singing, songbirds are now providing insights into neural mechanisms of learning. Aided by a wealth of behavioural observations and species diversity, studies in songbirds are addressing such basic issues in neuroscience as perceptual and sensorimotor learning, developmental regulation of plasticity, and the control and function of adult neurogenesis.
How neuronal networks enable animals, humans included, to make coordinated movements is a continuing goal of neuroscience research. The stomatogastric nervous system of decapod crustaceans, which contains a set of distinct but interacting motor circuits, has contributed significantly to the general principles guiding our present understanding of how rhythmic motor circuits operate at the cellular level. This results from a detailed documentation of the circuit dynamics underlying motor pattern generation in this system as well as its modulation by individual transmitters and neurons.
Our sense of smell is based on a remarkable chemical-detection system that possesses high sensitivity, broad discriminability and plastic, yet stable, function. Understanding how olfactory stimuli translate into perception is a problem of daunting complexity. How do odour-coding events in single cells correlate with emergent properties from the ensemble, and with behaviour? For comprehensive descriptions of neural function, analysis must extend from examination of how elemental principles relate to the function of the whole. The tiger salamander has long been used as an experimental model in studies of olfaction, enabling general questions about olfactory function to be approached.
Early neuroscientists scoured the animal kingdom for the ideal preparation with which to study specific problems of interest. Today, non-mammalian nervous systems continue to provide ideal platforms for the study of fundamental problems in neuroscience. Indeed, the peculiarities of body plan and nervous systems that have evolved to carry out precise tasks in unique ecological niches enable investigators not only to pose specific scientific questions, but also to uncover principles that are general to all nervous systems.
Sleep is controlled by two processes: a homeostatic drive that increases during waking and dissipates during sleep, and a circadian pacemaker that controls its timing. Although these two systems can operate independently, recent studies indicate a more intimate relationship. To study the interaction between homeostatic and circadian processes in Drosophila, we examined homeostasis in the canonical loss-of-function clock mutants period (per(01)), timeless (tim(01)), clock (Clk(jrk)) and cycle (cyc(01)). cyc(01) mutants showed a disproportionately large sleep rebound and died after 10 hours of sleep deprivation, although they were more resistant than other clock mutants to various stressors. Unlike other clock mutants, cyc(01) flies showed a reduced expression of heat-shock genes after sleep loss. However, activating heat-shock genes before sleep deprivation rescued cyc(01) flies from its lethal effects. Consistent with the protective effect of heat-shock genes, was the observation that flies carrying a mutation for the heat-shock protein Hsp83 (Hsp83(08445)) showed exaggerated homeostatic response and died after sleep deprivation. These data represent the first step in identifying the molecular mechanisms that constitute the sleep homeostat.
Pavlovian conditioning results when an innocuous stimulus, such as an odour, is paired with a behaviourally relevant stimulus, such as a foot-shock, so that eventually the former stimulus alone will elicit the behavioural response of the latter. The lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LAT) is necessary for the emotional memory formation in this paradigm. Enhanced neuronal firing in LAT to conditioned stimuli emerge in parallel with the behavioural changes and are dependent on local dopamine. To study the changes in neuronal excitability and synaptic drive that contribute to the pavlovian conditioning process, here we used in vivo intracellular recordings to examine LAT neurons during pavlovian conditioning in rats. We found that repeated pairings of an odour with a foot-shock resulted in enhanced post-synaptic potential (PSP) responses to the odour and increased neuronal excitability. However, a non-paired odour displayed PSP decrement. The dopamine antagonist haloperidol blocked the PSP enhancement and associated increased neuronal excitability, without reversing previous conditioning. These results demonstrate that conditioning and habituation processes produce opposite effects on LAT neurons and that dopamine is important in these events, consistent with its role in emotional memory formation.
Recent results indicate that crossmodal interactions can affect activity in cortical regions traditionally regarded as &quot;unimodal.&quot; Previously we found that combining touch on one hand with visual stimulation in the anatomically corresponding hemifield could boost responses in contralateral visual cortex. Here we manipulated which visual hemifield corresponded to the location of the stimulated hand, by changing gaze direction such that right-hand touch could now arise in either the left or right visual field. Crossmodal effects on visual cortex switched from one hemisphere to the other, depending on gaze direction, regardless of whether the hand was seen. This indicates that crossmodal influences of touch upon visual cortex depend on spatial alignment for the multimodal stimuli, with gaze posture taken into account.
The generation of nuclear signaling proteins by regulated intramembrane proteolysis (RIP) is a new paradigm of signal transduction. Mammalian proteins that are processed by RIP include SREBP-1, Notch-1, amyloid precursor protein (APP), and ErbB-4. Intramembranous gamma-secretase cleavage of APP plays a central role in Alzheimer's disease by generating the amyloid beta protein. An intriguing possibility is that the cognate C-terminal fragment generated by gamma-secretase cleavage could also play a role through the regulation of nuclear signaling events. Thus, RIP may contribute to both brain development and degeneration and may provide unexpected diversity to the signaling repertoire of a cell.
Functionally distinct types of neurons develop in stereotypical positions in the vertebrate spinal cord. The mechanisms that generate this diversity have been well studied in the ventral and intermediate regions of the spinal cord, while dorsal cells have received less attention. In this issue of Neuron, two papers focusing on dorsal interneuron development level the playing field.
Many cellular functions are regulated by agonist-induced InsP(3)-evoked Ca2+ release from the internal store. In non-excitable cells, predominantly, the initial Ca2+ release from the store by InsP(3) is followed by a more sustained elevation in [Ca2+](i) via store-operated Ca2+ channels as a consequence of depletion of the store. Here, in smooth muscle, we report that the initial transient increase in Ca2+, from the internal store, is followed by a sustained response also as a consequence of depletion of the store (by InsP(3)), but, influx occurs via voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. Contractions were measured in pieces of whole distal colon and membrane currents and [Ca2+](i) in single colonic myocytes. Carbachol evoked phasic and tonic contractions; only the latter were abolished in Ca2+-free solution. The tonic component was blocked by the voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel blocker nimodipine but not by the store-operated channel blocker SKF 96365. InsP(3) receptor inhibition, with 2-APB, attenuated both the phasic and tonic components. InsP(3) may regulate tonic contractions via sarcolemma Ca2+ entry. In single cells, depolarisation (to approximately -20 mV) elevated [Ca2+](i) and activated spontaneous transient outward currents (STOCs). CCh suppressed STOCs, as did caffeine and InsP(3). InsP(3) receptor blockade by 2-APB or heparin prevented CCh suppression of STOCs; protein kinase inhibition by H-7 or PKC(19-36) did not. InsP(3) suppressed STOCs by depleting a Ca2+ store accessed separately by the ryanodine receptor (RyR). Thus depletion of the store by RyR activators abolished the InsP(3)-evoked Ca2+ transient. RyR inhibition (by tetracaine) reduced only STOCs but not the InsP(3) transient. InsP(3) contributes to both phasic and tonic contractions. In the former, muscarinic receptor-evoked InsP(3) releases Ca2+ from an internal store accessed by both InsP(3) and RyR. Depletion of this store by InsP(3) alone suppresses STOCs, depolarises the sarcolemma and permits entry of Ca2+ to generate the tonic component. Therefore, by lowering the internal store Ca2+ content, InsP(3) may generate a sustained smooth muscle contraction. These results provide a mechanism to account for phasic and tonic smooth muscle contraction following receptor activation.
Ferritin is traditionally considered a cytoplasmic iron-storage protein, but recent reports indicate that it is also found in cell nuclei. Nuclear ferritin has been proposed to be involved in both the protection of DNA and the exacerbation of iron-induced oxidative damage to DNA. We demonstrate that H-rich ferritin is present in the nucleus of human astrocytoma tumor cells. To study the mechanism and regulation of ferritin translocation to the nucleus, we developed a cell culture model using SW1088 human astrocytoma cells. Changes in cellular iron levels, cytokine treatments and hydrogen peroxide exposure affected the distribution of ferritin between the cytosol and the nucleus. Ferritin enters the nucleus via active transport through the nuclear pore and does not require NLS-bearing cytosolic factors for transport. Furthermore, H-rich ferritin is preferred over L-rich ferritin for uptake into the nucleus. Whole cell crosslinking studies revealed that ferritin is associated with DNA. Ferritin protected DNA from iron-induced oxidative damage in both in vitro and in cell culture models. These results strongly suggest a novel role for ferritin in nuclear protection. This work should lead to novel characterization of ferritin functions in the context of genomic stability and may have unparalleled biological significance in terms of the accessibility of metals to DNA. The knowledge generated as a result of these studies will also improve our understanding of iron-induced damage of nuclear constituents.
The mapping of cognitive functions to neural systems is a central goal of cognitive neuroscience. On the basis of homology with lesion and physiological studies in nonhuman primates, Brodmann's area (BA) 46/9 in the middle frontal gyrus (MFG) has been proposed as the cortical focus for both the storage as well as processing components of working memory in the human brain, but the evidence on the segregation of these components and their exact areal localization has been inconsistent. In order to study this issue and increase the temporal resolution of functional mapping, we disambiguated the storage component of working memory from sensory and motor responses by employing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in spatial delayed-response (DR) tasks with long delay intervals and different conditions of demand. We here show that BA 46 can support a sustained mnemonic response for as long as 24 sec in a high-demand task and the signal change in this area exceeded that in the other prefrontal areas examined. Our findings support a conservation of functional architecture between human and nonhuman primate in showing that the MFG is prominently engaged in the storage of spatial information.
TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL), a member of the TNF superfamily, induces apoptosis in susceptible cells, which can be both malignant and nontransformed. Despite homologies among the death ligands, there are great differences between the TRAIL system on the one hand and the TNF and CD95 systems on the other hand. In particular, TRAIL-induced apoptosis differs between rodents and man. Studies on animal models of autoimmune diseases suggested an influence of TRAIL on T cell growth and effector functions. Because we previously demonstrated that TRAIL does not induce apoptosis in human (auto)antigen-specific T cells, we now asked whether TRAIL exhibits other immunoregulatory properties in these cells. Active TRAIL inhibited calcium influx through store-operated calcium release-activated calcium channels, IFN-gamma/IL-4 production, and proliferation. These effects were independent of APC, Ag specificity, and Th differentiation, and no differences were detected between healthy donors and multiple sclerosis patients. TRAIL affected neither the expression of the cell cycling inhibitor p27(Kip1) nor the capacity of T cells to produce IL-2 upon Ag rechallenge, indicating that signaling via TRAIL receptor does not induce T cell anergy. Instead, the TRAIL-induced hypoproliferation could be attributed to the down-regulation of the cyclin-dependent kinase 4, indicating a G(1) arrest of the cell cycle. Thus, although it does not contribute to mechanisms of peripheral T cell tolerance such as clonal anergy or deletion by apoptosis, TRAIL can directly inhibit activation of human T cells via blockade of calcium influx.
Bacterial DNA containing motifs of unmethylated CpG dinucleotides (CpG-DNA) triggers innate immune cells through the pattern recognition receptor Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR-9). CpG-DNA possesses potent immunostimulatory effects on macrophages, dendritic cells, and B lymphocytes. Therefore, CpG-DNA contributes to inflammation during the course of bacterial infections. In contrast to other TLR-dependent microbial patterns, CpG-DNA is a strong inductor of IL-12. Thus, it acts as a Th1-polarizing agent that can be utilized as potent vaccine adjuvant. To assess the role of CpG-DNA in immune reactions in the CNS, we analyzed the effects of CpG-DNA on microglial cells in vitro and in vivo. Primary microglial cells as well as microglial cell lines express TLR-9 mRNA. Consequently, CpG-DNA activated microglial cells in vitro and induced TNF-alpha, IL-12p40, IL-12p70, and NO. Furthermore, MHC class II, B7-1, B7-2, and CD40 molecules were up-regulated. In addition, phagocytic activity of microglia was enhanced. After intracerebroventricular injection of CpG-DNA, microglial cells were activated and produced TNF-alpha and IL-12p40 transcripts, as shown by in situ hybridization. These results indicate that microglia is sensitive to CpG-DNA. Thus, bacterial DNA containing CpG motifs could not only play an important role during infections of the CNS, but also might trigger and sustain Th1-dominated immunopathogenic reactions.
A 66-year-old woman presented with a 3-year history of progressive right-sided hemiparkinsonism manifested by a right-hand resting tremor and right-sided bradykinesia. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain revealed a non-enhanced polycystic mass in the left midbrain. (11)C-methylspiperone ((11)C-NMSP) and (18)F-fluorodopa ((18)F-DOPA) positron emission tomography (PET) revealed a striatal hypometabolism that was restricted to the left side. These findings are consistent with a dysfunction in the left nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway that is presumably induced by the cystic mass in the left midbrain. This case is significant due to the paucity of reports regarding the occurrence of a relatively pure parkinsonism that is associated with a mesencephalic space-occupying lesion.
Caspase-1 is responsible for processing inflammatory cytokines and is associated with the induction of apoptosis. Using RT-PCR, we found that caspase-1 mRNA transcripts from frozen brain extracts were significantly elevated in multiple sclerosis (MS) compared to controls. Immunohistochemical staining using a specific antiserum confirmed the marked up regulation of caspase-1 within acute and chronic MS plaques, while little staining was seen in control brains. In addition to the expected caspase-1 expression in microglia and infiltrating perivascular mononuclear cells, we found that cytoplasmic caspase-1 expression was sharply increased in the resident oligodendrocytes of MS lesions. The TUNEL reaction for fragmented DNA co-localized over an occasional caspase-1-expressing cell and large numbers of caspase-1-positive &quot;corpses&quot; were observed within phagocytic macrophages of an acute evolving MS lesion. Studies using an immortalized human oligodendroglial hybrid cell line exposed to cytokine challenge showed that death induction was blocked by the caspase-1-like inhibitor Z-YVAD-fmk, while the caspase-3-like inhibitor Z-DEVD-fmk was less effective. Cellular levels of procaspase-1 were reduced compared to controls in oligodendroglia induced to die by cytokine challenge, as judged by Western immunoblotting. Our results suggest that caspase-1 may play a role in the inflammatory and apoptotic processes associated with MS pathogenesis.
Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMK II) is found throughout the CNS. It regulates calcium signaling in synaptic transmission by phosphorylating various proteins, including neuronal membrane receptors and intracellular transcription factors. Inflammation or injuries to peripheral tissues cause long-lasting increases in the responses of central nociceptive neurons to innocuous and noxious stimuli. This change can occur independently of alterations in the responsiveness of primary afferent neurons and has been termed central sensitization. Central sensitization is a form of activity-dependent plasticity and results from interactions in a set of intracellular signaling pathways, which modulate nociceptive transmission. Here we demonstrate an increased expression and phosphorylation of CaMK II in rat spinal dorsal horn neurons after noxious stimulation by intradermal injection of capsaicin. Local administration of a CaMK II inhibitor in the spinal cord significantly inhibits the enhancement of responses of spinal nociceptive neurons and changes in exploratory behavior evoked by capsaicin injection. In addition, spinal CaMK II activity enhances phosphorylation of AMPA receptor GluR1 subunits during central sensitization produced by capsaicin injection. This study reveals that CaMK II contributes to central sensitization in a manner similar to its role in the processes underlying long-term potentiation.
We are examining how extracellular peptidase activity sculpts the peptidergic actions of modulatory projection neurons on rhythmically active neuronal circuits, using the pyloric circuit in the stomatogastric ganglion (STG) of the crab Cancer borealis. Neurally released peptides can diffuse long distances to bind to their receptors. Hence, different neurons releasing the same neuropeptide into the same neuropil may reach the same receptor complement. However, extracellular peptidases can limit neuropeptide diffusion and terminate its actions. Distinct versions of the pyloric rhythm are elicited by selective activation of different projection neurons, including those with overlapping sets of cotransmitters. Two of these projection neurons, modulatory commissural neuron 1 (MCN1) and the modulatory proctolin neuron (MPN), contain the neuropeptide proctolin plus GABA. MCN1 also contains Cancer borealis tachykinin-related peptide Ia (CabTRP Ia). CabTRP Ia is not fully responsible for the distinct actions of MCN1 and MPN. Because there is aminopeptidase activity in the STG that terminates proctolin actions, we tested the hypothesis that the differences in the actions of MCN1 and MPN that are not mediated by CabTRP Ia result from the differential actions of aminopeptidase activity on proctolin released from these two projection neurons. We found that the pyloric circuit response to these two projection neurons becomes more similar when this aminopeptidase activity is blocked. This result supports the hypothesis that extracellular peptidase activity enables different projection neurons to use the same neuropeptide transmitter for eliciting distinct outputs from the same neuronal circuit.
Inhibitory interneurons of the neocortex are electrically coupled to cells of the same type through gap junctions. We studied the spatial organization of two types of interneurons in the rat somatosensory cortex: fast-spiking (FS) parvalbumin-immunoreactive (PV+) cells, and low threshold-spiking (LTS) somatostatin-immunoreactive (SS+) cells. Paired recordings in layer 4 demonstrated that both the probability of coupling and the coupling coefficient drop steeply with intersomatic distance, reaching zero beyond 200 microm. The dendritic arbors of FS and LTS cells were reconstructed from electrophysiologically characterized, biocytin-filled cells; the two cell types had only minor differences in the number and span of their dendrites. However, there was a markedly higher density of PV+ cells than SS+ cells. PV+ cells were densest in layer 4, while SS+ cell density peaked in the subgranular layers. From these data we estimate that there is measurable electrical coupling (directly or indirectly via intermediary cells) between each interneuron and 20-50 others. The large number of electrical synapses implies that each interneuron participates in a large, continuous syncytium. To evaluate the functional significance of these findings, we examined several simple architectures of coupled networks analytically. We present a mathematical method to estimate the average summated coupling conductance that each cell receives from all of its neighbors, and the average leak conductance of individual cells, and we suggest that these have the same order of magnitude. These quantitative results have important implications for the effects of electrical coupling on the dynamic behavior of interneuron networks.
The auditory system of humans and animals must process information from sounds that dynamically vary along multiple stimulus dimensions, including time, frequency, and intensity. Therefore, to understand neuronal mechanisms underlying acoustic processing in the central auditory pathway, it is essential to characterize how spectral and temporal acoustic dimensions are jointly processed by the brain. We use acoustic signals with a structurally rich time-varying spectrum to study linear and nonlinear spectrotemporal interactions in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC). Our stimuli, the dynamic moving ripple (DMR) and ripple noise (RN), allow us to systematically characterize response attributes with the spectrotemporal receptive field (STRF) methods to a rich and dynamic stimulus ensemble. Theoretically, we expect that STRFs derived with DMR and RN would be identical for a linear integrating neuron, and we find that approximately 60% of ICC neurons meet this basic requirement. We find that the remaining neurons are distinctly nonlinear; these could either respond selectively to DMR or produce no STRFs despite selective activation to spectrotemporal acoustic attributes. Our findings delineate rules for spectrotemporal integration in the ICC that cannot be accounted for by conventional linear-energy integration models.
This study tested the hypothesis that estrogen enhances axonal sprouting in the hippocampal formation in the female mouse. The entorhinal cortex was unilaterally lesioned with ibotenic acid in control mice and in ovariectomized mice that were treated with a high dose of, a moderate dose of, or zero estrogen supplementation pellets. Four weeks later the density of staining for synaptophysin immunoreactivity and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) histochemistry was measured in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. In control mice, lesions of the lateral part of the entorhinal cortex increased synaptophysin and acetylcholinesterase staining (i.e., indicative of axonal sprouting) in the outer one-third of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Mice receiving high and moderate estrogen supplementation displayed the same sprouting response; however, in ovariectomized mice the sprouting response was significantly reduced (to nearly nothing). Thus, in ovariectomized compared with control mice the lesion-induced sprouting response is severely blunted, and this effect is reversed by estrogen supplementation. Together, these findings suggest that estrogen plays a prominent role in promoting neuronal plasticity and remodeling in the dentate gyrus.
Brain regions associated with song learning in zebra finches are larger and contain more neurons in males than females. Differences in cell proliferation, migration, survival, and specification may all contribute to the divergent development of the song-control system in developing birds. This study quantified levels of cell proliferation within the telencephalic ventricular zone (VZ) of juvenile and adult birds to look for both age and sex differences in mitotic activity that might contribute to the construction of song-control circuits. A single pulse of [(3)H]thymidine was administered to juveniles and adults of both sexes, and animals were killed 2 hr later. Analysis of thymidine labeling within the telencephalic VZ at the levels of area X, the anterior commissure, and high vocal center (HVC) revealed two major findings: (1) levels of mitotic activity decreased as a function of age in both males and females because of a reduction in the number of dividing cells within the VZ, and (2) sex differences in thymidine labeling occurred in restricted, localized segments of the VZ at the levels of area X and the anterior commissure in juveniles but not adults. Thus, overall proliferative activity decreases as birds mature, and the incidence of cell division in all regions of the VZ becomes equivalent in both sexes, such that no regions of sexually dimorphic proliferation are evident by adulthood. These data suggest that regions of sexually dimorphic proliferation within the VZ may contain precursor cells that give rise to song-control neurons, such that higher rates of mitotic activity in juvenile males could contribute to the growth of song-control nuclei such as HVC and area X.
In the neocortex, the effectiveness of potential cellular repopulation therapies for diseases involving neuronal loss may depend critically on whether newly incorporated cells can differentiate appropriately into precisely the right kind of neuron, re-establish precise long-distance connections, and reconstruct complex functional circuitry. Here, we test the hypothesis that increased efficiency of connectivity could be achieved if precursors could be more fully differentiated toward desired phenotypes. We compared embryonic neuroblasts and immature murine neurons subregionally dissected from either embryonic day 17 (E17) (Shin et al., 2000) or E19 primary somatosensory (S1) cortex and postnatal day 3 (P3) purified callosal projection neurons (CPNs) with regard to neurotransmitter and receptor phenotype and afferent synapse formation after transplantation into adult mouse S1 cortex undergoing targeted apoptotic degeneration of layer II/III and V CPNs. Two weeks after transplantation, neurons from all developmental stages were found dispersed within layers II/III and V, many with morphological features typical of large pyramidal neurons. Retrograde labeling with FluoroGold revealed that 42 +/- 2% of transplanted E19 immature S1 neurons formed connections with the contralateral S1 cortex by 12 weeks after transplantation, compared with 23 +/- 7% of E17 neurons. A greater percentage of E19-derived neurons received synapses (77 +/- 1%) compared with E17-derived neurons (67 +/- 2%). Similar percentages of both E17 and E19 donor-derived neurons expressed neurotransmitters and receptors [glutamate, aspartate, GABA, GABA receptor (GABA-R), NMDA-R, AMPA-R, and kainate-R] appropriate for endogenous adult CPNs progressively over a period of 2-12 weeks after transplantation. Although P3 fluorescence-activated cell sorting-purified neurons also expressed these mature phenotypic markers after transplantation, their survival in vivo was poor. We conclude that later-stage and region-specific immature neurons develop a mature CPN phenotype and make appropriate connections with recipient circuitry with increased efficiency. However, at postnatal stages of development, limitations in survival outweigh this increased efficiency. These results suggest that efforts to direct the differentiation of earlier precursors precisely along specific desired neuronal lineages could potentially make possible the highly efficient reconstruction of complex neocortical and other CNS circuitry.
To correlate clonal patterns in the rat striatum with adult neuronal phenotypes, we labeled striatal progenitors between embryonic day 14 (E14) and E19 with a retroviral library encoding alkaline phosphatase. In the adult striatum, the majority of E14-labeled neurons (87%) were members of discrete horizontal or radial cell clusters. Radial clusters accounted for only 23% of cell clusters but &gt;34% of labeled cells. Striatal clones also demonstrated an unexpected widespread pattern of clonal dispersion. The majority of striatal clones were widely dispersed within the striatum, and 80% of clones were part of even larger clones that included cortical interneurons. Finally, we observed that PCR-positive cortical interneurons were members of clones containing both interneurons and pyramids (44%), exclusively interneuron clones (24%), or combined striatal-cortical clones (16%), consistent with the view that cortical interneurons have multiple origins in differentially behaving progenitor cells. Our data are also consistent with the notion that similar mechanisms underpin striatal and cortical development.
Noninvasive in vivo calcium imaging was used to observe and characterize inhibitory circuitry in intact larval zebrafish. In the teleost hindbrain, the inhibitory network onto the major pair of reticulospinal neurons known as Mauthner cells (M-cells) has been described in detail. There are three sources of inhibition onto M-cells: recurrent inhibition mediated by an ipsilateral collateral of the M-cell axon, feedforward inhibition driven by sensory afferents, and reciprocal inhibition between bilaterally opposed M-cells. To visualize these inhibitions, M-cells were retrogradely loaded with the calcium indicator calcium green dextran. Recurrent inhibition attenuated the Ca(2+) response associated with an action potential in M-cells. Whole-cell recording revealed recurrent IPSCs, the conductance of which may underlie the shunting effect on action potentials and the attenuation of the Ca(2+) signal in M-cells. Blocking synaptic transmission within the recurrent network abolished both the Ca(2+) signal attenuation and the IPSCs. Electrical stimulation of the otic vesicle to activate VIII nerve afferents resulted in feedforward suppression of antidromically evoked test Ca(2+) responses in the contralateral M-cell. Orthodromic activation of M-cells produced a reciprocal reduction of the test Ca(2+) response in the contralateral M-cell. Thus, in the present study, we visualized the three types of inhibition and demonstrated that they are functional at 4 d after fertilization. The use of noninvasive techniques to image inhibition in vivo suggest the plausibility of studying the hypothesis previously tested in adult goldfish that use-dependent changes in inhibitions underlie sound conditioning in escape behavior.
Drosophila Slowpoke (dSlo) calcium-dependent potassium channels bind directly to the catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKAc). We demonstrate here that coexpression of PKAc with dSlo in mammalian cells results in a dramatic decrease of dSlo channel activity. This modulation requires catalytically active PKAc but is not mediated by phosphorylation of S942, the only PKA consensus site in the dSlo C-terminal domain. dSlo binds to free PKAc but not to the PKA holoenzyme that includes regulatory subunits and is inactive. Activators of endogenous PKA that stimulate dSlo phosphorylation, but do not produce detectable PKAc binding to dSlo, do not modulate channel function. Furthermore, the catalytically inactive PKAc mutant does bind to dSlo but does not modulate channel activity. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that both binding of active PKAc to dSlo and phosphorylation of dSlo or some other protein are necessary for channel modulation.
Members of the Egr family of transcription factors are rapidly and robustly induced by neurotransmitters and neurotrophins and have been implicated in mediating enduring changes in neuronal function elicited by these stimuli. Because we have found in previous studies that a dominant negative inhibitor of Egr action, the Egr zinc finger domain (ZnEgr), blocks NGF-induced neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells, we have used this preparation to help identify the downstream targets of Egr proteins involved in plasticity. Our investigation into the mechanism of action of ZnEgr indicates that it blocks NGF-induced neurite outgrowth by suppressing activation of c-Jun, a critical step in the signaling pathway mediating this response. Although we had assumed that ZnEgr exerts its effects by binding to the Egr response element (ERE) and thereby blocking target gene regulation by Egr proteins, this classical mode of action appears to be too slow to mediate the effects of Egr proteins on c-Jun activation. In evaluating alternative ERE-independent mechanisms of Egr (and ZnEgr) action, we found that Egr1 and c-Jun coprecipitate and that ZnEgr disrupts formation of the Egr1/c-Jun complex. Furthermore, mutations of ZnEgr that greatly impair or abolish its ability to bind to the ERE do not block its ability to suppress c-Jun activation or neurite outgrowth induced by NGF. Accordingly, our studies indicate that Egr and ZnEgr proteins regulate c-Jun activation via a novel mechanism, protein-protein interaction with c-Jun, rather than via their classical mode of action, binding to the ERE.
The rewarding effects of opiates are thought to be mediated through dopaminergic mechanisms in the ventral tegmental area, dopamine-independent mechanisms in the nucleus accumbens, or both. The purpose of the present study was to explore the contribution of dopamine to opiate-reinforced behavior using D2 receptor knock-out mice. Wild-type, heterozygous, and D2 knock-out mice were first trained to lever press for water reinforcement and then implanted with intravenous catheters. The ability of intravenously delivered morphine to maintain lever pressing in these mice was studied under two schedules of reinforcement: a fixed ratio 4 (FR4) schedule (saline, 0.1, 0.3, or 1.0 mg/kg, per injection) and a progressive ratio (PR) schedule (1.0 mg/kg, per injection). In the wild-type and heterozygous mice, FR4 behavior maintained by morphine injections was significantly greater than behavior maintained by vehicle injections. Response rate was inversely related to injection dose and increased significantly in the wild-type and heterozygous mice when the animals were placed on the PR schedule. In contrast, the knock-out mice did not respond more for morphine than for saline and did not respond more when increased ratios were required by the PR schedule. Thus, morphine served as a positive reinforcer in the wild-type and heterozygous mice but failed to do so in the knock-out mice. Under this range of doses and response requirements, the rewarding effects of morphine appear to depend critically on an intact D2 receptor system.
A common problem in neuroscience is to identify the features by which a set of measurements can be segregated into different classes, for example into different responses to sensory stimuli. A main difficulty is that the derived distributions are often high-dimensional and complex. Many multivariate analysis techniques, therefore, aim to find a simpler low-dimensional representation. Most of them either involve huge efforts in implementation and data handling or ignore important structures and relationships within the original data. We developed a dimension reduction method by means of radial basis functions (RBF), where only a system of linear equations has to be solved. We show that this approach can be regarded as an extension of a linear correlation-based classifier. The validity and reliability of this technique is demonstrated on artificial data sets. Its practical relevance is further confirmed by discriminating recordings from monkey visual cortex evoked by different stimuli.
A wavelet analysis was developed to measure the timing of multiunit bursts in surface electromyograms (EMGs) from single trials. EMG data were taken from eleven elbow and/or shoulder muscles during reaching movements in six different directions, at a range of speeds. A relatively simple wavelet (db2) was chosen, and the analysis focused on wavelet coefficients at an intermediate scale (D3), where the wavelet length approximately matched the wavelengths present in EMG bursts. Burst times were identified from the peaks of the coefficient traces and were plotted as a function of movement time. Linear regression revealed significant relations in most cases, and thus served to validate the wavelet burst identification. With a few exceptions, burst timing scaled in a manner approximately similar to the scaling of movement time. As shown previously with different analytical methods, both within and across joints, EMG bursts were not confined to distinct 'agonist' and 'antagonist' time frames, but instead showed a variety of phases relative to speed or joint torque.
A new algorithm for tractography based on diffusion tensor analysis (DTA) is presented. This method, called EZ-tracing, is based on a new algorithm for analyzing DTA data, lambda chart analysis (LCA), and effectively overcomes the main shortcomings of previous methods for tractography. EZ-tracing is written in MATLAB scripting language (MathWorks, Natick, MA, USA) and can be implemented on any of the common operating systems, such as Microsoft Windows, UNIX, and LINUX. The program is available in public at coe@bri.niigata-u.ac.jp.
Medial prefrontal (mPFC) single-unit activity was assessed in defensive (eyeblink, EB) and appetitive (jaw movement, JM) Pavlovian conditioning in the rabbit. Concomitant heart rate (HR) changes were also assessed. In a first experiment robust JM conditioned responses (CRs) were observed to a tone-water (CS+) contingency but not to tone-alone (CS-), indicating discriminative JM conditioning. However, the CS-evoked accelerative HR response was not discriminative. Nevertheless, several single-unit discharge patterns were evoked by both tone-water and tone-alone, many of which were uniquely associated with either the CS+ or CS-. In a second experiment, Three separate stimuli, consisting of tone followed by periorbital shock (tone-shock), water (tone-water), and white noise not followed by shock or water, were presented in the same paradigm. Discrimination of conditioned JM, EB and HR changes were observed, i.e. each of these behavioral responses were uniquely associated with the relevant CS presentation. Conditioned bradycardia was evoked by tone-water during the first training session, which changed to tachycardia with further training. However, conditioned bradycardia was evoked by tone-shock throughout training. Different subpopulations of mPFC cells were activated by the tone-shock and tone-water contingencies, but a small group of cells were activated by both.
Amyloid plaques in brain tissue are a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease. Primary components of these plaques are 40- and 42-residue peptides, denoted A beta(1-40) and A beta(1-42), that are derived by proteolysis of cellular amyloid precursor protein. Synthetic A beta(1-40) and A beta(1-42) form amyloid fibrils in vitro that share many features with the amyloid in plaques. Soluble intermediates in A beta fibrillogenesis, termed protofibrils, have been identified previously, and here we describe the in vitro formation and isolation of A beta(1-40) protofibrils by size exclusion chromatography. In some experiments, the A beta(1-40) was radiomethylated to better quantify various A beta species. Mechanistic studies clarified two separate modes of protofibril growth, elongation by monomer deposition and protofibril-protofibril association, that could be resolved by varying the NaCl concentration. Small isolated protofibrils in dilute Tris-HCl buffers were directed along the elongation pathway by addition of A beta(1-40) monomer or along the association pathway by addition of NaCl. Multi-angle light scattering analysis revealed that protofibrils with initial molecular masses M(w) of (7-30) x 10(3) kDa grew to M(w) values of up to 250 x 10(3) kDa by these two growth processes. However, the mass per unit length of the associated protofibrils was about 2-3 times that of the elongated protofibrils. Rate constants for further elongation by monomer deposition with the elongated, associated, and initial protofibril pools were identical when equal number concentrations of original protofibrils were compared, indicating that the original number of protofibril ends had not been altered by the elongation or association processes. Atomic force microscopy revealed heterogeneous initial protofibrils that became more rodlike following the elongation reaction. Our data indicate that protofibril elongation in the absence of NaCl results from monomer deposition only at the ends of protofibrils and proceeds without an increase in protofibril diameter. In contrast, protofibril association occurs in the absence of monomer when NaCl is introduced, but this association involves lateral interactions that result in a relatively disordered fibril structure.
Perception and action are based on information from multiple sensory modalities. For instance, both vision and proprioception provide information about hand position, and this information is integrated to generate a single estimate of where the hand is in space. Classically, vision has been thought to dominate this process, with the estimate of hand position relying more on vision than on proprioception. However, an optimal integration model that takes into account the precision of vision and proprioception predicts that the weighting of the two senses varies with direction and that the classical result should only hold for specific spatial directions. Using an adaptation paradigm, we show that, as predicted by this model, the visual-proprioceptive integration varies with direction. Variation with direction was so strong that, in the depth direction, the classical result was reversed: the estimate relies more on proprioception than on vision. These results provide evidence for statistically optimal integration of information from multiple modalities.
Although fast and slow gating mechanisms have been described in gap junctions (GJs), their relative contributions to dependence on transjunctional voltage, V(j), is still unclear. We used cell lines expressing wild-type connexin 45 (Cx45) and connexin 43 fused with enhanced green fluorescent protein (Cx43-EGFP) to examine mechanisms of gating in homo- and heterotypic GJs formed of these connexins. Macroscopically Cx45/Cx45 channels show high sensitivity to V(j). Cx45 channels demonstrate two types of gating: fast transitions between open and residual states and slow transitions between open and completely closed states. Single-channel conductance of the Cx45 channel is approximately 32 pS for the open state and approximately 4 pS for the residual state. Cx45/Cx43-EGFP heterotypic junctions exhibit very asymmetrical V(j) gating with the maximum junctional conductance shifted to V(j) positive on the Cx45 side. Conductance of single Cx45/Cx43-EGFP channels is approximately 55 pS for the open state and approximately 4 pS for the residual state, values consistent with the simple-series connection of Cx45 and Cx43-EGFP hemichannels. At V(j) = 0, the slow gate of many Cx45 hemichannels is closed in both homotypic Cx45/Cx45 and heterotypic Cx45/Cx43-EGFP junctions. Fast and slow V(j) gates of both Cx45 and Cx43 hemichannels close for relative negativity at their cytoplasmic end. Coupling mediated by Cx45/Cx43-EGFP junctions can exhibit asymmetry that can be strongly modulated by small changes in difference of holding potentials. Cx45/Cx43 junctions are likely to be found in brain and heart and may mediate rectifying electrical transmission or modulatable chemical communication.
Myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) is a potent inhibitor of neurite outgrowth from a variety of neurons. The receptor for MAG or signals that elicit morphological changes in neurons remained to be established. Here we show that the neurotrophin receptor p75 (p75(NTR)) is the signal transducing element for MAG. Adult dorsal root ganglion neurons or postnatal cerebellar neurons from mice carrying a mutation in the p75(NTR) gene are insensitive to MAG with regard to neurite outgrowth. MAG activates small GTPase RhoA, leading to retarded outgrowth when p75(NTR)) is present. Colocalization of p75(NTR) and MAG binding is seen in neurons. Ganglioside GT1b, which is one of the binding partners of MAG, specifically associates with p75(NTR). Thus, p75(NTR) and GT1b may form a receptor complex for MAG to transmit the inhibitory signals in neurons.
We have studied the axonal projection patterns of commissural interneurons (CINs) in the neonatal rat spinal cord. Some CINs are integral components of the neuronal networks in the vertebrate spinal cord that generate locomotor activity. By using differential retrograde labeling protocols with fluorescent dextran amines, we show that CINs with ascending axons (ascending CINs, or aCINs) and CINs with descending axons (descending CINs, or dCINs) constitute largely different populations. We show that aCINs and dCINs occupy partially overlapping domains in the transverse plane. The aCINs are located at the dorsal margin, within the dorsal horn, centrally within the intermediate zone, and in the medial region of the ventral horn, whereas the dCINs are located predominantly among the ventral and central aCINs and in smaller numbers within the dorsal horn. The labeled aCINs and dCINs project for at least one and a half segment rostrally or caudally and are present in roughly equal numbers. We also demonstrate the presence of a third, smaller population of CINs whose axons bifurcate to project for at least one and a half segment both rostrally and caudally (adCINs). The adCINs are located predominantly among the central and ventral groups of aCINs and dCINs. Finally, we demonstrate the presence of CINs with axons projecting for fewer than one and a half segment in either direction. These &quot;short-range CINs&quot; are intermingled with the aCINs, dCINs, and adCINs. Our results provide an anatomical framework for further electrophysiological studies aimed at identifying the CINs that participate in the mammalian locomotor central pattern generator.

Classical views on the preparation of voluntary movement involve separate motor and cognitive processes. Recent neurophysiological evidence challenges this dichotomy. Recordings from within the motor cortices have demonstrated that cognitive factors modulate neural activity. This issue was examined in event-related desynchronizations (ERDs) by using a goal-directed pointing paradigm. The ERD, which is typically recorded in response to self-paced finger movements, has been demonstrated to reflect specific movement parameters. Cognitive factors were introduced by manipulating probability and the relative direction of the responses in a choice reaction time task. The results demonstrated that probability influences the 20 Hz ERD.

The neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptor Y2 antagonist BIIE0246 has sub-nanomolar affinity for the human Y2 (hY2) receptor but binds very poorly to chicken Y2 (chY2) with micromolar affinity. Sequence comparisons identified several amino acids for investigation by mutagenesis. Reciprocal mutagenesis between hY2 and chY2 revealed that three of these, individually and in combination, are important for BIIE0246 binding, namely positions Gln(135) in transmembrane (TM) 3, Leu(227) in TM5, and Leu(284) in TM6. Mutagenesis of hY2 to the corresponding amino in chY2 (generating hY2[Q135H,L227Q,L284F]) made the affinity of BIIE0246 as low as for chY2. Introduction into chY2 of the three human residues resulted in antagonist affinity almost as high as for hY2. To distinguish between direct and indirect effects, each of the three residues in hY2 was replaced with alanine. BIIE0246 bound with 28-fold lower affinity to hY2[L227A], suggesting the Leu(227) interacts directly with the antagonist. The other two alanine mutants bound with unaltered affinity, suggesting that the corresponding chY2 residues abolish binding through steric hindrance or charge repulsion. Thus, three amino acid residues can in an additive manner completely account for the difference in antagonist binding between the hY2 and chY2 receptors. These results will be useful for construction of three-dimensional models of the widely divergent NPY receptor subtypes.
Lipid rafts are cholesterol-sphingolipid-rich microdomains that function as platforms for membrane trafficking and signal transduction. Caveolae are specialized lipid raft domains that contain the structural proteins known as the caveolins. Connexins are a family of transmembrane proteins that self-associate to form cell-cell connections known as gap junctions and that are linked to cytosolic proteins, forming a protein complex or Nexus. To determine the extent to which these intracellular compartments intersect, we have systematically evaluated whether connexins are associated with lipid rafts and caveolin-1. We show that connexin 43 (Cx43) colocalizes, cofractionates, and coimmunoprecipitates with caveolin-1. A mutational analysis of Cx43 reveals that the hypothesized PDZ- and presumptive SH2/SH3-binding domains within the Cx43 carboxyl terminus are not required for this targeting event or for its stable interaction with caveolin-1. Furthermore, Cx43 appears to interact with two distinct caveolin-1 domains, i.e., the caveolin-scaffolding domain (residues 82-101) and the C-terminal domain (135-178). We also show that other connexins (Cx32, Cx36, and Cx46) are targeted to lipid rafts, while Cx26 and Cx50 are specifically excluded from these membrane microdomains. Interestingly, recombinant coexpression of Cx26 with caveolin-1 recruits Cx26 to lipid rafts, where it colocalizes with caveolin-1. This trafficking event appears to be unique to Cx26, since the other connexins investigated in this study do not require caveolin-1 for targeting to lipid rafts. Our results provide the first evidence that connexins interact with caveolins and partition into lipid raft domains and indicate that these interactions are connexin specific.
Apolipoprotein E is the predominant brain lipoprotein and polymorphic variation in the APOE gene the major genetic susceptibly factor for late onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recently it was reported that carboxyl-truncated ApoE fragments induce tangle-like structures in neurons. We confirm the finding: in mouse neuroblastoma cells truncated apoE fragments lacking the carboxyterminus induce structures that have the appearance of neurofibrillary tangles. However these tangles are not induced in non-neuronal cells even in the presence of co-expressed neurofilaments or tau. Further understanding of the basis of this cell specificity might add to understanding of the cell specificity of tangles in AD.
One mechanism by which estrogen may modulate cognitive function is through potentiation of glutamate-mediated rises in intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) with resultant effects on neuronal morphology and signaling. Since progesterone is a component of hormone replacement therapy (HRT), we sought to determine whether therapeutically relevant progestins attenuated or blocked estrogen potentiation of glutamate-induced [Ca2+]i rises. 17beta-estradiol and progesterone, alone or in combination, significantly potentiated the rise in [Ca2+]i. When co-administered, progesterone attenuated the estrogen response to the level seen with progesterone alone. In contrast, medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) had no effect when administered alone and completely blocked the 17beta-estradiol-induced potentiation when co-administered. These results may have important implications for effective use of HRT to maintain cognitive function during menopause and aging.
The NMDA antagonist CGX-1007 (Conantokin-G) has previously been shown to possess potent neuroprotective properties when administered intracranially following experimental ischemic brain injury. Using the same model of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) in rats we now report the neuroprotective effects of CGX-1007 when delivered intrathecally (i.t.). When given 4 h post-occlusion, a reduction in brain infarction was measured along with significant neurological recovery. Furthermore, we describe an i.t. neuroprotective therapeutic window lasting &gt; or = 8 h from the start of the injury. Critically, this is the first comprehensive report of a neuroprotective agent that can be administered i.t. to ameliorate experimental brain injury and potentially provide an excellent therapeutic window as a neuroprotection treatment.
The present study investigated the neurotensin (NT) receptor subtype (NTR) involved in the antagonistic neurotensin modulation of striatal dopamine D2 receptors observed in vitro and in vivo. The NT induced increase of the IC50 values of dopamine (DA) competition for [125I]iodosulpiride binding sites was counteracted by the NTR1-like antagonist SR48692 in rat striatal slices. Intrastriatal perfusion of pergolide induced in the awake rat an inhibition of striatal DA release that was antagonized by NT. This action of NT was counteracted by co-perfusion with the NTR1 like antagonist SR48692. These data indicate that there exists in the striatum at the prejunctional level an intramembrane antagonistic NT receptor/DA D2 receptor-receptor interaction where NTR1 like receptor activation reduces the DA D2 autoreceptor function.
Although calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMK) has been shown to play a critical role in long-term potentiation (LTP) and emotional learning mediated by the basolateral amygdala, little is known about its cellular localization in this region. We have utilized immunohistochemical methods to study the neuronal localization of CaMK, and its relationship to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic structures, in the rat basolateral amygdala (ABL). Light microscopic observations revealed dense CaMK staining in the ABL. Although the cell bodies and proximal dendrites of virtually every pyramidal cell appeared to be CaMK(+), the cell bodies of small nonpyramidal neurons were always unstained. Dual localization of CaMK and GABA immunoreactivity with confocal immunofluorescence microscopy revealed that CaMK and GABA were found in different neuronal populations in the ABL. CaMK was contained only in pyramidal neurons; GABA was contained only in nonpyramidal cells. At the ultrastructural level, it was found that CaMK was localized to pyramidal cell bodies, thick proximal dendrites, thin distal dendrites, most dendritic spines, axon initial segments, and axon terminals forming asymmetrical synapses. These findings suggest that all portions of labeled pyramidal cells, with the exception of some dendritic spines, can exhibit CaMK immunoreactivity. By using a dual immunoperoxidase/immunogold-silver procedure at the ultrastructural level, GABA(+) axon terminals were seen to innervate all CaMK(+) postsynaptic domains, including cell bodies (22%), thick (&gt;1 microm) dendrites (34%), thin (&lt;1 microm) dendrites (22%), dendritic spines (17%), and axon initial segments (5%). These findings indicate that CaMK is a useful marker for pyramidal neurons in ultrastructural studies of ABL synaptology and that the activity of pyramidal neurons in the ABL is tightly controlled by a high density of GABAergic terminals that target all postsynaptic domains of pyramidal neurons.

Vascular endothelial cell growth factor (VEGF) is an endothelial cell-specific angiogenic and permeability-inducing factor that has been implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy. The objectives of this study are to compare VEGF and VEGF receptor expression between retinal and brain-derived endothelial cells cultured in 5 or 30 mM glucose for 5 days. Our results show that expression of cell-surface VEGF receptors, assessed by flow cytometry, is higher in retinal-derived endothelial cells. RT-PCR results show that both retinal and brain-derived endothelial cells express comparable levels and types of VEGF. Exposure to 30 mM glucose for 5 days did not alter levels of VEGF or VEGF receptors. The higher level of VEGF receptor expression in retinal endothelial cells suggests that the retinal microcirculation may be more sensitive to the effects of VEGF and this may contribute to the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy.
We demonstrated previously gamma-globin gene inhibition in K562 cells and primary erythroid progenitors treated with interleukin-6. Although several cis-acting elements have been identified in the globin promoters, the precise mechanism for cytokine-mediated globin gene regulation remains to be elucidated. In this report we demonstrate inhibitors of Stat3 phosphorylation abrogate interleukin-6-mediated gamma gene silencing in erythroid cells. DNA-protein binding studies established Stat3 interaction in the 5'-untranslated gamma-globin promoter region. Furthermore, co-transfection experiments with Stat3 beta demonstrate gamma promoter inhibition in a concentration-dependent manner, which was significantly reversed when the cognate Stat3-binding site in the 5'-untranslated region was mutated. These studies establish a novel mechanism for gamma gene silencing through the STAT signal transduction pathway.
Recent studies have shown that G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) can assemble as high molecular weight homo- and hetero-oligomeric complexes. This can result in altered receptor-ligand binding, signaling, or intracellular trafficking. We have co-transfected HEK-293 cells with differentially epitope-tagged GPCRs from different subfamilies and determined whether oligomeric complexes were formed by co-immunoprecipitation and immunoblot analysis. This gave the surprising result that the 5HT(1A) receptor was capable of forming hetero-oligomers with all GPCRs tested including the 5HT(1B), 5HT(1D), EDG(1), EDG(3), GPR(26), and GABA(B2) receptors. The testing of other GPCR combinations showed similar results with hetero-oligomer formation occurring for the 5HT(1D) with the 5HT(1B) and EDG(1) receptor. Control studies showed that these complexes were present in co-transfected cells before the time of lysis and that the hetero-oligomers were comprised of GPCRs at discrete stoichiometries. These findings suggest that GPCRs have a natural tendency to form oligomers when co-transfected into cells. Future studies should therefore investigate the presence and physiological role of GPCR hetero-oligomers in cells in which they are endogenously expressed.
Human islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP) is the major component of amyloid deposits found in the pancreas of over 90% of all cases of type-2 diabetes. We have generated a series of overlapping hexapeptides to target an amyloidogenic region of IAPP (residues 20-29) and examined their effects on fibril assembly. Peptide fragments corresponding to SNNFGA (residues 20-25) and GAILSST (residues 24-29) were strong inhibitors of the beta-sheet transition and amyloid aggregation. Circular dichroism indicated that even at 1:1 molar ratios, these peptides maintained full-length IAPP (1-37) in a largely random coil conformation. Negative stain electron microscopy revealed that co-incubation of these peptides with IAPP resulted in the formation of only semi-fibrous aggregates and loss of the typical high density and morphology of IAPP fibrils. This inhibitory activity, particularly for the SNNFGA sequence, also correlated with a reduction in IAPP-induced cytotoxicity as determined by cell culture studies. In contrast, the peptide NFGAIL (residues 22-27) enhanced IAPP fibril formation. Conversion to the amyloidogenic beta-sheet was immediate and the accompanying fibrils were more dense and complex than IAPP alone. The remaining peptide fragments either had no detectable effects or were only weakly inhibitory. Specificity of peptide activity was illustrated by the fragments, SSNNFG and AILSST. These differed from the most active inhibitors by only a single amino acid residue but delayed the random-to-beta conformational change only when used at higher molar ratios. This study has identified internal IAPP peptide fragments which can regulate fibrillogenesis and may be of therapeutic use for the treatment of type-2 diabetes.
We used Northern blot analysis to measure SCG10 mRNA expression in various areas of the monkey cerebral cortex during postnatal development. In all areas, SCG10 mRNA expression was highest immediately after birth, decreased sharply until postnatal day 70 (P70) and then decreased slowly until the adult stage. Expression levels were similar in all areas at all time points during development, including the adult stage. These findings confirm that axonal growth in the monkey cerebral cortex is most vigorous before or during the perinatal period, progresses similarly in all areas until P70, and continues at lower levels during late development.


Anxiety is associated with increased craving following in vivo cue exposure in alcoholics. Theoretical accounts [Psychol. Rev. 97 (1990) 147.] have proposed that conscious, deliberate cognitive processes underlie increased craving in drinkers who are trying to abstain. The present study tested the hypothesis that anxiety is associated with biases in explicit (i.e., conscious, deliberate) memory that promote recall of alcohol-related concepts in response to negative affective cues. Fifty-two (seven females) outpatient problem drinkers performed a cued recall task that assessed memory for alcohol-related (ALC), negative affective (NEG), and neutral (NEU) target concepts that had been paired with NEG, ALC, and NEU cues during an incidental study phase. Higher anxiety was associated with increased recall of ALC targets paired with NEG cues. State and trait anxiety were intercorrelated, with higher levels coinciding with a higher frequency of drinking in negative mood states. These findings demonstrate a correspondence between anxiety and alcohol-related memory, and suggest that explicit memory biases may contribute to increased subjective responses (e.g., craving, expectancies) to alcohol stimuli in anxious problem drinkers.
Numerous functional neuroimaging techniques have progressively been added to the presurgical evaluation of refractory partial epilepsies. These investigations can help confirm the origin of seizure onset previously suggested by MR imaging and electro-clinical data, provide independent prognostic information, and provide critical diagnostic value when MR imaging results are strictly normal or show multifocal abnormalities. Of the various functional neuroimaging modalities, [11C]methionine positron emission tomography for methionine uptake into seizure foci is still in the preliminary stages of investigation. A single case of medically intractable epilepsy with focal cortical dysplasia documented by [11C]methionine positron emission tomography and possible hypotheses to explain the methionine uptake into the seizure focus are described below.
Chronic alcohol abuse has a detrimental effect on retrospective memory. Less is known about its putative effects on everyday memory. This study looked at self-ratings of prospective memory (PM) (memory for future events). After controlling for other drug and strategy use, chronic heavy alcohol users showed global impairments in PM, when compared to matched controls. The underlying mechanisms are discussed.
The Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) was completed by 997 persons randomly selected from the general Swedish population (80% response rate). Eighteen per cent of the men and 5% of the women had hazardous or harmful alcohol use according to the &gt; or =8 score criterion. AUDIT scores decreased with increasing age in both genders. Women are more sensitive to alcohol than men and when the cut-off score was set to &gt; or =6, the female prevalence of hazardous or harmful alcohol use increased to nearly 11%. The 'binge drinking' question explained half of the total AUDIT variance and is thus the best item indicator of hazardous or harmful alcohol use in the test. Confirmatory and exploratory factor analyses revealed two AUDIT basic factors, the first three items defining a 'hazardous consumption' factor and the other seven items an 'alcohol-related problems' factor. Both the internal and test- retest reliability of the Swedish version of AUDIT were satisfactory. A table for converting raw scores to non-normalized T-scores for each combination of gender and three age intervals is presented.
This multicentre trial assessed the inter-laboratory transferability and agreement of results for five instrument applications (Immage, BN A, BN II, Cobas Mira and Microtiter) of the Axis-Shield %CDT kit, a new version immunoassay for quantification of the alcohol marker carbohydrate-deficient transferrin (CDT) in serum. Two %CDT kit controls and three authentic serum samples were compared by 14 laboratories in six European countries, and each application was evaluated at three study sites. The %CDT results showed an overall good agreement both within and between sites, although it was also demonstrated that the analysis might be biased due to site performance. The data indicate that transferability of the %CDT assay is high, and that the instrument applications may be used interchangeably in routine quantification of %CDT.
Psychological investigations of alcohol expectancies over the last 20 years, using primarily verbal techniques, have strongly supported expectancies as an important mediator of biological and environmental antecedent variables that influence risk for alcohol use and abuse. At the same time, rapid developments in neuroscience, cognitive science, affective science, computer science, and genetics proved to be compatible with the concept of expectancy and, in some cases, used this concept directly. By using four principles that bear on the integration of knowledge in the biological and behavioral sciences-consilience, conservation, contingency, and emergence-these developments are merged into an integrated explanation of alcoholism and other addictions. In this framework, expectancy is seen as a functional approach to adaptation and survival that has been manifested in multiple biological systems with different structures and processes. Understood in this context, addiction is not a unique behavioral problem or special pathology distinct from the neurobehavioral substrate that governs all behavior, but is rather a natural (albeit unfortunate) consequence of these same processes. The ultimate intent is to weave a working heuristic that ties together findings from molecular and molar levels of inquiry and thereby might help direct future research. Such integration is critical in the multifaceted study of addictions.
This article represents the proceedings of a symposium at the RSA meeting in Montreal, Canada. The organizer was Andrey E. Ryabinin, and the chair was George F. Koob. The presentations were (1) Introduction, by Stephen C. Heinrichs; (2) Role of CRF and its receptors in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal response to alcohol, by Soon Lee and Catherine Rivier; (3) A role for CRF in the allostasis of alcohol dependence, by George F. Koob and Amanda J. Roberts; (4) CRF and alcohol: Lessons from knockouts, microinjections, and microdialysis, by M. Foster Olive, Kristin K. Mehmert, R. Camarini, Joseph A. Kim, Heather N. Koenig, Michelle A. Nannini, and Clyde W. Hodge; and (5) Selective sensitivity of urocortin-containing neurons to alcohol self-administration, by Andrey E. Ryabinin and Ryan K. Bachtell.


Animal experiments are widely used in neurobiological and neuropharmacological research. Today, juvenile brain organotypic slice cultures have partially replaced in vivo experiments, but there is no adequate in vitro counterpart for the adult brain. The present study was aimed at the long-term culture of physiologically intact hippocampal slices from adult rats, by improving the conditions for preparation and culture, and the development of a new culture medium. A cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)-like medium was used, which was modified with a variety of supplements, including energy precursors, free-radical scavengers, and compounds known to inhibit neurotoxicity. The population spike amplitude (PSA) was used as a measure of viability, and amplitudes larger than 1mV indicated viable cultures. The addition of MK-801 during slice preparation improved PSA values during the first two days in vitro (DIV). Ascorbic acid and insulin prolonged the culture time up to DIV 4. FK-506 and vitamin E, alone or in combination, supported slice culture up to DIV 5. An increase in ATP, unless combined with vitamin E, and/or insulin, increased culture time up to DIV 6. Vitamins B(1), B(2), B(12) and D(2) had no effect. The modified CSF-like medium developed in this study permits the culture of adult hippocampal tissue for at least 6 days.
The emotional response to social dancing and walks in persons with dementia was studied to better understand the feasibility, popularity, and meaning of these activities from the perspective of the patient. Social dance events and walks were videotaped and analyzed using Husserl's philosophy as a basis for the analysis. Six persons with dementia participated in the study. The results are described in terms of four interrelated themes: 1) the engaged body; 2) the caregivers' understanding, encouragement, and response to patients during the activity; 3) mutual tenderness and communion; and 4) environmental conditions. Results were then synthesized into a general assessment of the emotional states observed and reported in relation to the activities.
We performed a genomewide scan for genes that predispose to low serum HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) in 25 well-defined Finnish families that were ascertained for familial low HDL-C and premature coronary heart disease. The potential loci for low HDL-C that were identified initially were tested in an independent sample group of 29 Finnish families that were ascertained for familial combined hyperlipidemia (FCHL), expressing low HDL-C as one component trait. The data from the previous genome scan were also reanalyzed for this trait. We found evidence for linkage between the low-HDL-C trait and three loci, in a pooled data analysis of families with low HDL-C and FCHL. The strongest statistical evidence was obtained at a locus on chromosome 8q23, with a two-point LOD score of 4.7 under a recessive mode of inheritance and a multipoint LOD score of 3.3. Evidence for linkage also emerged for loci on chromosomes 16q24.1-24.2 and 20q13.11, the latter representing a recently characterized region for type 2 diabetes. Besides these three loci, loci on chromosomes 2p and 3p showed linkage in the families with low HDL-C and a locus on 2ptel in the families with FCHL.
Nausea and vomiting of pregnancy shares many characteristics with motion sickness, a vestibular dependent phenomenon. A number of physiologic changes that occur in normal pregnancy are also known to accompany nausea and vomiting in patients with motion sickness and certain vestibular disorders. This chapter summarizes some shared features of both phenomena. The unmasking of subclinical vestibular disorders may account for some cases of hyperemesis gravidarum. Hormonal effects on neurotransmitter function may also play a role in nausea and vomiting of pregnancy and in some vestibular disorders; however, the specific neural mechanisms of nausea and vomiting have not been identified. Until the neurochemical processes underlying these phenomena are understood, prevention and management will remain in the domain of astute, but so far limited, clinical observation.
Inflammatory mechanisms are thought to contribute to lesion pathogenesis and neuronal cell death in Alzheimer's disease. Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) plays a central role in the response of the brain to injury, and is increased in the brain in Alzheimer's disease. In this study we determine whether expression of TGF-beta is abnormal in the microvasculature in Alzheimer's disease and whether TGF-beta affects vascular production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, interleukin (IL)-1 beta, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha. Microvessels isolated from the cortices of Alzheimer's disease patients and age-matched controls are analyzed for microvessel-associated and released TGF-beta. Results from Western blot analysis and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay indicate a higher level of TGF-beta in Alzheimer's disease vessels compared to controls. To determine whether TGF-beta affects vascular release of inflammatory factors, cultured brain endothelial cells are treated with TGF-beta and levels of IL-1 beta and TNF-alpha determined. Both enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and Western blot analyses show that untreated endothelial cells express little IL-1 beta or TNF-alpha, but incubation with TGF-beta results in robust expression of these factors by brain endothelial cells. Our results suggest that vessel-derived TGF-beta contributes to inflammatory processes in the Alzheimer brain.
Negative chronotropic and smooth muscle contractile responses to the nonselective muscarinic agonist carbamylcholine were compared in isolated tissues from M(3)-muscarinic receptor knockout and wild-type mice. Carbamylcholine (10(-8)-3.0 x 10(-5) M) induced a concentration-dependent decrease in atrial rate that was similar in atria from M(3)-receptor knockout and wild-type mice, indicating that M(3) receptors were not involved in muscarinic receptor-mediated atrial rate decreases. In contrast, the M(3) receptor was a major muscarinic receptor involved in smooth muscle contraction of stomach fundus, urinary bladder, and trachea, although differences existed in the extent of M(3)-receptor involvement among the tissues. Contraction to carbamylcholine was virtually abolished in urinary bladder from M(3)-receptor knockout mice, suggesting that contraction was predominantly due to M(3)-receptor activation. However, approximately 50-60% maximal contraction to carbamylcholine occurred in stomach fundus and trachea from M(3)-receptor knockout mice, indicating that contraction in these tissues was also due to M(2)-receptor activation. High concentrations of carbamylcholine relaxed the stomach fundus from M(3)-receptor knockout mice by M(1)-receptor activation. Thus M(3)-receptor knockout mice provided unambiguous evidence that M(3) receptors 1) play no role in carbamylcholine-induced atrial rate reduction, 2) are the predominant receptor mediating carbamylcholine-induced urinary bladder contractility, and 3) share contractile responsibility with M(2) receptors in mouse stomach fundus and trachea.
In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that a single daily injection of the gut peptide CCK, together with continuous leptin infusion, would produce significantly greater loss of body weight than leptin alone. We found that a single daily intraperitoneal injection of CCK-8 (0.5 microg/kg) significantly enhanced the weight-reducing effects of 0.5 microg/day leptin infused continuously into the lateral ventricle of male Sprague-Dawley rats by osmotic minipump. However, CCK and leptin together did not enhance reduction of daily chow intake. Furthermore, there was no synergistic reduction of 30-min sucrose intake, although a significant main effect of both leptin and CCK was observed on sucrose intake. These results 1) confirm our previous reports of synergy between leptin and CCK on body weight, 2) demonstrate that enhancement of leptin-induced weight loss does not require bolus administration of leptin, and 3) suggest that enhanced body weight loss following leptin and CCK does not require synergistic reduction of food intake by leptin and CCK.



The expression of cardiac responses to sequences of two sounds was studied in restrained rats following discriminative trace or delay conditioning. Stimuli paired with a tail shock 10 sec later (CS1) elicited conditioned bradycardia. Unpaired or neutral stimuli (CS0) elicited mostly tachycardia. Rats did not learn to suppress responding to nonreinforced sequences with an interval of 6 sec between sounds. Responses to the second stimulus were significantly augmented following a CS1 stimulus, but not following a CS0 stimulus. Real-time summation of simple responses provided a more complete and quantitative prediction of dual responses than did resetting or facilitation. These results extend the time range over which summation may be observed from less than 2 sec to at least 16 sec. They appear to be inconsistent with models involving competition between unitary representations of stimuli in short-term memory and suggest the existence of multiple stimulus traces with independent time courses.

Indirect evidence, including neuroprotection against 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-neurotoxicity by nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitors and resistance of transgenic animals deficient in NOS, is controversial. We have reviewed evidence in favor of oxidative stress during the development of MPTP-neurotoxicity and the influence of antioxidants, including nitric oxide (NO) and NO donors, on MPTP-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity. Systemic administration of MPTP causes dose-dependent generation of hydroxyl radicals (OH) in vivo in the striatum in mice; OH scavengers protect dopaminergic neurons from this insult. On the other hand the role of NO in MPTP-neurotoxicity is controversial. Hitherto, no direct evidence for the involvement of NO in MPTP neurotoxicity has been available. MPTP does not affect inducible-NOS mRNA level or its expression in SN or the striatum. Nitroglycerine, a NO donor, can attenuate MPTP-induced dopamine depletion in the striatum by virtue of its OH scavenging action. Several other NO donors have also been shown to scavenge the OH generated, following Fenton chemistry in vitro, and to protect against in vivo dopaminergic neurotoxicity by small mass iron complex formation. This evidence suggests that NO renders protection against MPTP-induced OH-mediated nigrostriatal lesions, acting as an antioxidant.
The arginine-nitric oxide (Arg-NO) and the S-nitrosothiols systems, two less well-studied aspects of NO transmission in the central nervous system, are reviewed. A growing body of evidence suggested that they play a crucial role in NO synthesis and activity. l-Arginine, the NO precursor, is predominantly localized in glia. Together with in vitro and in vivo results of arginine release, this suggests a transfer of arginine from glia to neurons in order to supply NO synthase with its substrate. NO biosynthesis may thus involve the co-occurrence of the glial-neuronal transfer of arginine and of NOS activation. The arginine availability may shed light on the dual, beneficial and toxic effects of NO. At low arginine concentrations, neuronal NO synthase generates NO and superoxide, favouring the production of the toxin peroxynitrite. NMDA-induced excitotoxicity in neuronal cells is dependent on arginine availability and glia may play a neuroprotective role by supplying arginine. The reversible S-nitros(yl)ation of thiol containing molecules may represent an important cellular signal transduction mechanism, probably comparable to phosphorylation. S-nitrosothiols, in particular through the presence and release of S-nitroso-cysteinylglycine in sensory thalamus, may act as a local buffering system in NO transmission. This may represent a novel specific facilitating mechanism in order to enhance transmission of persistent stimuli.
Autosomal dominant progressive external ophthalmoplegia is a mitochondrial disorder characterized by multiple large deletions of mitochondrial DNA. A recent study showed pathogenic heterozygous missense mutations in the heart/skeletal muscle isoform of the adenine nucleotide translocator 1 gene in autosomal dominant progressive external ophthalmoplegia patients. In one Japanese autosomal dominant progressive external ophthalmoplegia family, we found a novel A-to-G heterozygous mutation at nucleotide 311 of the adenine nucleotide translocator 1 gene, which segregated with affected individuals and could not be detected in the genomic DNA sequence of 120 normal controls. This mutation converted a highly conserved aspartic acid into a glycine at codon 104. Polymerase chain reaction analysis of single muscle fibers showed the presence of one type of deletion in each fiber, suggesting clonal expansion of mitochondrial DNA with deletions. These findings support the pathogenesis of the adenine nucleotide translocator 1 gene mutation in human disease.
The genetic cause of sickle cell disease has been known for decades, yet the reasons for its clinical variability are not fully understood. The neurological complications result from one point mutation that causes vasculopathy of both large and small vessels. Anemia and the resultant cerebral hyperemia produce conditions of hemodynamic insufficiency. Sickled cells adhere to the endothelium, contributing to a cascade of activated inflammatory cells and clotting factors, which result in a nidus for thrombus formation. Because the cerebrovascular reserve becomes exhausted, the capacity for compensatory cerebral mechanisms is severely limited. There is evidence of small-vessel sludging, and a relative deficiency of nitric oxide in these vessels further reduces compensatory vasodilatation. Both clinical strokes and silent infarcts occur, affecting motor and cognitive function. New data suggest that, in addition to sickle cell disease, other factors, both environmental (eg, hypoxia and inflammation) and genetic (eg, mutations resulting in thrombogenesis), may contribute to a patient's stroke risk. The stroke risk is polygenic, and sickle cell disease can be considered a model for all cerebrovascular disease. This complex disease underscores the potential intellectual and practical distance between the determination of molecular genetics and effective clinical application and therapeutics.
Distal renal tubular acidosis (dRTA) is characterized by a defect in urinary acidification with various degrees of metabolic acidosis; it can be inherited either as an autosomal dominant trait or as a recessive trait. The recessive form is associated in about one third of cases with progressive sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL). We performed a neuroradiological study in 3 consecutive unrelated pediatric patients affected with sporadic dRTA and progressive SNHL that disclosed an enlarged vestibular aqueduct (VA) and endolymphatic sac (ES) in each. The presence of an enlarged VA in our patients with dRTA and SNHL could contribute to the development, or at least the progression, of the hearing impairment. We suppose that the same molecular defect present in both the kidney and the inner ear could be the cause of dRTA and of the development of the enlarged VA and ES.

Brain activation studies based on PET or fMRI seek to explore neuroscience questions by statistically analyzing the acquired images to produce statistical parametric images (SPIs). An increasingly wide range of univariate and multivariate analysis techniques are used to generate SPIs in order to detect mean-signal activations and/or long-range spatial interactions. However, little is known about the comparative detection performance of even simple techniques in finite data sets. Our aims are (1) to empirically compare the detection performance of a range of techniques using simulations of a simple image phantom and receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis, and (2) to construct two near-optimal detectors, both generalized likelihood ratio tests as upper performance bounds. We found that for finite samples of (10-100) images, even when the t-test with single-voxel variance estimates (single-voxel t-test) is the &quot;correct&quot; (i.e. unbiased) model for simple local additive signals, better detection performance is obtained using pooled variance estimates or adaptive, multivariate covariance-based detectors. Normalization by voxel-based variance estimates causes significantly decreased detection performance using either single-voxel t-tests or correlation-coefficient thresholding compared to pooled-variance t-tests or covariance thresholding, respectively. Moreover, we found that SVD by itself, or followed by an adaptive Fisher linear discriminant, provides a detector that is (1) more sensitive to mean differences than a single-voxel t-test, (2) insensitive to the large local signal variances detected by covariance thresholding, and (3) much more sensitive to signal correlations than correlation-coefficient thresholding. Adaptive, multivariate covariance-based approaches and pooled-variance t-tests represent promising directions for obtaining optimal signal detection in functional neuroimaging studies.
Several classes of viral vectors including adenovirus, adeno-associated virus, herpes simplex virus, lentivirus and vaccinia virus have been reported to infect cells of the inner ears of mammals and may be useful for protein manipulation and therapeutic purposes. We have screened a few of these for use as vectors to mediate gene transfer into the sensory hair cells of organotypic cultures from the neonatal mouse cochlea and utricle. Recombinant, replication-deficient adenovirus has emerged as a useful vector for several reasons: ease of vector generation at high titer; efficient hair cell specific infection; robust expression of reporter genes and minimal toxicity. Previously, we characterized adenovirus infected hair cells using a vector that carried the gene for green fluorescent protein (GFP). We screened GFP-positive cells electrophysiologically and found that although hair cells survive adenoviral vector infection, their mechanosensitivity was compromised. Until recently this has limited the scope of adenovirus application to the problems of inner ear physiology and pathophysiology. However, a modified adenoviral vector, now available, has been reported to have reduced ototoxicity in vivo. The modifications include the deletion of the adenoviral genes E1, E3, the viral polymerase, and the preterminal protein. We are currently working to characterize viral-mediated gene transfer into hair cells of the cultured mouse utricle using this new modified adenoviral vector. We have found that hair cells infected with the modified vector have intact hair bundles and robust mechanotransduction.
The development of hair cells in both the auditory and vestibular sensory epithelia is a complex process that involves the coordinated expression of many regulatory proteins. Among these is the POU-domain transcription factor Brn-3.1. This factor is expressed in hair cell precursors immediately after commitment to the hair cell fate, and continues throughout life. Deletion of this factor in mice leads to failure of hair cell differentiation during development, and to the death of a majority of the undifferentiated cells. Normal expression of Brn-3.1 is required for adult hair cell survival as well, since a mutation in this gene causes dominant, late-onset, inherited hearing loss in humans. The timing of the onset of Brn-3.1 expression suggests that factors regulating its expression may be involved in fate determination of hair cells. Moreover, genes that are themselves directly regulated by Brn-3.1 appear to play critical roles in hair cell development and survival.
This work aims is to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) in pediatric patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) who had not previously been treated with either pharmacotherapy or psychotherapy and who remained medication-free during CBT. Sixteen OCD outpatients, 8-17 years of age, were treated in a 12-week open trial with manualized CBT. Target symptoms were rated at two-week intervals with the Children's Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (CY-BOCS), the National Institute of Mental Health Global Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (NIMH Global), the Clinical Global Impression Scale (CGI), and the Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (Ham-A). Statistical analyses showed a significant benefit for treatment. Ten patients experienced at least a 50% reduction in symptoms on the CY-BOCS; seven were asymptomatic on the NIMH Global. These results build on previous reports that CBT may be effective in the acute treatment of pediatric OCD. Further, the results of this study suggest that CBT can be efficacious in alleviating OCD symptoms in the absence of pharmacotherapy. These results must be considered preliminary, given the small sample size and open administration of treatment.
Neuronal migration requires the integration of a number of diverse environmental cues and subsequent translation to specific responses such as directed cytoskeletal remodeling. Accurate knowledge of the signal transduction pathways linking activation of surface receptors to actin dynamics is necessary in order to understand the regulation of such processes. Activation of the Roundabout (Robo) receptor mediates a repulsive response in certain pioneering axons and migratory neurons. Recently, Wong et al have described a signaling link between Robo activation and specific GTPase activity that appears to regulate neuronal migration. A novel family of GTPase regulators, responsive to Slit-Robo engagement, has been identified and convincingly shown to alter the migration of neuronal cells. This study not only delineates a specific signaling route from guidance receptors to directed neuronal movement, but also offers clues towards potential regulatory mechanisms that ensure specificity of the Slit-Robo response.
Activation of calpain results in the breakdown of alpha II spectrin (alpha-fodrin), a neuronal cytoskeleton protein, which has previously been detected in various in vitro and in vivo neuronal injury models. In this study, a 150 kDa spectrin breakdown product (SBDP150) was found to be released into the cell-conditioned media from SH-SY5Y cells treated with the calcium channel opener maitotoxin (MTX). SBDP150 release can be readily quantified on immunoblot using an SBDP150-specific polyclonal antibody. Increase of SBDP150 also correlated with cell death in a time-dependent manner. MDL28170, a selective calpain inhibitor, was the only protease inhibitor tested that significantly reduced MTX-induced SBDP150 release. The cell-conditioned media of cerebellar granule neurons challenged with excitotoxins (NMDA and kainate) also exhibited a significant increase of SBDP150 that was attenuated by pretreatment with an NMDA receptor antagonist, R(-)-3-(2-carbopiperazine-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP), and MDL28170. In addition, hypoxic/hypoglycemic challenge of cerebrocortical cultures also resulted in SBDP150 liberation into the media. These results support the theory that an antibody-based detection of SBDP150 in the cell-conditioned media can be utilized to quantify injury to neural cells. Furthermore, SBDP150 may potentially be used as a surrogate biomarker for acute neuronal injury in clinical settings.
Several ERP studies have shown an orienting complex, the N2/P3a, associated to the detection of stimulus novelty. Its role consists in preparing the organism to process and react to biologically prepotent stimuli. Whether this N2/P3a: (1) could be obtained with complex visual stimuli, such as with emotional facial expressions; and (2) could take part in a complex discrimination process has yet to be determined. To investigate this issue, event-related potentials were recorded in response to repetitions of a particular facial expression (e.g. sadness) and in response to two different deviant (rare) stimuli, one depicting the same emotion as the frequent stimulus, while the other depicted a different facial expression (e.g. fear). As expected, deviant stimuli evoked an N2/P3a complex of larger amplitude than frequent stimuli. But more interestingly, when the deviant stimulus depicted the same emotion as the frequent stimulus the N2/P3a was delayed compared to the response elicited by the different-emotion deviant. The N2/P3a was thus implicated in the detection of physical facial changes, with a higher sensitivity to changes related to a new different emotional content, perhaps leading to faster adaptive reactions.
We have studied Golgi apparatus dynamics during mouse oocyte in vitro maturation, employing both live imaging with the fluorescent lipid BODIPY-ceramide and immunocytochemistry using several specific markers (beta-COP, giantin, and TGN38). In germinal vesicle oocytes the Golgi consisted of a series of structures, possibly cisternal stacks, dispersed in the ooplasm, but slightly more concentrated in the interior than at the cortex. A similar pattern was detected in rhesus monkey germinal vesicle oocytes. These &quot;mini-Golgis&quot; were functionally active because they were reversibly disrupted by the membrane trafficking inhibitor brefeldin A. However, the drug had no visible effect if the oocytes had been previously microinjected with GTP-gamma-S. During in vitro maturation the large Golgi apparatus structures fragmented at germinal vesicle breakdown, and dispersed homogenously throughout the ooplasm, remaining in a fragmented state in metaphase-II oocytes. Similarly to what has been reported using protein synthesis inhibitors, the presence of brefeldin A blocked maturation at the germinal vesicle breakdown stage before the assembly of the metaphase-I spindle. These results suggest that progression of murine oocyte maturation may require functional membrane trafficking.
1. Nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) modulates several biological functions by activating a specific G-protein coupled receptor (NOP). Few molecules are available that selectively activate or block the NOP receptor. Here we describe the in vitro and in vivo pharmacological profile of a novel NOP receptor ligand, [Nphe(1),Arg(14),Lys(15)]N/OFQ-NH(2) (UFP-101). 2. UFP-101 binds to the human recombinant NOP receptor expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells with high affinity (pK(i) 10.2) and shows more than 3000 fold selectivity over classical opioid receptors. UFP-101 competitively antagonizes the effects of N/OFQ on GTPgamma(35)S binding in CHO(hNOP) cell membranes (pA(2) 9.1) and on cyclic AMP accumulation in CHO(hNOP) cells (pA(2) 7.1), being per se inactive at concentrations up to 10 microM. 3. In isolated peripheral tissues of mice, rats and guinea-pigs, and in rat cerebral cortex synaptosomes preloaded with [(3)H]-5-HT, UFP-101 competitively antagonized the effects of N/OFQ with pA(2) values in the range of 7.3 - 7.7. In the same preparations, the peptide was inactive alone and did not modify the effects of classical opioid receptor agonists. 4. UFP-101 is also active in vivo where it prevented the depressant action on locomotor activity and the pronociceptive effect induced by 1 nmol N/OFQ i.c.v. in the mouse. In the tail withdrawal assay, UFP-101 at 10 nmol produces per se a robust and long lasting antinociceptive effect. 5. UFP-101 is a novel, potent and selective NOP receptor antagonist which appears to be a useful tool for future investigations of the N/OFQ-NOP receptor system.
We established previously that a novel negative feedback mechanism for the regulation of penile erection, which is triggered by ascending sensory inputs initiated by tumescence of the penis, exists in the hippocampal formation (HF). This study further evaluated the participation of nitric oxide (NO) and the contribution of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) isoforms at the HF in this process. Adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats that were anaesthetized and maintained with chloral hydrate were used, and intracavernous pressure (ICP) recorded from the corpus cavernosum of the penis was employed as our experimental index for penile erection. Microinjection bilaterally of a NO donor, S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (0.25 or 1 nmoles), or the NO precursor, L-arginine (1 or 5 nmoles), into the hippocampal CA1 or CA3 subfield or dentate gyrus elicited a significant reduction in baseline ICP. Bilateral hippocampal application of a NO trapping agent, 2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide (10 nmoles), significantly potentiated the elevation in ICP induced by intracavernous administration of papaverine (400 microg). Microinjection bilaterally into the HF of equimolar doses (0.5 or 2.5 pmoles) of two selective neuronal NOS inhibitors, 7-nitroindazole or N(omega)-propyl-L-arginine; or equimolar doses (50 or 250 pmoles) of two selective inducible NOS inhibitors, aminoguanidine or S-methylisothiourea, significantly enhanced the magnitude and/or duration of the papaverine-induced elevation in ICP. In contrast, hippocampal application of a potent endothelial NOS inhibitor, N5-(1-iminoethyl)-L-ornithine (18 or 92 nmoles), was ineffective. Neither of these inhibitors, furthermore, affected baseline ICP. These results suggest that NO generated via both neuronal and inducible NOS at the HF may participate in negative feedback regulation of penile erection.
The minicolumn is a continuing source of research and debate more than half a century after it was identified as a component of brain organization. The minicolumn is a sophisticated local network that contains within it the elements for redundancy and plasticity. Although it is sometimes compared to subcortical nuclei, the design of the minicolumn is a distinctive form of module that has evolved specifically in the neocortex. It unites the horizontal and vertical components of cortex within the same cortical space. Minicolumns are often considered highly repetitive, even clone-like, units. However, they display considerable heterogeneity between areas and species, perhaps even within a given macrocolumn. Despite a growing recognition of the anatomical basis of the cortical minicolumn, as well as its physiological properties, the potential of the minicolumn has not been exploited in fields such as comparative neuroanatomy, abnormalities of the brain and mind, and evolution.
Fast (20-100 Hz) rhythms of electrical activity of the brain have been suggested to be important for perception and cognition providing a mechanism for temporal binding of neural activities underlying mental representations. Also, fast rhythms often precede epileptiform discharges in patients and some experimental models. Generalized slow (2-3 Hz) spike activity after systemic kainic acid (KA) in the rat has been shown to be preceded by intense gamma activity. A relationship between the intensified gamma rhythms and the subsequent spike activity was studied during kainate-induced acute epileptogenesis. Power, multiple coherence and phase were analyzed at frequencies 1-100 Hz in the EEG recorded from the hippocampal-neocortical structures of the rat. Gamma rhythms, extremely intense and highly coherent at the onset of discharges, were followed by a slow rhythm of epileptiform spikes/sharp waves. During this spike activity and immediately afterwards, the gamma power and coherence were significantly decreased. These data show an antagonism between gamma rhythms and spike activity and ability of the latter to desynchronize and suppress the former. They are supportive to the hypothesis that epileptiform spike activity may result from the extreme activation of the &quot;anti-binding&quot; mechanism controlling temporal binding at high frequencies. It is suggested that when fast activity is abnormally intensified, &quot;over-binding&quot; with global synchrony of gamma rhythms can occur in the neural networks. It may lead to inadequate synaptic modifications. To prevent this process, epileptiform discharge develops as a protective mechanism suppressing fast activity. This proposal has implications for our understanding of temporal binding in the brain and how its excessive activation may precipitate the development of pathological states.
Repeated experience with an object due to prior exposure to that object is commonly referred to as perceptual or repetition priming. One possible neuronal mechanism for repetition priming is 'repetition suppression' within a cell assembly coding the stimulus. Recently, induced gamma band responses (GBRs) were discussed as a possible physiological correlate of activity in such a cell assembly. The present EEG study was designed to investigate the modulation of induced GBRs when line drawings were presented either once or consecutively two or three times. Results showed a broad distribution of spectral gamma power and synchrony after initial picture presentation. Repeated presentations of the same picture led to a decrease of induced gamma power and less synchronized activity between distant electrode sites. The decrease of induced GBRs and synchrony after repeated picture presentations may be linked to a 'neural savings' mechanism within a cell assembly representing an object. Furthermore, the visual evoked potential, which was modulated by priming, showed a topographically different distribution compared to induced GBRs.
Two experiments investigated the time-course of semantic and syntactic processes in auditory language comprehension as well as their possible functional dependencies, using event-related brain potentials (ERPs). Participants listened to sentences which were either correct, semantically incorrect, syntactically incorrect, or both semantically and syntactically incorrect. In experiment 1, participants judged the overall correctness of these sentences. The semantic violation elicited an N400 whereas the syntactic phrase structure violation elicited an early anterior negativity followed by a P600. Sentences in which the critical element violated both semantic and syntactic constraints elicited the same pattern of ERPs as the syntactic violation alone, not evoking an N400. In experiment 2, participants judged the same sentences for semantic coherence, required to ignore syntactic violations. Again, an early anterior negativity was elicited for those sentences containing phrase-structure errors. In contrast to experiment 1, however, combined violations elicited both an early negativity and an N400. Together, the results suggest that the N400 associated with semantic aspects of sentence comprehension reflects controlled processes whereas initial parsing processes associated with the early anterior negativity are independent of semantic constraints and task requirements.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded (62 scalp sites) from young (M=22) and older (M=66) adults during tests of item recognition and source memory, in a replication and extension of a previous study [Psychol. Aging 14 (1999) 390-413]. Participants studied two temporally distinct lists of sentences (each with two unassociated nouns). At test, in response to studied and unstudied nouns, participants made old/new, followed by source (i.e., list) judgments. Several measures were employed to enhance the source memory performance of the older adults. These were successful, as the old adults showed source memory performance comparable to that of the young subjects from the previous study (67%). Nonetheless, the younger adults significantly outperformed the older adults on measures of item and source memory performance. The ERPs revealed that both age groups showed a robust early, posterior-maximal episodic memory (EM) effect. However, despite their enhanced source memory performance, the ERPs of the old failed to show a robust late, right-prefrontal EM effect, which was again present in the ERPs of the young. By contrast, the older adults showed a central negative component not seen in the ERPs of the young. These results are consistent with the frontal lobe deficit hypothesis of aging and provide some evidence that old and young may use distinct cortical networks during source memory retrieval.
We examine the relevance of Evidence Based Care (EBC) to the field of clinical neurosciences, with particular emphasis on feasible methods of implementing EBC in clinical practice. By using pre-appraised EBC summaries, busy clinicians can move toward EBC without engaging in the laborious process of searching and critically appraising the literature. After reviewing the neurological content, accessibility and ease of use of current sources of EBC summaries, we find them substantially lacking in coverage of the neurosciences, and therefore of limited use to clinicians in this field. We emphasize a particular type of EBC summary, the critically appraised topic, and comment on its usefulness and limitations as a tool to assist clinical decision-making in the neurosciences. Finally, we propose that a collection of easily accessible, good quality, peer reviewed critically appraised topics, covering a breadth of relevant topics, is a reasonable way of moving toward EBC in the clinical neurosciences.

Nociceptive dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells can be divided into three main populations, namely (1) small diameter non-peptide-expressing cells, (2) small-diameter peptide-expressing (calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP), substance P) cells, and (3) medium-diameter peptide-expressing (CGRP) cells. The properties of these cell populations will be reviewed, with a special emphasis on the expression of the vanilloid (capsaicin) receptor VR1 and its regulation by growth factors. Cells in populations 1 and 2 express VR1, a nonselective channel that transduces certain nociceptive stimuli and that is crucial to the functioning of polymodal nociceptors. Cells in population 1 can be regulated by glial cell line derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and those in populations 2 and 3 by nerve growth factor (NGF). In vivo, DRG cells express a range of levels of VR1 expression and VR1 is downregulated after axotomy. However, treatment with NGF or GDNF can prevent this downregulation. In vitro, DRG cells also show a range of VR1 expression levels that is NGF and (or) GDNF dependent. Functional studies indicate that freshly dissociated cells also show differences in sensitivity to capsaicin. The significance of this is not known but may indicate a difference in the physiological role of cells in populations 1 and 2.
Considerable progress has been made in understanding the neural circuits involved the antidepressant and anxiolytic efficacy of substance P (NK, receptor) antagonists (SPAs). Progress has been hampered by species differences in the pharmacology of the NK1 receptor, and the availability of NK1R-/- mice has been a particularly useful resource in overcoming this difficulty. Using neuroanatomical, behavioural, and electrophysiological techniques, studies have now established that pharmacological blockade or deletion of the NK1 receptor produces an antidepressant and anxiolytic-like profile in a range of behavioural assays that is distinct from that of established drugs. There is evidence from focal injection studies that some of these effects may be mediated directly by blockade of NK, receptors in the amygdala and its projections to the hypothalamus, periaqueductal gray, and reticulopontine nucleus. Substance P and NK1 receptors are also intimately associated with ascending 5-HT and norepinephrine projections to the forebrain, and alterations in the function of these systems are also likely to be related to the antidepressant efficacy of SPAs. Unlike some established drugs, SPAs are generally well tolerated and do not induce sedation or motor impairment in preclinical species. These findings are consistent with a novel antidepressant mechanism of action of SPAs.
We have studied the effects of naloxone benzoylhydrazone (NalBzoH) at recombinant human OP4 receptors expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells (CHOhOP4) and native OP4 sites in isolated tissues from various species. In CHOhOP4 membranes, nociceptin (NC) and NalBzoH displaced [125I]Tyr14-NC with pKi values of 10.1 and 7.3. In the presence of 100 microM GDP, NC stimulated GTPgamma35S binding (pEC50 = 8.5). NalBzoH was ineffective but antagonized the effects of NC (pA2 = 6.9). At 5 microM GDP, there was an increase in potency (pEC50 = 9.3) and efficacy (4.3-fold) of NC. NalBzOH was a partial agonist (pEC50 = 7.0, Emax = 13% relative to NC). In CHOhOP4 cells, NC and NalBzoH inhibited cAMP formation with pEC50 and Emax values of 9.8 and 100% and 6.0 and 44%, respectively. In the rat vas deferens, NalBzoH (10 microM) did not modify electrically induced twitches but competitively antagonized the inhibitory action of NC (pA2 = 6.2). In the mouse vas deferens (mVD) and guinea pig ileum (gpI), NalBzoH inhibited twitches with pEC50 and Emax values of 7.6 and 78% and 8.5 and 77%, respectively. The effect of 3 microM NalBzoH was fully inhibited by 3 microM naloxone in mVD and 30 microM in gpI. Under these conditions, NalBzoH antagonized the actions of NC in both preparations with pA2 values of 6.3 and 6.8, respectively. Collectively, these data demonstrate that NalBzoH is a nonselective OP4 ligand with system-dependent behaviour.
90K, also known as Mac-2 binding protein, is a secreted glycoprotein that binds galectins, beta1-integrins, collagens, and fibronectin, and has some relevance in cell-cell and cell-extracellular matrix adhesion. Previous studies have shown that serum levels of 90K have prognostic value in several neoplasms. In the present study, the role of the expression of 90K as an adverse prognostic indicator in 72 pathological stage I non-small cell lung cancer patients was investigated immunohistochemically. All of the patients underwent complete surgical removal of the tumor. The median length of follow-up care was 54 months. High level of 90K expression (90K staining of &gt; or =50% of the neoplastic cells) was observed in 20 of the 72 (28%) tumors. Expression of 90K was confirmed by ELISA. The results showed that a high expression of 90K correlates with adverse prognosis. Among patients with high 90K expression, the disease-free and overall survival rates were significantly lower than the same rates of those with low expression (P = 0. 0001 and P = 0. 0003, respectively). The incidence of distant metastases in the patients with high 90K expression (60%; 12 of 20 patients) was significantly higher than that of in the patients with low expression (21%; 11 of 53 patients; P = 0.0038). The results of multivariate analysis confirmed that a high 90K expression was a significant factor to predict poor prognosis. We suggest that 90K expression could be a useful prognostic factor in patients with stage I non-small cell lung cancer, likely as an indicator of the metastatic propensity of the tumor.
Characterisation of cyclic nucleotide-hydrolysing phosphodiesterases (PDEs) in recombinant systems has highlighted regulatory properties indicative of distinct physiological roles for these enzymes. The present study investigated the role of PDEs in the adenosine 3'5'-monophosphate (cAMP) response to the hypothalamic neuropeptides corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF) and arginine vasopressin (AVP) in acutely dispersed rat adenohypophysial cells. Ca(2+)-activated PDE (PDE1) and Ca(2+)-independent, rolipram-sensitive PDE (PDE4) accounted for close to 90% of cAMP-hydrolysing activity in the adenohypophysis. Messenger RNA transcripts of PDE1 (isotypes 1A and 1C) and PDE4 (isotypes B and D3) were detected by RT-PCR. The PDE blockers rolipram and IBMX enhanced cAMP accumulation induced by CRF or CRF and AVP. Vinpocetine, an inhibitor of low K(m) PDE1 isotypes, did not alter the response to CRF but enhanced the effect of the combined CRF/AVP stimulus. Thus, PDE4s terminate the cAMP response to moderate stimulation, while low-affinity PDE1 becomes important when the concentrations of CRF and AVP are characteristic of exposure to intensive stress.
This review focuses on the coupling specificity of the Galpha and Gbetagamma subunits of pertussis toxin (PTX)-sensitive G(i/o) proteins that mediate diverse signaling pathways, including regulation of ion channels and other effectors. Several lines of evidence indicate that specific combinations of G protein alpha, beta and gamma subunits are required for different receptors or receptor-effector networks, and that a higher degree of specificity for Galpha and Gbetagamma is observed in intact systems than reported in vitro. The structural determinants of receptor-G protein specificity remain incompletely understood, and involve receptor-G protein interaction domains, and perhaps other scaffolding processes. By identifying G protein specificity for individual receptor signaling pathways, ligands targeted to disrupt individual pathways of a given receptor could be developed.
A 60-year-old woman with secondary chronic cluster headache had increased serum ferritin and serum transferrin saturation and was homozygous for the C282Y mutation in the HFE gene, which is indicative of hereditary haemochromatosis. Treatment with venesection that normalized her iron stores led to a radical improvement of her headache complaints that had been daily for several years. Later, the headache returned to some degree in spite of normal serum ferritin levels. Her cousin, a 33-year-old man who had had episodic cluster headache for several years, also had increased transferrin saturation and was compound heterozygous for two mutations, a genotype known to be associated with a slightly increased frequency of haemochromatosis. This is the first report of a headache disorder in a patient with hereditary haemochromatosis. The coexistence of the two disorders may be a mere coincidence, but the temporary improvement of headache from depletion of iron stores may indicate a causal relation, possibly mediated by iron deposits in pain-modulating centres in the brainstem.
The purpose of the present study was to evaluate neuropsychological performance and regional cerebral blood flow in migraine patients, and to investigate whether possible abnormalities in any of these fields could be related to the chronicity of the disease. The sample included 60 patients and 30 healthy control subjects; all of them were subjected to a complete neuropsychological assessment, including emotional variables. In addition an interictal 99Tc-HMPAO SPECT was performed in 56 patients and 15 controls. Disturbances in memory, attention and visuomotor speed processing were observed among migraineurs experiencing higher frequency of attacks and in those with a long history of migraine. Anxiety levels were higher in patients than in controls and were positively correlated with attack frequency, but not with cognitive test scores. Brain perfusion abnormalities, mostly hypoperfusion areas, were found in the 43% of patients; poorer performance in two tests, measuring verbal and visual memory, respectively, was found in these patients.
Myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate (MARCKS) is a major substrate for protein kinase C, and is involved in synaptic plasticity. Using both Northern blot and in situ hybridization techniques, we investigated whether MARCKS expression varied according to the cerebral region, including the hippocampal formation, or according to the type of neuron. Northern blot analysis showed that the MARCKS mRNA level was higher in the association areas than in the primary sensory and motor areas of the cerebral neocortex. MARCKS mRNA levels in the hippocampus and the amygdala were as high as those in the association areas. The in situ hybridization experiments confirmed the Northern blot results and showed the distribution and characteristics of MARCKS mRNA-positive neurons. In the association areas of the neocortex, prominent signals were observed in neurons in layers II-VI. In the primary areas, prominent signals were restricted to neurons in layers IV-VI. In the hippocampus, the most intense hybridization signals were observed in neurons in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus. The observed region-specific expression might reflect functional specialization for plasticity in individual regions of the monkey cerebral cortex.
Alterations of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) could contribute to cognitive decline in older adults. We examined the specificity of age-related PFC degeneration and whether cognitive abilities were related to volumetric measurements. Older and younger subjects were tested using a battery of tasks supported by different subregions within the PFC. The cognitive data from older subjects were related to PFC volumetric measurements in order to determine whether cortical morphology was predictive of individual differences in task performance within this age range (72-94 years). Working memory performance best distinguished older from younger subjects. Working memory measures but not other measures were correlated with age in both groups. A larger orbital PFC volume was related to a worse working memory performance and a larger superior PFC volume was related to worse conditional association learning. The volumes of these regions were not related to performance on other tasks. These results suggest that working memory is a sensitive measure of cognitive aging and that regional morphology is associated with specific cognitive abilities in older adults.
Conditioned taste aversion studies have demonstrated that rats conditioned to avoid monosodium glutamate (MSG) with amiloride added to reduce the intensity of the sodium component of MSG taste, will generalize an aversion for MSG to sucrose and vice versa. This suggests that taste transduction for sodium, sucrose and MSG may intersect at some point. Generalization of conditioned taste aversion indicates that two substances share similar taste features, but it does not reveal the extent of their differences. In this study, we tested how well rats can discriminate sucrose and MSG under a variety of conditions. Water-deprived rats were trained on a combination of water reinforcement and shock avoidance to discriminate between MSG and sucrose, both with and without amiloride, and with and without equimolar NaCl in all solutions. In the absence of amiloride, rats reliably distinguished between MSG and sucrose down to 10 mM solutions. However, they could correctly identify solutions only above 50 mM in the presence of amiloride, equimolar sodium chloride, or both. These results suggest that gustatory stimulation by MSG and sucrose interact somewhere in taste transduction, perhaps within taste receptor cells or gustatory afferent pathways.




1. Amino acid neurotransmitters are critical for controlling the activity of most central neurons, including sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN), the spinal cord neurons involved in controlling blood pressure and other autonomic functions. 2. In studies reviewed here, SPN were identified either by retrograde tracing from a peripheral target (superior cervical ganglion or adrenal medulla) or by detection of immunoreactivity for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), the acetylcholine-synthesizing enzyme that is a marker for all SPN, in intact or completely transected rat spinal cord. 3. Postembedding immunogold labelling on ultrathin sections was then used to detect GABA and sometimes glutamate in nerve terminals on SPN or near them in the neuropil of the lateral horn. 4. In some cases, the terminals were prelabelled to show an anterograde tracer or immunoreactivity for ChAT or neuropeptide Y. 5. This anatomical work has provided information that is helpful in understanding how SPN are influenced by their GABAergic innervation. 6. Immunogold studies showed that the proportion of input provided by GABAergic terminals varies between different groups of SPN. For some groups, this input may be preferentially targeted to cell bodies. 7. Anterograde tracing demonstrated that supraspinal as well as intraspinal GABAergic neurons innervate SPN and investigations on completely transected cord suggested that supraspinal neurons may provide a surprisingly large proportion of the GABAergic terminals that contact SPN. 8. The double-labelling studies in which other amino acids, ChAT or neuropeptide Y were localized along with GABA indicate that GABAergic terminals contain other neurochemicals that could modulate the actions of GABA, depending on the complement of receptors that are present pre- and post-synaptically. 9. Taken together, these data indicate that GABAergic transmission to SPN may be much more complicated than suggested by the currently available electrophysiological studies.
1. Excitatory amino acid (EAA)-mediated neural transmission in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) is important for many cardiovascular reflexes, although the receptor subtypes involved vary depending on the specific response. 2. Although injection of the EAA ionotropic receptor antagonist kynurenic acid into the RVLM has no effect on baseline arterial pressure, this lack of effect appears to result from EAA inputs to RVLM exciting both excitatory and inhibitory mechanisms within the RVLM. 3. The balance between EAA-mediated excitation and inhibition of RVLM neurons may be shifted to excitation in experimental models of hypertension. 4. The excitatory influence that EAA inputs to the RVLM have on vasomotor neurons in the RVLM may involve a sarthran-sensitive intermediary in the RVLM.


Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is an emerging methodology which provides various approaches to visualizing regional brain activity non-invasively. Although the exact mechanisms underlying the coupling between neural function and fMRI signal changes remain unclear, fMRI studies have been successful in confirming task-specific activation in a variety of brain regions, providing converging evidence for functional localization. In particular, fMRI methods based on blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) contrast and arterial spin labeling (ASL) perfusion contrast have enabled imaging of changes in blood oxygenation and cerebral blood flow (CBF). While BOLD contrast has been widely used as the surrogate marker for neural activation and can provide reliable information on the neuroanatomy underlying transient sensorimotor and cognitive functions, recent evidence suggests perfusion contrast is suitable for studying relatively long term effects on CBF both at rest or during activation. New developments in combining or simultaneously measuring the electrophysiological and fMRI signals allow a new class of studies that capitalize on dynamic imaging with high spatiotemporal resolution. This article reviews the biophysical bases and methodologies of fMRI and its applications to the clinical neurosciences, with emphasis on the spatiotemporal resolution of fMRI and its coupling with neurophysiology under both normal and pathophysiological conditions.
Since approximately 1985, with the pandemic of the human immunodeficiency virus and with the increase in the number of people who are immunocompromised, there is a resurgence of tuberculosis worldwide. The diagnosis in endemic areas generally can be made on clinical and radiologic examinations. However, whenever there is doubt because of an atypical clinical presentation or lack of clinical exposure, tissue diagnosis is mandatory. If osteoarticular tuberculosis is diagnosed and treated at an early stage, approximately 90% to 95% of patients would achieve healing with near normal function. The mainstay of treatment is multidrug antituberculous chemotherapy (for 12 to 18 months) and active - assisted non-weightbearing exercises of the involved joint throughout the period of healing. Operative intervention is required when the patient is not responding after 4 to 5 months of chemotherapy (synovectomy and debridement), the therapeutic outcome is not satisfactory (excisional arthroplasty for the hip or the elbow), or the healed status has resulted in a painful ankylosis (arthrodesis for the ankle, the wrist, or the knee). Joint replacement may be considered if the disease has remained inactive for 10 years or more. Multidrug resistance should be suspected if the activity of disease does not subside after 4 to 6 months of uninterrupted multidrug therapy. Such patients (5% to 10%) present a desperate therapeutic challenge. Second-line and potential antitubercular drugs, and possible immunomodulations may control such a disease.
When subjects switch between a pair of stimulus-response tasks, reaction time is slower on trial N if a different task was performed on trial N - 1. We present a parallel distributed processing (PDP) model that simulates this effect when subjects switch between word reading and color naming in response to Stroop stimuli. Reaction time on &quot;switch trials&quot; can be slowed by an extended response selection process which results from (a) persisting, inappropriate states of activation and inhibition of task-controlling representations; and (b) associative learning, which allows stimuli to evoke tasks sets with which they have recently been associated (as proposed by Allport &amp; Wylie, 2000). The model provides a good fit to a large body of empirical data, including findings which have been seen as problematic for this explanation of switch costs, and shows similar behavior when the parameters are set to random values, supporting Allport and Wylie's proposal.
In the amphibian Xenopus laevis, suprachiasmatic melanotrope-inhibiting neurons (SMINs) play an important role in the regulation of the background adaptation process. In this study, we investigated the innervation of the SMINs at the light- and electron- microscopical level. Immunocytochemistry in combination with confocal laser scanning microscopy revealed co-existence of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and synaptobrevin in spots in the direct vicinity of the SMINs, suggesting the existence of NPY-containing synapses on these cells. At the ultrastructural level, the SMINs showed a high degree of plasticity, containing more electron-dense vesicles and a larger extent of RER in white- than in black-adapted animals. In black-adapted animals, symmetric synapses (Gray type II) were observed on the soma of the SMINs, suggesting an inhibitory input to these cells. The synaptic profiles contained electron-lucent and electron-dense vesicles, indicating the involvement of both a classical neurotransmitter and a neuropeptide (possibly NPY) in this input. In white-adapted animals, synapses were only found at some distance from the SMIN somata. Our findings indicate a striking plasticity of the innervation of the SMINs in relation to background adaptation and support the hypothesis that the SMINs are innervated by NPY-containing interneurons that inhibit SMIN activity in black-adapted animals.
Some amphibian brain-melanotrope cell systems are used to study how neuronal and (neuro)endocrine mechanisms convert environmental signals into physiological responses. Pituitary melanotropes release alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH), which controls skin color in response to background light stimuli. Xenopus laevis suprachiasmatic neurons receive optic input and inhibit melanotrope activity by releasing neuropeptide Y (NPY), dopamine (DA) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) when animals are placed on a light background. Under this condition, they strengthen their synaptic contacts with the melanotropes and enhance their secretory machinery by upregulating exocytosis-related proteins (e.g. SNAP-25). The inhibitory transmitters converge on the adenylyl cyclase system, regulating Ca(2+) channel activity. Other messengers like thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH, from the magnocellular nucleus), noradrenalin (from the locus coeruleus), serotonin (from the raphe nucleus) and acetylcholine (from the melanotropes themselves) stimulate melanotrope activity. Ca(2+) enters the cell and the resulting Ca(2+) oscillations trigger alpha-MSH secretion. These intracellular Ca(2+) dynamics can be described by a mathematical model. The oscillations travel as a wave through the cytoplasm and enter the nucleus where they may induce the expression of genes involved in biosynthesis and processing (7B2, PC2) of pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) and release (SNAP-25, munc18) of its end-products. We propose that various environmental factors (e.g. light and temperature) act via distinct brain centers in order to release various neuronal messengers that act on the melanotrope to control distinct subcellular events (e.g. hormone biosynthesis, processing and release) by specifically shaping the pattern of melanotrope Ca(2+) oscillations.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the reliability and validity of the Korean version of the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI), a self-report questionnaire based on Cloninger's biosocial model of personality. The TCI was translated into Korean and administered to 851 Korean college students. A test-retest study of the TCI was conducted across a 3-month interval with 130 subjects. Internal consistency was calculated by Cronbach alpha. Test-retest reliability was analyzed by Pearson correlation analysis. Factor analyses for the temperament and character dimensions were performed using principal component analysis, rotating factors obliquely by promax. A comparison of TCI scores between Korean and United States college students was done using independent t tests. Cronbach alpha values for the TCI scales ranged from.60 to.85 for the temperament scales and from.82 to.87 for the character scales. Test-retest correlations (r) ranged from.52 to.72 for the temperament scales and from.52 to.71 for the character scales. Principal component factor analyses showed similar factor structures of four temperaments and three characters as the American version of the TCI, except for the Reward Dependence and Persistence temperament scales. Explorative factor analysis with a condition of eigenvalue greater than 1 produced five factors, as compared to seven factors extracted in Cloninger's original report. Results using a preset seven-factor solution was forced and did not successfully extract Cloninger's seven factors. Korean college students had higher mean scores on Harm Avoidance and lower mean scores on the rest of the scales as compared to a sample of US college students. The results of this study confirm that the Korean TCI has satisfactory psychometric properties and reflects Cloninger's biosocial model of personality.
This paper addresses the practical problems raised by the fact that correlation integrals computed from electroencephalographic signals do not scale. An automated procedure is described for alpha-waves, which is based on the known method of determining the correlation dimension from scaled structures that appear in diagrams of slope-curves. Automation, which is achieved using a moving window that detects the minima of slope-curves, and the density of minima makes it possible to vary the numerous parameters, and to implement tests. The potentialities of the automatic procedure are illustrated by results of psychopharmacological interest, based on the analysis of 22x10(3) alpha-signals, and the computation of 32x10(6) correlation integrals. Previous results concerning the existence of low-dimensional alpha-episodes, lasting in general not more than 5-6 s, are confirmed. Opposing effects upon the correlation dimension are described, at their pharmacological peak, for a dopaminergic agonist (apomorphine) and an atypical antipsychotic, a sigma-receptor ligand. The results also confirm that time reparametrization is a vital check in searches of low-dimensional attractor-ruled dynamics, and they suggest that subjects exhibiting 'high-alpha', i.e. whose alpha-waves are of amplitude A&gt;30 microV, be selected for such investigations.

Conventional magnetic resonance imaging (cMRI) is widely used for diagnosing multiple sclerosis (MS) and as a paraclinical tool to monitor disease activity and evolution in natural history studies and clinical trials. However, the correlation between cMRI and clinical findings is far from strict, and such a discrepancy is even more evident when moving from the setting of large-scale studies to the management of individual patients. Among the reasons for this &quot;clinical-MRI paradox&quot; is the limited specificity of cMRI to the heterogeneous pathologic substrates of MS and its inability to quantify the extent of damage in the normal-appearing tissues. Modern quantitative MR techniques have the potential to overcome some of the limitations of cMRI. Although the application of modern MR techniques is changing dramatically our understanding of how MS causes irreversible disability, their use for clinical trial monitoring and clinical practice is still very limited. Whereas there is increasing perception that modern quantitative MR techniques should be more extensively employed in clinical trials to advance the understanding of MS and derive innovative information, their use in clinical practice should still be regarded as premature.
In this unit some of the basic protocols involved in the manipulation of phage display libraries are described, including the rescue and amplification of such libraries, selection and screening from them and testing of derived clones.
This unit is intended to aid the neuroscientist in understanding the basics of image detectors and selecting a suitable camera for various neuroscience research applications. A procedure is described for evaluating cameras in the laboratory.
The day-night task requires saying &quot;night&quot; to a picture of the sun and &quot;day&quot; to a picture of the moon. In this investigation of why young children fail at this task, systematic variations of the task were administered to 96 children, half 4 years old and half 4 1/2 years old. Training children on the strategy of chunking the 2 rules into I (&quot;say the opposite&quot;), thus reducing memory load, did not help their performance. What helped was reducing the inhibitory demand by instructing them to say &quot;dog&quot; and &quot;pig&quot; (not &quot;night&quot; and &quot;day&quot;) even though memory of 2 rules and inhibiting saying what the pictures represented were still required. Here the response to be activated and the response to be inhibited were unrelated. When the correct response was semantically related to, and the direct opposite of, the to-be-inhibited response, children performed poorly. Inserting a delay between stimulus and response helped even though that delay was filled with distraction. Young children apparently need several seconds to compute the answer on this task. Often they do not take the needed time; when forced to do so, they do well.
Specimens from a patient of the 2000 Israel West Nile virus epidemic were analyzed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Products corresponding to E, NS3, and NS5 sequences were amplified from cerebellar but not from cortical samples. Phylogenetic analyses indicated a closer relationship of this isolate to 1996 Romanian and 1999 Russian than to 1998-99 Israeli or 1999 New York isolates.
Induction of cyclin proteins is required for progression of cells through the G(1)-S and G(2)-M cell cycle checkpoints and is a primary mechanism by which mitogens regulate cell cycle progression. IGF-I and the epidermal growth factor (EGF)-related ligands are mitogens for mammary epithelial cells in vitro and are essential for growth of the mammary epithelium during development. We report here that IGF-I in combination with EGF or TGFalpha is synergistic in promoting DNA synthesis in mammary epithelial cells in the intact mammary gland cultured in vitro. We further investigated the role of IGF-I and EGF in cyclin expression and cell cycle progression in the mammary gland and demonstrate that IGF-I and EGF induce expression of early G(1) cyclins. However, we show that IGF-I, but not EGF, induces late G(1) and G(2) cyclins and is required for mammary epithelial cells to overcome the G(1)-S checkpoint. These data demonstrate that IGF-I is essential for cell cycle progression in mammary epithelial cells and that it is required for EGF-mediated progression past the G(1)-S checkpoint in these cells.
Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is the most frequent labyrinthopathy in humans. Treatment consists mainly of liberatory maneuvers aiming to remove otolithic debris and subsequent postural restrictions in order to prevent debris from returning into the canal. The reappearance of symptoms after an effective liberatory maneuver was studied in a group subjected to restrictions and in a second group free from restrictions. The effects of these restrictions were evaluated. No statistically significant difference was found between the groups. Accordingly, restrictions seem to have no effect upon symptom recurrence. The slight supremacy of the Semont maneuver and the prevalence of subsequent relapse compared with the Epley maneuver suggests that these maneuvers could operate on different disorders (cupulolithiasis versus canalolithiasis). Finally, late recognition of relapse in patients who undergo restrictions might even make the liberatory maneuver less effective.


The early diagnosis of vascular cognitive impairment has been challenged and executive control function has been suggested to be a rational basis for the diagnosis of vascular dementia. We sought to examine the correlates of executive dysfunction in a well-defined stroke cohort. A group of 256 patients from a consecutive cohort of 486 patients with ischaemic stroke, aged 55-85 years, was subjected to a comprehensive neuropsychological examination 3-4 months after ischaemic stroke and 188 of them in addition to detailed psychiatric examination. Basic and complex activities of daily living (ADLs) (bADLs and cADLs) post-stroke were assessed. The DSM-III-R criteria were used for the diagnosis of the depressive disorders. Altogether 40.6% (n=104) of the patients had executive dysfunction. The patients with executive dysfunction were older, had lower level of education, were more often dependent, did worse in bADLs and cADLs, had more often DSM-III dementia, had worse cognition as measured by Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) and were more depressed as measured by the BECK depression scale, but not with the more detailed psychiatric evaluation. They had more often stroke in the anterior circulation and less often in the posterior circulation. The independent correlates of executive dysfunction were cADLs (OR 1.1, 95% CI 1.03-1.16), each point of worsening in cognition by MMSE (OR 1.7, 95% CI 1.42-1.97) and stroke in the posterior circulation area (OR 0.4, 95% CI 0.18-0.84). Clinically significant executive dysfunction is frequent after ischaemic stroke and is closely connected with cADLs and to overall cognitive status but could be distinguished from depression by detailed neuropsychological examination. Executive measures may detect patients at risk of dementia and disability post-stroke.
Spasticity is only one of several components of the upper motor neurone (UMN) syndrome, known collectively as the 'positive' phenomena, that are characterized by muscle overactivity. Other components include tendon hyper-reflexia, clonus, the clasp-knife phenomenon, flexor and extensor spasms, a Babinski sign, and spastic dystonia. Spasticity is a form of hypertonia due to hyperexcitable tonic stretch reflexes. It is distinguished from rigidity by its dependence upon the speed of the muscle stretch and by the presence of other positive UMN signs. Hyperactive spinal reflexes mediate most of these positive phenomena, while others are due to disordered control of voluntary movement or abnormal efferent drive. An UMN lesion disturbs the balance of supraspinal inhibitory and excitatory inputs, producing a state of net disinhibition of the spinal reflexes. These include proprioceptive (stretch) and nociceptive (flexor withdrawal and extensor) reflexes. The clinical syndrome resulting from an UMN lesion depends more upon its location and extent, and the time since it occurred, than on the pathology of the lesion. However, the change in spinal reflex excitability cannot simply be due to an imbalance in supraspinal control. The delayed onset after the lesion and the frequent reduction in reflex excitability over time, suggests plasticity in the central nervous system. Knowledge of the electrophysiology and neurochemistry of spinal reflexes, together with the action of antispasticity drugs, helps us to understand the pathophysiology of spasticity.
Rats, like humans, show strong individual differences in their response to anxiogenic and stressful stimuli. In the present study we evaluated whether differences in stress-induced self-grooming behaviour may predict an individual's vulnerability to engage in drug self-administration behaviour. From a population of Wistar rats, the lower and upper quartile with respect to time spent self-grooming on an elevated plus maze (EPM) were selected and trained to intravenously self-administer cocaine under fixed and progressive ratio schedules of reinforcement. High grooming (HG) rats reached considerably higher breakpoints than low grooming (LG) rats but showed no differences in acquisition rate and dose-response relationships. Further, EPM exposure elicited higher anxiety levels and enhanced plasma corticosterone secretion in HG rats. In addition, HG rats did not display enhanced novelty-seeking and still spent more time self-grooming during an EPM re-test following the cocaine self-administration procedure, indicating that stress-induced self-grooming is a stable behavioural trait marker. Neurochemically, electrically evoked [(3)H]dopamine release in vitro was profoundly lower in brain slices from the substantia nigra, medial prefrontal cortex and amygdala of naive HG rats as compared to LG rats, whereas no differences were found in the nucleus accumbens shell and core, the ventral tegmental area and caudate putamen. In conclusion, stress-induced self-grooming specifically predicts enhanced motivation to self-administer cocaine rather than sensitivity to its reinforcing effects. Responsiveness of dopaminergic nerve terminals in the medial prefrontal cortex and amygdala may represent pre-existing underlying factors.
N-syndecan, a membrane-bound heparan sulphate proteoglycan, is abundantly present in the developing nervous system and thought to play important roles in the neurite outgrowth. In the present study, we examined the distribution of N-syndecan in the migratory route from the rat olfactory placode using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. At embryonic day 15, both heparan sulphate and N-syndecan immunoreactivities were localized in and around the migrating cell clusters, which contained luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) and calbindin D-28k. Immunoreactivity for other glycosaminoglycan chains, such as chondroitin and keratan sulphate, and core proteins of the chondroitin sulphate proteoglycan, neurocan and phosphacan, were barely detected in the migratory pathway from the olfactory placode. By in situ hybridization histochemistry, N-syndecan mRNA was localized in virtually all of migrating neurons as well as in cells of the olfactory epithelium and the vomeronasal organ. N-syndecan immunoreactivity surrounded cells migrating along the vomeronasal nerves that were immunoreactive for neural cell adhesion molecules, NCAM, L1 and TAG-1. Considering that NCAM is implicated in the migratory process of LHRH neurons and specifically binds to heparan sulphate, it is likely that a heterophilic interaction between NCAM and N-syndecan participates in the neuronal migration from the rat olfactory placode.
The role for radiotherapy in patients with low-grade gliomas remains controversial. Two large prospective studies have failed to demonstrate a radiotherapeutic dose-response effect, and EORTC trial 22845 found no difference in survival between patients receiving adjuvant radiotherapy and those who received radiotherapy at tumour progression. The aim of this retrospective study was to analyse the patterns of carbon-11 methionine (MET) uptake on positron emission tomography (PET) in tumours treated with immediate radiotherapy and in those treated with delayed radiotherapy at the time of tumour progression. The 21 adult patients studied had histologically confirmed low-grade gliomas and had undergone a pre-treatment PET scan and a follow-up PET scan at the time of progression. Eleven of the patients had undergone initial radiotherapy a median of 5 weeks after the surgical procedure. The median time to progression was 3.5 years for this group, compared with 1.6 years for the group with delayed radiotherapy ( P=0.06). At the time of progression, non-irradiated tumours had a significantly higher MET uptake ( P=0.02) and a larger uptake volume ( P=0.008) compared with baseline, whereas irradiated tumours showed no statistically significant change. We observed a correlation between high pre-treatment uptake of MET and reduction in MET uptake in response to radiotherapy ( P=0.008). All irradiated tumours recurred within the radiation field. In conclusion, our results demonstrate signs of a residual radiation effect at the time of tumour progression in low-grade gliomas with high pre-treatment uptake of MET. Pre-treatment methionine uptake may be a marker for the radiosensitivity of low-grade gliomas.

Errors in reaching produced by displacing the visual field with wedge prisms decrease with trials, even when the error is not revealed until the completion of the movement. To examine how much additional delay in visual feed-back the monkey can compensate for, the effects of delaying the visual error signals were studied by presenting the terminal visual images after one of five delays, ranging from 0 to 500 ms. Adaptation was fastest when the delay was 0 or 10 ms, decreased significantly with a delay as small as 50 ms and approached zero when the delay was 500 ms. The size of the after-effect decreased with the delay accordingly. The results indicate that prism adaptation in the monkey critically depends on the availability of visual information within 50 ms of completion of the movement. Comparing the results with those for humans, we suggest that monkey and human share a mechanism of adaptation with a short time window of 50 ms, but the monkey lacks another mechanism of adaptation that allows a visual delay of 500 ms or more in humans.
It is widely accepted that the left and right hemispheres differ with respect to the processing of global and local aspects of visual stimuli. Recently, behavioural experiments have shown that this processing asymmetry strongly depends on the response competition between the global and local levels of a stimulus. Here we report electrophysiological data that underline this observation. Hemispheric differences for global/local processing were mainly observed for response-incompatible stimuli and were most prominent between 320 and 400 ms after stimulus onset. These results underpin the idea that hemispheric differences are more likely to show up when a more elaborated stimulus representation is needed for triggering the response, that is, when a response conflict has to be resolved.
The posterior parietal cortex (PPC) is implicated in the control of visuospatial orienting, including both overt saccadic eye movements and covert shifts of attention (i.e., attention to a location other than at visual fixation). Some studies have suggested that the attentional system is part of the premotor processing in the brain, while others suggest they are separate. Here, we test how the PPC controls covert attention shifts in the absence of executed eye movements. Electrical microstimulation was applied to the right PPC while monkeys performed a spatial, cued target detection task, in which they were not allowed to move their gaze. At high currents, contralateral saccades were evoked. With currents below the thresholds for eliciting saccades, microstimulation produced a purely attentional shift (as indexed by decreased target reaction time) when a cue and target were presented in the contralateral visual field. This suggests that microstimulation can move attention specifically in the absence of any overt movements of the eyes or limbs. In addition, there was a reduction in reaction times in trials that did not evoke attentional orienting, suggesting a more general alerting effect of microstimulation These data provide direct evidence that the PPC may be a source of both attentional modulation of neuronal responses and saccadic eye movements to peripheral visual stimuli.
Basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuits play an important role in movement preparation and execution. Tracer, single-cell, and lesion studies in monkeys suggest the existence of topologically segregated motor and nonmotor basal ganglia cortical circuits. In this study we used deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the posteroventrolateral globus pallidus internus (GPi) in patients with Parkinson's disease to elucidate the function of the GPi in human sensorimotor behavior. This question was investigated by comparing the influence of DBS on patients' performance in various reaction-time tasks that differed with respect to cognitive but not motor requirements. As a main result, DBS improved performance on the different tasks independently of the complexity of the involved cognitive processing functions. Furthermore, the observed effects did not depend on the modality of the processed information. These results suggest that the functional state of the posteroventrolateral GPi selectively affects the motor stage in simple sensorimotor acts, because this stage was the only stage involved in all investigated tasks. In addition to DBS, we manipulated the levodopa medication state of the PD patients. In contrast to DBS, levodopa effects on reaction times were less consistent. Levodopa improved reaction times in choice reaction tasks significantly, while affecting reaction times in a simple reaction task to a lesser extent. Error analysis revealed that the medication-dependent reaction-time improvement in the choice reaction tasks was accompanied by an increase in errors, suggesting a shift of the speed-accuracy criteria of the patients. A similar pattern of results was not observed for the DBS effects. Taken together, our data are in agreement with recent findings in monkeys that indicate a topological organization of the GPi in which motor functions are localized in posterolateral regions apart from cognitive regions. Furthermore, our data show a way to uncover the subcortical-cortical circuitry serving human sensorimotor behavior.
This study examined whether preference for a drug (diazepam or placebo) could be switched using conditioning procedures. During the first 4 sessions of Phase 1, 6 participants received 5 mg of diazepam or placebo under double-blind conditions. During the remaining 5 sessions of Phase 1, participants selected the drug they wished to receive. The first 4 sessions of Phase 2 were a replication of Phase 1, except that following ingestion of the drug, participants completed a computer task for which they could earn money. Payment for the computer task was lowest following ingestion of the drug they preferred in Phase I and highest following the drug they had avoided. Preference was reassessed during the last 5 sessions of Phase 2. Five of the participants preferred placebo in Phase 1 but diazepam in Phase 2. Subjective responses to the drugs also changed across the 2 phases.
A transgenic mouse model of Huntington's disease (R6/1 and R6/2 lines) expressing exon 1 of the HD gene with 115-150 CAG repeats resisted striatal damage following injection of quinolinic acid and other neurotoxins. We examined whether excitotoxin resistance characterizes mice with mutant huntingtin transgenes. In a new transgenic mouse with 3 kb of mutant human huntingtin cDNA with 18, 46, or 100 CAG repeats, we found no change in susceptibility to intrastriatal injections of the excitotoxin quinolinic acid, compared to wild-type littermates. The new transgenic mice were injected with the same dose of quinolinic acid (30 nmol) as had been the R6 mice. Our findings highlight the importance of studying pathogenetic mechanisms in different transgenic models of a disease.
We previously found that unilateral cochlear ablation altered transmitter release from glutamatergic synaptic endings in several brain stem auditory nuclei. To determine if this release activity could be regulated by protein kinase C (PKC), which has been associated with regulation of transmitter release, the electrically evoked release of [3H]d-aspartate ([3H]d-Asp) was quantified in vitro as an index of exocytosis from glutamatergic presynaptic endings in the major subdivisions of the cochlear nucleus (CN) and in the main nuclei of the superior olivary complex (SOC). Treating dissected tissues with a PKC activator, such as phorbol 12,13-diacetate (PDA) or phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu) (3 microM), elevated the evoked release of [3H]d-Asp by 1.5- to 3.3-fold. The PKC inhibitor Ro31-8220 (50 nM) did not alter the evoked release but blocked the stimulatory effects of PDA and PDBu. These findings suggested that PKC could positively regulate transmitter release from glutamatergic presynaptic endings in brain stem auditory pathways. Seven days after unilateral cochlear ablation, when cochlear nerve endings had degenerated in the ipsilateral CN, PDBu elevated the evoked release bilaterally in each CN subdivision and SOC nucleus, implying that PKC could regulate glutamatergic release in the noncochlear pathways remaining in the ipsilateral CN and in the other pathways after unilateral hearing loss. After 145 postlesion days, Ro31-8220 blocked endogenous elevations in the evoked release in the ipsilateral SOC but did not alter the elevated or upregulated release in the other tissues. This suggested that the elevations of glutamatergic release activity in the ipsilateral SOC that appeared after unilateral cochlear ablation depended on endogenous activation of PKC.
Phenformin is a biguanide compound that can modulate glucose metabolism and promote weight loss and is therefore used to treat patients with type-2 diabetes. While phenformin may indirectly affect neurons by changing peripheral energy metabolism, the possibility that it directly affects neurons has not been examined. We now report that phenformin suppresses responses of hippocampal neurons to glutamate and decreases their vulnerability to excitotoxicity. Pretreatment of embryonic rat hippocampal cell cultures with phenformin protected neurons against glutamate-induced death, which was correlated with reduced calcium responses to glutamate. Immunoblot analyses showed that levels of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) subunits NR1 and NR2A were significantly decreased in neurons exposed to phenformin, whereas levels of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR1 were unchanged. Whole-cell patch clamp analyses revealed that NMDA-induced currents were decreased, and AMPA-induced currents were unchanged in neurons pretreated with phenformin. Our data demonstrate that phenformin can protect neurons against excitotoxicity by differentially modulating levels of NMDA receptor subunits in a manner that decreases glutamate-induced calcium influx. These findings show that phenformin can modulate neuronal responses to glutamate, and suggest possible use of phenformin and related compounds in the prevention and/or treatment of neurodegenerative conditions.
We studied the interactions of neurotrophin-3 (NT3) with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2), and their effects on tyrosine kinase C (TrkC) expression during cochlear ganglion development. Otocysts were explanted from white leghorn chicken embryos at stages when the neuronal precursors normally start to migrate. Cultures were fed with various combinations of NT3, BDNF, and FGF-2. NT3 appeared to have a greater effect on neurite outgrowth than on migration and was enhanced by BDNF. The results from in situ hybridization and immunostaining for TrkC receptor revealed up-regulation of the mRNA and protein by combining NT-3 and BDNF. NT-3 combined with FGF-2 produced down-regulation of receptor. Neutralizing antibody to NT3 had an inhibitory effect on neuronal development, suggesting that endogenous NT3 is normally active during the period examined. The findings suggest an interactive role of NT3 in early neuronal development. The trophic synergism of NT3 and BDNF may result from up-regulation of TrkC. This hypothesis is consistent with immunostaining in the embryonic basilar papilla, which localized TrkC to the initial axonal invasion sites. While the growth factors each produce particular trophic effects, the interactions of these factors define a critical sequence of developmental events based on modulation of receptor expression.
In this study we evaluate the expression of all members of the class 3 semaphorins and their receptor components following complete transection and contusion lesions of the adult rat spinal cord. Following both types of lesions the expression of all class 3 semaphorins is induced in fibroblast in the neural scar. The distribution of semaphorin-positive fibroblasts differs markedly in scars formed after transection or contusion lesion. In contusion lesions semaphorin expression is restricted to fibroblasts of the meningeal sheet surrounding the lesion, while after transection semaphorin-positive fibroblast penetrate deep into the center of the lesion. Two major descending spinal cord motor pathways, the cortico- and rubrospinal tract, continue to express receptor components for class 3 semaphorins following injury, rendering them potentially sensitive to scar-derived semaphorins. In line with this we observed that most descending spinal cord fibers were not able to penetrate the semaphorin positive portion of the neural scar formed at the lesion site. These results suggest that the full range of secreted semaphorins contributes to the inhibitory nature of the neural scar and thereby may inhibit successful regeneration in the injured spinal cord. Future studies will focus on the neutralization of class 3 semaphorins, in order to reveal whether this creates a more permissive environment for regeneration of injured spinal cord axons.
A peripheral nerve injury often causes neuropathic pain but the underlying mechanisms remain obscure. Several established animal models of peripheral neuropathic pain have greatly advanced our understanding of the diverse mechanisms of neuropathic pain. A common feature of these models is primary sensory neuron injury and the commingle of intact axons with degenerating axons in the sciatic nerve. Here we investigated whether neuropathic pain could be induced without sensory neuron injury following exposure of their peripheral axons to the milieu of Wallerian degeneration. We developed a unilateral lumbar 5 ventral root transection (L5 VRT) model in adult rats, in which L5 ventral root fibers entering the sciatic nerve were sectioned in the spinal canal. This model differs from previous ones in that DRG neurons and their afferents are kept uninjured and intact afferents expose to products of degenerating efferent ventral root fibers in the sciatic nerve and the denervated muscles. We found that the L5 VRT produced rapid (24 h after transection), robust and prolonged (56 days) bilateral mechanical allodynia, to a similar extent to that in rats with L5 spinal nerve transection (L5 SNT), cold allodynia and short-term thermal hyperalgesia (14 days). Furthermore, L5 VRT led to significant inflammation as demonstrated by infiltration of ED-1-positive monocytes/macrophages in the DRG, sciatic nerve and muscle fibers. These findings demonstrated that L5 VRT produced behavioral signs of neuropathic pain with high mechanical sensitivity and thermal responsiveness, and suggested that neuropathic pain can be induced without damage to sensory neurons. We propose that neuropathic pain in this model may be mediated by primed intact sensory neurons, which run through the milieu of Wallerian degeneration and inflammation after nerve injury. The L5 VRT model manifests the complex regional pain syndrome in some human patients, and it may provide an additional dimension to dissect out the mechanisms underlying neuropathic pain.
This review concentrates on the treatment of typical absences, which are distinct generalized epileptic seizures occurring mainly in the context of idiopathic generalized epilepsies. As typical absences may occur in combination with other generalized seizures, often in a syndrome-related pattern and vary in terms of frequency and severity, a brief discussion of the various different epileptic syndromes with typical absences and some principles of differential diagnosis are necessary. The diagnostic role of the electroencephalogram and its usefulness in monitoring the response to treatment are also outlined. To better comprehend the usefulness of the first-choice antiabsence drugs, but also the risks from those that are contraindicated, a brief section on the neurobiology of the mechanisms underlying absence seizures is also included.
The 'Decade of the Brain' (1990-2000) saw unprecedented advances in neurosciences including multiple sclerosis. It could have not been more aptly named, as it produced a shift in the paradigm of multiple sclerosis management, making multiple sclerosis a treatable disorder with the availability of several therapeutic options. For a chronic progressive neurological disorder like multiple sclerosis, this change in the understanding and treatment touched the lives of hundreds of thousands of patients worldwide and many more who provided care and counsel as family and friends. Of the four agents available for the treatment of the most common type of multiple sclerosis - relapsing-remitting - three are beta-interferons and one is a noninterferon polypeptide of four amino acids (glatiramer acetate) with a distinct immunomodulating profile. Glatiramer acetate is now approved and available in North America, Europe and many other countries. It has been tested in pivotal trials as well as long term extension trials for almost 10 years (8 years published) providing remarkable evidence of efficacy and safety. This review will highlight the immune mechanisms and clinical data reported with glatiramer acetate in multiple sclerosis over the past three decades.
Small-diameter sensory neurones found in the rat dorsal root ganglia (DRG) include cells sensitive to glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), which express the inhibitory peptide somatostatin (SOM). Here we addressed the functional relationship between GDNF and sensory neurone-derived SOM. Topical application of GDNF through the rat isolated dorsal horn of the spinal cord promoted activity-induced release of SOM from central terminals of sensory neurones. Once released by sensory neurones, SOM is known to act, at least in part, by opposing the action of Substance P (SP) in neurogenic inflammation. Therefore, we evaluated GDNF ability to modulate two well-documented effects of peripherally and centrally administered SP. Local application of GDNF in the mouse air pouch reduced SP-induced leukocyte migration. This effect of GDNF was mimicked by the SOM analog octreotide (OCT) and required intact SOM neuronal pools. Intrathecal injection of GDNF activated rat lumbar dorsal horn neurones and inhibited intrathecal SP-induced thermal hypersensitivity. This effect of GDNF was reversed by the SOM antagonist c-SOM and mimicked by OCT. In conclusion we propose GDNF regulation of neuronal SOM release as a novel mechanism that, if explored, may lead to new therapeutic strategies based on local release of somatostatin.
There is a large body of evidence implicating oxidative damage in the pathogenesis of both normal aging and neurodegenerative diseases. Oxidative damage to proteins has been well established. Although there are a large number of potential oxidative modifications only a few have been systematically studied. The most frequently studied marker of oxidative damage to proteins is protein carbonyl groups. 3-Nitrotyrosine is thought to be a relatively specific marker of oxidative damage mediated by peroxynitrite. Increased concentrations of both protein carbonyls and 3-nitrotyrosine have been documented in both normal aging as well as in Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). These findings help to provide a rationale for trials of antioxidants in neurodegenerative diseases.
In routine clinical practice, the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is commonly made according to NINCDS-ADRDA criteria. As pathological verification is typically not available, such a diagnosis remains probable rather than definite. A diagnosis of probable AD is nevertheless fairly accurate (0.75-0.96), and may serve as a surrogate gold standard in clinical studies. Probable AD is often considered a diagnosis of exclusion, but AD neuropathology characteristically evolves in an ordered topographic sequence, which is mirrored in the pattern of evolution of neuropsychological deficits. Recognition of the resulting temporal profile of cognitive domain involvement allows positive rather than merely exclusionary diagnosis. Certain other dementias may be difficult to distinguish from AD clinically: notably frontotemporal dementia (FTD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), and various subtypes of vascular cognitive impairment. The distinction is made more difficult by the existence of variants of AD, presenting with predominant impairment of executive, visuoperceptual, or language domains, as well as by the common occurrence of mixed pathologies. Against this background, the neuropsychological features of AD and its variant presentations, and its distinction from other dementias are reviewed. The properties of commonly-used cognitive assessment tools (MMSE, Mattis DRS, ADAS-Cog, CERAD and CAMDEX-R) are discussed, and the issue of diagnosing incipient AD on clinical grounds before the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria are fulfilled is addressed.
Light and temperature stimuli act via various brain centers and neurochemical messengers on the pituitary melanotrope cells of Xenopus laevis to control distinct subcellular activities such as the biosynthesis, processing, and release of alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone (alphaMSH). The melanotrope signal transduction involves the action of a large repertoire of neurotransmitter and neuropeptide receptors and the second messengers cAMP and Ca(2+). Here we briefly review this signaling mechanism and then present new data on two aspects of this process, viz. the presence of a stimulatory beta-adrenergic receptor acting via cAMP and the egress of cAMP from the melanotrope upon a change of alphaMSH release activity.
Several predictors of the course of depression and generalized anxiety have been identified. Whether these predictors provide a solid basis for primary care physicians (PCPs) to give an accurate prognosis remains unclear. A parallel study showed modest agreement between PCP prognosis and observed course (kappa&lt; or = 0.21). It is the aim of the present study to establish the extent to which the one-year course of depression and generalized anxiety in primary care is in fact predictable. Predictability is operationalized as the combined predictive power of major prognostic factors identified in the literature. We identified 269 cases of ICD-10 depression and 134 of generalized anxiety among consecutive PCP attenders. For these patients a statistical model was built that provided optimal predictions of the one-year course of the disorder, based on the prognostic factors discerned. The predictions were compared with the actual course observed. Reasonable agreement (kappa = 0.37 for depression, kappa = 0.35 for anxiety) and good association (gamma = 0.66 for depression, gamma=0.67 for anxiety) were found between predicted and observed course. Nevertheless, the combined predictive power of the prognostic factors remains limited. A realistic evaluation of the accuracy of the PCP prognosis should take this limited predictability into account.

Ethanol exerts biphasic effects on behavior, stimulant at low doses and depressant at higher doses. In the present study we used two mouse genetic models to investigate the relationships among activating and depressant responses to alcohol. The first model was a panel of nine isogenic genotypes. FAST and SLOW mice, selectively bred for high and low ethanol-induced motor activation, respectively, were used as a second model. We used loss of righting reflex to assess initial sensitivity and acute functional tolerance to a hypnotic dose of ethanol (3 g/kg, 20% v/v). Blood ethanol concentration at the onset of loss of righting reflex was used as an estimate of initial sensitivity, while the difference between concentration values at the recovery and loss of righting represented an acute functional tolerance score. Mean initial sensitivity and acute functional tolerance values of the nine strains were correlated with a previously obtained measure of ethanol-induced locomotor activation. Activation correlated significantly with both initial sensitivity (rg = 0.80; P &lt; 0.05) and acute functional tolerance (rg = 0.77; P &lt; 0.05). Thus, inbred genotypes that were activated more by a low dose of ethanol were also more sensitive to and developed more acute tolerance to a high dose. FAST mice had initial sensitivity values similar to those of SLOW mice, but developed more pronounced tolerance, indicating that ethanol-induced activation and acute functional tolerance may be regulated by some common genetic mechanisms. In summary, these results supported a genetic association between ethanol-induced activation and rapid development of tolerance.
With the advent of recombinant DNA methodology, it has become possible to dissect the molecular mechanisms of complex traits, including brain function and behaviour. The increasing amount of available information on the genomes of mammalian organisms, including our own, has facilitated this research. The present review focuses on a somewhat neglected area of genetics, one that involves the study of inbred mouse strains. It is argued that the use of inbred mice is complementary to transgenic approaches in the analysis of molecular mechanisms of complex traits. Whereas transgenic technology allows one to manipulate a single gene and investigate the in vivo effects of highly specific, artificially induced mutations, the study of inbred mouse strains should shed light on the roles of naturally occurring allelic variants in brain function and behaviour. Systematic characterization of the behavioural, electrophysiological, neurochemical, and neuroanatomical properties of a large number of inbred strains is required to elucidate mechanisms of mammalian brain function and behaviour. In essence, a 'mouse phenome' project is needed, entailing the construction of databases to investigate possible causal relationships amongst the phenotypical characteristics. This review focuses on electrophysiological and behavioural characterization of mouse strains. Nevertheless, it is emphasized that the full potential of the analysis of inbred mouse strains may be attained if techniques of numerous disciplines, including gene expression profiling, biochemical analysis, and quantitative trait loci (QTL) mapping, to name but a few, are also included.
Molecular mediators of ischemic brain injury include intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), involved in the alteration of blood-brain barrier permeability and induced in astroglial cultures by tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). Hyperglycemia is known to aggravate in vivo ischemic brain damage, while treatment with sorbitol shows benefit in reducing vasogenic brain edema. This study investigated whether a culture medium carbohydrate source could alter the astrocyte production of MMP-9 and ICAM-1 in vitro. The growth of astrocytes in 12.5 mM glucose, 25 mM glucose, or 25 mM sorbitol for 14 days did not alter cellular release of lactate dehydrogenase, uptake of Trypan blue, or surface expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). ICAM-1 levels were similar in astrocytes grown in glucose or sorbitol both under basal conditions and after TNF-alpha stimulation for 48 h. In contrast, levels of proMMP-9 released from astrocytes cultured for 14 days in 25 mM sorbitol reached only 55-28% of those obtained from cultures in 25 mM glucose after stimulation with 1,000 U/ml (P = 0.05) or 5,000 U/ml (P &lt; 0.025) TNF-alpha, respectively. Limiting the duration of pre-stimulation sorbitol exposure to 48 h resulted in lower proMMP-9 levels than in glucose cultures after 5,000, but not 1,000, U/ml TNF-alpha, and differences were not significant when sorbitol exposure was further reduced to 24 h. Incubation in mixed glucose/sorbitol media did not affect the release of proMMP-9. These findings suggest that MMP-9 production may be increased in astrocytes as a consequence of glucose metabolism, which can be avoided by growth in sorbitol alone.
Multi-factorial inheritance combines genetic and environmental effects. Each factor contributes a relatively small part to the overall phenotype. Multi-factorial multi-genetic illnesses are usually divided into two categories: 1. Continuous variation of the normal distribution--phenotypes that can be measured within the normal scale (i.e. blood pressure). A normal distribution is obtained and the mean is in the middle. 2. Multi-factorial threshold trait--a threshold separates between the existence or absence of the phenotype. The curve of distribution obtained only predicts sensitivity for the illness rather than it's existence, since the illness appears only beyond a specific threshold, which represents a specific combination of defected genes. Mental illnesses (psychoses, affective disorders and neuroses) are multi-factorial illnesses, affected at a level of approximately 50% by inheritance. These diseases are not inherited in a simple Mendelian way, and, most probably, many genes are involved. Today, there is still no biochemical or molecular marker for any of the mental illnesses, and diagnosis of patients is obtained according to behavioral accepted scales. The aim of behavioral genetics is to understand the interaction between genes and behavioral variability among individuals. Most behaviors are complex, and when a genetic influence is observed, we can not point at a single responsible gene. Behavioral genetics targets to identify multiple genes and to understand the contribution of each of them to a specific behavioral trait. Methods to study multi-gene diseases include linkage analysis, family studies, twin and adoption studies, search for candidate genes affected by drug therapy of the patients, analysis of candidate genes using knockout mice and SNP's, methods that identify the effect of specific genes on behavior by QTL, and gene expression using DNA differential display and DNA microarray chips. The present review summarizes and exemplifies these issues.

We describe the use of anatomically informed basis functions (AIBF) in the analysis of multisubject functional imaging studies. AIBF are used to specify an anatomically informed spatial model that embodies anatomical knowledge for the statistical analysis of neuroimaging data. In a previous communication, we showed how AIBF can be used to incorporate prior anatomical constraints in single subject functional magnetic resonance image (fMRI) analyses to augment their anatomical precision. In this paper, we extend AIBF such that it can be applied to multisubject studies using fMRI or PET. The key concept is that, after spatial normalization, a canonical cortical surface can be used to generate a forward model of signal sources for all subjects. By estimating the hemodynamic signal in this canonical AIBF-space and then projecting it back into the voxel-space, one effectively extracts functional activity that is smooth, within and only within, the cortical sheet while attenuating other components unrelated to the physiological process of interest. The ensuing procedure can be considered as a highly non-stationary, anisotropic anatomically informed [de]convolution or smoothing. It is shown that this procedure offers various advantages compared to existing conventional methods for the analysis of multisubject studies, in particular it is more sensitive to underlying activations.
In positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data sets, the number of variables is larger than the number of observations. This fact makes application of multivariate linear model analysis difficult, except if a reduction of the data matrix dimension is performed prior to the analysis. The reduced data set, however, will in general not be normally distributed and therefore, the usual multivariate tests will not be necessarily applicable. This problem has not been adequately discussed in the literature concerning multivariate linear analysis of brain imaging data. No theoretical foundation has been given to support that the null distributions of the tests are as claimed. Our study addresses this issue by introducing a method of constructing test statistics that follow the same distributions as when the data matrix is normally distributed. The method is based on the invariance of certain tests over a large class of distributions of the data matrix. This implies that the method is very general and can be applied for different reductions of the data matrix. As an illustration we apply a test statistic constructed by the method now presented to test a multivariate hypothesis on a PET data set. The test rejects the null hypothesis of no significant differences in measured brain activity between two conditions. The effect responsible for the rejection of the hypothesis is characterized using canonical variate analysis (CVA) and compared with the result obtained by using univariate regression analysis for each voxel and statistical inference based on size of activations. The results obtained from CVA and the univariate method are similar.
The understanding of brain networks becomes increasingly the focus of current research. In the context of functional magnetic resonance imagery (fMRI) data of the human brain, networks have been mostly detected using standard clustering approaches. In this work, we present a new method of detecting functional networks using fMRI data. The novelty of this method is that these networks have the property that every network member is closely connected with every other member. This definition might to be better suited to model important aspects of brain activity than standard cluster definitions. The algorithm that we present here is based on a concept from theoretical biology called &quot;replicator dynamics.&quot;
The aim of this investigation was to study the methylation of quercetin and fisetin, 2 chemically related flavonoids, in human liver and to this purpose, an assay was set-up to measure the rates of quercetin and fisetin methylation in human liver. The methylation rates (pmol/min/mg) of quercetin and fisetin were measured in 10 liver samples and the mean +/- SD and the median were 170+/-30 and 177 (quercetin) and 183+/-15 and 178 (fisetin). The rates of quercetin and fisetin methylation were not different (p = 0.283). The fold of variation among samples was 2 (quercetin) and 1.3 (fisetin). Methyltransferase towards quercetin and fisetin followed Michaelis-Menten kinetics, and the Km values were 2.6+/-0.3 (quercetin) and 8.6+/-0.7 microM (fisetin, p = 0.009) and the Vmax values were 187+/-20 (quercetin) and 276+/-33 pmol/min/mg (fisetin, p = 0.009). Two, 4 and 8 microl of red Chianti wine added to the incubation mixture reduced the rate of quercetin methylation to 75+/-4%, 65+/-9% and 59+/-9%, respectively, and that of fisetin methylation to 62+/-3%, 51+/-3% and 44+/-4%, respectively. In conclusion, quercetin and fisetin are methylated in human liver and their rates of methylation have a limited variation among subjects.

Body movements in man are frequently observed in relation to musical rhythms. In this study we have investigated the effect of strongly rhythmic music on corticospinal drive to the ankle extensor and flexor muscles involved in foot tapping. Surface electromyographic (EMG) recordings were made from tibialis anterior (TA) and lateral gastrocnemius (LGN) muscles in 12 normal subjects. Rock music with a strong rhythmic beat or white noise was played. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was delivered to the motor cortex in time with the music to produce motor evoked potentials (MEPs) in both muscles while relaxed. During white noise trials nine subjects showed a significant correlation of MEP areas in TA with LGN, compared with only three subjects during music. Overall, there was a significant decrease in the correlation coefficient during music. We conclude that correlated variations in MEP areas between the muscles seen during white noise can be destroyed in the presence of music. This may be due to sub-threshold variations in corticospinal excitability to ankle extensors and flexors, which are time-locked to the musical beat but out of phase with one another.
During the last decade the role of high frequency EEG activity in the 'binding phenomenon' was discovered. It was supposed that this phenomenon provided the integration between different brain structures underlying higher nervous functions and possibly even consciousness [Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 90 (1993) 2078; Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 18 (1995) 555; J. Neurosci. V 16 (1996) 4240; Am. Physiol. Soc. (1998) 1567; Induced Rhythms in the Brain (1992) 425; NeuroReport 8 (1997) 531; Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 94 (1997) 12198]. Schizophrenia is considered as a disorder of the integration between different brain regions [Review of Psychiatry 18 (1999a) 29; Conceptual Advances in Russian Neuroscience: Complex Brain Functions (1999) 151; Brain Res. Rev. 31 (2000) 301], and in the present work we have studied cortical connectivity, focusing on those connections which are maintained by high frequency EEG-rhythm (20-40 Hz). The results showed a high degree of biopotential synchronisation between definite cortical areas during cognitive processes in normal subjects and have evidenced significant functional connectivity disturbances in schizophrenia in this EEG frequency domain.






This study compared the urinary excretion characteristics of ethyl glucuronide (EtG) with that of ethanol, with focus on the effect of water-induced diuresis. Six healthy volunteers ingested an ethanol dose of 0.5 g/kg (range 25.0-41.5 g) as 5% (v/v) beer in 30 min and the same volume of water after 3 h. Urine collections were made before starting the experiment and at timed intervals over 31.5 h. The concentration of EtG was determined by an LC-MS method (LOQ = 0.1 mg/L). The urine samples collected immediately before starting drinking were all negative for ethanol and EtG, thus confirming that the participants had not recently ingested alcohol. Intake of beer resulted in a marked increase in excreted urine volume and a concomitant drop in creatinine concentration. The concentration of ethanol peaked at a mean value of 17 mmol/L in the 1.5-h urine collection. Except for one subject, EtG was first detectable (range 0.9-5.5 mg/L) at 1 h. Intake of water at 3 h produced another increase in urine volume and a drop in creatinine. The ethanol concentration curve was not influenced by the water diuresis, whereas this caused a distinct drop in the EtG concentration. When EtG was expressed relative to the creatinine value, this ratio was seemingly not affected by the intake of water. The ethanol concentration returned to zero at 6.5 h, whereas EtG was still detectable for up to 22.5-31.5 h, albeit at low levels in the end (&lt; 1 mg/l). Only about 0.02% of the administered dose of ethanol (on a molar basis) was recovered in the urine as EtG. The results demonstrated that EtG remains detectable in the urine for many hours after the ethanol itself has been eliminated. Moreover, it was possible to lower the concentration of EtG by drinking large amounts of water prior to voiding, whereas this strategy did not influence the EtG/creatinine ratio or the concentration of ethanol.
To clarify the role of gravity in the postnatal development of skeletal muscle, we exposed neonatal rats at 7 days of age to microgravity. After 16 days of spaceflight, tibialis anterior, plantaris, medial gastrocnemius, and soleus muscles were removed from the hindlimb musculature and examined for the expression of MyoD-family transcription factors such as MyoD, myogenin, and MRF4. For this purpose, we established a unique semiquantitative method, based on RT-PCR, using specific primers tagged with infrared fluorescence. The relative expression of MyoD in the tibialis anterior and plantaris muscles and that of myogenin in the plantaris and soleus muscles were significantly reduced (P &lt; 0.001) in the flight animals. In contrast, MRF4 expression was not changed in any muscle. These results suggest that MyoD and myogenin, but not MRF4, are sensitive to gravity-related stimuli in some skeletal muscles during postnatal development.
The chromodomain (CD) is a highly conserved motif present in a variety of animal and plant proteins, and its probable role is to assemble a variety of macromolecular complexes in chromatin. The importance of the CD to the survival of mammalian cells has been tested. Accordingly, we have ablated CD function using two single-chain intracellular Fv (scFv) fragments directed against non-overlapping epitopes within the HP1 CD motif. The scFv fragments can recognize both CD motifs of HP1 and Polycomb (Pc) in vitro and, when expressed intracellularly, interact with and dislodge the HP1 protein(s) from their heterochromatin localization in vivo. Mouse and human fibroblasts expressing anti-chromodomain scFv fragments show a cell-lethal phenotype and an apoptotic morphology becomes apparent soon after transfection. The mechanism of cell death appears to be p53 independent, and the cells are only partly rescued by incubation with the wide spectrum caspase inhibitor Z-VAD fmk. We conclude that expression of anti-chromodomain intracellular antibodies is sufficient to trigger a p53-independent apoptotic pathway that is only partly dependent on the known Z-VAD-inhibitable caspases, suggesting that CD function is essential for cell survival.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide and adrenomedullin belong to a structurally related neuropeptide family and are potent vasodilators expressed in the trigeminovascular system. The molecular identity of receptors for these proteins has only recently been elucidated. Central to functional binding of these neuropeptides is the G-protein-coupled receptor, the calcitonin receptor-like receptor (CRLR), whose cell surface expression and pharmacology is determined by coexpression of a receptor activity-modifying protein (RAMP). CRLR combined with RAMP binds calcitonin gene-related peptide with high affinity, whereas CRLR coexpression with RAMP2 or -3 confers high-affinity binding of adrenomedullin. The authors investigated the expression of these receptor components in human cerebral vasculature to further characterize neuropeptide receptor content and the potential functions of these receptors. Localization has been carried out using specific antisera raised against immunogenic peptide sequences that were subsequently applied using modern immunohistochemical techniques and confocal microscopy. The results are the first to show the presence of these receptor component proteins in human middle meningeal, middle cerebral, pial, and superficial temporal vessels, and confirm that both calcitonin gene-related peptide and adrenomedullin receptors may arise from the coassembly of RAMPs with CRLR in these vessel types. These novel data advance the understanding of the molecular function of the trigeminovascular system, its potential role in vascular headache disorders such as migraine, and may lead to possible ways in which future synthetic ligands may be applied to manage these disorders.
Tremendous achievements in neuroscience over the past three decades have provided a solid foundation for basic and clinical research in neurotransplantation. Restorative neurosurgical procedures will develop from different directions, and it is likely that a combination of approaches will be necessary to maximise patient outcomes. We believe that cerebral infarction and selected neurodegenerative disorders are appropriate initial candidates for this research.

The venom of the parasitoid wasp Ampulex compressa induces long-lasting hypokinesia in the cockroach prey. Previous work indicates that the venom acts in the subesophageal ganglion to indirectly affect modulation of thoracic circuits for locomotion. However, the target of the venom in the subesophageal ganglion, and the mechanism by which the venom achieves its effects are as yet unknown. While the stung cockroaches appear generally lethargic, not all behaviors were affected, indicating that the venom targets specific motor systems and not behavior in general. Stung cockroaches were observed &quot;freezing&quot; in abnormal positions. Reserpine, which depletes monoamines, mimics the behavioral effects of the venom. We treated cockroaches with antagonists to dopamine and octopamine receptors, and found that the dopamine system is required for normal escape response. Dopamine injection induces prolonged grooming in normal cockroaches, but not in stung, suggesting that the venom is affecting dopamine receptors, or targets downstream of these receptors, in the subesophageal ganglion. This dopamine blocking effect fades slowly over the course of several weeks, similar to the time course of recovery from hypokinesia. The similarity in the time courses suggests that the mechanism underlying the hypokinesia may be the block of the dopamine receptors.
Experiments examined differential coding of acoustic particle motion axis in the auditory midbrain of goldfish. Animals were exposed to vibratory stimuli varying in axis orientation as action potentials were recorded from single units in the central neuropil of nucleus centralis in the torus semicircularis. Response magnitudes as a function of stimulation axis were visualized in three dimensional plots called directional response profiles. These are generally comparable to directional responses observed among primary saccular afferents in having substantially vertical orientations. Distortions in shape from the peripheral patterns indicate neural information processing. A three-dimensional model was used to evaluate the hypothesis that responses in the auditory midbrain reflect the convergence of excitatory and inhibitory primary afferent-like responses. Model afferent inputs were generated and combined arithmetically. This analysis gives insight into the mechanisms of information processing that appear to occur in brainstem nuclei. The lack of diversity in best axis directions suggests that this mechanism alone cannot account for directional hearing abilities in this species. The roles that this directional representation and processing may play in directional hearing and sound source localization are not yet clear. Implications of these data on current models of fish directional hearing are discussed.
The population response of rapidly-adapting (RA) fibers is one component of the physiological substrate of the sense of touch. Herein, we describe a computational scheme based on the population-response model by K.O. Johnson (J. Neurophysiol. 37: 48-72, 1974) which we extended by permitting the capability to include the spatial distributions of receptors in the glabrous skin linked to RA fibers. The hypothetical cases simulated were rectangular, uniformly random and proximo-distally Gaussian distributions. Each spatial organization produced qualitatively distinct population-response profiles that also varied due to stimulus parameters. The effects of stimulus amplitude, average innervation density and contactor-probe location were studied by considering various response measures: number of active fibers, summated firing rate and the average firing rate of a subset of the modeled population. The outcome of the measures were statistically compared among simulated anatomical distributions. The response is the same for rectangular and uniformly random distributions, both of which have a homogeneous innervation density. However, the Gaussian distribution produced statistically different responses when the measure was not averaged over the subset population which represented the receptive field of a higher-order neuron. These results indicate that, as well as stimulus parameters, the anatomical organization is a significant determinant of the population response. Therefore, reconstructing population activity for testing psychophysical hypotheses must presently be done with care until the organization of the receptors within the skin has been clarified.
Multielectrode arrays allow recording of the activity of many single neurons, from which correlations can be calculated. The functional roles of correlations can be revealed by measures of the information conveyed by neuronal activity; a simple formula has been shown to discriminate the information transmitted by individual spikes from the positive or negative contributions due to correlations (Panzeri et al., 1999). Here, this analysis, previously applied to recordings from small ensembles, is developed further by considering a model of a large ensemble, in which correlations among the signal and noise components of neuronal firing are small in absolute value and entirely random in origin. Even such small random correlations are shown to lead to large possible synergy or redundancy, whenever the time window for extracting information from neuronal firing extends to the order of the mean interspike interval. In addition, a sample of recordings from rat barrel cortex illustrates the mean time window at which such &quot;corrections&quot; dominate when correlations are, as often in the real brain, neither random nor small. The presence of this kind of correlations for a large ensemble of cells restricts further the time of validity of the expansion.
Characterization of the intrinsic dynamics of isolated retinal bipolar cells by a whole-cell patch-clamp technique combined with estimation of effective impulse responses across a range of mean injected currents reveals strikingly adaptive behavior. At resting potential, bipolar cells' effective impulse response is slow, high gain, and low pass. Depolarization speeds up response, decreases gain, and, in most cells, induces bandpass behavior. This adaptive behavior involves two K(+) currents. The delayed-rectifier accounts for the observed gain reduction, speed increase, and bandpass behavior. The A-channel further shortens the impulse responses but suppresses bandpass features. Computer simulations of model neurons with a delayed-rectifier and varying A-channel conductances reveal that impulse responses largely reflect the flux of electrical charge through the two K(+) channels. The A-channel broadens the frequency response and preempts the action of the delayed-rectifier, thereby reducing the associated bandpass features. Admixtures of the two K(+) channels produce the observed variety of dynamics of retinal bipolar cells.
In order to determine the influence of poliovirus receptor (PVR) expression on poliovirus cell tropism and neuropathogenesis, two transgenic (tg) mouse models were produced in which PVR was expressed under the transcriptional control of the human PVR gene promoter (hg-PVR mice) and the CAG promoter (CAG-PVR mice). Then the pathogenicity of poliovirus after intracerebral inoculation of the type 1 Mahoney strain was compared. These showed completely different clinical and pathological changes. In the former, the expression of PVR in neurons in the central nervous system (CNS) conferred susceptibility to poliovirus, and a paralytic disease that resembled the human poliomyelitis occurred. In the latter, PVR expression was detected in glial and ependymal cells in addition to the neurons. Paralysis of the limbs and death were rarely observed and mice survived without showing substantial clinical abnormality. Histopathological examination revealed that glial and ependymal cells also became susceptible to poliovirus infection. Poliovirus antigens were mainly detected in ependymal and glial cells and hippocampal neurons near the lateral ventricles in the brain, but were not frequently detected in neurons in the brainstem unlike in the hg-PVR mice. The levels of viral antigens and virus recovered from the CNS of CAG-PVR mice began to decrease as early as 2 days after inoculation, which suggested induction of a fast immune response. These results suggest that the neuropathogenicity of poliovirus changes markedly depending on the specific expression of the PVR molecule in the CNS.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a functional gastrointestinal disorder characterized by abdominal discomfort or pain associated with changes in stool frequency and/or stool form. It is the most common gastrointestinal disorder in both primary care and gastroenterology clinics. IBS is associated with high health care costs, disability, work absenteeism, and significant morbidity. In this article, we review the gender differences in epidemiology, diagnostic criteria, physiology, psychological features, and responses to therapy of IBS.

Color mutations occur frequently among rodents. Here we describe a blond coat color mutation in the meadow vole (Microtus pennsylvanicus) that arose in a captive breeding colony established from wild-caught animals from southern Illinois. The blond coat coloration results from changes in the color and distribution of pigments in the hair. The mutation is monogenic autosomal recessive.
Difficulties in demonstrating sex steroid receptors in the human brain by immunohistochemistry (IHC) may depend on postmortem delay and a long fixation time. The effect of different postmortem times was therefore studied in rat brain kept in the skull at room temperature for 0, 6, or 24 hr after death. After a long fixation for 20 days, hypothalami were embedded in paraffin and sections were immunohistochemically stained for androgen receptor (AR), estrogen receptor-alpha (ER), or progesterone receptor (PR). Retrieving the antigenic sites by microwave pretreatment was essential to obtain successful IHC in all groups studied. In general, immunoreactivity was restricted to the cell nuclei. However, the intensity of the staining appeared to be strongly dependent on the different receptor antigens and postmortem time. Both AR and ER but not PR immunoreactivity were decreased after immersion-fixation compared to the perfused sections at time point zero. In brains fixed by immersion, all three receptors decreased gradually with increasing postmortem time, and ER became hardly detectable after 24 hr postmortem. The results of these experiments show that, with the protocol used, postmortem variables and lengthy fixation do not, in principle, prevent sex steroid receptor IHC in human material. The outcome of the immunostaining, however, might be strongly dependent on the epitopes and/or antibody used.
Overexpression of the inducible cyclooxygenase (COX-2) and inducible NO synthase (iNOS) in activated brain macrophages (microglia) and astrocytes appears central to many neuroinflammatory conditions. 15-Deoxy-Delta(12,14)-PGJ(2) (15d-PGJ(2)) is a ligand for the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)gamma. It has been proposed as an inhibitor of microglial activation, based on the study of iNOS down-regulation in rodent microglia. Because iNOS induction after cytokine activation remains controversial in human microglia, we examined the effect of 15d-PGJ(2) and other PPAR agonists on human microglia and astrocytes, using COX-2 induction as an index of activation. We found that PPAR alpha ligands (clofibrate and WY14643) enhanced IL-1 beta-induced COX-2 expression in human astrocytes and microglia, while inhibiting IL-1 beta plus IFN-gamma induction of iNOS in astrocytes. This is the first description of an inhibition of iNOS uncoupled from that of COX-2. 15d-PGJ(2) suppressed COX-2 induction in human astrocytes. It prevented NF-kappa B binding to the COX-2 promoter through a new pathway that is the repression of NF-kappa Bp50 induction by IL-1 beta. In contrast, 15d-PGJ(2) increased c-Jun and c-Fos DNA-binding activity in astrocytes, which may result in the activation of other inflammatory pathways. In human microglia, no effect of 15d-PGJ(2) on COX-2 and NF-kappa Bp65/p50 induction was observed. However, the entry of 15d-PGJ(2) occurred in microglia because STAT-1 and c-Jun expression was modulated. Our data suggest the existence of novel pathways mediated by 15d-PGJ(2) in human astrocytes. They also demonstrate that, unlike astrocytes and peripheral macrophages or rodent brain macrophages, human microglia are not subject to the anti-inflammatory effect of 15d-PGJ(2) in terms of COX-2 inhibition.
Over 100 mutations of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) have been associated with human disease. The phenotypic manifestation of mtDNA mutations is extremely broad, from oligosymptomatic patients with isolated deafness, diabetes, ophthalmoplegia, etc., to complex encephalomyopathic disorders that may include dementia, seizures, ataxia, stroke-like episodes, etc. The genotype variants are also wide, with rearrangements (deletions, duplications) and point mutations affecting protein coding genes, tRNAs and rRNAs. There are some broad genotype/phenotype correlations but also substantial overlap. The pathogenetic mechanisms involved in the expression of mtDNA mutations are still not yet fully understood. More recently, mutations of nuclear genes encoding subunits of the respiratory chain, particularly those of complex I, have been identified. These predominantly, but not exclusively, involve infant onset disease with early death. Recently it has become clear that the function of the respiratory chain may be impaired by mutations affecting other mitochondrial proteins or as a secondary phenomenon to other intracellular biochemical derangements. Examples include Friedreich ataxia where a mutation of a nuclear encoded protein (frataxin), probably involved in iron homeostasis in mitochondria, results in severe deficiency of the respiratory chain in a pattern indicative of free radical mediated damage. Mutations of nuclear encoded proteins involved in cytochrome oxidase assembly and maintenance have been characterised and, as predicted, are associated with severe deficiency of cytochrome oxidase and, most frequently, Leigh syndrome. Defects of intracellular metabolism, with particularly excess-free radical generation including nitric oxide or peroxynitrite, may cause secondary damage to the respiratory chain. This is probably of relevance in Huntington disease, motor neuron disease (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) and Wilson disease. These disorders seem to have defective oxidative phosphorylation as a common pathway in their pathogenesis and it may be that treatments designed to improve respiratory chain function may ameliorate the progression of these disorders.
Amiloride is known to inhibit the taste response of vertebrates to salt by blocking the amiloride-sensitive sodium channel. In this study, we investigated electrophysiologically the effect of amiloride on the taste response of the fleshfly Boettcherisca peregrina. When 0.5 mM amiloride was included in taste solutions, the response of the salt receptor cell (salt response) to sodium chloride (NaCl) was not depressed but those of the sugar receptor cell (sugar responses) to sucrose, glucose, fructose, L-valine (L-Val) and L-phenylalanine (L-Phe) were strongly depressed. An inhibitory effect of amiloride on the concentration-response relationship for both sucrose and L-Phe was clearly revealed, but not at high concentrations of sucrose. After pretreatment of a chemosensory seta with 0.15 mM amiloride for 10 min, the salt response to NaCl was not affected. On the other hand, the sugar responses to sucrose, fructose, L-Val and L-Phe were depressed just after amiloride pretreatment. The sugar response to adenosine 5'-diphosphate (ADP) mixed with 0.5 mM amiloride was not depressed, but the response to ADP alone was depressed after amiloride pretreatment. It was therefore observed that amiloride depressed the responses to all stimulants that react with each of the receptor sites of the sugar receptor cell.
Caloric restriction (CR) is the only known intervention demonstrated to retard a great variety of aging processes, extend median and maximum life-span, and decrease the incidence of age-associated diseases in mammals. Paralleling findings from rodent studies, studies in rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) suggest that CR may retard many age-sensitive parameters in primates. A recent study in rhesus monkeys showed age-related dysregulation of cytokine levels. Specifically, age-related increases in interleukin-10 (IL-10) and IL-6 proteins were observed in supernatants from lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) protein exhibited an age-related decrease in phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-stimulated PBMCs. To investigate effects of CR on age-related changes in cytokine production, we obtained PBMCs from control and CR rhesus monkeys aged 6-7 and 22-25 years. We evaluated IL-10 and IL-6 protein and gene expression after exposure to LPS and IFN-gamma protein and gene expression after PHA stimulation. The results revealed significantly higher levels of IFN-gamma protein and gene expression in aged monkeys on CR for 2 years compared with controls. No significant CR effects were observed on IL-10 and IL-6 protein levels. IFN-gamma plays an important role in the initial defense mechanism against viral and microbial disease and cancer. Altered regulation of IFN-gamma in old CR rhesus monkeys may be a key factor in reducing cancer incidence and other age-associated diseases.

On June 24-26, 2001, the first meeting of the White Matter Study Group (WMSG) of the International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine (ISMRM) was held in Bordeaux, France. This paper is the report of the consensus reached among the delegates of the meeting on how to use magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to make an early diagnosis of multiple sclerosis (MS), to measure MS activity accurately and reliably, and to monitor the effect of treatment on disease evolution.
Protein identification is a critical step in proteomics, and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOFMS) plays an important role in that identification. Polytetrafluoroethylene (Teflon) was tested as a new MALDI sample support to improve protein identification. The tryptic peptides obtained from a model protein were bound to the surface of a modified MALDI sample holder via the hydrophobic interactions that occur between the Teflon surface and the peptide ion-pairs, and the affinity of alpha-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid for the peptides. During that surface-binding step, the peptide mixture was also desalted and concentrated. A greater number of matched peptides and a larger sequence coverage were obtained for the proteins when Teflon was used as the sample support compared with conventional sample preparation methods and a stainless-steel surface. In addition, the characterization of a small amount of protein was improved with Teflon. Nine silver-stained protein spots obtained from 2-D gel of a human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) proteome were identified by this method. Among the nine protein spots, peptide 6:c3c fragment and procollagen c-proteinase enhancer were not annotated in any published 2-D map of human CSF. A Teflon MALDI sample support is a low-cost, simple, and effective method that can be used to improve the quality of the MALDI mass spectrum of a complex tryptic peptide mixture, and to achieve a higher level of reliability and success in protein identification.
We report a case of a Hispanic male presenting with acute onset of bilateral lower extremity weakness, without any antecedent viral or bacterial illness, dietary changes, infiltrative orbitopathy, diffuse goiter, infiltrative dermopathy, and family history of periodic paralysis, who was later found to have Graves' disease. This demonstrates a rare case of periodic paralysis as the initial presentation of hyperthyroidism. Thyrotoxic hypokalemic periodic paralysis is common in Asian and Hispanic individuals and uncommon in whites and African Americans.
Platelet monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity has been shown to be inversely associated with personality traits such as sensation seeking, impulsiveness and extraversion. Those personality traits have also been linked to vulnerability for substance abuse, e.g. tobacco smoking and early onset or &quot;type 2&quot; alcoholism. Compounds in cigarette smoke have been shown to be inhibitors of MAO, which has led several authors to claim that there is no association between alcoholism, which is the most studied psychiatric condition, and platelet MAO if the effect of smoking is removed. With regard to the association between personality and platelet MAO, authors have in general been cautious. In the present paper we describe a number of results which show that there is such an association, both in clinical series if the effect of smoking is removed and in series where smoking have never taken place. A cornerstone in this regard is the significant association between platelet MAO activity and both behaviour/personality, voluntary alcohol intake and biochemical measures of CNS serotonergic activity in non-human primates. Strong evidence that the regulation of platelet MAO activity takes place on a transcriptional level with an involvement of transcription factors, likely to also regulate central monoaminergic activity, are presented.
Clinical neuroscience enters a new era in understanding the pathophysiology of depressive illness and the mode of action of antidepressant therapy. While elucidation of factors that lead to depression is still in its infancy, biochemical malfunctions appear to have well defined morphological correlations, especially in the hippocampus. Hippocampus is one of the main sites in the brain habouring neural stem cells. Cytokines and neurotrophic factors like brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) play a pivotal role in neural plasticity and potentially influence growth and migration of these progenitors. Not surprisingly, antidepressant drugs interfering with neurotransmitters such as serotonin (5-HT) influence neurotrophins like BDNF, since 5-HT homeostasis is essential for brain development, neurogenesis, and neuroplasticity as well as complex behavior. In this review, the new area of neural stem cell research and the avenues of ongoing and future research sustaining the development of novel treatments for depression will be explored.
The role of free radicals (FR) in the pathogenesis and in the progression of many diseases has been often discussed, but not widely investigated. However, the total antioxidant capacity in the serum seems to be of great evidence. Total antioxidant capacity was determined using oxygen absorbance capacity assay (ORAC) in serum of patients suffering from depression, schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease (AD), anorexia nervosa, Parkinson's disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Aids-encephalopathy, diabetic polyneuropathy (PNP), cardiomyopathy (CM), renal disease, and healthy individuals as controls (C). The results showed that the total antioxidant capacity in serum decreased significantly (p &lt; 0.01) by 24, 20, 13, and 17% for anorexia nervosa, Aids-encephalopathy, PNP and CM respectively. In serum of patients with renal disease significantly elevated antioxidant capacity was found. The data indicated that increased oxidative stress can be involved in the pathogenesis or in the progression of PNP and CM. Decrease of serum antioxidant capacity in patients with anorexia nervosa and Aids-encephalopathy are probably due primarily to malnutrition and secondly to insufficient antioxidant and immune system. In renal disease, the accumulation of urea in serum seems to be responsible for high antioxidant capacity. In contrast, there were no changes in PD, AD, depression syndrome and schizophrenia.
We investigated, with the aid of a radio-enzymatic method, the developmental changes in the activity of 85 kDa calcium-dependent cytosolic phospholipase A(2) (cPLA(2)) in pre-term embryonic rat brain and in primary cultures of cortical neurons. PLA(2) activity was highest in the brains of 18 day embryos (E18) and gradually decreased toward birth (E18 through E21). No significant differences were found regarding cPLA(2) activity in different topographies, namely hippocampus, cortex, and total brain. In primary cultures of E18/E19 cortical neurons, cPLA(2) activity was higher than the respective embryonic tissue activity, straight from early development. In vitro cPLA(2) activity peaked on the 4th day in culture, and decreased after the six days of incubation, when the cultures became mature. This result reinforces previous evidence that cPLA(2) plays an important role in the early development of the nervous system, and further suggests that it may be implicated in neurodevelopmental processes and in in vitro neuronal survival. We believe that we have produced a useful model for the tissue culture study of PLA(2) metabolism and biochemistry, which can be further addressed to the investigation of the biology of neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric disorders.
The sensitivity of the developing central nervous system (CNS) to the deleterious effects of ethanol has been well documented, with exposure leading to a wide array of CNS abnormalities. Certain CNS regions are susceptible to ethanol during well-defined critical periods. In the neonatal rodent cerebellum, a profound loss of Purkinje cells is found when ethanol is administered early in the postnatal period [on postnatal days 4 or 5 (P4-5)], while this neuronal population is much less vulnerable to similar ethanol insult slightly later in the postnatal period (P7-9). Prior studies have shown that neurotrophic factors (NTFs) can be altered by ethanol exposure, and both in vitro and in vivo studies have provided evidence that such substances have the potential to protect against ethanol neurotoxicity. In the present study, it was hypothesized that depletion of an NTF shown to be important to cerebellar development would exacerbate ethanol-related effects within this region, when administration was confined to a normally ethanol-resistant ontogenetic period. For this study, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene-deleted (&quot;knockout&quot;) and wild-type mice were exposed to ethanol via vapor inhalation or to control conditions during the normally ethanol-resistant period (P7 and P8). Two hours after termination of exposure on P8, analyses were made of body weight, crown-rump length, and brain weight. In subsequent investigations, the number and density of Purkinje cells and the volume of cerebellar lobule I were determined, and the expression of anti- and pro-apoptotic proteins and the activities of endogenous antioxidants were assessed. It was found that the BDNF knockouts were significantly smaller than the wild-type animals, with smaller brain weights. Purkinje cell number and density was reduced in ethanol-treated knockout, but not wild-type animals, and the volume of lobule I was significantly decreased in the gene-deleted animals compared to wild-types, but was not further affected by ethanol treatment. The loss of Purkinje cells in the BDNF knockouts was accompanied by decreases in anti-apoptotic Bcl-xl and in phosphorylated (and hence inactivated) pro-apoptotic Bad, and reduced activity of the antioxidant glutathione reductase, while the antioxidant catalase was increased by ethanol treatment in this genotype. In the wild-type animals, anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 was decreased by ethanol treatment, but the pro-apoptotic c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) was markedly diminished by ethanol exposure, while the activity of the protective antioxidant superoxide dismutase (SOD) was significantly enhanced. These results suggest that neurotrophic factors have the capacity to protect against ethanol neurotoxicity, perhaps by regulation of expression of molecules critical to neuronal survival such as elements of the apoptosis cascade and protective antioxidants.
In the mammalian brain, adult neurogenesis has been found to occur primarily in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus (DG) and to be influenced by both exogenous and endogenous factors. In the present study, we examined the effects of male exposure or social isolation on neurogenesis in adult female prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster). Newly proliferated cells labeled by a cell proliferation marker, 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU), were found in the SVZ and DG, as well as in other brain areas, such as the amygdala, hypothalamus, neocortex, and caudate/putamen. Two days of male exposure significantly increased the number of BrdU-labeled cells in the amygdala and hypothalamus in comparison to social isolation. Three weeks later, group differences in BrdU labeling generally persisted in the amygdala, whereas in the hypothalamus, the male-exposed animals had more BrdU-labeled cells than did the female-exposed animals. In the SVZ, 2 days of social isolation increased the number of BrdU-labeled cells compared to female exposure, but this difference was no longer present 3 weeks later. We have also found that the vast majority of the BrdU-labeled cells contained a neuronal marker, indicating neuronal phenotypes. Finally, group differences in the number of cells undergoing apoptosis were subtle and did not seem to account for the observed differences in BrdU labeling. Together, our data indicate that social environment affects neuron proliferation in a stimulus- and site-specific manner in adult female prairie voles.
We have recently developed a rapid protocol involving NT2 cell aggregation and treatment with retinoic acid (RA) to produce terminally differentiated CNS neurons. As a first step to explore the functional roles of cell-cycle regulatory proteins in the process of neuronal differentiation, the expression profiles of cyclin-dependent kinases (Cdks) and their regulators were examined in NT2 cells following treatment with RA. One of the Cdks, Cdk5, has been demonstrated to affect the process of neuronal differentiation and suggested to play an important role in development of the nervous system. We found that the expression of Cdk5 was gradually increased, while its activators (p35 and p39) as well as Cdk5 kinase activity were induced in NT2 cells during the process of neuronal differentiation. Moreover, both p35 and p39 were localized along the axons and varicosity-like structures of differentiated NT2 neurons. Taken together, our results demonstrated that NT2 cells provide a good in vitro model system to examine signaling pathways involved in the regulation of Cdk5 activators and to elucidate the functional roles of Cdk5 in neuronal differentiation.
Glutathione is a key cellular antioxidant that is contained in both cytoplasmic and mitochondrial compartments. Previous investigations indicate that depletion of the mitochondrial pool of glutathione can greatly reduce cell viability. In the present investigation, the effect of focal cerebral ischemia on total (reduced plus oxidized) glutathione in mitochondria was assessed using a rat model of middle cerebral artery occlusion. Total glutathione was substantially decreased in mitochondria prepared from severely ischemic focal tissue in both the cerebral cortex and striatum at 2 h of vessel occlusion and persisted for at least the first 3 h of reperfusion. The loss of mitochondrial glutathione was not associated with decreases of the total tissue glutathione content and was not due to the formation of mixed disulfides with mitochondrial proteins. Thus, an imbalance between uptake and release from the mitochondria in the ischemic tissue provides the most likely explanation for the loss. Decreases in glutathione also developed in mitochondria from the moderately ischemic perifocal tissue when the period of arterial occlusion was extended to 3 h. The presence of mitochondrial glutathione depletion during ischemia showed an apparent close association with the subsequent development of tissue infarction. These findings are consistent with a role for the glutathione depletion in determining the susceptibility of brain tissue to focal ischemia.
The neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptor subtypes Y1 and Y5 are involved in the regulation of feeding and several other physiological functions in mammals. To increase our understanding of the origin and mechanisms of the complex NPY system, we report here the cloning and pharmacological characterization of receptors Y1 and Y5 in the first non-mammal, chicken (Gallus gallus). The receptors display 80-83% and 64-72% amino acid sequence identity, respectively, with their mammalian orthologues. The three endogenous ligands NPY, peptide YY (PYY) and pancreatic polypeptide (PP) have similar affinities as in mammals, i.e. NPY and PYY have subnanomolar affinity for both receptors whereas chicken PP bound with nanomolar affinity to Y5 but not to Y1. A notable difference to mammalian receptor subtypes is that the Y1 antagonist SR120819A does not bind chicken Y1, whereas BIBP3226 does. The Y5 antagonist CGP71863A binds to the chicken Y5 receptor. Anatomically, both Y1 and Y5 have high mRNA expression levels in the infundibular nucleus which is the homologous structure of the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus in mammals. These results suggest that some of the selective Y1 and Y5 antagonists developed in mammals can be used to study appetite regulation in chicken.
The hydrolysis of cyclic nucleotide second messengers takes place through multiple cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases (PDEs). The significance of this diversification is not fully understood. Here we report the differential regulation of low K(m) Ca2+-activated (PDE1C) and Ca2+-independent, rolipram-sensitive (PDE4) PDEs by protein phosphorylation in the neuroendocrine cell line AtT20. Incubation of cells with 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-cyclic AMP (CPT-cAMP) enhanced PDE4 and reduced PDE1C activity. These effects were blocked by H89 indicating mediation by cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA), furthermore in broken cell preparations PKA produced the same reciprocal changes of PDE activities. Calyculin A, an inhibitor of protein phosphatases 1 and 2 A, stimulated PDE4 and enhanced the inhibitory effect of CPT-cAMP on PDE1C. The reduction of PDE1C activity was characterized by a marked attenuation of the activation by Ca2+/calmodulin. Stimulation of PDE4 activity by CPT-cAMP or calyculin A was attributable to PDE4D3 and these effects could also be reproduced in human embryonic kidney cells expressing epitope-tagged PDE4D3. Together, these data show reciprocal regulation of PDE1C and PDE4D by PKA, which represents a novel scheme for plasticity in intracellular signalling.
This study aimed to characterize the redox interaction between 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and nitric oxide (.NO), and to assess the reductive and oxidative decay pathways of the DOPAC semiquinone originating from this interaction. The reaction between DOPAC and.NO led to the formation of the DOPAC semiquinone radical, detected by electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) and stabilized by Mg(2+), and the nitrosyl anion detected as nitrosylmyoglobin. The EPR signal corresponding to the DOPAC semiquinone was modulated as follows: (i) it was suppressed by glutathione and ascorbic acid with the formation of new EPR spectra corresponding to the glutathionyl and ascorbyl radical, respectively; (ii) it was enhanced by Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase; the enzyme also accelerated the decay of the semiquinone species to DOPAC quinone. These results are interpreted as a one-electron oxidation of DOPAC by.NO; the reductive decay of the semiquinone back to DOPAC was facilitated by reducing agents, such as glutathione and ascorbate, whereas the oxidative decay to DOPAC quinone was facilitated by superoxide dismutase. The latter effect is understood in terms of a reversible conversion of nitrosyl anion to.NO by the enzyme. The biological relevance of these reactions is also discussed in terms of the reactivity of peroxynitrite towards DOPAC as a model with implications for aerobic conditions.
A proteomics approach was used to identify the translation products of a unique synaptic model system, squid optic lobe synaptosomes. Unlike its vertebrate counterparts, this preparation is largely free of perikaryal cell fragments and consists predominantly of pre-synaptic terminals derived from retinal photoreceptor neurones. We metabolically labelled synaptosomes with [(35)S] methionine and applied two-dimensional gel electrophoresis to resolve newly synthesized proteins at high resolution. Autoradiographs of blotted two-dimensional gels revealed de novo synthesis of about 80 different proteins, 18 of which could be matched to silver-stained gels that were run in parallel. In-gel digestion of the matched spots and mass spectrometric analyses revealed the identities of various cytosolic enzymes, cytoskeletal proteins, molecular chaperones and nuclear-encoded mitochondrial proteins. A number of novel proteins (i.e. not matching with database sequences) were also detected. In situ hybridization was employed to confirm the presence of mRNA and rRNA in synaptosomes. Together, our data show that pre-synaptic endings of squid photoreceptor neurones actively synthesize a wide variety of proteins involved in synaptic functioning, such as transmitter recycling, energy supply and synaptic architecture.
We examined the role of the posterior division of the paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus (pPVTh) in habituation of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) responses to repeated restraint. Habituation refers to the decrement in HPA activity that occurs with repeated exposure to the same or homotypic stressor. To date, the pPVTh has been shown to inhibit the enhanced or facilitated HPA responses to novel, heterotypic restraint in previously chronically cold stressed rats. We hypothesized that the pPVTh also inhibits HPA activity under conditions of habituation. In the first experiment, we lesioned the pPVTh and examined adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone responses to the first or eighth restraint exposure. In sham-lesioned rats, we found lower ACTH and corticosterone responses to the eighth period of 30 min restraint compared to the first exposure, evidence for habituation. In pPVTh-lesioned rats, there was no difference in ACTH and corticosterone responses to the eighth compared to the first restraint exposure. Therefore, pPVTh lesions prevented the habituation of HPA responses to repeated restraint. In the second experiment, we examined whether habituation to restraint is observable in response to an acute, single restraint on day 28 in sham and pPVTh lesioned rats that were exposed to restraint only on days 1 through 8. In this experiment, we replicated the results from the first experiment, and found evidence that habituation to restraint can be observed weeks after chronic stress has been terminated. Furthermore, pPVTh lesions had no additional effects on HPA responses to acute stress on day 28. In summary, pPVTh lesions inhibit habituation of HPA activity to a homotypic stressor, without altering HPA responses to the first restraint. Thus, the intact pPVTh inhibits HPA activity under conditions of habituation, as well as facilitation, and represents an important regulator of HPA activity under conditions of chronic stress.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) regulates the production of testosterone via the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis and testosterone, in turn, regulates the GnRH system via negative feedback. We compared testosterone regulation of GnRH mRNA expression in four anatomically defined GnRH cell groups in juvenile and adult male Syrian hamsters, including a rostral population of GnRH cells in the tenia tecta. In situ hybridization histochemistry (ISHH) was used to measure GnRH mRNA in brains from castrated juveniles and adults treated with 0 mg or 2.5 mg testosterone pellets for one week. ISHH was performed on coronal sections using a 35S-cRNA probe generated from Syrian hamster GnRH cDNA. Testosterone treatment resulted in a significant reduction in mean area of GnRH neurones covered by silver grains within the tenia tecta, but only a trend toward decreased GnRH mRNA in the diagonal band of Broca/organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (DBB/OVLT), medial septum (MS), and caudal preoptic area (cPOA). The effects of testosterone were independent of age. Frequency distribution analyses unveiled a significant reduction in the number of heavily labelled cells following testosterone treatment within the tenia tecta and MS. Simple regression analyses revealed a significant positive correlation between plasma luteinizing hormone concentrations and GnRH mRNA only in the tenia tecta. These data indicate that, overall, GnRH mRNA is modestly reduced by testosterone, and the most robust attenuation of GnRH mRNA occurs within the tenia tecta. This is the first report to link mechanisms of steroid negative feedback with tenia tecta GnRH neurones, providing a new focus for investigating brain region-specific steroidal regulation of GnRH synthesis.
Variations in maternal care have been associated with long-term changes in neurochemistry and behaviour in adult rats. Rats receiving high levels of licking and grooming as pups are less fearful and more maternal than rats receiving low levels of maternal licking and grooming. Central pathways for oxytocin and vasopressin have been implicated in the neurobiology of anxiety and social behaviours. We assessed whether variations in maternal care were associated with differences in oxytocin receptors (OTR) or vasopressin (V1a) receptors in the brains of adult offspring. In the central nucleus of the amygdala and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, OTR binding was increased in adult females, but not adult males, that had received high levels of maternal licking and grooming as pups. Conversely, amygdala V1a receptor binding was increased in males, but not females, that had received high levels of maternal licking and grooming. These findings suggest that variations in maternal care may influence the expression of oxytocin and vasopressin receptors in a gender-specific manner.
The central mechanisms underlying diabetes-associated impotence are currently unknown. This study utilized immunolesion techniques to eliminate hindbrain catecholaminergic projections to the medial hypothalamus which have been reported to be glucoresponsive. The immunolesioned male rats had an attenuated feeding response to glucoprivic challenge. Furthermore, these lesioned rats had significantly attenuated penile reflexes. Northern blot analyses of hypothalamic oxytocin mRNA expression showed a significant increase; however, neuropeptide Y mRNA expression did not. These results suggest that hindbrain catecholaminergic neurones may alter the expression of hypothalamic neuropeptides that stimulate penile erections based upon glucoregulatory signals from the periphery.
T cell resistance towards apoptotic elimination by activation-induced cell death (AICD) might be a crucial pathogenic feature of multiple sclerosis (MS). Since the Bcl-2 family is critically involved in the regulation of apoptosis, we investigated the protein expression of Bcl-2, Bcl-X(L), and Bax in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of 23 MS patients and 29 control subjects. An in vitro model of AICD, which exemplifies the elimination of antigen-reactive T cells in vivo, was used as an indication of T cell susceptibility or resistance towards apoptosis. Increased expression of the survival factor Bcl-X(L), which directly correlated with a resistance towards AICD, was observed in peripheral immune cells of MS patients. In contrast to Bcl-X(L), no differences were found in the protein expression of Bcl-2 and Bax between patients and controls. Our data indicate that the anti-apoptotic factor Bcl-X(L), responsible for T cell resistance towards apoptosis, might be an important factor in the MS pathogenesis and a potential target for therapeutic intervention.
Several studies have previously provided some albeit weak evidence for linkage or association between chromosome 19q13 and multiple sclerosis (MS) susceptibility. We performed a two-stage association analysis with 19 markers spanning 7 Mb/5.5 cM of 19q13. In stage 1 analysis (135 MS families) allelic and haplotypic associations were found with markers within or close to the ApoE-ApoC subregion. These observations were taken as a hypothesis, which was tested in stage 2 in 125 families. However, none of the initial associations were replicated suggesting that they were most likely due to chance. Linkage analysis was performed in 27 Finnish multiplex families using 10 microsatellites spanning 23 Mb/24 cM of 19q13. DNA was available from 72 MS patients and 150 unaffected relatives. Parametric and non-parametric linkage analyses did not provide evidence for linkage when all families were tested. After stratifying the families according to HLA-DR15 there was weak evidence for linkage to the 19q13.1 subregion in DR15 negative families (LOD(max)=1.8). Taken together these results do not support a major role of chromosome 19q13.2-q13.3 in MS susceptibility among Finnish MS patients, whereas conclusions on the 19q13.1 subregion are less clear and this region requires further study.
In previous studies, we demonstrated that T cell receptor (TCR) Vbeta8.2 and Vbeta10, both of which are frequently used by encephalitogenic T cells, spectratypes expand oligoclonally in spinal cord lesions of Lewis rats with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and that the DSSYEQYF and WDGSGNVLYF sequences are predominantly found in the complementarity-determining region 3 (CDR3) of spectratype-derived TCR clones. However, it is unknown whether these CDR3 sequences are used only by Vbeta8.2- and Vbeta10-positive T cells or by encephalitogenic T cells bearing Vbetas other than these Vbetas. The present study was undertaken to address this issue using a new approach, i.e. CDR3 spectratyping and subsequent DNA hybridization with several probes corresponding to various parts of the CDR3 region. Consequently, we found that probes specific for the Vbeta8.2 spectratype-derived Dbeta and Jbeta2.7 hybridized only with the Vbeta8.2 spectratype in acute EAE and with the Vbeta8.2 and Vbeta12 spectratypes in chronic relapsing EAE. Similarly, a probe specific for the Vbeta10 spectratype-derived Dbeta hybridized only with the Vbeta10 spectratype in both acute and chronic relapsing EAE. In contrast, a probe specific for Jbeta1.3 hybridized with several Vbeta spectratypes including Vbeta8.2 and Vbeta10 only during the early stage of the disease. These findings suggest that T cells bearing a few Vbetas with a limited number of the CDR3 sequences are activated in acute and chronic relapsing EAE induced in Lewis rats. Characterization of the CDR3 region of pathogenic TCR by this approach may be of value for the screening of autoimmune disease-associated TCR and for the development of TCR-based specific immunotherapy.
Sensory nerve biopsy specimens from patients with Guillain Barr syndrome (GBS), chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP), and controls consisting of other neuropathies, were examined in order to characterise the nature and intensity of any inflammatory infiltrate. In order to establish whether gamma delta T cells were present in these infiltrates we examined the expression of alpha beta and gamma delta T cell receptors in the biopsy specimens from patients with inflammatory neuropathy. A section of each biopsy specimen was simultaneously cultured in order to attempt to establish T cell lines. T cell lines were established in 4 out of 7 patients with GBS of which 2 were gamma delta in phenotype. There was a significant correlation between the number of mononuclear cells detected by immunostaining within the biopsy specimens and the chance of successfully establishing a T cell line. Histological studies detected gamma delta T cell receptor in 2 out of the 7 patients with GBS, 14 out of the 20 with CIDP and in 5 out of the 13 controls (vasculitis 3, paraneoplastic 1, axonal neuropathy of uncertain cause 1). The presence of T cells of a gamma delta T cell receptor phenotype in nerve biopsy specimens from patients with inflammatory neuropathy is consistent with a possible pathogenetic role of a cellular immune response against non-protein antigens such as gangliosides.
To investigate whether multiple sclerosis (MS) tissue damage is associated with the presence and severity of fatigue, we obtained magnetization transfer (MT) and diffusion tensor (DT) magnetic resonance imaging from 28 patients with MS (14 with and 14 without fatigue). MT ratio and mean diffusivity did not differ between fatigued and non-fatigued MS patients. No correlation was found between Fatigue Severity Scale scores and any of the MT and DT MRI-derived quantities. This preliminary study suggests that the severity of overall MS pathology in the brain seems not to be a critical factor contributing to the development of fatigue in MS.
In recent years, our understanding of motor learning, neuroplasticity and functional recovery after the occurrence of brain lesion has grown significantly. New findings in basic neuroscience provided stimuli for research in motor rehabilitation. Repeated motor practice and motor activity in a real world environment have been identified in several prospective studies as favorable for motor recovery in stroke patients. EMG initiated electrical muscle stimulation -- but not electrical muscle stimulation alone -- improves motor function of the centrally paretic arm and hand. Although a considerable number of physiotherapeutic &quot;schools&quot; has been established, a conclusive proof of their benefit and a physiological model of their effect on neuronal structures and processes are still missing. Nevertheless, evidence-based strategies for motor rehabilitation are more and more available, particularly for patients suffering from central paresis.


It has repeatedly been shown that agrammatic Broca's aphasics have serious problems with the retrieval of verbs on action naming tests (Miceli, Silveri, Villa &amp; Caramazza, 1984; Kohn, Lorch &amp; Pearson, 1989; Basso, Razzano, Faglioni &amp; Zanobio, 1990; Jonkers, 1998; Kim &amp; Thompson, 2000). Less attention has been paid to the production of verbs at the sentence level (but see Miceli, Mazzuchi, Menn &amp; Goodglass, 1983; Thompson, Shapiro, Li &amp; Schendel, 1995; Thompson, Lange, Schneider &amp; Shapiro, 1997; Bastiaanse &amp; Van Zonneveld, 1998; Bastiaanse, Rispens &amp; Van Zonneveld, 2000; Friedmann, 2000), although it has been mentioned that in agrammatic spontaneous speech verbs are lacking (Saffran, Berndt &amp; Schwartz, 1989; Thompson et al., 1995, but see Bastiaanse &amp; Jonkers, 1998).In this paper, three cross-linguistic studies are discussed to show that these problems with verbs have consequences for other grammatical morphemes and structures that have been mentioned to be impaired in agrammatic speech and that these consequences are different per language, depending on linguistic characteristics. The first study focuses on finiteness and compares the production of finite verbs in matrix and embedded clauses in Dutch and English, showing that a linguistic rule in Dutch (Verb Second), which does not exist in English, can explain the different performance of Dutch and English agrammatic Broca's aphasics. The second study focuses on determiners and (finite) verbs in German and shows that poor determiner production is directly related to poor verb production. The last study demonstrates that the ability to construct negative sentences is dependent on the language specific relation between verb movement and negation: Dutch and Norwegian agrammatics perform equally well on affirmative and negative sentences, whereas English and Spanish agrammatics are more impaired on negative sentences.Overall, these studies show that the problems agrammatics encounter with verbs and their properties have a spin-off on the production of other word-classes and that the characterization 'problems with grammatical morphemes' is too general for telegraphic speech.
There is growing evidence linking alterations in serotonergic signaling in the prefrontal cortex to the etiology of schizophrenia. Prefrontal pyramidal neurons are richly innervated by serotonergic fibers and express high levels of serotonergic 5-HT(2)-class receptors. It is unclear, however, how activation of these receptors modulates cellular activity. To help fill this gap, whole cell voltage-clamp and single-cell RT-PCR studies of acutely isolated layer V-VI prefrontal pyramidal neurons were undertaken. The vast majority (&gt;80%) of these neurons had detectable levels of 5-HT(2A) or 5-HT(2C) receptor mRNA. Bath application of 5-HT(2) agonists inhibited voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channel currents. L-type Ca(2+) channels were a particularly prominent target of this signaling pathway. The L-type channel modulation was blocked by disruption of G(alphaq) signaling or by inhibition of phospholipase Cbeta. Antagonism of intracellular inositol trisphosphate signaling, chelation of intracellular Ca(2+), or depletion of intracellular Ca(2+) stores also blocked this modulation. Inhibition of the Ca(2+)-dependent phosphatase calcineurin prevented receptor-mediated modulation of L-type currents. Last, the 5-HT(2) receptor modulation was robustly expressed in neurons from Ca(v)1.3 knockout mice. These findings argue that 5-HT(2) receptors couple through G(alphaq) proteins to trigger a phospholipase Cbeta/inositol trisphosphate signaling cascade resulting in the mobilization of intracellular Ca(2+), activation of calcineurin, and inhibition of Ca(v)1.2 L-type Ca(2+) currents. This modulation and its blockade by atypical neuroleptics could have wide-ranging effects on synaptic integration and long-term gene expression in deep-layer prefrontal pyramidal neurons.
In Alzheimer's disease, the cholinergic damage (reduced neurotransmission) and cognitive impairment occur long before beta-amyloid (Abeta) plaque formation. It has not been established whether the link between soluble Abeta and cholinergic functions contributes to synaptic dysfunction that underlies the cognitive impairment. Here, we report that Abeta(25-35), an active form of Abeta, inhibited long-term synaptic modification that depends on the associative activation of cholinergic and GABAergic inputs when bilaterally injected intracerebroventricularly (icv; 200 microg/site). The Abeta microinjections did not affect single-pulse-evoked glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic transmission onto the hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells, while cholinergic intracellular theta; was dramatically reduced by the Abeta(25-35) injection. Spatial memory of the water maze task was also impaired by the bilateral icv Abeta(25-35) injections, while bilateral microinjections of the same dose of Abeta(35-25) was ineffective in affecting the long-term synaptic modification evoked by associative activation of cholinergic and GABAergic inputs, the cholinergic intracellular theta;, or producing memory impairments. Thus restoring the synaptic plasticity involved in this associative activation of cholinergic and GABAergic inputs may offer an important therapeutic target in the treatment of early Abeta-induced memory decline.
Task optimization in the presence of signal-dependent noise (TOPS) has been proposed as a general framework for planning goal-directed movements. Within this framework, the motor command is assumed to be corrupted by signal-dependent noise, which leads to a distribution of possible movements. A task can then be equated with optimizing some function of the statistics of this distribution. We found the optimal trajectory for obstacle avoidance by minimizing the mean-squared error at the end of the movement while keeping the probability of collision with the obstacle below a fixed limit. The optimal paths accurately predicted the empirical trajectories. This demonstrates that controlling the statistics of movements in the presence of signal-dependent noise may be a fundamental and unifying principle of goal-directed movements.
It has long been known that gastric mill network activity (cycle period 5-10 s) alters pyloric network output (cycle period approximately 1 s), but these effects have not been quantified. Many pyloric muscles extract gastric mill timed variations in pyloric motor neuron firing, and consequently produce gastric mill timed movements even though no gastric mill neurons innervate them. Determining pyloric behavior therefore requires detailed description of gastric mill effects on pyloric neural output. Pyloric muscle activity correlates well with motor neuron overall spike frequency (OSF, burst spike number divided by cycle period). We quantified OSF variation of all pyloric neurons as a function of time into the gastric mill cycle [as measured from the beginning of Gastric Mill (GM) neuron bursts] in the lobster, Panulirus interruptus. No repeating pattern within individual gastric mill cycles of Lateral Pyloric (LP) and Ventricular Dilator (VD) neuron OSF was visually apparent. Averaged data showed that VD and LP neuron OSF decreased (approximately 0.5 and 1.5 Hz, respectively) at the beginning of each gastric mill cycle. Visually apparent patterns of OSF waxing and waning within each gastric mill cycle were present for the Inferior Cardiac (IC), Pyloric Dilator (PD), and Pyloric (PY) neurons. However, when averaged as a function of phase or delay in the gastric mill cycle, the average changes were smaller than those in individual gastric mill cycles because when the OSF variations occurred varied considerably in different gastric mill cycles. We therefore used a &quot;pattern-based&quot; analysis in which an identifying characteristic of each neuron's repeating OSF variation pattern was defined as pattern pyloric cycle zero. The pyloric cycles in each repetition of the OSF variation pattern were numbered relative to the zero cycle, and averaged to create an average OSF variation profile. The zero cycle delays relative to GM neuron burst beginning were then averaged to determine when in the gastric mill cycle the profile occurred. This technique preserved the full extent of pyloric neuron OSF changes. Maximum PY neuron OSF occurred within the GM neuron burst, whereas maximum IC and PD neuron OSF occurred during the GM neuron interburst interval. Despite these changes, pyloric cycling did not phase lock with gastric mill activity, nor were an integer number of pyloric cycles present in each gastric mill cycle. In addition to providing data necessary to predict pyloric movement, this work shows how pattern-based analysis can successfully quantify interactions between nonphase-locked networks.
We studied the effect of olfactory learning-induced modifications in piriform (olfactory) cortex pyramidal neurons on the propagation of postsynaptic potentials (PSPs). Rats were trained to distinguish between odors in pairs, in an olfactory discrimination task. Three days after training completion, PSPs were evoked in layer II pyramidal cells in piriform cortex brain slices by electrical stimulation of two pathways. Stimulation of layer Ib activated the intra-cortical fibers that terminate on the proximal region of the apical and basal dendrites. Stimulation of layer Ia activated the afferent axons that originate from the olfactory bulb and terminate on the distal apical dendrites. We have previously shown that olfactory training is accompanied by enhanced synaptic transmission in the intrinsic pathway, but not in the afferent pathway at 3 days after training. Here we show that at this stage, in both pathways PSPs evoked in neurons from trained rats had significantly faster rise time measured at the soma compared with PSPs in neurons from pseudo-trained and naive rats. Activation of the slow afterhyperpolarization (AHP), which is generated by potassium channels probably located at the proximal region of both apical and basal dendrites, reduced the amplitude measured at the soma of the proximal intrinsic pathway PSPs more effectively than PSPs that were generated distally by the afferent fibers. Thus the amount of reduction by AHP was used as a measure for the relative distance of PSP-generating sites from the soma. In neurons from trained rats, despite the previously reported reduction in AHP amplitude, AHP conductance shunted the PSPs from both synaptic pathways more efficiently compared with neurons from the control rats. We suggest that in neurons from trained rats PSPs are electrotonicly closer to the soma.
The atypical antipsychotic drug clozapine effectively alleviates both negative and positive symptoms of schizophrenia via unclear cellular mechanisms. Clozapine may modulate both glutamatergic and dopaminergic transmission in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) to achieve part of its therapeutic actions. Using whole cell patch-clamp techniques, current-clamp recordings in layers V-VI pyramidal neurons from rat PFC slices showed that stimulation of local afferents (in 2 microM bicuculline) evoked mixed [AMPA/kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors] glutamate receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). Clozapine (1 microM) potentiated polysynaptically mediated evoked EPSPs (V(Hold) = -65 mV), or reversed EPSPs (rEPSP, V(Hold) = +20 mV) for &gt;30 min. The potentiated EPSPs or rEPSPs were attenuated by elevating [Ca(2+)](O) (7 mM), by application of NMDA receptor antagonist 2-amino5-phosphonovaleric acid (50 microM), or by pretreatment with dopamine D1/D5 receptor antagonist SCH23390 (1 microM) but could be further enhanced by a dopamine reuptake inhibitor bupropion (1 microM). Clozapine had no significant effect on pharmacologically isolated evoked NMDA-rEPSP or AMPA-rEPSPs but increased spontaneous EPSPs without changing the steady-state resting membrane potential. Under voltage clamp, clozapine (1 microM) enhanced the frequency, and the number of low-amplitude (5-10 pA) AMPA receptor-mediated spontaneous EPSCs, while there was no such changes with the mini-EPSCs (in 1 microM TTX). Taken together these data suggest that acute clozapine can increase spike-dependent presynaptic release of glutamate and dopamine. The glutamate stimulates distal dendritic AMPA receptors to increase spontaneous EPSCs and enabled a voltage-dependent activation of neuronal NMDA receptors. The dopamine released stimulates postsynaptic D1 receptor to modulate a lasting potentiation of the NMDA receptor component of the glutamatergic synaptic responses in the PFC neuronal network. This sequence of early synaptic events induced by acute clozapine may comprise part of the activity that leads to later cognitive improvement in schizophrenia.
Neural receptive fields are frequently plastic: a neural response to a stimulus can change over time as a result of experience. We developed an adaptive point process filtering algorithm that allowed us to estimate the dynamics of both the spatial receptive field (spatial intensity function) and the interspike interval structure (temporal intensity function) of neural spike trains on a millisecond time scale without binning over time or space. We applied this algorithm to both simulated data and recordings of putative excitatory neurons from the CA1 region of the hippocampus and the deep layers of the entorhinal cortex (EC) of awake, behaving rats. Our simulation results demonstrate that the algorithm accurately tracks simultaneous changes in the spatial and temporal structure of the spike train. When we applied the algorithm to experimental data, we found consistent patterns of plasticity in the spatial and temporal intensity functions of both CA1 and deep EC neurons. These patterns tended to be opposite in sign, in that the spatial intensity functions of CA1 neurons showed a consistent increase over time, whereas those of deep EC neurons tended to decrease, and the temporal intensity functions of CA1 neurons showed a consistent increase only in the &quot;theta&quot; (75-150 msec) region, whereas those of deep EC neurons decreased in the region between 20 and 75 msec. In addition, the minority of deep EC neurons whose spatial intensity functions increased in area over time fired in a significantly more spatially specific manner than non-increasing deep EC neurons. We hypothesize that this subset of deep EC neurons may receive more direct input from CA1 and may be part of a neural circuit that transmits information about the animal's location to the neocortex.
The song system of oscine birds has frequently been presented as a model system for motor learning in vertebrates. This practice has been bolstered by the growing recognition that one part of the song system that is essential for song learning, area X, is a component of the avian striatum. The mammalian striatum, the input structure of the basal ganglia, has been implicated in a number of motor-related functions, including motor learning, suggesting that song learning in birds and motor learning in mammals may use similar physiological mechanisms. We studied the intrinsic physiological properties of area X neurons in brain slices to see how closely they match properties identified in mammalian striatal neurons and to collect data that are necessary to understand how area X processes information. We found that area X contains all four physiological cell types present in the mammalian striatum and that each is very similar to its mammalian counterpart. We also found a fifth cell type in area X that has not been reported in mammalian striatum; instead, this cell type resembles neurons that have been recorded in the mammalian globus pallidus. This pallidum-like cell type morphologically resembles the projection neurons of area X. We suggest that area X contains a pathway equivalent to the &quot;direct&quot; striatopallidothalamic pathway through the mammalian basal ganglia, with the striatal and pallidal components intermingled in one nucleus.
We investigated the potential role of the alpha1-containing GABA(A) receptor in regulating the reinforcing properties of alcohol. To accomplish this, we developed 3-propoxy-beta-carboline hydrochloride (3-PBC), a mixed agonist-antagonist benzodiazepine site ligand with binding selectivity at the alpha1 receptor. We then tested the capacity of 3-PBC to block alcohol-maintained responding in the ventral pallidum (VP), a novel alcohol reward substrate, which primarily expresses the alpha1-receptor isoform. Our results demonstrated that bilateral microinfusion of 3-PBC (0.5-40 microg) in the anterior and medial VP produced marked reductions in alcohol-maintained responding in a genetically selected rodent model of alcohol drinking. The VP infusions showed both neuroanatomical and reinforcer specificity because no effects were seen in sites dorsal to the VP (e.g., nucleus accumbens, caudate putamen). The saccharin-maintained responding was reduced only with the highest dose (40 microg). Parenteral injections of 3-PBC (1-20 mg/kg) also showed a similar selectivity on alcohol-maintained responding. Complementary in vitro studies revealed that 3-PBC exhibited a low partial agonist efficacy profile at recombinant diazepam-sensitive receptors (e.g., alpha1beta3gamma2, alpha2beta3gamma, and alpha3beta3gamma2). The selective suppression of 3-PBC on alcohol-maintained responding after central and parenteral administrations, together with its low-efficacy agonist profile, suggest that the reduction in alcohol-maintained behaviors was not attributable to a general suppression on consummatory behaviors. These results demonstrate that the alpha1-containing GABA(A) receptors in both the anterior and medial VP are important in regulating the reinforcing properties of alcohol. These receptors represent novel targets in the design and development of pharmacotherapies for alcohol-dependent subjects.
Risk for onset of alcoholism is related to genetic differences in acute alcohol withdrawal liability. We previously mapped a locus responsible for 26% of the genetic variance in acute alcohol withdrawal convulsion liability to a &gt;35 centimorgan (cM) interval of murine chromosome 4. Here, we narrow the position of this locus to a &lt;1 cM interval (approximately 1.8 megabase, containing 15 genes and/or predicted genes) using a combination of novel, interval-specific congenic strains and recombinant progeny testing. We report the development of a small-donor-segment congenic strain, which confirms capture of a gene affecting alcohol withdrawal within the &lt;1 cM interval. We also confirm a pentobarbital withdrawal locus within this interval, suggesting that the same gene may influence predisposition to physiological dependence on alcohol and a barbiturate. This congenic strain will be invaluable for determining whether this interval also harbors a gene(s) underlying other quantitative trait loci mapped to chromosome 4, including loci affecting voluntary alcohol consumption, alcohol-induced ataxia, physical dependence after chronic alcohol exposure, and seizure response to pentylenetetrazol or an audiogenic stimulus. To date, Mpdz, which encodes the multiple PSD95/DLG/ZO-1 (PDZ) domain protein (MPDZ), is the only gene within the interval shown to have allelic variants that differ in coding sequence and/or expression. Sequence analysis of 15 standard inbred mouse strains identifies six Mpdz haplotypes that predict three MPDZ protein variants. These analyses, and evidence using interval-specific congenic lines, show that alcohol withdrawal severity is genetically correlated with MPDZ status, indicating that MPDZ variants may influence alcohol withdrawal liability.
Chronic opiate exposure is associated with upregulation of the cAMP signaling pathway and the transcription factor cAMP response element-binding protein in the locus ceruleus (LC) and certain other brain areas. To determine whether these adaptations ultimately affect transcription mediated by the cAMP response element (CRE), we induced morphine dependence in CRE-LacZ transgenic mice and performed a regional and cellular mapping of beta-galactosidase (beta-gal) expression during naltrexone-precipitated withdrawal. Consistent with our model of opiate dependence, beta-gal expression increased in the LC, but decreased in the lateral ventral tegmental area (VTA) and dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN). In addition, withdrawal increased beta-gal expression in the continuum of the extended amygdala and nucleus accumbens, macrostructures associated with the coupling of emotional stimuli to motor and autonomic responses. At the cellular level, in the central nucleus of the amygdala, beta-gal was found in cells both with and without mu opioid receptors as well as in corticotropin-releasing factor-expressing cells. In nucleus accumbens, beta-gal was expressed in several major subpopulations of neurons. In LC, beta-gal expression was induced predominantly in tyrosine hydroxylase-expressing cells, whereas in the VTA and DRN the majority of cells expressing beta-gal were nonmonoaminergic. These results show that molecular adaptations to chronic morphine alter CRE-mediated transcription during opiate withdrawal in physiologically salient regions involved in arousal, reward, mood, and affective responses. We propose that CRE-mediated transcription serves as a functional marker for neuronal plasticity during withdrawal. CRE-mediated transcription may itself contribute to re-establishing homeostasis in the organism through target gene regulation in these regions.
Aged rats are known to have deficits in spatial learning behavior in the Morris water maze. We have found that aged rats also have deficits in NR2B protein expression and that the protein expression deficit is correlated with their performance in the Morris water maze. To test whether this NR2B deficit was sufficient to account for the behavioral deficit, we used antisense oligonucleotides to specifically knock down NR2B subunit expression in the hippocampus of young rats. NR2B antisense treatment diminished NMDA receptor responses, abolished NMDA-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP), and impaired spatial learning. These data demonstrate the important role of NR2B in LTP and learning and memory and suggest a role for reduced NR2B expression in age-related cognitive decline.
Recent studies have implicated Fas in the pathogenesis of inflammatory, ischemic, and traumatic brain injury (TBI); however, a direct link between Fas activation and caspase-mediated cell death has not been established in injured brain. We detected Fas-Fas ligand binding and assembly of death-inducing signaling complexes (DISCs) [Fas, Fas-associated protein with death domain, and procaspase-8 or procaspase-10; receptor interacting protein (RIP)-RIP-associated interleukin-1beta converting enzyme and CED-3 homolog-1/Ced 3 homologous protein with a death domain-procaspase-2] by immunoprecipitation and immunoblotting within mouse parietal cortex after controlled cortical impact. At the time of DISC assembly, procaspase-8 was cleaved and the cleavage product appeared at 48 hr in terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotinylated UTP nick end labeling-positive neurons. Cleavage of caspase-8 was accompanied by caspase-3 processing detected at 48 hr by immunohistochemistry, and by caspase-specific cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase at 12 hr. Fas pathways were also stimulated by TBI in human brain, because Fas expression plus Fas-procaspase-8 interaction were robust in contused cortical tissue samples surgically removed between 2 and 30 hr after injury. To address whether Fas functions as a death receptor in brain cells, cultured embryonic day 17 cortical neurons were transfected with an adenoviral vector containing the gene encoding Fas ligand. After 48 hr in culture, Fas ligand expression and Fas-procaspase-8 DISC assembly increased, and by 72 hr, cell death was pronounced. Cell death was decreased by approximately 50% after pan-caspase inhibition (Z-Val-ALa-Asp(Ome)-fluoromethylketone). These data suggest that Fas-associated DISCs assemble in neurons overexpressing Fas ligand as well as within mouse and human contused brain after TBI. Therefore, Fas may function as a death receptor after brain injury.
The cholinergic system is thought to play an important role in hippocampal-dependent learning and memory. However, the mechanism of action of the cholinergic system in these actions in not well understood. Here we examined the effect of muscarinic receptor stimulation in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons using whole-cell recordings in acute brain slices coupled with high-speed imaging of intracellular calcium. Activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors by synaptic stimulation of cholinergic afferents or application of muscarinic agonist in CA1 pyramidal neurons evoked a focal rise in free calcium in the apical dendrite that propagated as a wave into the soma and invaded the nucleus. The calcium rise to a single action potential was reduced during muscarinic stimulation. Conversely, the calcium rise during trains of action potentials was enhanced during muscarinic stimulation. The enhancement of free intracellular calcium was most pronounced in the soma and nuclear regions. In many cases, the calcium rise was distinguished by a clear inflection in the rising phase of the calcium transient, indicative of a regenerative response. Both calcium waves and the amplification of action potential-induced calcium transients were blocked the emptying of intracellular calcium stores or by antagonism of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors with heparin or caffeine. Ryanodine receptors were not essential for the calcium waves or enhancement of calcium responses. Because rises in nuclear calcium are known to initiate the transcription of novel genes, we suggest that these actions of cholinergic stimulation may underlie its effects on learning and memory.
In the brain of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, neurotoxic amyloid peptides accumulate and are deposited as senile plaques. A major therapeutic strategy aims to decrease production of amyloid peptides by inhibition of gamma-secretase. Presenilins are polytopic transmembrane proteins that are essential for gamma-secretase activity during development and in amyloid production. By loxP/Cre-recombinase-mediated deletion, we generated mice with postnatal, neuron-specific presenilin-1 (PS1) deficiency, denoted PS1(n-/-), that were viable and fertile, with normal brain morphology. In adult PS1(n-/-) mice, levels of endogenous brain amyloid peptides were strongly decreased, concomitant with accumulation of amyloid precursor protein (APP) C-terminal fragments. In the cross of APP[V717I]xPS1 (n-/-) double transgenic mice, the neuronal absence of PS1 effectively prevented amyloid pathology, even in mice that were 18 months old. This contrasted sharply with APP[V717I] single transgenic mice that all develop amyloid pathology at the age of 10-12 months. In APP[V717I]xPS1 (n-/-) mice, long-term potentiation (LTP) was practically rescued at the end of the 2 hr observation period, again contrasting sharply with the strongly impaired LTP in APP[V717I] mice. The findings demonstrate the critical involvement of amyloid peptides in defective LTP in APP transgenic mice. Although these data open perspectives for therapy of AD by gamma-secretase inhibition, the neuronal absence of PS1 failed to rescue the cognitive defect, assessed by the object recognition test, of the parent APP[V717I] transgenic mice. This points to potentially detrimental effects of accumulating APP C99 fragments and demands further study of the consequences of inhibition of gamma-secretase activity. In addition, our data highlight the complex functional relation of APP and PS1 to cognition and neuronal plasticity in adult and aging brain.
Although hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is generally thought of in terms of a poisonous gas, it is endogenously produced in the brain. Physiological concentrations of H2S selectively enhance NMDA receptor-mediated responses and alter the induction of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP). Here we use cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) knock-out mice to clearly show that CBS produces endogenous H2S in the brain and that H2S production is greatly enhanced by the excitatory neurotransmitter l-glutamate, as well as by electrical stimulation. This increased CBS activity is regulated by a pathway involving Ca2+/calmodulin. In addition, LTP is altered in CBS knock-out mice. These observations suggest that H2S is produced by CBS in response to neuronal excitation and that it may regulate some aspects of synaptic activity.



Ceramide is a sphingolipid that has been implicated both in apoptosis and protection from cell death. We show that in both rat cerebellar granule cells and cortical neuronal cultures application of C(2)-ceramide causes cell death in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Similar effects were observed with the exogenous application of bacterial sphingomyelinase, which hydrolyzes sphingomyelin located on the outer leaflet of the plasma membrane and leads to endogenous ceramide accumulation. Furthermore, endogenous ceramide levels were increased during apoptosis induced by nutrient deprivation or etoposide treatment. These findings suggest that upregulation of ceramide levels, which may be generated through activation of sphingomyelinase, contributes to neuronal apoptosis.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) are involved in the pathophysiology of brain injury. We recently showed that knockout mice deficient in MMP-9 expression were protected against traumatic brain injury. However, the cellular sources of MMP activity after trauma remain to be fully defined. In this study, we investigated the hypothesis that resident brain cells secrete MMP after mechanical trauma injury in vitro, and mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase signal transduction pathways are involved in this response. Rat primary cortical neurons, astrocytes, and co-cultures were subjected to needle scratch mechanical injury, and levels of MMP-2 and MMP-9 in conditioned media were assayed by zymography. MMP-2 and MMP-9 were increased in cortical astrocytes and co-cultures, whereas only MMP-2 was increased in neurons. Western blots showed that phosphorylated extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK1/2) and p38 were rapidly upregulated in co-cultures after mechanical injury. No change in phosphorylated c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) was observed. In-gel kinase assays confirmed this lack of response in the JNK pathway. Treatment with either 10 microM of U0126 (a MAP kinase/ERK1/2 kinase inhibitor) or 10 microM of SB203580 (a p38 inhibitor) had no detectable effect on MMP-2 and MMP-9 levels after mechanical injury. However, combination treatment with both inhibitors significantly reduced secretion of MMP-9. Herein, we demonstrate that (1) resident brain cells secrete MMP after mechanical injury, (2) astrocytes are the main source of MMP-9 activity, and (3) ERK and p38 MAP kinases are upregulated after mechanical injury, and mediate the secretion of MMP-9.
Muscarinic receptors play a major role in gallbladder function, although the muscarinic receptor(s) mediating smooth muscle contractility is unclear. This study compared smooth muscle contractile responses to carbamylcholine (10(-7)-10(-3) M) in isolated gallbladder from wild-type and M(2), M(3), and M(4) receptor knockout mice. Carbamylcholine-induced contraction in gallbladder was associated with tachyphylaxis and the release of a cyclooxygenase product because indomethacin (10(-6) M) inhibited carbamylcholine-induced contraction. The M(3) receptor was the major muscarinic receptor involved in contraction because carbamylcholine-induced contractility was inhibited in gallbladder from M(3) receptor knockout mice. Furthermore, the muscarinic receptor antagonists 11-[[[2-diethylamino-O-methyl]-1-piperidinyl]acetyl]-5,11-dihydrol-6H-pyridol[2,3-b][1,4]benzodiazepine-6-one (AF-DX 116) and pirenzepine dextrally shifted contraction to carbamylcholine in gallbladder from wild-type, M(2), and M(4) receptor knockout mice, with affinities consistent with M(3) receptor interaction. In addition, maximal contraction to carbamylcholine was reduced in gallbladder from M(2) receptor knockout mice and affinities for AF-DX 116 and pirenzepine in gallbladder from M(3) receptor knockout mice were consistent with their affinities at M(2) receptors. In M(4) receptor knockout mice, contraction to carbamylcholine was dextrally shifted, although the affinities for AF-DX 116 and pirenzepine in gallbladder from M(2) or M(3) knockout mice were not similar to their affinities at M(4) receptors. The M(4) receptor may serve as an accessory protein necessary for optimal potency of M(2) and M(3) receptor-mediated responses. Thus, muscarinic receptor knockout mice provided direct and unambiguous evidence that M(3), and to a lesser extent, M(2) receptors are the predominant muscarinic receptors mediating gallbladder contractility, and M(4) receptors appear necessary for optimal potency of carbamylcholine in gallbladder contraction.
We have used alanine scanning mutagenesis to identify residues in transmembrane domain 5 of the histamine H3 receptor that are important for agonist binding. All of the mutants generated were functionally expressed as demonstrated by their ability to bind [(125)I]iodoproxyfan with comparable affinity to the wild-type receptor and their ability to inhibit forskolin-stimulated cAMP formation when activated by histamine. Many mutations produced small changes in the potency of histamine, but the most pronounced reduction in potency and affinity of the agonists, histamine, R-alpha-methylhistamine, imetit, and impentamine, was seen with mutation of glutamate 206. Our modeling suggests that this residue plays a key role in ligand binding by interacting with the imidazole ring of histamine. Interestingly, L199A greatly reduced agonist potency in functional assays but had only minor effects on agonist affinity, implicating a role for this residue in the mechanism of receptor activation. We also studied the functional effects of the mutations by linking the receptor to calcium signaling using a chimeric G protein. A comparison of the two functional assays demonstrated contrasting effects on agonist activity. Histamine, imetit, and impentamine were full agonists in the cAMP assay, but imetit exhibited only partial agonist activity through the chimeric G protein. Furthermore, impentamine, another potent agonist in the cAMP assay, was only able to activate the E206A mutant in the calcium assay despite being inactive at the wild-type receptor. These observations suggest that the agonist receptor complexes formed by these three different H3 agonists are not conformationally equivalent.
Swallowing-related activity was examined in respiratory (n = 60) and non-respiratory (n = 82) neurons that were located in and around the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) in decerebrated, neuromuscularly blocked and artificially ventilated rats. Neurons that were orthodromically activated by electrical stimulation of the superior laryngeal nerve (SLN) were identified, and fictive swallowing was evoked by SLN stimulation. The pharyngeal phase of swallowing was monitored by hypoglossal nerve activity. Two types of non-respiratory neurons with swallowing-related bursts were identified: 'early' swallowing neurons (n = 24) fired during periods of hypoglossal bursts, and 'late' swallowing neurons (n = 8) fired after the end of hypoglossal bursts. The remaining non-respiratory neurons were either suppressed (n = 21) or showed no change in activity (n = 29) during swallowing. On the other hand, respiratory neurons with SLN inputs included 56 inspiratory and four expiratory neurons. Inspiratory neurons were classified into two major types: a group of neurons discharged simultaneously with hypoglossal bursts (type 1 neurons, n = 19), while others were silent during bursts but were active during inter-hypoglossal bursts when swallowing was provoked repetitively (type 2 neurons, n = 34). Three of the expiratory neurons fired during hypoglossal bursts. Many of the swallowing-related non-respiratory neurons and the majority of the inspiratory neurons received presumed monosynaptic inputs from the SLN. Details of the distribution and firing patterns of these NTS neurons, which have been revealed for the first time in a fictive swallowing preparation in the rat, suggest their participation in the initiation, pattern formation and mutual inhibition between swallowing and respiration.
Effects of adenosine on voltage-gated Ca(2+) channel currents and on arginine vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OT) release from isolated neurohypophysial (NH) terminals of the rat were investigated using perforated-patch clamp recordings and hormone-specific radioimmunoassays. Adenosine, but not adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP), dose-dependently and reversibly inhibited the transient component of the whole-terminal Ba(2+) currents, with an IC(50) of 0.875 microM. Adenosine strongly inhibited, in a dose-dependent manner (IC(50) = 2.67 microM), depolarization-triggered AVP and OT release from isolated NH terminals. Adenosine and the N-type Ca(2+) channel blocker omega-conotoxin GVIA, but not other Ca(2+) channel-type antagonists, inhibited the same transient component of the Ba(2+) current. Other components such as the L-, Q- and R-type channels, however, were insensitive to adenosine. Similarly, only adenosine and omega-conotoxin GVIA were able to inhibit the same component of AVP release. A(1) receptor agonists, but not other purinoceptor-type agonists, inhibited the same transient component of the Ba(2+) current as adenosine. Furthermore, the A(1) receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyltheophylline (CPT), but not the A(2) receptor antagonist 3, 7-dimethyl-1-propargylxanthine (DMPGX), reversed inhibition of this current component by adenosine. The inhibition of AVP and OT release also appeared to be via the A(1) receptor, since it was reversed by CPT. We therefore conclude that adenosine, acting via A(1) receptors, specifically blocks the terminal N-type Ca(2+) channel thus leading to inhibition of the release of both AVP and OT.
Roscovitine is widely used for inhibition of cdk5, a cyclin-dependent kinase expressed predominantly in the brain. A novel function of roscovitine, i.e. an effect on Ca(2+) channels and transmitter release in central neurons, was studied by whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings and time-lapse fluorescence imaging techniques. Extracellular application of roscovitine markedly enhanced the tail calcium current following repolarization from depolarized voltages. This effect was rapid, reversible and dose dependent. Roscovitine dramatically slowed the deactivation kinetics of calcium channels. The deactivation time constant was increased 3- to 6-fold, suggesting that roscovitine could prolong the channel open state and increase the calcium influx. The potentiation of tail calcium currents caused by roscovitine and by the L-channel activator Bay K 8644 was not occluded but additive. Roscovitine-induced potentiation of tail calcium currents was significantly blocked by the P/Q-channel blocker CgTx-MVIIC, indicating that the major target of roscovitine is the P/Q-type calcium channel. In mutant mice with targeted deletion of p35, a neuronal specific activator of cdk5, roscovitine regulated calcium currents in a manner similar to that observed in wild-type mice. Moreover, intracellular perfusion of roscovitine failed to modulate calcium currents. These results suggest that roscovitine acts on extracellular site(s) of calcium channels via a cdk5-independent mechanism. Roscovitine potentiated glutamate release at presynaptic terminals of cultured hippocampal neurons detected with the vesicle trafficking dye FM1-43, consistent with the positive effect of roscovitine on the P/Q-type calcium channel, the major mediator of action potential-evoked transmitter release in the mammalian CNS.
The author reviews the current state of our knowledge concerning the neurobiology of borderline personality disorder (BPD). A converging body of scientific evidence indicates that patients with BPD suffer from impairments in the brain systems that regulate impulsivity, aggression, and affect. This article reviews data on the neurobiology of the symptoms of BPD, including emotional and behavioral dysregulation, identity disturbance, cognitive impairments, and interpersonal difficulties. The author first considers the evolutionary context in which BPD can develop to put the neurobiological findings in perspective, and then discusses the roles of both genetic inheritance and the environment in the development of BPD. The role of neurotransmitter systems in the development of impulsive-aggression and affective instability is reviewed. Possible neurobiological contributors to the identity disturbance seen in BPD are also described. The author then considers environmental contributions to BPD and discusses the synergy of nature and nurture in the development of BPD symptoms. Findings concerning the types of neurobiological impairments that can arise as a result of childhood neglect and abuse and other types of chronic severe stress and trauma are discussed. Finally, the author reviews studies of animal attachment models that suggest that types of maternal care can produce lifelong behavioral and physiological differences in offspring and that this effect is mediated through the regulation of gene expression. The author suggests that the large body of neuroscience research reviewed in this article suggests that, while patients with BPD may be born with innate genetic tendencies for impaired brain systems for regulating impulses and affect, the environment they find themselves born into may be critical in determining whether or not they develop the full blown syndrome of BPD.

According to Antonovsky, the individual's sense of coherence is assumed to be crucial in coping with stressful life events. The purpose of this study was to investigate the associations between the sense of coherence of the spouses of stroke victims, the objective severity of the stroke and the spouses' perception of life satisfaction, psychological well-being and cognitive image of life in the future in the first phase after stroke. Eighty-three consecutively enrolled spouses to first-ever stroke victims &lt; 75 years participated. Multiple correlations were done to study the association between Antonovsky's 29-item Sense of Coherence scale and the objective impairments of the stroke victim, the Life Satisfaction Checklist, the &quot;view of the future&quot; and the Psychological General Well-being Index. The sense of coherence was significantly associated with satisfaction with life as a whole before stroke (p &lt; 0.001), partnership (p = 0.002), sexual life (p = 0.005), family life (p &lt; 0.001) and financial situation (p = 0.001). The severity of the impairments of the stroke victims was not significantly associated with the spouses' sense of coherence. However, the sense of coherence was significantly associated with the perception of the future life situation (p = 0.006). The sense of coherence was also significantly associated with the perception of positive well-being (p = 0.007), self-control (p = 0.009), general health (p = 0.009) and vitality (p = 0.002) at the present, whereas the association with anxiety and depressed mood were not statistical significant. In the experience of a stressful life event such as stroke, satisfaction with general life, close relationships and the socio-economic situation were significantly associated with the spouse's sense of coherence. Spouses with a low sense of coherence were more likely to have low psychological well-being and a more pessimistic view of their life in the future.
Preclinical neuroscience has advanced rapidly over the past two decades. New approaches for treating neurological disease, including gene-based therapies, nervous-system growth factors, stem cells, novel vaccines, and modulation of the immune system, offer the potential to prevent cell loss and degeneration in the brain, rather than attempting to compensate for loss after it has occurred. I will review one of these prospective therapies: growth-factor gene therapy for Alzheimer's disease, an approach that is currently the subject of a phase I clinical trial. Other disease targets for gene therapy will also be discussed, including Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, inborn errors of metabolism, and cancer. The progress of gene-therapy clinical trials is aiding the transition to molecular and gene-targeted therapeutic approaches which have the potential to improve dramatically the prognosis of neurological disease.
A decade ago, therapeutic strategies to remyelinate the CNS in diseases such as multiple sclerosis had much experimental appeal, but translation of laboratory success into clinical treatments appeared to be a long way off. Within the past 12 months, however, the first patients with multiple sclerosis have received intracerebral implants of autologous myelinating cells. Here we review the clinical and biological problems presented by multiple sclerosis disease processes, and the background to the development of myelin-repair strategies. We attempt to highlight those areas where difficulties have yet to be resolved, and draw on various experimental findings to speculate on how remyelinating therapies are likely to develop in the foreseeable future.

Perfusion-based MRI measures cerebral blood flow (CBF) at the capillary level and can be used for functional studies based on the tight spatial coupling between brain activity and blood flow. Obtaining functional CBF maps with high spatial resolution is a major challenge because the CBF signal is intrinsically low and the SNR is critical. In the present work, CBF-based functional imaging was performed at a considerably smaller voxel size than previously reported in humans. High-resolution CBF maps were obtained with voxel sizes as small as 0.9 x 0.9 x 1.5 mm(3) in the human brain. High sensitivity was made possible by signal-to-noise gains at the high magnetic field of 7 T and by using a novel RF combination coil design. In addition, a reduction of the field-of-view was critical to achieve 0.9-mm in-plane resolution with gradient-echo echo-planar imaging in a single shot. Functional CBF data were compared with functional BOLD data to reveal that, for CBF, large contrast- to-noise gains were obtained at high spatial resolution, indicating that the functional CBF response was more localized. High-resolution functional CBF imaging is significant for neuroscience research because it provides better localization and more specific information than BOLD for monitoring brain function.
During synaptogenesis information exchanged locally between synaptic partners results in precise alignment of morphological and molecular specializations. For example, agrin derived from motoneurons induces localized postsynaptic differentiation at the neuromuscular synapse. Similar information molecules are thought to act at other synapses; however, techniques for directly evaluating synaptogenic activities of such molecules are lacking. Here we use agrin-induced differentiation as a model system to validate a novel approach for characterizing synaptogenic molecules. Proteins are patterned with micron scale resolution on glass coverslips by covalent microcontact printing and these substrates are used for cell culture. Postsynaptic molecules accumulate specifically at sites of contact between muscle cells and patterned agrin: a response which is quantifiable. Our results demonstrate that microcontact printing is applicable to the analysis of cellular response to locally immobilized information molecules.
Mutations in the Presenilin 1 gene are the cause of the majority of autosomal dominant familial forms of Alzheimer's disease. Presenilin 1 (PS1) is produced as a holoprotein but is then rapidly processed to amino- (N-PS1) and carboxy-terminal (C-PS1) fragments that are incorporated into stable high molecular mass complexes. The mechanisms that control PS1 cleavage and stability are not properly understood but sequences within C-PS1 have been shown to regulate both of these properties. Here we demonstrate that cyclin dependent kinase-5/p35 (cdk5/p35) phosphorylates PS1 on threonine(354) within C-PS1 both in vitro and in vivo. Threonine(354) phosphorylation functions to selectively stabilize C-PS1. Our results demonstrate that cdk5/p35 is a regulator of PS1 metabolism.
Neurotrophins and cell adhesion molecules regulate axon guidance, but their potential coordinate interactions are not well defined. In particular, it has been difficult to define the role of signaling from different surface molecules in neurotrophin-induced axon growth because of the strong dependence of embryonic neurons on this class of molecules for survival. We have addressed this issue using Bax deficient neurons, which do not require neurotrophins for survival. The L1 neural cell adhesion molecule and laminin each supported NGF-independent axon growth of cultured sensory neurons from dorsal root ganglia of embryonic Bax(-/-) mice. However, nerve growth factor (NGF) stimulated additional axon growth of sensory neurons on laminin but not on L1 substrates. Inhibition of the small GTPase RhoA by the dominant-negative mutant RhoA(T19N) restored NGF responsiveness of axon growth on L1 to Bax(-/-) neurons. Constitutively activated RhoA(Q63L) did not affect axon growth on L1 but inhibited NGF-stimulated axon growth on laminin. Consistent with the concept that RhoA was downregulated by NGF in neurons on laminin but not L1, the RhoA inhibitor C2IN-C3 toxin stimulated axon growth on L1 in wild-type DRG neurons in NGF. These results demonstrate a novel substrate-dependent regulation of NGF-induced growth of embryonic sensory axons mediated by RhoA GTPase.
GIIIA/B mu-conotoxins block the rat skeletal muscle sodium channel (rNa(v)1.4) with high affinity by binding to specific residues in the pore. However, human Na(v)1.4 (hNa(v)1.4) channels, which are resistant to block by GIIIA/B, have these same pore residues. We used chimera constructs, site-directed mutagenesis, and electrophysiological techniques to investigate which residues determine GIIIA/B selectivity. Exchange of serine 729 in the D2/S5-S6 linker of rat Na(v)1.4 with leucine (S729L), the corresponding residue in hNa(v)1.4, reduces the sensitivity of rNa(v)1.4 by approximately 20-fold and largely accounts for the differential sensitivity of rNa(v)1.4 and hNa(v)1.4 to both GIIIA and GIIIB. To determine whether D2/S5-S6 linker residues might contribute to the resistance of neuronal channels to GIIIA/B, we exchanged residues in this linker that differed between rNa(v)1.4 and neuronal channels. Substitution of aspargine 732 with lysine (N732K), the corresponding residue in rNa(v)1.1a and rNa(v)1.7, reduced the GIIIB sensitivity of rNa(v)1.4 by approximately 20-fold. The N732K substitution, however, only reduced GIIIA sensitivity of rNa(v)1.4 by approximately 4-fold, demonstrating that GIIIA and GIIIB have distinct interactions with the D2/S5-S6 linker. Our data indicate that naturally occurring variants in the extra-pore region of the D2/S5-S6 linker contribute to the isoform-specific sensitivity of sodium channels to GIIIA/B. Because S729 and N732 are not part of the high-affinity binding site for mu-conotoxins, these extra-pore residues probably influence the accessibility of the toxin to the binding site within the pore and/or the stability of the toxin-channel complex. Our results should aid the development of toxins that block specific neuronal sodium channel isoforms.
Whereas induction of the 70-kDa heat shock protein (HSP70) in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS), the terminal site in the brain stem for primary baroreceptor afferents, augments baroreceptor reflex (BRR) response, the underlying cellular and molecular mechanism is essentially unexplored. In Sprague-Dawley rats, we evaluated the hypothesis that HSP70 may potentiate BRR response by up-regulating the molecular synthesis and functional expression of glutamate receptors in the NTS. Animals subjected to brief hyperthermic heat shock (HS; 42 degrees C for 15 min) exhibited augmented expression of NR1 or NR2A subunit of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, GluR1 or GluR4 subunits of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate receptors and KA1 subunit of kainate receptors in the NTS. Intriguingly, this up-regulation of glutamate receptors was preceded by an increase in HSP70 expression at the NTS. The HS-induced augmentation in responsiveness of barosensitive NTS neurons to transient hypertension or potentiation of BRR response was discernibly blunted by MK-801 or 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. Bilateral microinjection into the NTS of an antisense hsp70 oligonucleotide (50 pmol) before HS significantly suppressed the induced expression of HSP70 or the increase in glutamate receptor subunits in the dorsal medulla and discernibly attenuated the potentiation of BRR response. Control microinjection into the NTS of sense or scrambled hsp70 oligonucleotide (50 pmol) was ineffective. These findings suggest that HSP70 induced by HS may enhance BRR response by up-regulating the molecular synthesis and functional expression of NR1 or NR2A subunit of NMDA receptors and GluR1, GluR4, or KA1 subunit of non-NMDA receptors in the NTS.
New experimental evidence suggests that the mechanism of action of antidepressants includes the induction of neurotrophic factor synthesis in selected brain areas. The present study is aimed at establishing whether prolonged antidepressant treatments increase the expression of basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF2), a polypeptide growth factor that has a broad neurotrophic activity in the adult central nervous system. Rats received a single dose or long-term (3 weeks) administration of desipramine (DMI), fluoxetine (FLU), and mianserin (MIA), then were sacrificed at 5 and 24 h after the last injection. RNase protection assay and Western blot analysis revealed that all antidepressant drugs elicited an anatomically specific increase in FGF2 mRNA and protein. The increase in FGF2 mRNA after a single injection was seen only at 5 h after the injection and was restricted to the entorhinal cortex, whereas the effect of the long-term treatments lasted up to 24 h and occurred in the entire cortex and hippocampus. Immunohistochemical analysis of FGF2 immunoreactivity was carried out to investigate which cell types responded to the antidepressant treatments. DMI and MIA increased FGF2 proteins predominantly in neurons of layer V throughout the cerebral cortex and in some neurofilament-positive cells of the hippocampus. FLU increased FGF2 immunoreactivity mainly in neurofilament-positive cells of the hippocampus. These findings may explain the therapeutic efficacy of antidepressants in affective disorders.
Treatments for Parkinson's disease based on replacement of lost dopamine have several problems. Following loss of dopamine, enhanced N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated transmission in the striatum is thought to be part of the cascade of events leading to the generation of parkinsonian symptoms. We determined the localisation and pharmacological characteristics of NMDA receptors that play a role in generating parkinsonian symptoms within the striatum. Rats were lesioned unilaterally with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), and cannulae implanted bilaterally to allow injection of a range of NMDA receptor antagonists at different striatal sites. When injected rostrally into the dopamine-depleted striatum, the glycine site partial agonist, (+)-HA-966 (44-400 nmol) caused a dose-dependent contraversive rotational response consistent with an antiparkinsonian action. (+)-HA-966 (400 nmol) had no effect when infused into more caudal regions of the dopamine-depleted striatum, or following injection into any striatal region on the dopamine-intact side. To determine the pharmacological profile of NMDA receptors involved in inducing parkinsonism in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats, a range of NMDA receptor antagonists was infused directly into the rostral striatum. Ifenprodil (100 nmol) and 7-chlorokynurenate (37 nmol), but not MK-801 (15 nmol) or D-APV (25 nmol) elicited a dramatic rotational response when injected into the dopamine-depleted striatum. This pharmacological profile is not consistent with an effect mediated via blocking NR2B-containing NMDA receptors. The effect of intrastriatal injection of ifenprodil was increased in animals previously treated with levodopa (L-dopa) methyl ester. This was seen as an increase in on-time and in peak rotational response. We propose that stimulation of NR2B-containing NMDA receptors in the rostral striatum underlies the generation of parkinsonian symptoms. These studies are in line with previous findings suggesting that administration of NR2B-selective NMDA receptor antagonists may be therapeutically beneficial for parkinsonian patients, when given de novo and following L-dopa treatment.
This review examines the frequency of depression complicating Parkinson's disease (PD), its aetiology and clinical features, and also how it may be recognised and treated. Studies investigating the frequency of depression in PD have yielded figures ranging between 2.7% and 70%. Methodological differences account for much of the disparity. The aetiology of depression in PD is complex, and probably relates to both biological and exogenous factors. Dysfunction of multiple neurotransmitter systems, including the serotonergic system, may be involved. Mood disturbances resulting from deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus may provide a fruitful area for future research, and assist our understanding of the neural networks involved in mediating depression. Several recent studies have confirmed that depression in the PD patient is a major determinant of quality of life and that this is closely related to dysfunction in other clinically important health areas. The validity for many existing scales in the screening, diagnosis, and monitoring of depression in the PD patient has not been established. The Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale and the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression appear to have good diagnostic sensitivity and specificity when compared with DSM-IV criteria. Recommendations for the optimal drug treatment of depression in PD are difficult to give, due to an inexplicable dearth of sizeable, placebo-controlled studies. A majority of physicians would probably now opt for a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor in the depressed PD patient. There is no good evidence that these drugs are associated with a worsening of motor features, but they should probably not be coprescribed with selegiline, because of the risk of causing a potentially serious serotonin syndrome. Several studies have suggested that depression in the PD patient is associated with a more rapid deterioration in cognitive and motor functions, perhaps as a surrogate marker for more extensive brainstem cell loss.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) allows noninvasive localization of cerebral activation with relatively high spatial and temporal resolution. The considerable potential for the elucidation of the mechanisms of brain function has made it a useful tool to investigate the neural substrate of motor, sensory and cognitive functions. Understanding derived from these basic cognitive neuroscience investigations is beginning to be applied to clinically relevant problems. In this article, applications to multiple sclerosis (MS) are reviewed, which address the challenging notion that adaptive cerebral plasticity may have an important influence on the relationship between MS pathology and its clinical expression.
In the Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS), immunoglobulin G (IgG) autoantibodies to presynaptic voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs) at the neuromuscular junction lead to a reduction in nerve-evoked release of neurotransmitter and muscle weakness. We have examined the action of LEMS IgGs on cloned human VGCCs stably expressed in transfected human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cell lines: 10-13 (alpha(1A-2), alpha(2b)delta, beta(4a)) and C2D7 (alpha(1B-1), alpha(2b)delta, beta(1b)). All LEMS IgGs studied showed surface binding to [(125)I]-omega-CTx-MVIIC-labeled VGCCs in the alpha(1A) cell line and two of six IgGs showed surface binding to [(125)I]-omega-CTx-GVIA-labeled VGCCs in the alpha(1B) cell line. We next studied the effect of LEMS IgGs (2 mg/ml) on whole-cell calcium currents in the alpha(1A) and alpha(1B) cell lines. Overnight treatment of alpha(1A) (10-13) cells with LEMS IgGs led to a significant reduction in peak current density without alteration of the current-voltage relationship or the voltage dependence of steady-state inactivation. In contrast, LEMS IgGs did not reduce peak current density in the alpha(1B) cell line. Overall these data demonstrate the specificity of LEMS IgGs for the alpha(1A) cell line and suggest that LEMS IgGs bind to and downregulate VGCCs in this cell line. Although several LEMS IgGs can be shown to bind to the alpha(1B) (C2D7) cell line, no functional effects were seen on this channel.
Cyclic AMP (cAMP) promotes neurite outgrowth in a variety of neuronal cell lines through the activation of protein kinase A (PKA). We show here, using both Xenopus laevis embryonic neuronal culture and intact X. laevis embryos, that the nerve growth-promoting action of cAMP/PKA is mediated in part by the phosphorylation of synapsins at a single amino acid residue. Expression of a mutated form of synapsin that prevents phosphorylation at this site, or introduction of phospho-specific antibodies directed against this site, decreased basal and dibutyryl cAMP-stimulated neurite outgrowth. Expression of a mutation mimicking constitutive phosphorylation at this site increased neurite outgrowth, both under basal conditions and in the presence of a PKA inhibitor. These results provide a potential molecular approach for stimulating neuron regeneration, after injury and in neurodegenerative diseases.

We conducted two event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments to investigate the neural substrates of visual object recognition in humans. We used a repetition-priming method with visual stimuli recurring at unpredictable intervals, either with the same appearance or with changes in size, viewpoint or exemplar. Lateral occipital and posterior inferior temporal cortex showed lower activity for repetitions of both real and non-sense objects; fusiform and left inferior frontal regions showed decreases for repetitions of only real objects. Repetition of different exemplars with the same name affected only the left inferior frontal cortex. Crucially, priming-induced decreases in activity of the right fusiform cortex depended on whether the three-dimensional objects were repeated with the same viewpoint, regardless of whether retinal image size changed; left fusiform decreases were independent of both viewpoint and size. These data show that dissociable subsystems in ventral visual cortex maintain distinct view-dependent and view-invariant object representations.
We have investigated the Ca(2+) dependence of vesicular secretion from the soma of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, which secrete neuropeptides by exocytosis of dense-core vesicles. In patch-clamped somata of rat DRG neurons, we found a depolarization-induced membrane capacitance increase (DeltaC(m)) in the absence of extracellular Ca(2+) and in the presence of a Ca(2+) chelator (BAPTA) in the intracellular solution. Depletion of internal Ca(2+) stores by thapsigargin in the Ca(2+)-free bath also did not block the DeltaC(m), indicating that Ca(2+) release from internal Ca(2+) stores may not have been involved. Furthermore, the Ca(2+)-independent DeltaC(m) was blocked by whole-cell dialysis with tetanus toxin and was accompanied by pulsatile secretion of false transmitters, as detected by amperometric measurements. These results indicate the existence of Ca(2+)-independent but voltage-dependent vesicular secretion (CIVDS) in a mammalian sensory neuron.
We have previously shown that chronic treatment with the monoclonal antibody m266, which is specific for amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta), increases plasma concentrations of Abeta and reduces Abeta burden in the PDAPP transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We now report that administration of m266 to PDAPP mice can rapidly reverse memory deficits in both an object recognition task and a holeboard learning and memory task, but without altering brain Abeta burden. We also found that an Abeta/antibody complex was present in both the plasma and the cerebrospinal fluid of m266-treated mice. Our data indicate that passive immunization with this anti-Abeta monoclonal antibody can very rapidly reverse memory impairment in certain learning and memory tasks in the PDAPP mouse model of AD, owing perhaps to enhanced peripheral clearance and (or) sequestration of a soluble brain Abeta species.
There is a pressing need for treatments for neurodegenerative diseases. Hopes have been raised by the prospect of neural stem cell therapy; however, despite intense research activities and media attention, stem cell therapy for neurological disorders is still a distant goal. Effective strategies must be developed to isolate, enrich and propagate homogeneous populations of neural stem cells, and to identify the molecules and mechanisms that are required for their proper integration into the injured brain. This article examines these requirements, discusses the results obtained so far, and considers the steps that need to be taken to provide instruction to donor cells and to elucidate the neurogenic potential of the adult central nervous system environment.
For more than 1,500 years, nerves were thought to function through the action of 'animal spirits'. In the seventeenth century, Ren Descartes conceived of these 'spirits' as liquids or gases, and used the idea to explain reflex action. But he was rapidly proven wrong by a young Dutchman, Jan Swammerdam. Swammerdam's elegant experiments pioneered the frog nerve muscle preparation and laid the foundation of our modern understanding of nerve function.
A key goal in neuroscience is to explain how the operations of a neuron emerge from sets of active channels with specific dendritic distributions. If general principles can be identified for these distributions, dendritic channels should reflect the computational role of a given cell type within its functional neural circuit. Here, we discuss insights from experimental and computational data on the distribution of voltage-gated channels in dendrites, and attempt to derive rules for how their interactions implement different dendritic functions. We propose that this type of analysis will be important for understanding behavioural processes in terms of single-neuron properties, and that it constitutes a step towards a 'functional proteomics' of nerve cells, which will be essential for defining neuronal phenotypes.

The term vascular dementia refers to dementia syndromes which are caused by hypoxic-ischaemic brain lesions. Lesions found in vascular dementia such as complete and incomplete infarctions, selective necroses, and others are nonspecific. The characteristics and severity of the clinical syndrome are determined by the size and topography of the ischaemic lesions. Among others, age and pre-existing brain atrophy are risk factors for the development of dementia based on vascular lesions. There is a high comorbidity of Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. It can be presumed that ischaemic lesions and Alzheimer-like pathological changes exert additive effects in the manifestation of the clinical dementia syndrome. The diagnostic process follows three steps: 1. presence of a dementia syndrome, 2. presence of cerebrovascular disease, 3. evidence for a relationship between 1 and 2. Present diagnostic criteria, such as &quot;International Classification of Diseases&quot; (ICD-10), &quot;National Institute of Neurological Disorders,&quot; &quot;Stroke-Associated Internationale pour la Reserche et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences&quot; (NINDS-AIREN), and &quot;Alzheimer's Disease Diagnostic and Treatment Centers&quot; (ADDTC) describe differing constellations and show little congruence. Estimates of the prevalence depend highly on the set of criteria used. Hence, they differ considerably.
A variety of studies have shown an effect of estrogen on dopamine function and suggest that estrogen may modulate central dopaminergic activity. Positron emission tomography (PET) and the dopamine metabolism tracer, [18F]6-fluoro-L-m-tyrosine (FMT) were used to evaluate dopaminergic function in the frontal cortex and striatum in six aged, but pre-menopausal, female monkeys before and after ovariectomy (OVX). Dynamic PET brain uptake data and metabolite-corrected blood input functions were fit to a three-compartment model for FMT uptake. Prior to OVX, all animals showed preferential accumulation of the tracer bilaterally in the striatum and less but measurable activity in the frontal cortex. Paired comparisons showed that there were no significant differences in FMT uptake (K(i)) in either brain region before and after OVX. In addition, FMT uptake did not differ from a group of young adult female monkeys at either time point. These findings may represent a compensatory up-regulation of aromatic L- amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) activity.
Pre-existing trauma to basal forebrain corticopetal cholinergic neurons has been hypothesized to render this system vulnerable to age-related processes. The present longitudinal study assessed the interactions between the effects of partial cortical cholinergic deafferentation and aging on sustained attention performance. After pre-surgical training, animals were given sham-surgery or bilateral infusions of the immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin into the basal forebrain. The lesion was intended to yield a limited loss of cortical cholinergic inputs and thus to produce minor immediate effects on sustained attention performance. All animals were tested continuously until age 36 months. The attentional performance of lesioned and sham-lesioned animals did not dissociate until age 31 months, when the lesioned animals exhibited an impairment in overall sustained attention performance. Importantly, this impairment interacted with the effects of time-on-task, and thus reflected a specific impairment in attentional processes. These results support the notion that pre-existing damage to the basal forebrain corticopetal cholinergic neurons yields age-related impairments in the attentional capabilities that depend on the integrity of this neuronal system.
Inositol monophosphatase (IMPase), a cytoplasmic enzyme that hydrolyses inositol monophosphates to produce inositol is also found in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Since levels of inositol have been previously reported to be elevated in Down syndrome (DS) CSF, IMPase activity was measured in CSF of DS subjects to establish whether altered inositol levels may be related to changes in IMPase activity. In addition, and to better understand the regulation of IMPase expression in the CSF, enzyme activity was measured in normal aging, patients with Alzheimer-type or multi-infarct dementia (DAT and MID, respectively) and in CSF obtained by repeat lumbar puncture or from sequential aliquots of CSF from along the rostro-caudal axis. IMPase activity was relatively constant in CSF obtained from repeated lumbar puncture and there was no significant rostro-caudal gradient of activity in either normal or DS subjects, indicating that the enzyme originates from both brain and spinal cord. Compared to respective age-matched normal subjects, CSF IMPase activity was unaltered in DS, DAT and MID. However, in normal volunteers there was a significant positive correlation between age and CSF IMPase activity. Furthermore, there were significant correlations between CSF IMPase activity and acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase activities and total protein, suggesting co-regulation of these parameters within the CSF.
A large scale multicenter study of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tau levels was conducted to determine the cut-off value, sensitivity and specificity for clinical usage as a biomarker of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Its use for early and differential diagnosis and the factors that increase CSF tau levels were also examined. CSF samples from a total of 1,031 subjects including 366 patients with AD, 168 patients with non-Alzheimer type dementia (NA), 316 patients with non-dementia neurological diseases (ND) and 181 normal controls (NC) were measured using ELISA for tau. The cut-off value of tau, 375 pg/ml, showed 59.1% sensitivity and 89.5% specificity for diagnosis of AD compared with the other groups. The tau levels were increased from the early to late stages of AD. Elevation of CSF tau in the non-tauopathy and tauopathy dementia groups, chronic and acute damage to the cerebrum, and meningeal disturbance were other factors that required attention for clinical practice. Measurement of CSF tau was useful as a biomarker for early and differential diagnosis of AD.
Macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) is a microglial activator expressed at increased levels in the brain in Alzheimer's disease. In monotypic microglial cultures, M-CSF strongly augments amyloid beta (Abeta) induced microglial production of proinflammatory cytokines and nitric oxide. However, this augmentation could be due to strong autocrine and paracrine effects in monotypic cultures. We used hippocampal organotypic cultures to test M-CSF/Abeta augmentation in a system modeling intact brain. Combined M-CSF/Abeta treatment increased interleukin-1 (IL-1) and macrophage inflammatory protein 1-alpha expression by microglia, whereas inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression was localized primarily to astroglia. Induction of cytokines and iNOS was also observed after lipopolysaccharide treatment of organotypic hippocampal cultures, but iNOS expression was localized mainly to microglia rather than astrocytes. Treatment with M-CSF/Abeta did not result in neuronal death. These results demonstrate that combined M-CSF/Abeta treatment results in a strong inflammatory response in the organotypic environment without inducing neurotoxicity.
A progressive impairment of mitochondrial function has been suggested to play a critical role in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's disease. Mitochondrial dysfunction can lead to number of deleterious consequences including impaired calcium buffering, generation of free radicals, activation of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore and secondary excitotoxicity. Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a rare neurological disorder characterized by the appearance of supranuclear gaze palsy and extrapyramidal symptoms [Arch. Neurol. 10 (1964) 333]. Although the etiological basis of PSP is unknown, compelling evidence from spectroscopy studies in PSP patients, biochemical studies in post-mortem PSP brain tissue and PSP cybrids has emerged that supports a contributory role of bio-energetic defects in the pathogenesis of PSP.

Tissue infarction, involving death of essentially all cells within a part of the brain, is a common pathology resulting from stroke and an important determinant of the long-term consequences of this disorder. The cell death that leads to infarct formation is likely to be the result of multiple interacting pathological processes. A range of factors, including the severity of the ischemic insult and whether this is permanent or reversed, determine which mechanisms predominate. Although evaluating mitochondrial properties in intact brain is difficult, evidence for several potentially deleterious responses to cerebral ischemia or post-ischemic reperfusion have been obtained from investigations using animal models of stroke. Marked changes in ATP and related energy metabolites develop quickly in response to occlusion of a cerebral artery, as expected from limitations in the delivery of oxygen and glucose. However, these alterations are often only partially reversed on reperfusion despite improved substrate delivery. Ischemia-induced decreases in the mitochondrial capacity for respiratory activity probably contribute to the ongoing impairment of energy metabolism during reperfusion and possibly also to the magnitude of changes seen during ischemia. Conditions during reperfusion are likely to be conducive to the induction of the permeability transition in mitochondria. There are as yet no well-characterized techniques to identify this change in the intact brain. However, the protective effects of some agents that block formation of the transition pore are consistent with both the induction of the permeability transition during early recirculation and a role for this in the development of tissue damage. Release of cytochrome c into the cytoplasm of cells has been observed with both permanent and reversed ischemia and could trigger the death of some cells by apoptosis, a process which probably contributes to the expansion of the ischemic lesion. Mitochondria are also likely to contribute to the widely-accepted role of nitric oxide in the development of ischemic damage. These organelles are a probable target for the deleterious effects of this substance and can also act as a source of superoxide for reaction with the nitric oxide to produce the damaging species, peroxynitrite. Further characterization of these mitochondrial responses should help to elucidate the mechanisms of cell death due to cerebral ischemia and possibly point to novel sites for therapeutic interventions in stroke.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is the clock of the brain that orchestrates circadian and circannual biological rhythms, such as the rhythms of hormones, body temperature, sleep and mood. These rhythms are frequently disturbed in menopause and even more so in dementia and can be restored in postmenopausal women by sex hormone replacement therapy (SHRT). Although it seems clear, both from clinical and experimental studies, that sex hormones influence circadian rhythms, it is not known whether this is by a direct or an indirect effect on the SCN. Therefore, using immunocytochemistry in the present study, we investigated whether the human SCN expresses sex hormone receptors in 5 premenopausal women and 5 young men. SCN neurons appeared to contain estrogen receptor-alpha (ERalpha), estrogen receptor-beta (ERbeta) and progesterone receptors. Median ratings of ER immunoreactivity per individual and per gender group revealed a statistically significantly stronger nuclear ERalpha expression pattern in female SCN neurons (p &lt; 0.05). No significant sexual dimorphic tendency was observed for nuclear ERbeta (p &gt; 0.1) and progesterone receptors (p &gt; 0.7). These data seem to support previously reported functional and structural SCN differences in relation to sex and sexual orientation and indicate for the first time that estrogen and progesterone may act directly on neurons of the human biological clock. In addition, the present findings provide a potential neuroendocrine mechanism by which SHRT can act to improve or restore SCN-related rhythm disturbances, such as body temperature, sleep and mood.
The effect of word frequency on semantic processing was characterized by studying two groups of right-handed participants using fMRI. Stimuli were presented in blocks of either high frequency or low frequency word triplets where a sample word appeared above a pair of test words. One group (n = 8) made semantic judgments by selecting the word from the test pair that was more closely associated with the sample. Stimulus triplets were designed such that relatedness between sample and &quot;correct&quot; items was obvious. The other group (n = 8) read the words silently without making any semantic decision and pressed a button on completing the reading of each triplet. Semantic judgments while no less accurate, were associated with greater left prefrontal BOLD signal change when they involved low frequency words, whereas there was no reliable effect of word frequency in the reading condition. These findings suggest that retrieval effort modulates left prefrontal activity when deliberate access to semantics is required.
This article examines functional and anatomical connectivity in healthy human subjects measured with magnetic resonance imaging methods. Anatomical connectivity in white matter is obtained from measurements of the diffusion tensor. A Monte-Carlo simulation determines the probability that a particle diffuses between two points, with the probability of a jump in a particular direction from a given voxel being based on the local value of the diffusion tensor components. Functional connectivity between grey matter pixels is assessed without recourse to a specific activation paradigm, by calculating the correlation coefficient between random fluctuations in the blood oxygenation level-dependent signal time course in different pixels. The methods are used to examine the anatomical and functional connectivities between crowns of adjacent gyri. A high functional connectivity was found between grey matter pixels, with white matter displaying only very low correlation. A comparison of the measurements of anatomical and functional connectivity found that there is no simple correlation between these measures, except that low values of functional connectivity were not found together with high values of anatomical connectivity. Furthermore pairs of regions situated around the central sulcus indicated a dependence of the two connectivity measures on each other. These results are in accordance with an interpretation that regions which are clearly directly linked by white matter fiber tracts should show high functional connectivity, but that the inverse need not be true as functional connectivity may also be indirectly mediated via more distant grey matter regions.
Although synchronously oscillating neuronal assemblies have been the subject of many studies, a clear identification of the spatiotemporal characteristics of a medium-range oscillatory network is still lacking. Herein, we present a method for the extraction of a new waveform, namely the mean induced potential (IP), which allows the identification of the spatiotemporal characteristics of induced EEG responses. The IP calculation was applied to the 20-Hz component of the sensorimotor rhythm in order to obtain a 20-Hz sensorimotor induced potential (20-Hz SIP). The spatiotemporal characteristics of the 20-Hz bursts seen after median nerve stimulation and self-paced finger movements were extracted by means of current source density reconstruction and synchronization analysis. A cortical network including the controlateral primary motor cortex, the supplementary motor area, and the controlateral supramarginalis gyrus was found to generate the 20-Hz bursts, and the various activated areas were found to be highly synchronized. Our results demonstrate for the first time the existence of a medium-range cortical network in the human sensorimotor region whose constituents oscillate synchronously.
Using group functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) and group Magnetoencephalography (MEG) we studied two cognitive paradigms: A language task involving covert letter fluency and a visual task involving biological motion direction discrimination. The MEG data were analyzed using an adaptive beam-former technique known as Synthetic Aperture Magnetometry (SAM), which provides continuous 3-D images of cortical power changes. These images were spatially normalized and averaged across subjects to provide a group SAM image in the same template space as the group fMRI data. The results show that frequency-specific, task-related changes in cortical synchronization, detected using MEG, match those areas of the brain showing an evoked cortical hemodynamic response with fMRI. The majority of these changes were event-related desynchronizations (ERDs) in the 5-10 Hz and 15-25 Hz frequency ranges. Our study demonstrates how SAM, spatial normalization, and intersubject averaging enable group MEG studies to be performed. SAM analysis also allows the MEG experiment to have exactly the same task design as the corresponding fMRI experiment. This new analysis framework represents an important advance in the use of MEG as a cognitive neuroimaging technique and also allows mutual cross-validation with fMRI.
Stressful events early in life are reported to be more prevalent among patients with an adult life psychiatric disorder. Early maternal deprivation is considered an animal model of early life stress. Maternally deprived adult rats display long-term alterations in the neuroendocrine system, brain and behavior that are in many ways analogous to depressive and schizophrenic symptomatology. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and calcitonin-gene related peptide (CGRP) have been implicated in both disorders and also been suggested to play a role in the neuroadaptational response to stress. Consequently, male Wistar rat-pups were subjected to early maternal deprivation or control handling, on postnatal day (pnd) 9. On pnd 21, pups were weaned and split into two groups that were reared either on a saw-dust floor or on a grid-floor, considered to be a mild stressor. On pnd 67, all animals were subjected to the prepulse inhibition test. One week later, the animals were sacrificed, the brains removed and dissected on ice. Levels of NPY-like immunoreactivity (LI) and CGRP-LI were quantified by radioimmunoassay in brain regional extracts. Maternal deprivation led to a significant reduction in basal startle amplitude and disruption of prepulse inhibition. These findings were paralleled by significantly reduced levels of NPY and CGRP in the hippocampus and occipital cortex. It is hypothesised that these changes may be of relevance to aspects of schizophrenic and affective symptomatology. The present study further shows that brain NPY and, in particular, CGRP are sensitive to long-term mild stress and further implicate the involvement of these peptides in the neuroendocrine stress response.
Among the pharmacological actions of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB), some may involve GABA(A) receptor-mediated mechanisms. GHB, however, fails to directly interact with sites for agonists and modulators on the GABA(A) receptor complex. We hypothesized that, in vivo, GHB may interfere with GABA(A) receptor function by altering the brain concentrations of the neurosteroids 3 alpha-hydroxy-5 alpha-pregnan-20-one (allopregnanolone, AP) and 3 alpha,21-dihydroxy-5 alpha-pregnan-20-one (allotetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone, THDOC), positive allosteric modulators of GABA-gated chloride currents. In male Wistar rats, GHB dose-dependently (75-1000 mg/kg, i.p.) increased AP, THDOC and their precursors pregnenolone and progesterone in brain cortex and hippocampus. The increases of AP (4-5 fold) and THDOC (3-4 fold) elicited by 300 mg/kg GHB peaked between 30 and 90 min and abated by 180 min. The selective GABA(B) receptor antagonist SCH 50911 (50 mg/kg, i.p.) prevented the action of GHB, while the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen (5-10 mg/kg) mimicked it. NCS-382 (50 mg/kg, i.p.), the purported selective antagonist of the GHB receptor, failed to antagonize GHB, but at 300 mg/kg increased brain cortical neurosteroids to the same extent as 300 mg/kg GHB; coadministration of GHB and NCS-382, however, failed to yield an additive effect. These results strongly suggest that GHB, via a GABA(B) receptor-mediated mechanism, increases the brain concentrations of neurosteroids, whose properties as amplifiers of the GABA-gated chloride conductances may play a role in the GABA(A) receptor-mediated pharmacological actions of GHB.
Blockade of NMDA/glutamate receptors induces altered behavior in humans and experimental animals. At the same time a differential activation of dopaminergic (DA) systems has been reported. To study the involvement of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in these effects, we used bilateral perfusions of the rat mPFC with the competitive NMDA-antagonist D-AP-5 and simultaneous determination of spontaneous behavior and local DA efflux. D-AP-5 concentration-dependently induced arousal and motor activity and also increased DA efflux. These effects were shown to have a similar time-scale but no causal relationship: combined D1/D2 receptor blockade in the mPFC did not inhibit the behavioral activation. As bilateral perfusion of the nucleus accumbens with D-AP-5 resulted in similar behavioral effects, but no change in DA efflux, we conclude that DA is not involved in the behavioral activation induced by these local perfusions. However, local blockade of non-NMDA glutamate receptors or stimulation of GABA-B receptors completely blocked the effects on behavior and DA efflux, suggesting that the arousal and locomotor activity induced by NMDA receptor blockade in mPFC is primarily dependent on activation of glutamatergic mechanisms. The mPFC appears to be an important site of action for NMDA antagonists to induce behavioral alterations.
We previously demonstrated that the reversible cholinesterase inhibitor, physostigmine (PHYSO), administered to normal young adult women and men (average age 35 years) at a dose that produced few or no side effects, resulted in a sex difference (sexual diergism) in hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal cortical (HPA) axis responses: Plasma ACTH(1-39), cortisol, and arginine vasopressin (AVP) concentrations increased to a significantly greater extent in the men than in the women. To explore the effect of age on these sexually diergic hormone responses, in the present study we used the same dose of PHYSO (8 microg/kg IV) to stimulate ACTH(1-39), cortisol, and AVP secretion in normal elderly, non-estrogen-replaced women and elderly men (average ages 73 years and 70 years, respectively). The subjects underwent three test sessions 5-7 days apart: PHYSO, saline control, and a second session of PHYSO. Serial blood samples were taken for hormone analyses before and after pharmacologic challenge. As with the previously studied younger subjects, PHYSO administration produced no side effects in about half the elderly subjects and mild side effects in the other half, with no significant female-male differences. The hormone responses were 2-5 fold greater in the elderly subjects than in the younger subjects, but in contrast to the younger subjects, the elderly men did not have significantly greater hormone responses to PHYSO administration than did the elderly women. The ACTH(1-39) and AVP responses to PHYSO for the two sessions were significantly positively correlated in the men (+0.96, +0.91) but not in the women. None of the hormone responses was significantly correlated with the presence or absence of side effects in either group of subjects.These results indicate a greater sensitivity of the HPA axis to low-dose PHYSO, and a loss of overall sex differences in hormone responses, in elderly compared with younger subjects. The lack of a difference in side effects between the elderly women and men and the lack of significant correlations between presence or absence of side effects and hormone responses suggest that the increase in hormone responses with aging is due to correspondingly increased responsiveness of central cholinergic systems and/or the HPA axis, and not to a nonspecific stress response.
Neurotensin (NT) may play a role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and in the mechanism of action of antipsychotic drugs. Here we studied the effects of a 30-day regimen of haloperidol (1.15 mg/100 g food) and risperidone (1.15 and 2.3 mg/100 g food) on NT-like immunoreactivity (-LI) levels in brain tissue and NT-LI efflux in the ventral striatum (VSTR) of the rat. Haloperidol, but not risperidone, increased NT-LI levels in the striatum. In the occipital cortex, risperidone, but not haloperidol, decreased levels of NT-LI. In the hippocampus and the frontal cortex both haloperidol and risperidone (the higher dose) increased NT-LI levels. In the VSTR, haloperidol and risperidone (the higher dose) decreased NT-LI efflux and abolished the stimulatory effect of d-amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg, s.c.). Thus, changes in NT occur in response to antipsychotic drugs and psychostimulants that may be relevant for the pathophysiology and treatment of schizophrenia.
Some atypical antipsychotic drugs appear to improve cognitive function in schizophrenia and since acetylcholine (ACh) is of importance in cognition, we used in vivo microdialysis to examine the effects of antipsychotics administered acutely (SC or IP) at pharmacologically comparable doses on ACh outflow in the hippocampus of the rat. The atypical antipsychotics olanzapine and clozapine produced robust increases in ACh up to 1500% and 500%, respectively. The neuroleptics haloperidol, thioridazine, and chlorpromazine, as well as the atypical antipsychotics risperidone and ziprasidone produced modest increases in ACh by about 50-100%. Since most atypical antipsychotics affect a variety of monoaminergic receptors, we examined whether selective ligands for some of these receptors affect hippocampal ACh. Antagonists for the 5-HT(2A) (MDL 100,907), the 5-HT(2C) (SB 242,084), the 5-HT(6) (Ro 04-6790), the D(2) (raclopride) receptors, and the alpha(1)-adrenoceptors (prazosin) modestly increased ACh by about 50%. The 5-HT(1A) agonist R-(+)-8-OH-DPAT and the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine significantly increased ACh by about 100% and 50%, respectively. Thus, olanzapine and clozapine increased ACh to a greater extent than other tested antipsychotics, explaining perhaps their purported beneficial effect in cognitive function in schizophrenia. It appears that selective activity at each of the monoaminergic receptors studied is not the sole mechanism underlying the olanzapine and clozapine induced increases in hippocampal ACh.
The pubertal transition from the juvenile to adult state requires significant changes in behavior to meet the demands for success and survival in adulthood. These behavioral changes during puberty must be mediated by changes in the structure and/or function of the central nervous system. Despite the profound consequences of puberty on an animal's behavioral repertoire, the mechanisms underlying pubertal maturation of the nervous system remain largely unknown. In this review, we provide a synthesis of neural development during puberty as it relates to maturation of male reproductive behavior. We first outline neuroendocrine events associated with puberty and review work from our laboratory that identifies pubertal changes in the neural substrate controlling male reproduction by comparing the neural responses of prepubertal and adult males to steroids and female chemosensory cues. We then raise the question of whether puberty is a sensitive period in which gonadal hormones influence the structural and functional organization of neural circuits underlying male reproductive behavior. The central thesis of this review is that the development of the nervous system during puberty alters the way in which the male responds to social stimuli, involving the restructuring of neural circuits that integrate steroidal and sensory information and ultimately mediate steroid-dependent social behaviors in adulthood.
Metabolism of amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) is closely associated with the pathology and etiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Since neprilysin is the only rate-limiting catabolic peptidase proven by reverse genetics to participate in Abeta metabolism in vivo, we performed detailed immunohistochemical analysis of neprilysin in mouse brain using neprilysin-deficient mice as a negative control. The aim was to assess, at both the cellular and subcellular levels, where Abeta undergoes neprilysin-dependent degradation in the brain and how neprilysin localization relates to Abeta pathology in amyloid precursor protein (APP)-transgenic mice. In hippocampus, neprilysin was present in the stratum pyramidale and stratum lacunosum-moleculare of the CA1-3 fields and the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Confocal double immunofluorescence analyses revealed the subcellular localization of neprilysin along axons and at synapses. This observation suggests that after synthesis in the soma, neprilysin, a type II membrane-associated protein, is axonally transported to the terminals, where Abeta degradation is likely to take place. Among various cell types, GABAergic and metabotropic glutamate 2/3 receptor-positive neurons but not catecholaminergic or cholinergic neurons, expressed neprilysin in hippocampus and neocortex, implying the presence of a cell type-specific mechanism that regulates neprilysin gene expression. As expected, Abeta deposition correlated inversely with neprilysin expression in TgCRND8 APP-transgenic mice. These observations not only support the notion that neprilysin functions as a major Abeta-degrading enzyme in the brain but also suggest that down-regulation of neprilysin activity, which may be caused by aging, is likely to elevate local concentrations of Abeta at and around neuronal synapses.

Gangliosides protect cerebellar granule cells from excitotoxicity; however, their mechanism of action remains to be fully characterized. GM1 ganglioside has been shown to activate Trk, the tyrosine kinase receptor implicated in the neuroprotective properties of the neurotrophins. In these studies, we used primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells to determine whether gangliosides exert neuroprotective effect via the activation of Trk receptors. We first examined the relative potency of the neurotrophins, brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 and nerve growth factor to prevent glutamate-mediated apoptosis. BDNF was the only neurotrophin that elicited a complete neuronal protection against glutamate. GM1 and its semisynthetic compound LIGA20 also prevented glutamate toxicity, however, LIGA20 was more potent than GM1. Both LIGA20 and BDNF blocked glutamate-mediated activation of caspase-3 and consequently apoptosis; however, the anticaspase-3 activity was seen only when these compounds were added to the cultures several hours before glutamate, suggesting that LIGA20 and BDNF share an identical molecular mechanism. To test this hypothesis, we compared the ability of LIGA20 and BDNF to activate TrkB. Both compounds elicited a similar time-dependent increase in Trk tyrosine phosphorylation. Moreover, the neuroprotective effect of BDNF and LIGA20 was abolished in neurons exposed to the Trk tyrosine kinase inhibitor k252a, demonstrating a relationship between neuroprotection and activation of Trk receptors. Our data suggest that by activating the Trk neurotrophin receptors, gangliosides may be used as neuroprotective agents.

Nicotine reportedly improves covert orienting of spatial attention, but enhanced alertness may also play a role. The present study explored nicotine effects on measures of spatial attention and alertness in non-smokers. Nicotine was delivered to 17 non-smokers (data from 12 subjects were analyzed) by a 7-mg transdermal patch (one patch in a low-nicotine condition; two patches in a high-nicotine condition). We examined nicotine's effects on spatial attention using a covert orienting task with central, predictive cue stimuli. Nicotine effects on alertness were examined with EEG and subjective questionnaires. Blood was drawn and serum levels of nicotine are reported. Nicotine decreased overall reaction times in the covert orienting task. There was no change in the validity effect, the reaction time difference between validly and invalidly cued targets. However, nicotine significantly improved both EEG and self-rated measures of alertness. We conclude that nicotine increases alertness in non-smokers, but we found no improvement in spatial attention using a covert orienting task.
The pathophysiology of Rett syndrome (RTT) was discussed by reviewing the characteristic clinical features and neurophysiological studies. The electroencephalography (EEG), sensory evoked potentials (SEP), sleep-wake rhythm (SWR) study and polysomnographical (PSG) study showed age dependent characteristics. The findings in EEG and SEP studies suggested the specific subcortical and cortical involvements taking place during the development. PSG suggested the early dysfunction of the brainstem and midbrain monoaminergic systems; hypoactive serotonin and noradrenaline systems and dopaminergic system associated with receptor supersensitivity. The monoaminergic systems are known to influence the maturation of the higher neuronal systems at specific areas and at the critical developmental stages. Particularly the synaptogenesis of the cerebral cortex are modulated by region or layer specifically from early stage of the development. The age dependent appearance of characteristic clinical features of RTT, and the variation of the clinical severities; e.g. classical, variant, form fruste etc. can be explained by the specific features of these monoaminergic systems. The analysis of the components of rapid eye movement sleep (REM) suggested the onset of RTT lies between 36 gestational weeks to 3-4 months postnatally. The roles of the causative gene, methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 gene (MECP2) are thought to modulate the transcription of the specific target genes which act these area at specific developmental stages.
Corneal oedema was induced by exposing the corneas of nine subjects, covering an age range from 20 to 64 years, to distilled water for approximately 25 min. Measurement of the diameters of the associated diffraction haloes observed around a small 633 nm source allowed the size of the diffracting elements within each cornea to be estimated as about 10 microm, in good agreement with direct measurements by in vivo confocal microscopy of the subject's basal epithelial cells.
Previous studies indicate that descending modulation of nociception is progressively increased following persistent inflammation. The present study was designed to further examine the role of supraspinal neurons in descending modulation following persistent inflammation. Constant levels of paw withdrawal (PW) and tail flick (TF) latencies to noxious heat stimuli were achieved in lightly anesthetized rats (pentobarbital sodium 3-10 mg/kg/h, i.v.). Electrical stimulation (ES, 0.1 ms, 100 Hz, 20-200 A) was delivered to the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), mainly the nucleus raphe magnus (NRM). ES produced intensity-dependent inhibition of PW and TF. Following a unilateral hindpaw inflammation produced by injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA), ES-produced inhibition underwent time-dependent changes. There was an initial decrease at 3 h after inflammation and a subsequent increase after inflammation in the excitability of RVM neurons and the inhibition of nocifensive responses. These changes were most robust after stimulation of the inflamed paw although similar findings were seen on the non-inflamed paw and tail. The inflammation-induced dynamic changes in descending modulation appeared to be correlated with changes in the activation of the N-methyl--aspartate (NMDA) excitatory amino acid receptor. Microinjection of an NMDA receptor antagonist, AP5 (1 pmol), resulted in an increase in the current intensity required for inhibition of the PW and TF. The effect of AP5 was less at 3 h after inflammation and significantly greater at 11-24 h after inflammation. In a subsequent experiment, ES-produced inhibition of nocifensive responses after inflammation was examined following selective chemical lesions of the nuclei reticularis gigantocellularis (NGC). Compared to vehicle-injected animals, microinjection of a soma-selective excitotoxin, ibotenic acid, enhanced ES-produced inhibition at 3 h but not at 24 h after inflammation. We propose that these time course changes reflect dynamic alterations in concomitant descending facilitation and inhibition. At early time points, NMDA receptor and NGC activation enhance descending facilitation; as time progresses, the dose-response curve of NMDA shifts to the left and descending inhibition dominates and masks any descending facilitation.
Treatment of pain in newborns is associated with problematic drug side effects. Previous studies demonstrate that an intraoral infusion of sucrose and other sweet components of mother's milk are effective in alleviating pain in infant rats and humans. These findings are of considerable significance, as sweet tastants are used in pain and stress management in a number of clinical procedures performed in human infants. The ability of sweet stimuli to induce analgesia is absent in adult rats, suggesting that this is a developmentally transient phenomenon. However, the age range over which intraoral sucrose is capable of producing analgesia is not known. We investigated the effects of intraoral sucrose (7.5%) on nocifensive withdrawal responses to thermal and mechanical stimuli in naive and inflamed rats at postnatal days (P) P0-21. In some rats, Complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) was injected in a fore- or hindpaw to produce inflammation. In non-inflamed animals, for noxious thermal stimuli, sucrose-induced analgesia emerged at P3, peaked at P7-10, then progressively declined and was absent at P17. For mechanical forepaw stimuli, sucrose-induced analgesia emerged, and was maximal at approximately P10, then declined and was absent at P17. By contrast, maximal sucrose-induced analgesia for mechanical hindpaw stimuli was delayed (P13) compared to that for the forepaw, although it was also absent at P17. In inflamed animals, sucrose reduced hyperesthesia and hyperalgesia assessed with mechanical stimuli. Sucrose-induced analgesia in inflamed animals was initially present at P3 for the forepaw and P13 for the hindpaw, and was absent by P17 for both limbs. Intraoral sucrose produced significantly greater effects on responses in fore- and hindpaws in inflamed rats than in naive rats indicating that it reduces hyperalgesia and allodynia beyond its effects on responses in naive animals. These findings support the hypothesis that sucrose has a selective influence on analgesic mechanisms and that an enhanced sucrose effect takes place in hyperalgesic, inflamed animals as compared to naive animals. Taken together, these results indicate that intraoral sucrose alleviates transient pain in response to thermal and mechanical stimuli, and also effectively reduces inflammatory hyperalgesia and allodynia. Sucrose-induced analgesia is age-dependent and limited to the pre-weaning period in rats. The age-dependency of sucrose-induced analgesia and its differential maturation for the fore- and hindpaw may be due to developmental changes in endogenous analgesic mechanisms and developmental modulation of the interaction between gustatory and pain modulatory pathways.
We and others have previously demonstrated that nociception in the mouse is heritable. A genetic correlation analysis of 12 common measures of nociception among a common set of inbred strains revealed three major clusters (or 'types') of nociception in this species. In the present study, we re-evaluated the major types of nociception and their interrelatedness using ten additional assays of nociception and hypersensitivity, including: three thermal assays (tail withdrawal from 47.5 degrees C water or -15 degrees C ethanol; tail flick from radiant heat), two chemical assays of spontaneous nociception (bee venom test; capsaicin test) and their subsequent thermal hypersensitivity states (including contralateral hypersensitivity in the bee venom test), a mechanical nociceptive assay (tail-clip test), and a mechanical hypersensitivity assay (intrathecal dynorphin). Confirming our earlier findings, the results demonstrate distinct thermal and chemical nociceptive types. It is now clear that mechanical hypersensitivity and thermal hypersensitivity are genetically dissociable phenomena. Furthermore, we now see at least two distinct types of thermal hypersensitivity: afferent-dependent, featuring a preceding significant period of spontaneous nociceptive behavior associated with afferent neural activity, and non-afferent-dependent. In conclusion, our latest analysis suggests that there are at least five fundamental types of nociception and hypersensitivity: (1) baseline thermal nociception; (2) spontaneous responses to noxious chemical stimuli; (3) thermal hypersensitivity; (4) mechanical hypersensitivity; and (5) afferent input-dependent hypersensitivity.
It has been 60 years since the definitive descriptions of autism, yet it is only in the past decade that related advances in cognitive and basic neuroscience have begun to be incorporated in clinical practice. Some of the resultant clinical advances, which include a trend toward international standardization of diagnosis on the basis of behavioral criteria and which, in turn, seem to allow for earlier, more secure diagnosis and the application of behavioral therapy in early childhood, as well as more thorough genetic studies, are briefly reviewed. The three major defects in thought processing that are postulated by cognitive neuropsychologists to result in aberrant autistic behaviors are also reviewed and linked to recent functional imaging studies in autistic patients and some animal and bench research suggestive of both cortical and subcortical developmental vulnerabilities in autism. Overall it seems at least possible that neuroscientific research may yield results applicable to prevention or remediation of autism, a condition heretofore considered irremediable.
Leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) overexpression, induced by the intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of an recombinant adeno-associated viral vector encoding LIF (rAAV-LIF), resulted in a dose-dependent reduction in body weight (BW) gain, food intake (FI) and adiposity, evidenced by suppression of serum leptin and free fatty acids for an extended period in outbred adult female rats. A dose-dependent reduction in serum insulin levels and unchanged serum glucose, energy expenditure through thermogenesis as indicated by uncoupling protein-1 (UCP-1) mRNA expression in brown adipose tissue (BAT), and metabolism as indicated by serum T3 and T4, accompanied the blockade of weight gain. Thus, central rAAV-LIF therapy is a viable strategy to voluntarily reduce appetite and circumvent leptin resistance, a primary factor underlying age-dependent weight gain and obesity in rodents and humans.
Pro-hormone convertases PC1 and PC2 perform endoproteolytic cleavages of precursors in peptide-containing secretory granules. PC1 and PC2 are soluble, secreted with bioactive peptides. Evolutionarily related PCs have membrane tethers, not secreted. We tethered PC1 to the transmembrane-cytoplasmic domains (CD) of a granule enzyme (peptidylglycine-alpha-amidating monooxygenase; PAM) and Golgi-localized PC8. The tethered PC1 is far more stable to elevated temperature and denaturants than soluble PC1, and more active. Both tethers allow PC1 to visit the cell surface transiently, cleaving soluble molecules outside the cell. Both membrane-bound PC1 chimeras cleave membrane PAM into soluble active fragments when PAM is expressed on adjacent cells.
The direction selectivity of cortical neurons can be accounted for by asymmetric lateral connections. Such lateral connectivity leads to a network dynamics with characteristic properties that can be exploited for distinguishing in neurophysiological experiments this mechanism for direction selectivity from other possible mechanisms. We present a mathematical analysis for a class of direction-selective neural models with asymmetric lateral connections. Contrasting with earlier theoretical studies that have analyzed approximations of the network dynamics by neglecting nonlinearities using methods from linear systems theory, we study the network dynamics with nonlinearity taken into consideration. We show that asymmetrically coupled networks can stabilize stimulus-locked traveling pulse solutions that are appropriate for the modeling of the responses of direction-selective neurons. In addition, our analysis shows that outside a certain regime of stimulus speeds the stability of these solutions breaks down, giving rise to lurching activity waves with specific spatiotemporal periodicity. These solutions, and the bifurcation by which they arise, cannot be easily accounted for by classical models for direction selectivity.
Adult male Long-Evans rats were subjected to bilateral lesions of the cholinergic neurons in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) by injection of 0.2 or 0.4 microg 192-IgG-saporin in 0.4 microl phosphate-buffered saline. Control rats received an equivalent amount of phosphate-buffered saline. Starting 2 weeks after surgery, all rats were tested for locomotor activity in their home cage, beam-walking performance, T-maze alternation rates (working memory), reference and working memory performance in a water-maze task, and memory capabilities in the eight-arm radial maze task using uninterrupted and interrupted (delay of 2 min, 2 h and 6 h after four arms had been visited) testing procedures. Histochemical analysis showed a significant decrease of acetylcholinesterase (AChE)-positive reaction products (30-66%) in various cortical regions at the 0.2-microg dose. At the dose of 0.4 microg, there was an additional, although weak, damage to the hippocampus (17-30%) and the cingulate cortex (34%). The behavioral results showed only minor impairments in spatial memory tasks, and only during initial phases of the tests (reference memory in the water maze, working memory in the radial maze). The behavioral effects of the dramatic cholinergic lesions do not support the idea of a substantial implication of cholinergic projections from the NBM to the cortex in the memory processes assessed in this study, but they remain congruent with an involvement of these projections in attentional functions.
Adult male zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata) produce hundreds of song bouts per day, even when housed in social isolation. Whether the production of this &quot;undirected song&quot; is influenced by specific environmental factors is unclear, although we previously found that short-term food (but not water) deprivation leads to a prompt cessation of singing. Here, male zebra finches were placed on a schedule of restricted feeding for 11 days to ask whether stimulus features associated with food influenced undirected song independent of the effect of food on body mass. We also evaluated the within-day effects of ambient temperature (Ta) variation on metabolic rate and then, based on these data, placed male zebra finches on 5 days of cold Ta (8 degrees C) to determine whether a moderately increased energy demand associated with cold Ta would influence undirected song. Daily song production and several energetic variables were measured during each manipulation, and data obtained during baseline and recovery periods (food and water available ad libitum, Ta=26 degrees C) provided a standard for comparison. Our results showed that the schedule of restricted feeding produced more than two-thirds reduction in the daily production of undirected song, while cold Ta had no effect. Daily food intake and body mass were well defended under both manipulations. Thus, undirected singing by adult male zebra finches appears to show a specific relationship to the availability of food. Possible mechanisms linking food availability to singing are discussed.
The design and characterization of instrumentation for application in evaluating the neural signal recording properties of probe-type microelectrodes, micromachined from silicon, are reported. Key aspects include the close matching of gain and frequency response between channels (better than 1%), flexibility in signal conditioning options, the ability to operate with a wide range of (microelectrode) recording site dimensions (4 microm x 4 micrm to 50 microm x 50 microm), and hence impedances, and the facility to monitor and store instrumentation settings on computer along with the recorded signals. Noise levels ranged from 3.7 microV rms for a 50 microm site, to 11.7 microV rms for a microm site, measured in saline. Close matching between channels was required to enable comparisons between different sites and different probes to be made with confidence; however, the instrumentation could be readily applied to less demanding applications.
Neuroscientific reflection on the integrative action of the nervous system was dominated by consideration of the motor system from the time of Aristotle in the 4th century B.C. to that of Sherrington, his contemporaries and proteges in the first-half of the 20th century. We describe the significant discoveries concerning the action of the spinal cord and cortex in motor phenomena during this period. This provides a vivid account of how great neuroscientists, over a period of more than 2000 years, have endeavoured to clarify notions concerning the integrative action of the nervous system in the context of the prevailing philosophical traditions of their times. We examine these traditions as well as the conceptual schemes offered by neuroscientists, especially in relation to the workings of the cortex. It is shown that neuroscientists cleave to this day to a tradition that goes back to Descartes, and that this is the case even for those who explicitly claim to reject such a tradition. The review concludes with what we take to be an appropriate basis for rejecting the Cartesian paradigm that we hope will assist neuroscientists in understanding the integrative action of the nervous system.
Studies on the receptive field properties of cat retinal ganglion cells over the past half-century are reviewed within the context of the role played by the receptive field in visual information processing. Emphasis is placed on the work conducted within the past 20 years, but a summary of key contributions from the 1950s to 1970s is provided. We have sought to review aspects of the ganglion cell receptive field that have not been featured prominently in previous review articles. Our review of the receptive field properties of X- and Y-cells focuses on quantitative studies and includes consideration of the function of the receptive field in visual signal processing. We discuss the non-classical as well as the classical receptive field. Attention is also given to the receptive field properties of the less well-studied cat ganglion cells-the W-cells-and the effect of pathology on cat ganglion cell properties. Although work from our laboratories is highlighted, we hope that we have given a reasonably balanced view of the current state of the field.
The pituitary is the master endocrine gland responsible for the regulation of various physiologic and metabolic processes. Proteomics offers an efficient means for a comprehensive analysis of pituitary protein expression. This paper reports on the application of proteomics for the mapping of major proteins in a normal (control) pituitary. Pituitary proteins were separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis with immobilized pH 3-10 gradient strips. Major protein spots that were visualized in the two-dimensional gel by silver staining were excised, and the proteins in these spots were digested with trypsin. The tryptic digests were analyzed by mass spectrometry, and the mass spectrometric data were used to identify the proteins through searches of the SWISS-PROT or NCBInr protein sequence databases. The majority of the proteins were identified on the basis of peptide mass fingerprinting data obtained by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry. Several proteins were also characterized based on product-ion spectra measured by post-source decay analysis and/or liquid chromatography-electrospray-quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometry. To date, 62 prominent protein spots, corresponding to 38 different proteins, were identified. The identified proteins include important pituitary hormones, structural proteins, enzymes, and other proteins. The protein identification data were used to establish a two-dimensional reference database of the human pituitary, which can be accessed over the Internet (http://www.utmem.edu/proteomics). This database will serve as a tool for further proteomics studies of pituitary protein expression in health and disease.




We used a psychophysiological marker of visual attention (visual scanpath) to investigate facial emotion processing in schizophrenia (n= 65) and healthy control (n = 61) groups. Visual scanpaths to 'happy', *sad' and 'neutral' faces (two exposures each) were recorded using video-oculography. Emotion recognition accuracy was assessed under both 'difficult' (exposure 1) and 'limited choice' (exposure 2) conditions. Compared to controls, schizophrenia subjects showed 'restricted' scanning and reduced attention to salient facial features (eyes, nose, mouth), that was particularly apparent for happy and neutral faces: accuracy was correspondingly reduced for the 'difficult' condition. The schizophrenia deficit in positive emotion perception may reflect a failure to integrate salient features due to dysfunctions in local processing of detailed, relevant information (fewer fixations, less attention to facial features), and in the networks that synchronise local and global processing of biologically-relevant face stimuli (generally restricted scanning style).
The 'membrane hypothesis' of schizophrenia postulates a disturbance in the metabolism and structure of membrane phospholipids resulting in a disturbance in the function of neuronal membrane proteins. Most studies exploring this hypothesis have examined components of peripheral blood. Since it may be questioned if these peripheral measurements reflect changes in the brain, we studied the fatty acid composition of glycerophospholipids in brain tissue. As a marker for synaptic density, we also measured the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin. Brain tissue (gyrus cinguli) from 11 schizophrenic patients (mean age 80 +/- 10 years) and 13 controls (mean age 75 +/- 14 years) was examined. The glycerophospholipid fatty acids were determined by gas chromatography. Synaptophysin protein level was determined using quantitative immunoblotting followed by Western blotting. There were no significant differences between the groups in the total or in any individual level of fatty acids, either in the n - 6 or n - 3 series. The level of synaptophysin was significantly p = (0.002) decreased in the schizophrenic group(0.73 + 0.18) as compared with the control group (1.02 + 0.21). The normal pattern and concentration of glycerophospholipids fatty acids found in the present study do not support the membrane hypothesis of schizophrenia. The possibility of a type II error should, however. be considered. On the other hand, the reduced synaptophysin' levels in the gyrus cinguli demonstrate that biological differences can be revealed in this relatively small sample. This also lends further support to the notion that a synaptic disturbance or loss is of importance in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia.
Cerebellar structures were measured in 30 chronic schizophrenic men and 18 healthy men using high resolution MRI. The volume of the posterior superior vermis was found to be significantly smaller in the schizophrenic men, but there was no difference in other cerebellar regions or the intracranial volume. The findings support the view that within the cerebellum the posterior superior vermis may be selectively reduced in men with chronic schizophrenia.
We studied two subtypes of schizophrenia. the Kraepelinian subtype (n = 10) characterized by an unremitting and severe course and the non-Kraepelinian subtype (n = 17) characterized by a remitting course and some periods of self-care. Patients were assessed with positron emission tomography (PET) with 18F-deoxyglucose (FDG) and high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). A group of 32 age- and sex-matched normal volunteers served as comparison subjects. During the FDG tracer uptake period, patients performed a serial verbal learning task. MR images were segmented into gray, white and cerebrospinal fluid regions, and warped to average normal coordinates. PET images were coregistered to the MR images and similarly warpedfor analysis. Kraepelinian subtype patients were characterized by lower metabolic rates in the temporal lobe and cingulategyrus. and lower fronto/occipital ratios than non-Kraepelinian subtype patients. Exploratory statistical probability mapping alsorevealed lower metabolic rates in the right striatum in Kraepelinian versus non-Kraepelinian patients. These differences couldnot be attributed to differences in age, symptom severity, task performance during FDG uptake, or severity of involuntary movements. Factor analysis of the cortical surface identified significantly lower temporal lobe metabolic rates in Kraepelinian patients than non-Kraepelinian patients. A combined frontal/temporal deficit or greater cortical change may be associated with poorer longitudinal course.





Activation of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5HT) receptors of the 2A subtype (5HT2A) in the intermediate portion of the medial nucleus tractus solitarius (mNTS) produces marked hypotension and bradycardia. This portion of the mNTS receives major input from glutamatergic baroreceptor afferents. Thus, the cardiorespiratory effects of 5HT2A agonists may be attributed, in part, to interactions involving the glutamatergic target neurons, some of which express N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptors. To determine the functional sites for activation of 5HT2A receptors and their relationship to NMDA receptors in this region, we used electron microscopic immunocytochemistry for the localization of antipeptide antisera selectively recognizing each receptor protein in the intermediate mNTS in rat brain. Of 1,052 5HT2A-labeled profiles, 38% were dendrites and dendritic spines, 27% were unmyelinated axons, 14% were axon terminals, and 11% were glial processes. These 5HT2A-labeled profiles frequently contained NR1 gold particles with dendrites comprising 68% of the total dual-labeled profiles. In dendrites, the 5HT2A immunoreactivity was localized to cytoplasmic organelles or discretely distributed on synaptic or extrasynaptic segments of the plasma membrane. In contrast, NR1 immunoreactivity was prominently localized to postsynaptic junctions and these were distinct from the 5HT2A receptor labeling when coexpressed in the same dendrites. Dendrites containing both receptors composed 56% (224/399) of the total 5HT2A-labeled dendrites and 34% (224/659) of the total NR1-labeled dendrites. Our results provide the first ultrastructural evidence that in the intermediate mNTS, 5HT2A receptor agonists may affect the postsynaptic excitability of many of the same neurons that show NMDA-evoked responses to glutamate.

Despite being much studied by cognitive neuroscience, consciousness has resisted attempts to understand it. Recent neuroscientific papers on the problem have surprisingly neglected attention as a guide to consciousness. A new neural mechanism is proposed here, guided by a control approach to attention, which identifies the source of consciousness, especially that of the ownership of experience.
In recent years, numerous mouse models have been generated that recapitulate salient features of prostate carcinogenesis in humans. Here we review progress in the generation and validation of mouse models for prostate cancer, discuss current limitations of these models, and highlight directions of future research.
The olfactory system has become an important model system for neurobiological function and sensory processing. In insects, odours play a vital role in all aspects of life. From the late 1950s until very recently, research into the structure and function of the insect olfactory system has often preceded similar investigations in vertebrates and has been important in the formulation of general principles.
In June 2000, the Canadian government abolished the Medical Research Council of Canada, creating the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR) and appointing the internationally renowned geneticist Alan Bernstein as its first president. Bernstein and the CIHR Governing Council then elaborated the novel concept of 13 'virtual' CIHR institutes (see http://www.cihr.ca for further information). These institutes are not physical entities, but virtual organizations aiming to support researchers located in universities, hospitals and research centres across Canada. Following an open competition, December 2000 saw the appointment of a scientific director to lead the development of each institute. Rmi Quirion, a neuroscientist and Professor of Psychiatry based at the Douglas Hospital Research Centre of McGill University (Montreal, Canada) is the first Scientific Director of the Institute of Neurosciences, Mental Health and Addiction (INMHA). Here he summarizes the early developments and initiatives undertaken by his institute.
The Na(v)1.9 Na(+) channel (also known as NaN) is preferentially expressed in nociceptive neurons of the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and trigeminal ganglia. Na(v)1.9 produces a persistent, tetrodotoxin-resistant current with wide overlap between activation and steady-state inactivation, and appears to modulate resting potential and to amplify small depolarizations. These unique properties indicate that Na(v)1.9 has significant effects on the electroresponsive properties of primary nociceptive neurons. Downregulation of Na(v)1.9, which results from a lack of peripheral glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor following peripheral axotomy, might retune DRG neurons and contribute to their hyperexcitability after nerve injury. Thus, Na(v)1.9 appears to play a key role in nociception and is an attractive target in the search for more effective treatments for pain.

Certain ganglion cells in the mammalian retina are known to express a cGMP-gated cation channel. We found that a cGMP-gated current modulates spike responses of the ganglion cells in mammalian retinal slice preparation. In such cells under current clamp, bath application of the membrane-permeant cGMP analog (8-bromo-cGMP, 8-p-chlorophenylthio-cGMP) or a nitric oxide donor (sodium nitroprusside, S-nitroso-N-acetyl-penicillamine) depolarized the membrane potential by 5-15 mV, and reduced the amount of current needed to evoke action potentials. Similar effects were observed when the membrane potential was simply depolarized by steady current. The responses to cGMP are unaffected by inhibitors of cGMP-dependent protein kinase and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase. The response to cGMP persisted in Ca2+-free bath solution with Ca2+ buffers in the pipette. Under voltage clamp, cGMP analogs did not affect the response kinetics of voltage-gated currents. We conclude that cGMP modulates ganglion cell spiking simply by depolarizing the membrane potential via the inward current through the cGMP-gated channel. Modulation of this channel via the long-range NO-synthase amacrine cell may contribute to control of contrast gain by peripheral mechanisms.
The four spectral cone types in the zebrafish retina each contribute to photopic visual sensitivity as measured by the b-wave of the electroretinogram (ERG). The goal of the current study was to evaluate a model of photopic b-wave spectral sensitivity in the zebrafish that mapped first-order cellular and biophysical aspects of cone photoreceptors (visual pigment absorbance spectra and cone fractions) onto a second-order physiological aspect of cone-derived neural activity in the retina. Good correspondence between the model and photopic ERG data was attained using new visual pigment absorbance data for zebrafish cones (lambda(max) of the L, M, and S cones were 564, 473, and 407 nm, respectively), visual pigment templates, and linearly gained cone fractions. The model inferred four distinct cone processing channels that contribute to the photopic b-wave, two of which are antagonistic combinations of cone-derived signals (L-M and M-S), and two of which are noncombinatorial signals from S and U cones. The nature of the gains and the processing channels suggested general rules of cone-specific inputs to second-order neurons. The model further suggested that the zebrafish retina utilizes neuronal mechanisms for enhancing sensitivity to luminance contrast at short wavelengths and chromatic contrast at middle and long wavelengths. The results indicated that first-order cellular and biophysical aspects of cone photoreceptors can successfully explain physiological aspects of cone-derived neuronal activity in the zebrafish retina.
Modulation of responses elicited by moving bars within the classical receptive fields (CRF) of cat area 17 neurons were studied as a function of the direction and velocity of drifting gratings in the surrounds. Several different types of modulation were observed; collectively, the responses of most cells, both simple and complex, were strongly modulated by surround motion. None of these cells appear to signal relative velocity between the CRF and its surround. The gain and spatiotemporal structure of the CRF mechanism were estimated using contrast-response functions and reverse correlation with spatiotemporal ternary white noise, respectively. These measurements were made in the presence of surround gratings shown to significantly modify responses elicited from the CRF. In all cases, the gain of the CRF mechanism was driven up or down relative to controls but the receptive-field structure did not change in any way. We conclude that neurons in cat area 17 act like scalable filters, meaning that their gains can be adjusted by stimuli in the surrounds without altering the properties of the CRF. This was verified by showing that velocity tuning curves were also unmodified by stimuli in the surround that did change the gain. Based in part on these data, we discuss the notion that primary visual cortex makes use of a double-opponent mechanism for the representation of local discontinuities in motion and orientation.


1. Quercetin is one of the most abundant flavonoids in edible vegetables, fruit and wine. The aim was to study the type of inhibition of SULT1A1 by quercetin in the human adult and foetal livers. 2. The activity of SULT1A1 was measured with 4 microM 4-nitrophenol and 0.4 microM 3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulphate-[(35)S], and its mean (+/-SD) and median were 769 +/- 311 and 740 pmol min(-1) mg(-1), respectively (adult liver, n = 10), and 185 +/- 98 and 201 pmol min(-1) mg(-1), respectively (foetal liver, n = 8, p &lt; 0.0001). 3. In non-inhibited samples, K(m) for SULT1A1 (mean +/- SD) was 0.31 +/- 0.14 microM (adult liver) and 0.49 +/- 0.17 microM (foetal liver, n.s.). V(max) for SULT1A1 (mean +/- SD) was 885 +/- 135 pmol min(-1) mg(-1) (adult liver) and 267 +/- 93 pmol min(-1) mg(-1) (foetal liver, p = 0.007). 4. The IC(50) of quercetin for SULT1A1 was measured in three samples of adult and foetal livers and was 13 +/- 2.1 and 12 +/- 1.4 nM, respectively. 5. The type of inhibition was mixed non-competitive in adult and foetal livers and K(i) was 4.7 +/- 2.5 nM (adult liver) and 4.8 +/- 1.6 nM (foetal liver). 6. In the adult liver, the intrinsic clearance (mean +/- SD) was 3.3 +/- 1.5 ml min(-1) mg(-1) (non-inhibited samples), 0.9 +/- 0.4 ml min(-1) mg(-1) (12.5 nM quercetin) and 0.5 +/- 0.06 ml min(-1) mg(-1) (25 nM quercetin). In the foetal liver, the intrinsic clearance (mean +/- SD) was 0.5 +/- 0.2 ml min(-1) mg(-1) (non-inhibited samples), 0.12 +/- 0.01 ml min(-1) mg(-1) (12.5 nM quercetin) and 0.2 +/- 0.09 ml min(-1) mg(-1) (25 nM quercetin). 7. In conclusion, quercetin is a potent inhibitor of human adult and foetal liver SULT1A1. It reduces the sulphation rate and intrinsic clearance of 4-nitrophenol in both human adult and foetal livers. This suggests that quercetin may inhibit the sulfation rate of those drugs sulphated by SULT1A1. The inhibition of SULT1A1 is complex and not due solely to competition at the catalytic site of SULT1A1.


Potassium (K+) channels are believed to regulate mammalian sperm acquisition of fertilising capacity. However, the molecular identity of these proteins in sperm has not been elucidated. In this report, using immunoconfocal and electron microscopy we show that a minimum of four different classes of K+ channels (Kv1.1, Kv1.2, Kv3.1 and GIRK1) are present and regionally distributed over the surface of mouse epididymal sperm. In addition, the use of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction on RNA from mouse spermatogenic cells allowed the amplification of multiple transcripts corresponding to the channels identified by immunocytochemistry. Consistent with this, whole-cell patch-clamp recordings showed the expression of at least two different outwardly rectifying K+ currents in spermatogenic cells.
The tricarboxylate carrier protein catalyzes an electroneutral exchange across the mitochondrial inner membrane of tricarboxylate, dicarboxylate or phosphoenolpyruvate. We examined expression and localization of mitochondrial tricarboxylate carrier TCC mRNA and protein in the rat brain. TCC mRNA was ubiquitously expressed in all rat tissues examined and was abundant in brain, liver and kidney. TCC protein as well as mRNA was widely expressed in brain, and the protein expression was strong in neuronal cells in the hippocampus, the olfactory bulb, the corpus mamillare and the cerebellum. Our results suggest that this tricarboxylate carrier protein may contribute to biosynthesis and bioenergetics in neuronal cells in brain.

We present a technique for stimulating post-synaptic receptors with neurotransmitter locally at a single synapse and with a concentration profile that is comparable to endogenous stimulation. We modify the technique of iontophoresis to use a 0.1 microm electrode tip for local stimulation, and we combine it with fast capacitance compensation to achieve high-speed application from a high-resistance tip. Ejection of fluorescent dye from the electrode shows that transmitter can be limited to the width of a single synapse and to a time scale similar to an endogenous event. The speed and localization of transmitter is confirmed by iontophoretically stimulating single labeled synapses in cultured hippocampal neurons held under voltage clamp. The amount of transmitter ejected is linear and reproducible over a physiologically relevant range, making this technique useful for examining receptor kinetics and receptor insertion/removal. The system should be capable of delivering any charged neurotransmitter, and we show examples using glutamate and GABA. The technique is also combined with computer-controlled manipulation to study the strength and plasticity of multiple synapses in real-time.
A simple venturi-based &quot;spritzer&quot; device is described that is capable of repeatedly and rapidly delivering small volumes of different solutions to cells or tissues. This is particularly advantageous in situations when the appropriate ligand or drug is not known a priori and has to be determined &quot;on the fly&quot; during the limited lifetime of a preparation. The utility of the device is demonstrated for applying odorants to olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs).
Mechanisms for sensing, acquiring, storing and using energy are fundamental to the survival of organisms at all levels of the phylogenetic scale. Single-cell organisms evolved surface receptors that sense an energy source and, via signal transduction pathways that couple the receptors to the cell cytoskeleton move towards the energy source. Mutlicellular organisms evolved under conditions that favored species that developed complex mechanisms for obtaining food, with nervous systems being critical mediators of energy acquisition and regulators of energy metabolism. A conserved signaling system involved in regulating cellular and organismal energy metabolism, and in sensing and responding to energy/food-related environmental signals, involves receptors coupled to the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase-Akt signaling pathway. Prominent activators of this pathway are insulin, insulin-like growth factors and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Recent studies in diverse organisms including nematodes, flies and rodents have provided evidence that insulin-like signaling in the nervous system can control lifespan, perhaps by modulating stress responses and energy metabolism. Interestingly, the lifespan-extending effect of dietary restriction in rodents is associated with increased BDNF signaling in the brain, and a related increase of peripheral insulin sensitivity, suggesting a mechanism whereby the brain can control lifespan. Thus a prominent evolutionarily conserved function of the nervous system is to regulate food acquisition and energy metabolism, thereby controlling lifespan.
Duplexes of 21-nt RNAs, known as short-interfering RNAs (siRNAs), efficiently inhibit gene expression by RNA interference (RNAi) when introduced into mammalian cells. We show that siRNAs can be synthesized by in vitro transcription with T7 RNA polymerase, providing an economical alternative to chemical synthesis of siRNAs. By using this method, we show that short hairpin siRNAs can function like siRNA duplexes to inhibit gene expression in a sequence-specific manner. Further, we find that hairpin siRNAs or siRNAs expressed from an RNA polymerase III vector based on the mouse U6 RNA promoter can effectively inhibit gene expression in mammalian cells. U6-driven hairpin siRNAs dramatically reduced the expression of a neuron-specific beta-tubulin protein during the neuronal differentiation of mouse P19 cells, demonstrating that this approach should be useful for studies of differentiation and neurogenesis. We also observe that mismatches within hairpin siRNAs can increase the strand selectivity of a hairpin siRNA, which may reduce self-targeting of vectors expressing siRNAs. Use of hairpin siRNA expression vectors for RNAi should provide a rapid and versatile method for assessing gene function in mammalian cells, and may have applications in gene therapy.
Chronic exposure to cocaine induces long-term adaptations that are likely to involve changes in transcription factor expression. This possibility has not been examined in the cocaine-exposed human brain. The transcription factor nurr1 is highly expressed in rodent midbrain dopamine neurons and is essential for their proper phenotypic development. Here we show that human NURR1 gene expression is robust within control subjects and reduced markedly within the dopamine neurons of human cocaine abusers. NURR1 is known to regulate transcription of the gene encoding the cocaine-sensitive dopamine transporter (DAT). We show here that DAT gene expression also is reduced markedly in the dopamine neurons of NURR1-deficient cocaine abusers, suggesting that NURR1 plays a critical role in vivo in controlling human DAT gene expression and adaptation to repeated exposure to cocaine.
Senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, the two hallmark lesions of Alzheimer's disease, are the results of the pathological deposition of proteins normally present throughout the brain. Senile plaques are extracellular deposits of fibrillar beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta); neurofibrillary tangles represent intracellular bundles of self-assembled hyperphosphorylated tau proteins. Although these two lesions are often present in the same brain areas, a mechanistic link between them has yet to be established. In the present study, we analyzed whether tau plays a key role in fibrillar Abeta-induced neurite degeneration in central neurons. Cultured hippocampal neurons obtained from wild-type, tau knockout, and human tau transgenic mice were treated with fibrillar Abeta. Morphological analysis indicated that neurons expressing either mouse or human tau proteins degenerated in the presence of Abeta. On the other hand, tau-depleted neurons showed no signs of degeneration in the presence of Abeta. These results provide direct evidence supporting a key role for tau in the mechanisms leading to Abeta-induced neurodegeneration in the central nervous system. In addition, the analysis of the composition of the cytoskeleton of tau-depleted neurons suggested that the formation of more dynamic microtubules might confer resistance to Abeta-mediated neurodegeneration.
The transfer of glutamine between cells contributes to signaling as well as to metabolism. The recent identification and characterization of the system N and A family of transporters has begun to suggest mechanisms for the directional transfer of glutamine, and should provide ways to test its physiological significance in diverse processes from nitrogen to neurotransmitter release.
The effects of neonatal or adult enucleation on the final adult pattern of the rat visual corticocollicular (C-Co) connection were studied using the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextranamine 10,000 (BDA) iontophoretically injected in the primary visual cortex. In control animals, column-shaped terminal fields limited to a small portion of the collicular surface were observed. Synaptic boutons were present in all superficial strata of the superior colliculus (SC), with the highest density in the ventral part of the stratum griseum superficiale (SGS). Neonatal enucleation caused a considerable expansion of the contralateral visual C-Co terminal fields, which occupied almost the entire collicular surface, suggesting that axonal sprouting had occurred. In addition, terminal boutons tended to localize more dorsally in these cases compared with controls. Following enucleation in adult animals, no changes were observed with respect to the extension of the terminal fields, although a plastic reaction leading to an increase in the bouton density in the stratum zonale (SZ) and upper SGS was found, reflecting a process of reactive synaptogenesis at these levels. These results show that both neonatal and adult visual C-Co fibers react in response to retinal ablation, although this reaction shows distinct characteristics. Molecular factors, such as growth-associated cytoskeletal proteins operating in the cortical origin, and extracellular matrix components and myelin-associated axonal growth inhibitors acting on the collicular target very likely account for these differences.
Darwin proposed a powerful functional principle-natural selection-to interpret phylogenetic diversity and complexity. Nevertheless, some 70 years elapsed before even biologists embraced his account. The triumph of natural selection required two additional factors: (a) biological mechanisms that implemented the functional principle (i.e. genetics); and (b) quantitative procedures that traced its cumulative effects (i.e. population genetics). Thorndike and, later, Skinner proposed a functional principle-selection by reinforcement-that interpreted ontogenetic diversity and complexity. This principle has been substantially refined by subsequent experimental and theoretical work and now provides an equally powerful functional account. However, a purely functional principle has once again not persuaded most scientists (apart from the behavior-analytic minority) that complex behavior can be understood by a selection principle. If the history of ontogeny recapitulates the history of phylogeny, the biological mechanisms that implement selection by reinforcement must be discovered and quantitative techniques that trace its effects must be devised. In short, the triumph of reinforcement may await the integration of behavior analysis with the neurosciences and the development of coordinated quantitative procedures. This article identifies specific interrelations with neuroscience that form the basis for a behavior-analytically faithful interpretation of reinforcement using neural-network techniques. Implications for the architecture of networks and for the learning algorithm are emphasized.
To better understand the changes that occur following exposure to peroxisome proliferators, we utilized mRNA differential display and microarray to screen for peroxisome proliferator target genes apart from those involved in lipid metabolism in male C57B6 mice by using the ubiquitous plasticizer, di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP). One noted change was the dose-dependent suppression of the mouse hormone metabolizing 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase V (HSD3b5), which is specifically expressed in the male mouse liver. Northern analysis showed that HSD3b5 mRNA levels decreased dramatically upon one-day exposure to 2.0% dietary DEHP, and were nearly undetectable by one week of treatment. Food restriction also significantly suppressed HSD3b5 expression; however, in this case the suppression was delayed and to a lesser extent. Another mouse 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, HSD3b4, predominantly expressed in kidneys, was also regulated by DEHP and food restriction. The sex-specific gene, HSD3b5, was affected more by DEHP and food restriction than the tissue-specific gene, HSD3b4.
Small ubiquitin-like modifiers (SUMOs) are proteins homologous to ubiquitin that possibly regulate intranuclear protein localization, nuclear transport, and ubiquitination. We examined patients of DRPLA, SCA1, MJD, and Huntington's disease and found that neurons in affected regions of the brain react strongly to SUMO-1, a family member of SUMOs. Western blot with a transgenic mouse expressing mutant ataxin-1 showed the increase of SUMOylated proteins in the cerebellar cortex, which we named ESCA1 and ESCA2. These results indicated activation of SUMO-1 system in polyglutamine diseases and predicted its involvement in the pathology.
We used the highly selective 5-HT(6) receptor radioligand [(125)I]SB-258585 (4-iodo-N-[4-methoxy-3-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)phenyl]benzene-sulfonamide) to perform autoradiographic binding studies on the rat brain. High levels of specific binding occurred in the corpus striatum, nucleus accumbens, Islands of Calleja and the olfactory tubercle. A high level of binding also appeared in the choroid plexus. Moderate levels occurred in several regions of the hippocampal formation and in certain regions of the cerebral cortex, thalamus, hypothalamus, and substantia nigra; and very low levels in the globus pallidus, cerebellum, other mesencephalic regions, and the rhombencephalon. Displacement of total binding with 10 microM unlabelled SB-214111 (4-bromo-N-[4-methoxy-3-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)phenyl]benzene-sulfonamide), another selective 5-HT(6) receptor antagonist, or 10 microM unlabelled methiothepin, reduced binding to barely discernible levels. Some animals received unilateral injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the median forebrain bundle to lesion the nigro-striatal pathway before autoradiographic examination. Effectiveness of the 6-OHDA lesions in the substantia nigra and striatum was confirmed with tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry. Such lesions resulted in no significant changes in [(125)I]SB-SB258585 binding in any brain region examined, suggesting that 5-HT(6) receptors in the striatum are not located on dendritic, somatic or terminal elements of dopaminergic neurones. Thus, the striatal binding sites seen in this study may be on intrinsic GABAergic or cholinergic neurones, or on terminals of projection neurones from the thalamus or cerebral cortex. The 5-HT(6) receptor ligand binding seen here in the striatum, accumbens, olfactory tubercle, Islands of Calleja, cerebral cortex and hippocampus are in concordance with previous immunohistochemical studies, and suggest a possible involvement of 5-HT(6) receptors in locomotor control, cognition, memory, and control of affect. The high levels of binding observed in the choroid plexus in this study have not been reported before. This finding suggests that 5-HT(6) receptors could play a role in the control of cerebrospinal fluid dynamics.
The effects of exercise on the topography of movement representations and blood vessel density within the rat forelimb motor cortex was examined. Adult male rats were allocated to either a Voluntary eXercise (VX) or Inactive Condition (IC). VX animals were housed for 30 days with unlimited access to running wheels while IC animals were housed in standard laboratory cages. VX animals exhibited a progressive increase in the distance traveled per day and ran an average of 58.3 km across the 30-day training period. Microelectrode stimulation was used to derive high resolution maps of the forelimb representations within the motor cortex of animals from both conditions. No significant differences in the area of either distal (wrist/digit) or proximal (elbow/shoulder) movement representations were found between VX and IC animals. However, VX animals did have a significantly greater density of blood vessels within layer V of the forelimb motor cortex. These results demonstrate that increases in forelimb motor activity sufficient to induce cortical angiogenesis does not alter the topography of forelimb movement representations within forelimb motor cortex.
Aripiprazole, 7-[4-[4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1-piperazinyl]butyloxy]-3,4-dihydro-2(1H)-quinolinone, a novel antipsychotic with partial agonist activity at dopamine D2 receptors, bound with high affinity to recombinant human 5-HT(1A) receptors (h5-HT(1A)) in Chinese hamster ovary cell membranes and displayed potent, partial agonism at 5-HT(1A) receptors in a guanosine-5'-O-(3-[(35)S]thio)-triphosphate ([(35)S]GTP gamma S)-binding assay that was blocked completely by a selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist. An interaction with 5-HT(1A) receptors may contribute to the overall efficacy of aripiprazole against symptoms of schizophrenia, including anxiety, depression, cognitive and negative symptoms, and to its favorable side-effect profile. Combined with previous studies demonstrating the potent partial agonism of aripiprazole at dopamine D2 receptors, this study suggests aripiprazole is the first dopamine-serotonin system stabilizer.
Aging is known to alter many physiological processes within the brain including synaptic responses, long-term potentiation, learning, and memory. Aging has also been shown to alter the expression and distribution of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in many different brain regions, including the hippocampus. Additionally, we have recently reported that young adult rats show an activity-dependent increase in the surface expression of NMDA receptors. We have extended these observations in the present study in aged animals and have found that aged Fischer 344 rats fail to show activity-dependent changes in the surface distribution of NMDA receptors. In conjunction with this observation we have also noted that aged rats show an expression deficit in the C2 splice variant of the NR1 subunit. This subunit is preferentially shifted to the surface following stimulation in young adult animals. As the NMDA receptor is thought to play an important role in neuronal signaling, these observations suggest possible new areas of dysfunction in this receptor that might underlie age-related deficits in neuronal physiology.
Presenilin (PS) genes linked to early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease encode polytopic membrane proteins that are presumed to constitute the catalytic subunit of gamma-secretase, forming a high molecular weight complex with other proteins. During our attempts to identify binding partners of PS2, we cloned CALP (calsenilin-like protein)/KChIP4, a novel member of calsenilin/KChIP protein family that interacts with the C-terminal region of PS. Upon co-expression in cultured cells, CALP was directly bound to and co-localized with PS2 in endoplasmic reticulum. Overexpression of CALP did not affect the metabolism or stability of PS complex, and gamma-cleavage of betaAPP or Notch site 3 cleavage was not altered. However, co-expression of CALP and a voltage-gated potassium channel subunit Kv4.2 reconstituted the features of A-type K(+) currents and CALP directly bound Kv4.2, indicating that CALP functions as KChIPs that are known as components of native Kv4 channel complex. Taken together, CALP/KChIP4 is a novel EF-hand protein interacting with PS as well as with Kv4 that may modulate functions of a subset of membrane proteins in brain.
We express mammalian serotonin transporters (SERTs) in Xenopus oocytes by cRNA injection and measure 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) transport and 5-HT-induced current at varying expression levels. Transport and current both increase sigmoidally with the amount of cRNA injected, but current requires approximately 5-fold more cRNA to elicit a half-maximal response. Western blots of SERT protein demonstrate that current, but not transport, correlates linearly with the amount of SERT on the plasma membrane. In oocytes co-injected with wild-type SERT and an inactive SERT mutant, transport is similar to SERT alone, but current is attenuated. The charge/transport ratio reports the differential sensitivity of transport and current to increasing SERT cRNA injection and mutant co-expression. Manipulations that alter the charge/transport ratio also perturb substrate and inhibitor recognition. 5-HT, d-amphetamine, cocaine, and paroxetine inhibit transport more potently at lower expression levels; however, 5-HT potency for induction of current is similar at high and low expression. Moreover, the apparent potency of cRNA for transport depends on 5-HT concentration. We postulate that SERT interacts allosterically with an endogenous factor of limited abundance to alter substrate and inhibitor potency and the balance of 5-HT transport and channel-like activity.
We have recently demonstrated that anionic liposomes efficiently introduce foreign DNA into postmitotic neurons and other cell types (Lakkaraju, A., Dubinsky, J. M., Low, W. C., and Rahman, Y.-E. (2001) J. Biol. Chem. 276, 32000-32007). To investigate the mechanism of liposome uptake, we followed the internalization of anionic liposome-encapsulated Cy3-labeled oligonucleotides (AL-Cy3ONs) by hippocampal neurons using confocal microscopy. Uptake of AL-Cy3ONs was widespread and time- and temperature-dependent, indicative of receptor-mediated endocytosis. The low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP) was crucial for anionic liposome endocytosis because the receptor-associated protein or an anti-LRP antibody inhibited internalization, and fibroblasts lacking LRP did not internalize AL-Cy3ONs. Using selective endocytosis inhibitors, we found that liposome endocytosis and intracellular transport required clathrin, dynamin, an intact cytoskeletal network, and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity. Cy3ONs did not significantly colocalize with recycling endosomal/lysosomal markers and entered neuronal nuclei within 1-3 h of incubation. Approximately 50% of the internalized liposomal phospholipids were recycled back to the cell surface, in keeping with the fluidity of their acyl chains. Liposome endocytosis did not require heparan sulfate proteoglycans or cause calcium influx into neurons. Thus, constitutive endocytosis of anionic liposomes by LRP utilizes only one component, in contrast to the more involved heparan sulfate proteoglycan-LRP pathway implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
Interactions are known to occur in the brain between serotonin (5-HT) and substance P (SP). To investigate whether SP can directly influence serotonergic neurons, double immunohistochemical labelings were performed on rat brain sections with NK1 or NK3 affinity-purified antibodies and a 5-HT monoclonal antibody. It was found that the vast majority of serotonergic cell bodies do not colocalize NK1 or NK3 labeling. Only in the central linear nucleus and ventral part of the dorsal raphe nucleus were a few serotonergic neurons double-labeled for NK1 receptors (15 and 0.8% of serotonergic neurons, respectively). It is suggested that serotonergic neurons are not major direct targets for SP in the rat brain.
The upregulated expression of tetrodotoxin sensitive (TTXs) Na+ channels is thought to play an important role in the development of ectopic discharges (EDs) in axotomized sensory neurons. The present study examined the levels of mRNAs of three subtypes of TTXs Na(+) channels, Na(v)1.7, Na(v)1.6, and Na(x), in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) after segmental spinal nerve ligation. Following nerve ligation, the level of mRNAs of Na(v)1.7 and Na(v)1.6 was decreased, while the Nax mRNA level was increased at 5 days, but not at 1 day, postoperatively compared with the normal levels. Thus, if upregulated expression of TTXs Na+ channels contributes to the generation of EDs in axotomized DRG neurons, Na(x) is the most likely contributor among the three tested subtypes.
Genes can affect natural behavioral variation in different ways. Allelic variation causes alternative behavioral phenotypes, whereas changes in gene expression can influence the initiation of behavior at different ages. We show that the age-related transition by honey bees from hive work to foraging is associated with an increase in the expression of the foraging (for) gene, which encodes a guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP)-dependent protein kinase (PKG). cGMP treatment elevated PKG activity and caused foraging behavior. Previous research showed that allelic differences in PKG expression result in two Drosophila foraging variants. The same gene can thus exert different types of influence on a behavior.
Schizophrenia is a debilitating mental illness that affects 1% of the population. Despite intensive study, its molecular etiology remains enigmatic. Like many common diseases, schizophrenia is multifactorial in origin, with both genetic and environmental contributions likely playing an important role in the manifestation of symptoms. Recent advances based on pharmacological studies, brain imaging analyses, and genetic research are now converging on tantalizing leads that point to a central role for several neurotransmitters, including dopamine, glutamate, and serotonin, that may interface with neurodevelopmental defects reflecting disease-related genetic aberrations. Here, we provide a brief overview of the parallel approaches being used to identify the molecular causes of schizophrenia and discuss possible directions for future research.
A novel series of 3-heteroaryl-5,6-bis(aryl)-1-methyl-2-pyridones were developed with high affinity for the benzodiazepine (BZ) binding site of human gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA(A)) receptor ion channels, low binding selectivity for alpha 2- and/or alpha 3- over alpha 1-containing GABA(A) receptor subtypes and high binding selectivity over alpha 5 subtypes. High affinity appeared to be associated with a coplanar conformation of the pyridone and sulfur-containing 3-heteroaryl rings resulting from an attractive S.O intramolecular interaction. Functional selectivity (i.e., selective efficacy) for alpha 2 and/or alpha 3 GABA(A) receptor subtypes over alpha1 was observed in several of these compounds in electrophysiological assays. Furthermore, an alpha 3 subtype selective inverse agonist was proconvulsant and anxiogenic in rodents while an alpha 2/alpha 3 subtype selective partial agonist was anticonvulsant and anxiolytic, supporting the hypothesis that subtype selective BZ site agonists may provide new anxiolytic therapies.

Synaptic plasticity is a multistep process in which rapid, early phases eventually give way to slower, more enduring stages. Diverse forms of synaptic change share a common requirement for protein synthesis in the late stages of plasticity, which are often associated with structural rearrangements. Ocular dominance plasticity in the primary visual cortex (V1) is a long-lasting form of activity-dependent plasticity comprised of well-defined physiological and anatomical stages. The molecular events underlying these stages remain poorly understood. Using the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide, we investigated a role for protein synthesis in ocular dominance plasticity. Suppression of cortical, but not geniculate, protein synthesis impaired rapid ocular dominance plasticity, while leaving neuronal responsiveness intact. These findings suggest that structural changes underlying ocular dominance plasticity occur rapidly following monocular occlusion, and cortical changes guide subsequent alterations in thalamocortical afferents.
Ca(2+) influx through voltage-gated channels initiates the exocytotic fusion of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane. Here we show that RIM binding proteins (RBPs), which associate with Ca(2+) channels in hair cells, photoreceptors, and neurons, interact with alpha(1D) (L type) and alpha(1B) (N type) Ca(2+) channel subunits. RBPs contain three Src homology 3 domains that bind to proline-rich motifs in alpha(1) subunits and Rab3-interacting molecules (RIMs). Overexpression in PC12 cells of fusion proteins that suppress the interactions of RBPs with RIMs and alpha(1) augments the exocytosis triggered by depolarization. RBPs may regulate the strength of synaptic transmission by creating a functional link between the synaptic-vesicle tethering apparatus, which includes RIMs and Rab3, and the fusion machinery, which includes Ca(2+) channels and the SNARE complex.
CRE-binding protein (CREB) belongs to a family of transcription factors that mediates stimulus-dependent gene expression in neuronal and non-neuronal cells. Here we show that CREB is phosphorylated on its transcriptional regulatory site, Ser-133, in vivo in a neurotrophin-dependent manner. In mice harboring a null mutation in the Creb gene, sensory neurons exhibit excess apoptosis and degeneration, and display impaired axonal growth and projections. Interestingly, excess apoptosis is not observed in the central nervous system. CREB is required within sensory and sympathetic neurons for survival and axon extension since both of these neurotrophin-dependent processes are compromised in cultured neurons from CREB null mice. Thus, during their period of neurotrophin dependency, peripheral neurons require CREB-mediated gene expression for both survival and growth in vivo.
To determine the role of vagi in heart rate variability, conscious rabbits were employed and electrocardiogram was recorded under conditions of bilateral vagi intact, unilateral vagotomy, and bilateral vagotomy. The variability of RR intervals (RRI) was analyzed using power spectrum and approximate entropy (ApEn). The results showed that the values of high frequency power (HF) component, low frequency power (LF) component and ApEn in animals with bilateral vagi intact were the highest, but the LF/HF ratio was the lowest; unilateral vagotomy decreased ApEn, right vagotomy increased LF/HF ratio but left vagotomy did not; the LF/HF ratio increased while ApEn decreased significantly in animals with bilateral vagotomy. It is suggested that the variability of RRI is mainly regulated by the vagi and the role of right vagi is more important than that of the left. When measuring heart rate variability, the results obtained with conventional method are consistent with those with nonlinear method.

A cathepsin D (CD) inhibitor was searched using mouse embryonic fibroblasts deficient for CD. Synthetic DNA fragments specifically inhibited CD activity in a dose-dependent manner, but not the activities of other serine or cysteine proteinases. Cathepsin E activity was also inhibited by DNA fragments when hemoglobin was used as a substrate. CD inhibition by DNA fragments appeared to be electrostatic in nature and dependent on Tm values. Moreover, CD activity was partly inhibited by exogenously ingested DNA fragments, suggesting that DNA fragments with high Tm values are potent inhibitors of CD in vitro and partly in vivo.
Covalent attachment of ubiquitin is well-known to target proteins for degradation. Here, mass spectrometry was used to identify the site of ubiquitination in Gpa1, the G protein alpha subunit in yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The modified residue is located at Lys165 within the alpha-helical domain of Galpha, a region of unknown function. Substitution of Lys165 with Arg (Gpa1(K165R)) results in a substantial decrease in ubiquitination. In addition, yeast expressing the Gpa1(K165R) mutant are moderately resistant to pheromone in growth inhibition assays-a phenotype consistent with enhanced Galpha signaling activity. These findings indicate that the alpha-helical domain may serve to regulate the turnover of Gpa1.


Conventional MRI (cMRI) is limited in its ability to provide specific information about pathology in MS. Measures commonly derived from cMRI include T2 lesions, T1-enhanced lesions, atrophy, and possibly T1-hypointense lesions, which have been extensively investigated in many clinical trials. Better MRI measures are needed to advance our understanding of MS and design ideal clinical trials. This article reviews the strengths and weaknesses of the major MRI-based methods used to monitor MS evolution and submits that 1) metrics derived from magnetization transfer MRI, diffusion-weighted MRI, and proton MRS should be implemented to achieve reliable specific in vivo quantification of MS pathology; 2) targeted multiparametric MRI protocols rather than generic application of cMRI should be used in all possible clinical circumstances and trials; and 3) reproducible quantitative MR measures should ideally be used for the assessment of patients but are essential for clinical trials.
Philanthotoxin-12 (PhTX-12) is a novel potent and selective, noncompetitive antagonist of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). Homologues of PhTX-12 with 7-11 methylene groups between the primary amino group and the aromatic head-group were synthesized using solid-phase methodology. In vitro electrophysiological studies of nAChR demonstrated that decreasing the number of methylene groups from 12 to 11 significantly increased potency. Antagonism by PhTX-11, like that of PhTX-12, was only weakly voltage-dependent. When the methylene spacer was reduced further, antagonism was decreased below that of PhTX-12, and in some cases potentiation of ACh responses by up to 60% was observed.
HLA class II molecules play pivotal roles in antigen presentation to CD4+ T cells. We investigated signaling via HLA-DR molecules expressed on CD4+ T cells. When HLA-DR or CD3 molecules on cloned CD4+ T cells were cross-linked by solid-phase mAbs, T cells proliferated, and this resulted in anergy. Whereas cross-linking of HLA-DR and CD3 resulted in secretion of the same levels of IFN-gamma and IL-8, secretion of IL-10 induced by cross-linking of HLA-DR was less than that induced by cross-linking of CD3 on CD4+ T cells. Interestingly, expression of p27(Kip1) but not p21(Cip1) increased after stimulation by either anti-HLA-DR or anti-CD3 mAb. This was indeed the case, when T cells were rendered anergic using a soluble form of antigenic peptide. In contrast, T cells stimulated by peptide-pulsed PBMC expressed little p27(Kip1). We propose that signaling via HLA-DR molecules on CD4+ T cells at least in part contributes to the induction of T cell anergy, through the upregulated expression of the p27(Kip1). The implication of our finding is that HLA-DR molecules play a role in human T cell anergy induced by a soluble form of antigenic peptide.
We elucidated efferent projections of second-order relay neurons (P-cells) activated by afferents originating from slowly adapting pulmonary receptors (SARs) to determine the central pathway of the SAR-evoked reflexes. Special attention was paid to visualizing the P-cell projections within the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS), which may correspond to the inhibitory pathway from P-cells to second-order relay neurons (RAR-cells) of rapidly adapting pulmonary receptors. P-cells were recorded from the NTS in Nembutal-anesthetized, paralyzed, and artificially ventilated rats. First, we used electrophysiological methods of antidromic mapping and showed that the majority of the P-cells examined projected their axons to the caudal NTS and to the dorsolateral pons corresponding to the parabrachial complex. Second, a mixture of HRP and Neurobiotin was injected intracellularly or juxtramembranously into P-cells. (1) Stained P-cells (n = 7) were located laterally to the solitary tract and had dendrites extending characteristically along the lateral border of the solitary tract. (2) All P-cells had stem axons projecting to the ipsilateral medulla. Of these, the axons from five P-cells projected to the nucleus ambiguus and its vicinity with distributing boutons. Some of these axons further ascended in the ventrolateral medulla, and distributed boutons in the areas ventral or ventrolateral to the nucleus ambiguus. (3) All the P-cells had axonal branches with boutons in the NTS area. In particular, axons from three P-cells projected bilaterally to the medial NTS caudal to the obex, i.e., to the area of RAR-cells. These results show anatomic substrates for the connections implicated in the P-cell inhibition of RAR-cells as well as the SAR-induced respiratory reflexes.
Glial cells from neonatal MbetaP5 transgenic mice, which express bacterial beta-galactosidase (lacZ) under control of the myelin basic protein (MBP) promoter (Gow et al, 1992), were transplanted into the spinal cord or cerebral hemisphere of immunosuppressed normal and myelin-deficient (md) rats in order to assess the ability of the donor cells to survive, migrate, and differentiate within normal compared with myelin-deficient central nervous system (CNS). LacZ+ cells were detected as early as 6-7 days after transplantation into the low thoracic cord and by 10 days had spread rostrally to the brainstem and caudally to the sacral spinal cord. Initially, compact lacZ+ cells, lacking processes, were found associated with small blood vessels and with the glia limitans. Cells of this type persisted throughout the experiment. Later, lacZ+ cells with processes were seen along fiber tracts in the dorsal columns and, after intracerebral injection, subjacent to ventricular ependyma, as well as scattered in cerebral white and gray parenchyma. The extent of spread was comparable in md and normal rats, but in the md group, the success rate was higher, and more cells differentiated into process-bearing oligodendrocytes. Acceptance of xenografts in immunosuppressed recipients equaled that of allografts. The overall spread of grafted cells exceeded that of injected charcoal, indicating active migration. In contrast to earlier studies that identified oligodendrocytes based on morphology alone, this study has allowed us to identify and track oligodendrocytes based on myelin gene expression. We show some oligodendrocytes whose morphology is consistent with classical morphological descriptions, some that resemble astrocytes, and a class of compact perivascular oligodendrocyte-lineage cells that we suggest are migratory.

Sound and movement are perceived through the vibration of modified ciliary bundles located on the apical surfaces of specialized mechanosensory hair cells. These hair cells derive from specific regions of the otocyst that become determined to develop initially as sensory epithelia and ultimately as either hair cells or supporting cells. The number of hair cells in an individual vertebrate is surprisingly small and the ability to replace these cells varies among different classes. The molecular and cellular factors that specify hair cell identity are not known, but the results of recent experiments have begun to identify some of the signaling pathways that play important roles in hair cell development. This review will describe recent findings related to the factors that influence the final choice of a progenitor cell to develop as a hair cell and discuss their implications for the overall development of the auditory and vestibular systems.
The present study was carried out to determine the effects of chronic exposure to social stress during puberty on the dopamine system in male golden hamsters. Experimental animals were socially subjugated between postnatal days 28 (P28) and 42. All animals were sacrificed on P46 and their brains processed for immunocytochemistry to tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). A large increase in the number of TH-immunoreactive (TH-ir) neurons was noted within the posterior portion of the medial amygdaloid nucleus and the posterior portion of the medial division of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis in subjugated animals as compared to controls. This effect appeared to be site-specific as no difference was seen between groups in the periventricular nucleus, another steroid receptor-rich area. The data suggest that these dopamine neurons may play an important role in the behavioral changes associated with chronic social stress during puberty.
Diabetes mellitus is associated with moderate cognitive deficits and neurophysiological and structural changes in the brain, a condition that may be referred to as diabetic encephalopathy. Diabetes increases the risk of dementia, particularly in the elderly. The emerging view is that the diabetic brain features many symptoms that are best described as &quot;accelerated brain ageing.&quot; The clinical characteristics of diabetic encephalopathy are discussed, as well as behavioural (e.g. spatial learning) and neurophysiological (e.g. hippocampal synaptic plasticity) findings in animal models. Animal models can make a substantial contribution to our understanding of the pathogenesis, which shares many features with the mechanisms underlying brain ageing. By unravelling the pathogenesis, targets for pharmacotherapy can be identified. This may allow treatment or prevention of this diabetic complication in the future. We discuss changes in glutamate receptor subtypes, in second-messenger systems and in protein kinases that may account for the alterations in synaptic plasticity. In addition, the possible role of cerebrovascular changes, oxidative stress, nonenzymatic protein glycation, insulin and alterations in neuronal calcium homeostasis are addressed.
Lipid rafts are characterized by their insolubility in nonionic detergents such as Triton X-100 at 4 degrees C. They have been studied in mammals, where they play critical roles in protein sorting and signal transduction. To understand the potential role of lipid rafts in lepidopteran insects, we isolated and analyzed the protein and lipid components of these lipid raft microdomains from the midgut epithelial membrane of Heliothis virescens and Manduca sexta. Like their mammalian counterparts, H. virescens and M. sexta lipid rafts are enriched in cholesterol, sphingolipids, and glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins. In H. virescens and M. sexta, pretreatment of membranes with the cholesterol-depleting reagent saponin and methyl-beta-cyclodextrin differentially disrupted the formation of lipid rafts, indicating an important role for cholesterol in lepidopteran lipid rafts structure. We showed that several putative Bacillus thuringiensis Cry1A receptors, including the 120- and 170-kDa aminopeptidases from H. virescens and the 120-kDa aminopeptidase from M. sexta, were preferentially partitioned into lipid rafts. Additionally, the leucine aminopeptidase activity was enriched approximately 2-3-fold in these rafts compared with brush border membrane vesicles. We also demonstrated that Cry1A toxins were associated with lipid rafts, and that lipid raft integrity was essential for in vitro Cry1Ab pore forming activity. Our study strongly suggests that these microdomains might be involved in Cry1A toxin aggregation and pore formation.
Our recent data revealed adrenergic sensitivity in chronically compressed dorsal root ganglion (DRG) of rats. As neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a common sympathetic co-transmitter, we investigated the effect of NPY on injured DRG neurons. The expression of NPY Y1 and Y2 receptors and the effect of NPY on chronically compressed DRG neurons were studied using in situ hybridization and extracellular single fiber recording in vitro, respectively. After DRG compression, the expression of Y1 receptor was distinctly increased in large and medium-sized DRG neurons, while Y2 receptor was increased in small DRG neurons. NPY inhibited both the spontaneous activity and the excitatory effect of norepinephrine in injured DRG A-neurons. The results suggest a possibility that NPY may inhibit the hyperexcitability of injured DRG A-neurons via increased Y1 receptor following chronic compression.
The purpose of this study was to examine how the modulation of tilt and translation otolith-ocular responses during constant velocity off-vertical axis rotation varies as a function of stimulus frequency. Eighteen human subjects were rotated in darkness about their longitudinal axis 30 degrees off-vertical at stimulus frequencies between 0.05 and 0.8 Hz. The modulation of torsion decreased while the modulation of horizontal slow phase velocity (SPV) increased with increasing frequency. It is inferred that the ambiguity of otolith afferent information is greatest in the frequency region where tilt (torsion) and translational (horizontal SPV) otolith-ocular responses crossover. It is postulated that the previously demonstrated peak in motion sickness susceptibility during linear accelerations around 0.3 Hz is the result of frequency segregation of ambiguous otolith information being inadequate to distinguish between tilt and translation.
The signaling pathway from phosphoinositide 3-kinase to the protein kinase Akt controls organismal life-span in invertebrates and cell survival and proliferation in mammals by inhibiting the activity of members of the FOXO family of transcription factors. We show that mammalian FOXO3a also functions at the G2 to M checkpoint in the cell cycle and triggers the repair of damaged DNA. By gene array analysis, FOXO3a was found to modulate the expression of several genes that regulate the cellular response to stress at the G2-M checkpoint. The growth arrest and DNA damage response gene Gadd45a appeared to be a direct target of FOXO3a that mediates part of FOXO3a's effects on DNA repair. These findings indicate that in mammals FOXO3a regulates the resistance of cells to stress by inducing DNA repair and thereby may also affect organismal life-span.
Recombinant proteins containing tetracysteine tags can be successively labeled in living cells with different colors of biarsenical fluorophores so that older and younger protein molecules can be sharply distinguished by both fluorescence and electron microscopy. Here we used this approach to show that newly synthesized connexin43 was transported predominantly in 100- to 150-nanometer vesicles to the plasma membrane and incorporated at the periphery of existing gap junctions, whereas older connexins were removed from the center of the plaques into pleiomorphic vesicles of widely varying sizes. Selective imaging by correlated optical and electron microscopy of protein molecules of known ages will clarify fundamental processes of protein trafficking in situ.
Interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) in the guinea pig intestine, identified by the tyrosine kinase receptor, c-Kit, have been shown with immunohistochemistry to express nucleotide P2X2 and P2X5 receptors. P2X5 receptors have also been demonstrated on interstitial cells in the mouse ileum. It is speculated that release of ATP from enteric nerves, enteric glial cells or from contracting smooth muscle may provide a feedback mechanism for pacemaker activity in the intestine.
Importin alpha1 (also referred to as NPI1 or importin alphaS1) gene encodes a member of the cytosolic receptor protein superfamily that recognizes classical monopartite and bipartite basic type nuclear localization signals and mediates nuclear protein import via an importin beta-dependent pathway. Here we report on the organization of the importin alpha1 locus in the mouse genome. The gene is approximately 40 kb in length from the translation initiation codon to the poly(A) additional site. The translated region of the gene is comprised of 13 coding exons and the exon-intron boundaries conform to the GT/AG rule. Importin alpha1 was mapped to a middle region of mouse chromosome 16 by fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis. Moreover, it was found by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction analysis that importin alpha1 is widely expressed in various tissues in adult mice and at various stages during embyogenesis. This study is the first example that provides detailed genomic information on nuclear transport factors such as importins and exportins and provides a basis for further studies such as the generation of mutants in mice for purposes of investigating the role of importin alpha1 in development and differentiation.

Inhibition of return (IOR) is a mechanism whereby the attentional system favors novel locations by inhibiting already scanned ones. An important question is what the neural structures are involved. Recently, we studied a patient with damage to the superior colliculus (SC) and concluded that the SC generates IOR. However, it is possible that IOR is generated beyond the colliculus, for example, by the pulvinar. In this paper we tested three patients with unilateral damage to the pulvinar and demonstrated that the pulvinar is not necessary for IOR generation, providing additional support to the suggestion that the SC generates IOR. In addition, since we used monocular presentation, we were able to furnish behavioral evidence for nasal-temporal asymmetrical representation of visual input in the pulvinar.
L-LTP (late-phase long-term potentiation) at thalamo-amygdala synapses is thought to be critical for auditory fear conditioning, but it has not been clear what kinds of surface receptors and channels are involved in the induction phase of the L-LTP. Here we report that the NMDA receptor antagonist D-AP5 (50 microM), the L-type calcium channel antagonist nifedipine (30 microM) and the metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 antagonist MPEP (10 microM) prevented L-LTP induction when each antagonist was separately applied at saturating concentrations before and during repeated tetanus. By contrast, the mGluR1 antagonist CPCCOEt (80 microM) failed to show any effects on L-LTP induction. Neither D-AP5 nor MPEP produced any significant effects on potentiated synaptic responses when applied after L-LTP had been established. Thus, our data suggest that NMDA receptors, L-type calcium channels and mGluR5 are involved in L-LTP induction in the thalamo-amygdala pathway.
Some patients with hemianopia due to striate cortex lesions show above chance ability in reporting visual stimuli presented in the blind visual field, a phenomenon commonly known as blindsight. Here we report a patient with a dense right hemianopia whose blindsight shows a temporal/nasal asymmetry. MP was tested in a two-alternative forced-choice localisation task, with either the right eye or the left eye patched in separate blocks. When targets appeared in the contralesional temporal hemifield, MP's localisation performance was extremely accurate, whilst she performed at chance with targets in the contralesional nasal hemifield. This is the first demonstration of a temporal/nasal asymmetry for blindsight in a forced-choice paradigm, and is consistent with blindsight in MP's hemianopic field being mediated by a subcortical, extrageniculate route.
By comparing the CSF proteome between Alzheimer disease (AD) patients and controls it may be possible to identify proteins that play a role in the disease process and thus to study the pathogenesis of AD. We used mini-gel technology in a two-dimensional electrophoresis procedure, sensitive SYPRO Ruby staining and mass spectrometry for clinical screening of disease-influenced CSF proteins in 15 AD patients and 12 controls. The levels of six proteins and their isoforms, including proapolipoprotein, apolipoprotein E, beta-2 microglobulin, retinol-binding protein, transthyretin, and ubiquitin, were significantly altered in CSF of AD patients. The most prominently altered proteins were the apolipoproteins, especially proapolipoprotein.
The CB1 cannabinoid receptor has been shown to couple with pertussis toxin (PTX)-sensitive Gi/o proteins and inhibit adenylyl cyclase. However, in certain conditions, CB1 mediates adenylyl cyclase activation, possibly through Gs-type G proteins. In rat B103 neuroblastoma cells in which CBI gene was endogenously expressed, anandamide inhibited forskolin-induced cAMP accumulation via PTX-sensitive pathways. When CB1 was heterologously over-expressed using a retroviral transfer, high concentrations of anandamide increased forskolin-induced cAMP accumulation, and this effect was more prominent when cells were pretreated with PTX. In CB1-over-expressing B103 cells, anandamide induced cell rounding via a PTX-insensitive/Rho kinase inhibitor-sensitive pathway. These results suggest that the CB1 receptor could couple with G proteins that activate Rho (possibly G12/13) as well as Gi/o and Gs.
The D2/D3 dopamine receptor agonist quinpirole (QNP) produces biphasic effects on locomotion and can induce oral behaviour. To determine whether or not these behaviours result from actions of QNP at D2 receptors located in the dorsal raphe, nucleus (DRN), rats were pretreated intra-DRN with the selective dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, raclopride (0, 1 or 2 microg) prior to an acute peripheral injection of QNP (0 or 0.5 mg/kg, s.c.). Intra-DRN raclopride did not affect QNP-induced oral activity or QNP-induced locomotor inhibition. However, the high dose of raclopride potentiated QNP-induced locomotor excitation. These data suggest that D2 receptor activation in the DRN suppresses QNP-induced locomotor excitation, an effect that may be related to D2 receptor-mediated alterations in serotonin transmission.
A vivid perception of the moving form of a human figure can be obtained from a few moving light points on the joints of the body. This is known as biological motion perception. It is commonly believed that the perception of biological motion rests on image motion signals. Curiously, however, some patients with lesions to motion processing areas of the dorsal stream are severely impaired in image motion perception but can easily perceive biological motion. Here we describe a biological motion stimulus based on a limited lifetime technique that tests the perception of a moving human figure in the absence of local image motion. We find that subjects can spontaneously recognize a moving human figure in displays without local image motion. Their performance is very similar to that for classic point-light displays. We also find that tasks involving the discrimination of walking direction or the coherence of a walking figure can be performed in the absence of image motion. Thus, although image motion may generally aid processes such as segmenting figure from background, we propose that it is not the basis for the precept of biological motion. Rather, we suggest biological motion is derived from dynamic form information on body posture evolving over time.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a congenital X-linked myopathy caused by lack of dystrophin protein expression. In DMD, the expression of many dystrophin-associated proteins (DAPs) is reduced along the sarcolemmal membrane, but the same proteins remain concentrated at the neuromuscular junction where utrophin, a dystrophin homologue, is expressed [Matsumura, K., Ervasti, J. M., Ohlendieck, K., Kahl, K. D. &amp; Campbell, K. (1992) Nature (London) 360, 588-591]. This outcome has led to the concept that ectopic expression of a &quot;synaptic scaffold&quot; of DAPs and utrophin along myofibers might compensate for the molecular defects in DMD. Here we show that transgenic overexpression of the synaptic CT GalNAc transferase in the skeletal muscles of mdx animals (mdx/CT) increases the expression of utrophin and many DAPs, including dystroglycans, sarcoglycans, and dystrobrevins, along myofibers. Protein expression of utrophin and DAPs was equal to or above that of wild-type mice. In addition, alpha-dystroglycan was glycosylated with the CT carbohydrate antigen in mdx/CT but not in mdx muscles. mdx/CT mice have little or no evidence of muscular dystrophy by several standard measures; Serum creatine kinase levels, percentage of centrally located myofiber nuclei, and variance in myofiber diameter in mdx/CT muscles were dramatically reduced compared with mdx mice. These data suggest that ectopic expression of the CT GalNAc transferase creates a functional dystrophin-related complex along myofibers in the absence of dystrophin and should be considered as a target for therapeutic intervention in DMD.
Rod photoreceptors are highly compartmentalized sensory neurons that maintain strict ultrastructural and molecular polarity. Structural subdivisions include the outer segment, inner segment, cell body, and synaptic terminal. The visual pigment rhodopsin is found predominantly in membranes of the rod cell outer segment but becomes mislocalized, appearing throughout the plasma membrane of the cell in many retinal diseases and injuries. Currently, there is no known link between rhodopsin redistribution and rod cell death. We propose that activation of mislocalized rhodopsin kills rod cells by stimulating normally inaccessible signaling pathways. This hypothesis was tested in primary retinal cell cultures, which contain photoreceptors. In rod photoreceptors, opsin immunofluorescence occurred throughout the rod cell plasma membrane. Activation of this mislocalized opsin by photostimulation after formation of isorhodopsin or by incubation with beta-ionone (opsin agonist) killed 19-30% of rod cells. Rod cell death was apoptotic, as indicated by marked chromatin condensation and the requirement for caspase-3 activation. Rod cell death could be induced by forskolin (adenylate cyclase agonist), and conversely, beta-ionone-induced cell death could be blocked by cotreatment with SQ22536 (an adenylate cyclase inhibitor). Pertussis toxin (a G protein inhibitor) also blocked beta-ionone-induced cell death. The data support a mechanism by which activation of mislocalized opsin initiates apoptotic rod cell death through G protein stimulation of adenylate cyclase.
A new assay for l-lysine alpha-oxidase is described. In this assay, the oxidized product generated from l-lysine is reacted with semicarbazide to form alpha-keto-epsilon-aminocaproate semicarbazone. Formation of the alpha-keto acid semicarbazone is continuously monitored spectrophotometrically at 248 nm (epsilon 10,160 +/- 240 M(-1) cm(-1)). The method was adapted to provide a new assay for gamma-glutamylamine cyclotransferase. This enzyme catalyzes the conversion of many l-gamma-glutamylamines to 5-oxo-l-proline and free amine. A biologically important substrate is N(epsilon)-(gamma-l-glutamyl)-l-lysine, which is converted to 5-oxo-l-proline and l-lysine by the action of gamma-glutamylamine cyclotransferase. The l-lysine generated from N(epsilon)-(gamma-l-glutamyl)-l-lysine in an endpoint assay is converted to alpha-keto epsilon-aminocaproate semicarbazone in the presence of semicarbazide, excess l-lysine alpha-oxidase, and catalase. The methods were applied to the determination of gamma-glutamylamine cyclotransferase activity of partially purified preparations of the bovine kidney enzyme and to detect gamma-glutamylamine cyclotransferase activity in rat kidney and liver homogenates.
A four-channel multiplexed electrospray inlet system (MUX) coupled to a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer was investigated as a higher throughput approach to quantitative analysis. Four discrete samples may be simultaneously analyzed by virtue of a rotating sampler with a concomitant 4-fold increase in analytical throughput. Although absolute sensitivity was reduced using the MUX interface compared with analysis using traditional single electrospray interface, reproducibility of response was shown to be comparable. Source robustness was established for the analysis of both aqueous drug standards and drugs in biological media, and linearity of response for a test compound, diazepam, was demonstrated over 2 orders of magnitude. Analyte-dependent response differences were exhibited between the four channels of the interface, and this led to the overall conclusion that samples to be compared quantitatively must be analyzed through the same sprayer. In addition, each channel must be independently calibrated to afford true quantification. Should a deuterated internal standard be employed, however, quantitative comparisons can be made across channels. An HPLC pumping system providing individual back-pressure regulation to each channel was shown to provide adequate chromatography even in the event of a channel blockage. Furthermore, following multiple injections of biological samples onto the MUX interface, an eluent flow diversion was integrated into the first part of each analytical run. This served to prevent source fouling, and thus, no detrimental effects to response reproducibility or sensitivity were observed.
Directors of courses in the basic anatomical sciences in allopathic and osteopathic medical schools in the United States were surveyed regarding the present composition of their courses. Results indicate the majority of gross anatomy courses are in the range of 126 to 200 total course hours, and that laboratory dissection is a key component of these courses. The majority of microscopic anatomy courses are in the range of 61 to 100 total course hours, generally divided equally between lecture and laboratory components. Additionally, despite the availability of computer technology, microscopes are still used in the vast majority of microscopic anatomy courses. The majority of neuroscience courses are in the range of 71 to 90 total course hours, with most of these hours devoted to lectures. Embryology is usually taught in conjunction with gross anatomy, although some schools present it with the microscopic anatomy course or as a separate course. Most embryology courses are in the range of 6 to 20 total course hours, with only a few having a laboratory component.
During a period of unprecedented growth in technology that allows imaging of the body in elegant detail, anatomy as a discipline has, in some instances, become marginalized. This may be seen in a reduction of time allotted to anatomy, reduction or elimination of laboratory experiences, or shifting of anatomy teaching to clinical departments. One potential cause of this marginalization is the fact that anatomy is frequently taught in a format that is not useful in, or even applicable to, the clinical setting. At the University of Mississippi Medical Center, the Medical Neurobiology course stresses the functional anatomy of the brain, especially the brainstem, in a format that is directly transferable to the clinical setting. These approaches include (1) using a small neurology book as one of the required texts in the course; (2) extensive use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography (CT) as an integral part of the instructional approach; (3) teaching external and internal anatomy of the brain, particularly the brainstem and spinal cord, in a &quot;clinical orientation&quot; that reflects how these central nervous system (CNS) regions are viewed in the clinical setting; (4) teaching nuclei and tracts in images of stained sections and correlating this information with comparable MRI and CT images; and (5) using a large series (75 images) of vascular drawings and clinical cases, all in clinical orientation. The clinical applicability of the basic science information, therefore, is continuously reinforced and extended. It is suggested that teaching anatomy and anatomical concepts in formats that are more obviously useful in, and applicable to, the clinical setting will enhance the value of this basic science in the medical curriculum.
In living organisms a permanent oxidation of protein oxidation occurs. The degradation of intracellular oxidized proteins is intensively studied, but knowledge about the fate of oxidatively modified extracellular proteins is still limited. We studied the fate of exogenously added oxidized proteins in microglial cells. Both primary microglial cells and RAW cells are able to remove added oxidized laminin and myelin basic protein from the extracellular environment. Moderately oxidized proteins are degraded most efficiently, whereas strongly oxidized proteins are taken up by the microglial cells without an efficient degradation. Activation of microglial cells enhances the selective recognition and degradation of moderately oxidized protein substrates by proteases. Inhibitor studies also revealed an involvement of the lysosomal and the proteasomal system in the degradation of extracellular proteins. These studies let us conclude that microglial cells are able to remove oxidized proteins from the extracellular environment in the brain.
The corridor illusion was assessed in four baboons (Papio papio) by way of judgmental task implying a comparison between the size of two figures presented on various backgrounds. Findings demonstrate that the baboons are sensitive to the corridor illusion.
Altered behavioural and physiological responsivity following a short session of foot shocks in the rat has proven to be a stable and clinically relevant model of stress-induced sensitisation. However, a number of key factors influencing effect size or direction have not previously been reported. Rats underwent a single, 15-min session of foot shocks and were exposed to a variety of novel stressful challenges 1 or 2 weeks later. Sensitised behavioural responses (increased immobility) in preshocked rats remained present over 3 days of repeated exposure to noise stress. In mild novel challenges (open field, empty cage), behavioural sensitisation and defecation was most clearly expressed at the beginning of the dark phase (evening). Higher-arousal challenges (prod, noise) caused increased behavioural inhibition in preshocked rats at all three time points (morning, afternoon, evening). Female preshocked rats showed a different pattern of behavioural and defecation sensitisation than preshocked males. The robustness of the model makes it suitable for further investigations into the mechanisms and vulnerability factors involved in the long-term consequences of stress.
This study tests the hypothesis that the anterior thalamic nuclei play a significant role in spatial learning and memory. Adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats with bilateral ibotenic acid lesions of the anterior thalamus were tested for 5 days in a repeated acquisition water maze task. Compared with Controls, rats with nearly complete lesions of both anterodorsal (AD) and anteroventral (AV) thalamic nuclei (AD/AV) were only mildly impaired in their spatial learning and memory. Larger lesions that extended into the anteromedial (AM) thalamic nucleus (AD/AV+) caused a more severe impairment and complete lesions of all three anterior nuclei (AD/AV/AM) resulted in even greater impairment that extended to all aspects of the task. In probe trials, only the Control animals had a preference for the correct quadrant. Approximately one-half of the rats were tested for a second week to determine if the impaired groups would benefit from further training. AD/AV/AM rats showed little improvement, but the other groups all improved significantly in all aspects of the task except the probe trial. Together, these data indicate that the anterior thalamic nuclei contribute to spatial learning and memory, but neither AV nor AD independently plays a dominant role.


The ascidian embryo, a model for the primitive mode of chordate development, rapidly forms a dorsal nervous system which consists of a small number of neurons. Here, we have characterized the transcriptional regulation of an ascidian synaptotagmin (syt) gene to explore the molecular mechanisms underlying development of synaptic transmission. In situ hybridization showed that syt is expressed in all neurons described in previous studies and transiently in the embryonic epidermis. Neuronal expression of syt requires induction from the vegetal side of the embryo, whereas epidermal expression occurs autonomously in isolated ectodermal blastomeres. Introduction of green fluorescent protein reporter gene constructs into the ascidian embryos indicates that a genomic fragment of the 3.4-kb 5' upstream region contains promoter elements of syt gene. Deletion analysis of the promoter suggests that syt expression in neurons and in the embryonic epidermis depends on distinct cis-regulatory regions.
The generation of distinct classes of motor neurons underlies the development of complex motile behavior in all animals and is well characterized in chordates. Recent molecular studies indicate that the ascidian larval central nervous system (CNS) exhibits anteroposterior regionalization similar to that seen in the vertebrate CNS. To extend the understanding about the diversity of motor neurons in the ascidian larva, we have identified the number, position, and projection of individual motor neurons in Halocynthia roretzi, using a green fluorescent protein under the control of a neuron-specific promoter. Three pairs of motor neurons, each with a distinct shape and innervation pattern, were identified along the anteroposterior axis of the neural tube: the anterior and posterior pairs extend their axons toward dorsal muscle cells, whereas the middle pair project their axons toward ventral muscle. Overexpression of a dominant-negative form of a potassium channel in these cells resulted in paralysis on the injected side, thus these cells must constitute the major population of motor neurons responsible for swimming behavior. Lim class homeobox genes have been known as candidate genes that determine subtypes of motor neurons. Therefore, the expression pattern of Hrlim, which is a Lim class homeobox gene, was examined in the motor neuron precursors. All three motor neurons expressed Hrlim at the tailbud stage, although each down-regulated Hrlim at a different time. Misexpression of Hrlim in the epidermal lineage led to ectopic expression of TuNa2, a putative voltage-gated channel gene normally expressed predominantly in the three pairs of motor neurons. Hrlim may control membrane excitability of motor neurons by regulating ion channel gene expression.

Focal microglial activation and progressive dopaminergic neurodegeneration in substantia nigra compacta (SNc) have characterized Parkinson's disease (PD). We have hypothesized that the microglial response may be provoked by molecular signals from chronically stressed SNc neurons. To test whether amyloid precursor protein (APP) could serve as such a signal, we evaluated microglial activation in SN after unilateral transection of the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) in mice either wild-type (WT) or null (KO) for APP. WT and KO mice displayed comparable microglial response at the MFB transection site. In WT mice microglial activation was first apparent in the ipsilateral SN at 3 days postlesion (dpl), marked by morphological change and increased isolectin immunoreactivity. The microglial response intensified at 7 dpl and persisted in the medial nigra through 14 dpl. In contrast, in KO mice activated microglia appeared predominantly at 7 dpl, with little activation at 3 dpl and none at 14 dpl. Neuron number in affected WT SNc at 14 dpl was significantly reduced compared with loss in affected KO SNc. The delayed and limited local microglial activation and increased neuron survival in response to distal axotomy of SNc neurons in APP KO mice are consistent with the important role APP in neuronal stress responses in vivo.
We provide a detailed analysis of the larval head chemosensory system of Drosophila melanogaster, based on confocal microscopy of cell-specific reporter gene expression in P[GAL4] enhancer trap lines. In particular, we describe the neuronal composition of three external and three pharyngeal chemosensory organs, the nerve tracts chosen by their afferents, and their central target regions. With a total of 21 olfactory and 80 gustatory neurons, the sensory level is numerically much simpler than that of the adult. Moreover, its design is different than in the adult, showing an association between smell and taste sensilla. In contrast, the first-order relay of the olfactory afferents, the larval antennal lobe (LAL), exhibits adult-like features both in terms of structure and cell number. It shows a division into approximately 30 subunits, reminiscent of glomeruli in the adult antennal lobe. Taken together, the design of the larval chemosensory system is a &quot;hybrid,&quot; with larval-specific features in the periphery and central characteristics in common with the adult. The largely reduced numbers of afferents and the similar architecture of the LAL and the adult antennal lobe, render the larval chemosensory system of Drosophila a valuable model system, both for studying smell and taste and for examining the development of its adult organization.
Large-scale gene amplifications may have facilitated the evolution of morphological innovations that accompanied the origin of vertebrates. This hypothesis predicts that the genomes of extant jawless fish, scions of deeply branching vertebrate lineages, should bear a record of these events. Previous work suggests that nonvertebrate chordates have a single Hox cluster, but that gnathostome vertebrates have four or more Hox clusters. Did the duplication events that produced multiple vertebrate Hox clusters occur before or after the divergence of agnathan and gnathostome lineages? Can investigation of lamprey Hox clusters illuminate the origins of the four gnathostome Hox clusters? To approach these questions, we cloned and sequenced 13 Hox cluster genes from cDNA and genomic libraries in the lamprey, Petromyzon marinus. The results suggest that the lamprey has at least four Hox clusters and support the model that gnathostome Hox clusters arose by a two-round-no-cluster-loss mechanism, with tree topology [(AB)(CD)]. A three-round model, however, is not rigorously excluded by the data and, for this model, the tree topologies [(D(C(AB))] and [(C(D(AB))] are most parsimonious. Gene phylogenies suggest that at least one Hox cluster duplication occurred in the lamprey lineage after it diverged from the gnathostome lineage. The results argue against two or more rounds of duplication before the divergence of agnathan and gnathostome vertebrates. If Hox clusters were duplicated in whole-genome duplication events, then these data suggest that, at most, one whole genome duplication occurred before the evolution of vertebrate developmental innovations.
Sera from 40 patients with Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS), including the subtypes acute inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (AIDP), acute motor axonal neuropathy (AMAN), acute motor and sensory axonal neuropathy (AMSAN), and Miller Fisher syndrome (MFS) were examined for the presence of anti-ganglioside antibodies using the ganglioside agglutination assay, and the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). In the ELISA system, sera were tested for IgM and IgG antibodies to GM1, GM2, GD1a, GD1b, GT1b, and GQ1b gangliosides. Antibodies to gangliosides were detected in 21 (53%) of the GBS patients by agglutination assay and in 17 (43%) of the patients by ELISA. Some of the sera reacted with more than one ganglioside. Antibodies were not found in the control sera that were studied. The agglutination assay may be useful for rapid screening of GBS sera for antibodies to multiple gangliosides.
Animal studies have shown that nicotine and psychostimulant drugs (amphetamine and cocaine) share the property of inducing long-lasting behavioral and neurochemical sensitization, which is thought to contribute to their addictive properties. Neuroplasticity subserving learning and memory mechanisms is considered to be involved in psychostimulant-induced sensitization and addiction behavior. Because nicotinic receptors in the brain play a role in the storage of drug-related information underlying reinforcement learning, we evaluated the possibility that activation of central nicotinic receptors may underlie psychostimulant-induced sensitization. Repeated exposure of rats to nicotine profoundly enhanced the psychomotor effects of nicotine and amphetamine 3 weeks after nicotine pretreatment. Moreover, the nicotinic receptor antagonist mecamylamine completely blocked the induction, but not the long-term expression, of behavioral sensitization to amphetamine in amphetamine-pretreated rats. Mecamylamine also prevented the development of cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization. Behavioral sensitization induced by nicotine, amphetamine, or cocaine was associated with an increase in the electrically evoked release of [(3)H]dopamine from nucleus accumbens slices. Coadministration of mecamylamine during pretreatment with nicotine, amphetamine, or cocaine prevented the development of this long-term hyperreactivity of nucleus accumbens dopamine neurons. Similarly, the high-affinity non-alpha7 subtype nicotinic receptor antagonist dihydro-beta-erythroidine prevented the development of amphetamine-induced behavioral and neurochemical sensitization. These data indicate that nicotinic receptor activation (by endogenously released acetylcholine) is a common denominator initiating neuroplasticity involved in the development of amphetamine, as well as cocaine-induced sensitization.
We have addressed the question of whether a family of axon growth-promoting molecules known as the laminins may play a role during axon regeneration in the CNS. A narrow sickle-shaped region containing a basal lamina-independent form of laminin exists in and around the cell bodies and proximal portion of the apical dendrites of CA3 pyramidal neurons of the postnatal hippocampus. To understand the possible function of laminin in axon regeneration within this pathway, we have manipulated laminin synthesis at the mRNA level in a slice culture model of the lesioned mossy system. In this model early postnatal mossy fibers severed near the hilus can regenerate across the lesion and elongate rapidly within strata lucidum and pyramidale. In slice cultures of the postnatal day 4 hippocampus, 2 d before lesion and then continuing for 1-5 d after lesion, translation of the gamma1 chain product of laminin was reduced by using antisense oligodeoxyribonucleotides and DNA enzymes. In the setting of the lesioned organotypic hippocampal slice, astroglial repair of the lesion and overall glial patterning were unperturbed by the antisense or DNA enzyme treatments. However, unlike controls, in the treated, lesioned slices the vast majority of regenerating mossy fibers could not cross the lesion site; those that did were very much shorter than usual, and they took a meandering course. In a recovery experiment in which the DNA enzyme or antisense oligos were washed away, laminin immunoreactivity returned and mossy fiber regeneration resumed. These results demonstrate the critical role of laminin(s) in an axon regeneration model of the CNS.
Cerebellar Purkinje neurons express voltage-gated, tetrodotoxin (TTX)-sensitive sodium channels that not only open and inactivate rapidly during depolarization but also reopen during repolarization, carrying an unusual &quot;resurgent&quot; sodium current. Expression of Na(V)1.6 alpha subunits appears necessary but not sufficient to generate this component of current; Purkinje cells without Na(V)1.6 lack resurgent current, but resurgent current is absent from many other Na(V)1.6-expressing neurons. These observations raise the question of how modulation or modification of the Na(V)1.6 subunit may lead to production of resurgent current. Previous studies have suggested that sodium channels of Purkinje neurons are subject to a rapid, voltage-dependent, open channel block by an endogenous particle whose unbinding allows resurgent current to flow. To investigate the nature of this block, we recorded TTX-sensitive sodium currents in outside-out patches from Purkinje cells acutely isolated from mice. In all patches, step depolarizations evoked transient current, and step repolarizations evoked resurgent current. The amplitudes of the transient and resurgent currents were highly correlated across patches (R(2) &gt; 0.99), suggesting that the blocking agent is closely associated with the channel. Intracellular protease eliminated fast inactivation, indicating that the blocking element, like the fast inactivation gate, may be proteinaceous. Intracellular application of alkaline phosphatase abolished resurgent current and significantly slowed inactivation of transient current. The phosphatase inhibitor vanadate reduced these effects. Together, the results suggest that constitutive phosphorylation of the sodium channel complex of Purkinje neurons is necessary to maintain a functional blocking element and produce resurgent sodium current.
Although measurement of sealing resistance is an important tool in the assessment of the electrical contacts between cultured cells and substrate embedded microelectrodes, it does not offer information about the type of cell, i.e. neuron or non-neuronal cell. Also, rules for translation of a measured sealing resistance into parameters for successful stimulation, i.e. eliciting an action potential, are not available yet. Therefore, a method is proposed for the detection of active membrane currents, elicited by extracellular current stimulation. The method is based on the prediction of the linear part of the response to an applied stimulus current pulse using an impedance model of the neuron-electrode contact. Active membrane currents are detected in the nonlinear response, which is obtained by subtraction of the predicted linear response from the measured response. The required impedance model parameters are extracted from impedance spectroscopy or directly from the measured responses.
The ladder rung walking test is a new task to assess skilled walking and measure both forelimb and hindlimb placing, stepping, and inter-limb co-ordination. Rats spontaneously walk from a starting location to a goal along a horizontal ladder. The spacing between the rungs of the ladder is variable and can be changed to prevent the animal from learning either the absolute or relative location of the rungs. The testing procedure requires minimal training and allows detailed quantitative and qualitative analysis using video recording. The utility of the test is described with postoperative data obtained from animals with unilateral neocortical strokes produced by pial stripping over the motor cortex, neonatal and adult unilateral corticospinal tract lesions produced by tract section at the pyramids, and unilateral dopamine depletions produced by injection of 6-hydroxydopamine into the nigrostriatal bundle. In addition, a group of aged rats was examined. Deficits in limb placing, stepping and co-ordination displayed by the animals demonstrate that this test can discriminate between lesions of the motor system or age-associated impairments. The test is useful for assessing loss and recovery of function due to brain or spinal cord injury, the effectiveness of treatment therapies, as well as compensatory processes through which animals adapt to nervous system injury.
Facial expressions of emotion are increasingly being used in neuroscience as probes for functional imaging and as stimuli for studying hemispheric specialization for face and emotion processing. Available facial stimuli are 2-dimensional and therefore, their orientation is fixed and poorly suited for examining asymmetries, they are often obtained under poorly specified conditions, usually posed, lack ethnic diversity, and are of restricted age range. We describe a method for accurately acquiring and reconstructing the geometry of the human face and for display of this reconstruction in a 3-dimensional format. We applied the method in a sample of 70 actors and 69 actresses expressing happiness, sadness, anger, fear and disgust, as well as neutral expressions. Each emotion was expressed under three levels of intensity and under both posed and evoked conditions. Resulting images are of high technical quality and are accurately identified by raters. The stimuli can be downloaded in digital form as 'movies' where angle and orientation can be manipulated for inclusion in functional imaging probes or in tests that can be administered as measures of individual differences in facial emotion processing. The database of emotional expressions can also be used as a standard for comparison with clinical populations.
In situ hybridization (ISH) is used to examine the spatiotemporal distribution of gene expression in a range of tissues. Neuroscience research in human brain tissue requires techniques that can be used in formalin fixed and paraffin-embedded tissue rather than frozen tissue which is recommended, but difficult to obtain. This study presents a method for non-radioactive (DIG) ISH for detecting NR1 gene expression, in human infant brain tissue. We compared three pre-treatment effects, protease digestion, autoclaving (in citrate and Tris/EDTA buffer) and microwaving (in citrate and Tris/EDTA buffer). Tissue had been fixed in formalin for 2-12 weeks. Results were compared for the hybridization and background signal intensities, and tissue morphology. We found that optimum results were obtained using 12-min microwave pre-treatment in Tris/EDTA buffer. This method produced optimum signal to background ratio in infant and adult tissue, preserved tissue morphology, and was suitable for use across a broad range of fixation times.
We have developed a transgenic mouse expressing the Cre recombinase under control of a tetracycline-responsive promoter. Using a CamKIIalpha-driven tTA transgenic strain and a lacZ reporter mouse, we obtained the expected neuronal pattern of recombination in the olfactory lobe, cortex, striatum, hippocampus and Purkinje cells. Moreover, recombination can be completely abolished by feeding the mice doxycycline in their drinking water. We also show that it is possible to get a different pattern of recombination by changing the timing of the doxycycline-mediated shutdown of Cre expression. By starting the doxycycline treatment at birth, we restrict recombination to striatum only. This approach should be applicable to other inducible transgenic strains, thus increasing the number of available tissue-specific patterns for conditional knockouts. Also, our tetO-Cre transgene can be combined with any of the increasing number of tetracycline transactivator transgenic strains to direct specifically inducible genomic recombination to several areas of the brain.
Studying exogenously expressed tagged proteins in live cells has become a standard technique for evaluating protein distribution and function. Typically, expression levels of experimentally introduced proteins are not regulated, and high levels are often preferred to facilitate detection. However, overexpression of many proteins leads to mislocalization and pathologies. Therefore, for normative studies, moderate levels of expression may be more suitable. To understand better the dynamics of intermediate filament formation, transport, and stability in a healthy, living cell, we inserted neurofilament heavy chain (NFH)-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion constructs in adenoviral vectors with tetracycline (tet)-regulated promoters. This system allows for turning on or off the synthesis of NFH-GFP at a selected time, for a defined period, in a dose-dependent manner. We used this inducible system for live cell imaging of changes in filament structure and cell shape, motility, and transport associated with increasing NFH-GFP expression. Cells with low to intermediate levels of NFH-GFP were structurally and functionally similar to neighboring, nonexpressing cells. In contrast, overexpression led to pathological alterations in both filament organization and cell function.
Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-kinase) and phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase (PI4-kinase) enzymes are an important family of signaling molecules that have been implicated in the regulation of intracellular vesicle trafficking. It has previously been shown that PI3-kinase and PI4-kinase enzymes regulate neuronal survival and the retrograde axonal transport of nerve growth factor in sympathetic and sensory neurons. We have extended these studies to examine the role these enzymes play in the regulation of the retrograde axonal transport of neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) and neurotrophin-4 (NT-4) in sympathetic and sensory neurons in vivo. Wortmannin (0.1 nmol/eye), a PI3-kinase and PI4-kinase antagonist, reduced the amount of (125)I-NT-3 retrograde transport in sympathetic neurons by approximately 50% and (125)I-NT-4 in sympathetic neurons by approximately 40% and sensory neurons by approximately 20%. The PI3-kinase antagonist LY294002 (100 nmol/eye) reduced the retrograde axonal transport of (125)I-NT-4 in sympathetic and sensory neurons, and (125)I-NT-3 in sympathetic neurons. Phenylarsine oxide (PAO), a PI4-kinase antagonist, significantly inhibited (125)I-NT-4 retrograde axonal transport in sympathetic and sensory neurons. These results show that wortmannin-sensitive PI3-kinases and PI4-kinases may be involved in NT-3 and NT-4 retrograde axonal transport. The retrograde axonal transport of neurotrophic factors in sympathetic and sensory neurons in vivo appears to depend upon the activation of different receptors and second messenger cascades at the nerve terminal.
Transcription factors have traditionally been viewed as the main determinants of gene expression. Yet, in recent years it has become apparent that RNA-binding proteins also play a critical role in determining the levels of expression of a large number of genes. Once mRNAs are transcribed, RNA-binding proteins can control all subsequent steps in their function, from alternative splicing and translation to mRNA transport and stability. In the nervous system, a large number of genes are regulated post-transcriptionally via the interaction of their mRNAs with specific RNA-binding proteins. This type of regulation is particularly important in the control of the temporal and spatial pattern of gene expression during neural development. This review will discuss the function of the embryonic lethal abnormal vision (ELAV)/Hu family of nervous system-specific RNA-binding proteins, with a special emphasis on HuD, a member of this family that controls GAP-43 mRNA stability and expression. In addition, we will present recent findings on other neural RNA-binding proteins: the ribonucleoprotein K homology (KH)-domain proteins, Fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), quakinguiable protein (QKI), and Nova-1. Together with the ELAV/Hu family, these proteins are essential for proper neural development and in some cases for plasticity in the mature brain. The biological significance of these proteins is evident not only by their evolutionary conservation but also by the magnitude of problems arising from autoimmune reactions against them or from mutations affecting their expression or function.
Adult inferior vagal ganglion neurons (nodose ganglion neurons, NGNs) were acutely isolated 4-6 days after section of their peripheral axons (vagotomy) and examined with the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. A subset (approximately 25 %) of vagotomized NGNs displayed depolarizing after-potentials (DAPs), not present in control NGNs. DAPs were inhibited by niflumic acid (125 microM) or cadmium (100 microM), and had a reversal potential near E(Cl), indicating that they were due to Ca(2+)-activated chloride current (I(Cl(Ca))). N-type, L-type, T-/R- and other types of voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels provided about 43, 2, 16 and 40 % of the trigger Ca(2+) for DAP generation, respectively. Intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) was estimated using fura-2 fluorescence. Resting [Ca(2+)](i) and peak [Ca(2+)](i) elevation induced by activating Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release (CICR) stores with 10 mM caffeine were not significantly different among control NGNs, vagotomized NGNs with DAPs and vagotomized NGNs without DAPs, averaging 54 +/- 7.9 (n = 19; P = 0.49) and 2022 +/- 1059 nM (n = 19; P = 0.44), respectively. Blocking CICR with 10 microM ryanodine reduced DAP amplitude by approximately 37 %. Ca(2+) influx induced by action potential waveforms was increased by over 250 % in vagotomized NGNs with DAPs (19.0 +/- 2.1 pC) compared to control NGNs (5.0 +/- 0.8 pC) or vagotomized NGNs without DAPs (7.0 +/- 0.8 pC). L-type, N-type, T-/R-type and other types of Ca(2+) influx were increased proportionately in vagotomized NGNs with DAPs. In conclusion, a subset of vagotomized NGNs have increased Ca(2+) currents and express I(Cl(Ca)). These NGNs respond electrically to increases in [Ca(2+)](i) during regeneration.
The deafness (dn/dn) mutant mouse provides a valuable model of human congenital deafness. We investigated the properties of synaptic transmission in the anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN) of normal and congenitally deaf dn/dn mice. Excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were evoked by focal stimulation of single auditory nerve fibres, and measured by whole-cell recordings from neurones in AVCN slices (mean postnatal age = P13). Absolute amplitudes of both AMPA- and NMDA-mediated components of evoked EPSCs were greater (170 %) in deaf versus control animals. Enhanced transmission in deaf mice was due to a presynaptic mechanism. Variance-mean analysis revealed that the probability of transmitter release was significantly greater in deaf (P(r) = 0.8) versus control animals (P(r) = 0.5). Following high frequency stimulation, deaf mice showed a greater depression of evoked EPSCs, and a significant increase in the frequency of delayed-release (asynchronous) miniature EPSCs (aEPSCs) (deaf 100 Hz vs. control 7 Hz). The acetoxymethyl ester of EGTA (EGTA-AM) blocked the increase in miniature aEPSCs and returned tetanic depression to control values. In deaf mice, reduction of mean P(r) using cadmium caused an expected increase in paired-pulse ratio (PPR). However, in the same cells, a similar reduction in release by EGTA-AM did not result in a change in PPR, demonstrating that a change may occur in P(r) without a concomitant change in PPR. In many respects, transmission in deaf mice was found to be remarkably similar to control mice, implying that many parameters of synaptic transmission develop normally in these animals. The two significant differences (higher P(r) and asynchronous release in deaf mice) could both be reversed by the addition of EGTA-AM, suggesting that endogenous calcium buffering may be impaired or undeveloped in the presynaptic terminals of the auditory nerve in deaf mice.
Interferon-alpha(IFN-alpha) is used clinically in the treatment of several pathologies such as hepatitis C and various cancers. The positive therapeutic potential is however often limited by negative secondary effects which include major depression, one of the cardinal symptoms of which is anhedonia which has been operationalized as a decreased sensitivity to rewards (inability to experience pleasure). Previous studies have demonstrated the existence of anhedonia in rats following an acute injection of IFN-alpha at doses corresponding to those used in clinical applications. If this previously demonstrated anhedonia is indeed part of a depression syndrome in rats, this behavioural symptom should be reversible by the administration of antidepressants. The objective of the present experiment was to determine whether two commonly used antidepressants (desipramine and fluoxetine) were effective in ameliorating IFN-alpha-induced anhedonia in rats. The experiment consisted of two phases. In the first, the effects of daily systemic injections of 104 units/kg of IFN-alpha (or vehicle) were evaluated with the three-bottle (1%, 8%, and 32%) sucrose-consumption test. In the second phase of the experiment, in addition to continued injections of IFN-, different groups received daily injections of desipramine (7.5 mg/kg ip), fluoxetine (7.5 mg/kg ip), or vehicle. The IFN-alpha injections during Phase 1 resulted in clear anhedonia, as expressed by increased consumption of the 32% solution and decreased consumption of 1% over the 33 days of this phase. After 15 days of antidepressant treatments, 32% sucrose consumption returned to baseline values. We have therefore confirmed that IFN-alpha-induced anhedonia is susceptible to reversal following chronic antidepressant treatment and thus it may appear timely to consider the prophylactic use of such in particular patients prescribed IFN in the clinic.
It has previously been demonstrated in separate studies that single doses of Ginkgo biloba, Panax ginseng, and a combination of the two extracts can improve different aspects of cognitive performance in healthy young volunteers. The present study directly compared the effects of single doses of G. biloba, ginseng, and a product combining the two on aspects of mood and cognitive performance in the same cohort of healthy, young adult volunteers. The study followed a randomised placebo-controlled, double-blind, balanced, cross-over design. Twenty participants received 360 mg of ginkgo, 400 mg of ginseng, 960 mg of a product combining the two extracts, and a matching placebo. Treatment order was dictated by random allocation to a Latin square, with a 7-day wash-out period between treatments. Cognitive testing comprised completion of the Cognitive Drug Research (CDR) computerised assessment battery and two serial subtraction mental arithmetic tasks. Mood was assessed with Bond-Lader visual analogue scales. Following a baseline cognitive assessment, further test sessions took place 1, 2.5, 4, and 6 h after the day's treatment was taken. The results largely supported previous findings. All three treatments were associated with improved secondary memory performance on the CDR battery, with the ginseng condition evincing some improvement in the speed of performing memory tasks and in the accuracy of attentional tasks. Following ginkgo and the ginkgo/ginseng combination performance of both the Serial Threes and Serial Sevens, subtraction tasks was also improved at the later testing sessions. No modulation of the speed of performing attention tasks was evident. Improvements in self-rated mood was also found following ginkgo and to a lesser extent the combination product.
During pregnancy, the total serum cholesterol concentration rises up to 43%, followed by a rapid fall after delivery. Mild depressive symptoms ('postpartum blues') are a common complication of the puerperium and affect 30-85% of women in the early postpartum period. Based on these observations, it has been suggested that the sudden fall in cholesterol levels after delivery could serve as a 'natural model' to test the suggested association between cholesterol and mood. The present study was designed to expand the database concerning the association between cholesterol levels and mood in the postpartum period and to address some methodological problems raised by previous studies. Forty-seven healthy primiparous women were interviewed with a structured clinical interview on two occasions: during late pregnancy (median: day -20 before the expected delivery) and during the early postpartum period (median: day 32 after delivery). On both occasions, serum concentrations of total and HDL cholesterol were measured and mood symptoms were assessed with the state form of Spielberger's State-Trait Anxiety Index (STAI), the state form of the State-Trait Anger Scale (STAS), and the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI). We found significant, albeit moderate, relationships between serum cholesterol levels and mood symptoms in the postpartum period that were not present during late pregnancy. Lower postpartum levels of total cholesterol were associated with symptoms of anxiety (r=-0.30, P=0.04), anger/hostility (r=-0.31, P=0.04), and depression (r=-0.35, P=0.02), and lower postpartum levels of HDL cholesterol were associated with symptoms of anxiety (r=-0.34, P=0.02). This study confirms that the physiological fall in blood lipids in the postpartum period can be a useful model to test the relationship between serum cholesterol levels and mood.
We reported recently that the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway is involved in agonist-induced down regulation of mu and delta opioid receptors [J. Biol. Chem. 276 (2001) 12345]. While evaluating the effects of various protease inhibitors on agonist-induced opioid receptor down regulation, we observed that while the peptide aldehyde, leupeptin (acetyl-L-Leucyl-L-Leucyl-L-Arginal), did not affect agonist-induced down regulation, leupeptin at submillimolar concentrations directly inhibited radioligand binding to opioid receptors. In this study, the inhibitory activity of leupeptin on radioligand binding was characterized utilizing human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cell lines expressing transfected mu, delta, or kappa opioid receptors. The rank order of potency for leupeptin inhibition of [3H]bremazocine binding to opioid receptors was mu &gt; delta &gt; kappa. In contrast to the effect of leupeptin, the peptide aldehyde proteasome inhibitor, MG 132 (carbobenzoxy-L-Leucyl-L-Leucyl-L-Leucinal), had significantly less effect on bremazocine binding to mu, delta, or kappa opioid receptors. We propose that leupeptin inhibits ligand binding by reacting reversibly with essential sulfhydryl groups that are necessary for high-affinity ligand/receptor interactions.

Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) is the initial and rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of the neurotransmitter dopamine (DA). TH activity is inhibited by peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) by a mechanism that involves nitration of tyrosine residues and oxidation of cysteine residues in the enzyme. Reduced forms of the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide cofactors, NADH and NADPH, protect TH from inhibition by ONOO(-) and prevent nitration of tyrosine residues. NAD, the oxidized form of the cofactors, neither protects TH from ONOO(-)-induced inhibition nor prevents the nitration of tyrosine residues in the enzyme. These results suggest that the redox status of the nicotinamide nucleotide cofactors could influence the ability of ONOO(-) to modify proteins that are important to the function of DA neurons.
Bombesin, its family of bombesin-like peptides, and many other peptides/hormones modulate biological and behavioral functions in animals. Among the wide variety of functions influenced by bombesin/bombesin-like peptides, the most prominent may be their role in feeding-related behavior. Over many years, intensive psychopharmacological studies have addressed the mechanisms by which these peptides induce feeding suppression, and the results suggest the applicability of bombesin/bombesin-like peptides for the treatment of eating disorders and/or obesity in humans. Recent studies using gene-knockout mice also shed new light on the relationship between bombesin/bombesin-like peptides and feeding behavior. In addition, genetic analyses of the possible links between bombesin/bombesin-like peptides/receptors and human obesity have also been undertaken. Here, we briefly review the literature pertaining to the relationship between bombesin/bombesin-like peptides and feeding behavior-with particular attention to human subjects-and discuss the pharmacotherapeutic potential of bombesin/bombesin-like peptides with regard to obesity.
Subtraction suppression hybridization was used with high throughput screening to identify transcripts of genes that are differentially expressed in nasal epithelium following lesioning of the olfactory bulb, termed bulbectomy. We isolated the rat homologue of plunc, a murine gene highly expressed in lung and nasopharyngeal regions, by this method. Rat plunc encodes a 270-amino acid protein containing a putative signal peptide. plunc up-regulation in respiratory epithelium was confirmed by Northern blot and in situ hybridization. plunc mRNA was expressed in nasal epithelium, heart, lung, thymus, and salivary gland in adult rodent. plunc was expressed in nasal epithelium, thymus, and salivary gland during embryogenesis. Antibodies against Plunc detected a 31-kDa protein in lung, heart, and spleen. Rat nasal epithelium displayed robust immunoreactivity that was highly localized to the microvilli layer of respiratory epithelium. The expression of plunc was up-regulated after bulbectomy in respiratory epithelium. We also detected secreted plunc in rat and human mucus. Sequence and homology analyses suggest that Plunc is a member of the secretory gland protein family with putative bactericidal/bacteriostatic function. This is the first protein found in respiratory epithelium whose expression is regulated by olfactory neuronal injury and may provide protection against infection subsequent to injury.
The Shaker family K(+) channel protein, Kv1.3, is tyrosine phosphorylated by v-Src kinase at Tyr(137) and Tyr(449) to modulate current magnitude and kinetic properties. Despite two proline rich sequences and these phosphotyrosines contained in the carboxyl and amino terminals of the channel, v-Src kinase fails to co-immunoprecipitate with Kv1.3 as expressed in HEK 293 cells, indicating a lack of direct Src homology 3- or Src homology 2-mediated protein-protein interaction between the channel and the kinase. We show that the adaptor proteins, n-Shc and Grb10, are expressed in the olfactory bulb, a region of the brain where Kv1.3 is highly expressed. In HEK 293 cells, co-expression of Kv1.3 plus v-Src with Grb10 causes a decrease in v-Src-induced Kv1.3 tyrosine phosphorylation and a reversal of v-Src-induced Kv1.3 current suppression, increase in inactivation time constant (tau(inact)), and disruption of cumulative inactivation properties. Co-expression of Kv1.3 plus v-Src with n-Shc did not significantly alter v-Src-induced Kv1.3 current suppression but reversed v-Src induced increased tau(inact) and restored the right-shifted voltage at half-activation (V(1/2)) induced by v-Src. The v-Src-induced shift in V(1/2) and increased tau(inact) was retained when Tyr(220), Tyr(221), and Tyr(304) in the CH domain of n-Shc were mutated to Phe (triple Shc mutant) but was reversed back to control values when either wild-type Shc or the family member Sck, which is not a substrate for Src kinase, was substituted for the triple Shc mutant. Thus the portion of the CH domain that includes Tyr(220), Tyr(221), and Tyr(304) may regulate a shift in Kv1.3 voltage dependence and inactivation kinetics produced by n-Shc in the presence of v-Src. Collectively these data indicate that Grb10 and n-Shc adaptor molecules differentially modulate the degree of Kv1.3 tyrosine phosphorylation, the channel's biophysical properties, and the physical complexes associated with Kv1.3 in the presence of Src kinase.
The inability of axons to regenerate after a spinal cord injury in the adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS) can lead to permanent paralysis. At sites of CNS injury, a glial scar develops, containing extracellular matrix molecules including chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans (CSPGs). CSPGs are inhibitory to axon growth in vitro, and regenerating axons stop at CSPG-rich regions in vivo. Removing CSPG glycosaminoglycan (GAG) chains attenuates CSPG inhibitory activity. To test the functional effects of degrading chondroitin sulphate (CS)-GAG after spinal cord injury, we delivered chondroitinase ABC (ChABC) to the lesioned dorsal columns of adult rats. We show that intrathecal treatment with ChABC degraded CS-GAG at the injury site, upregulated a regeneration-associated protein in injured neurons, and promoted regeneration of both ascending sensory projections and descending corticospinal tract axons. ChABC treatment also restored post-synaptic activity below the lesion after electrical stimulation of corticospinal neurons, and promoted functional recovery of locomotor and proprioceptive behaviours. Our results demonstrate that CSPGs are important inhibitory molecules in vivo and suggest that their manipulation will be useful for treatment of human spinal injuries.
The transcription factor CREB mediates diverse responses in the nervous system. It is not known how CREB induces specific patterns of gene expression in response to different extracellular stimuli. We find that Ca(2+) influx into neurons induces CREB phosphorylation at Ser133 and two additional sites, Ser142 and Ser143. While CREB Ser133 phosphorylation is induced by many stimuli, phosphorylation at Ser142 and Ser143 is selectively activated by Ca(2+) influx. The triple phosphorylation of CREB is required for effective Ca(2+) stimulation of CREB-dependent transcription, but the phosphorylation of Ser142 and Ser143, in addition to Ser133, disrupts the interaction of CREB with its cofactor CBP. These results suggest that Ca(2+) influx triggers a specific program of gene expression in neurons by selectively regulating CREB phosphorylation.
The hypothesis that specific protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms regulate dopamine transporter (DAT) function was tested in Xenopus laevis oocytes expressing human (h)DAT. Activation of conventional PKCs (cPKCs) and novel PKCs (nPKCs) using 10 nM phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) significantly inhibited DAT-associated transport currents. This effect was reversed by isoform-non-selective PKC inhibitors, selective inhibitors of cPKCs and deltaPKC, and by Ca2+ chelation. By contrast, the epsilonPKC translocation inhibitor peptide had no effect on PMA-induced inhibition of hDAT transport-associated currents. Thus, the primary mechanism by which PMA regulates hDAT expressed in oocytes appears to be by activating cPKC(s).
It was not until the latter half of the 19th century that the vestibular part of the inner ear was recognized to have a function separate from hearing. Robert Brny was one of the first clinicians to assess vestibular function systematically in patients. He developed standard caloric, rotational, and pointing tests and was the first to describe benign paroxysmal positional nystagmus. Brny began his career working in the otology clinic of Adam Politzer at the University of Vienna. He received the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 1916 for his work on the mechanism of the caloric reaction. However, in the aftermath of the First World War and the controversy surrounding his selection for the Nobel Prize, Brny left Vienna for Uppsala, Sweden, where he spent the last 20 years of his life in relative isolation.
Hyperserotonemia in autism is one of the longest-standing biochemical findings in a psychiatric disorder. This well-replicated finding and subsequent studies of platelet serotonin receptors in autism indicate that the serotonin 2A receptor gene (HTR2A) on chromosome 13q is a primary candidate gene in autism. Converging data from recent genome screens also implicates the genomic region containing HTR2A. Based on these lines of evidence, the transmission/disequilibrium test (TDT) was used to assess transmission disequilibrium between autism and haplotypes of three polymorphisms, including the promoter -1438 G/A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in perfect linkage disequilibrium with the 102 T/C SNP in previous studies, a newly identified SNP in intron 1 near exon 2, and the SNP responsible for the His452Tyr amino acid change in exon 3. Because expression studies have shown HTR2A to be polymorphically imprinted in the brain, secondary analyses were split into maternal and paternal transmissions. No evidence was found for unequal transmission of haplotypes; however, power analysis reveals low power to detect a parent-of-origin effect in this sample size.
The calyx neuropil of the mushroom body in adult Drosophila melanogaster contains three major neuronal elements: extrinsic projection neurons, presumed cholinergic, immunoreactive to choline acetyltransferase (ChAT-ir) and vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT-ir) antisera; presumed gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic extrinsic neurons with GABA-like immunoreactivity; and local intrinsic Kenyon cells. The projection neurons connecting the calyx with the antennal lobe via the antennocerebral tract are the only source of cholinergic elements in the calyces. Their terminals establish an array of large boutons 2-7 microm in diameter throughout all calycal subdivisions. The GABA-ir extrinsic neurons, different in origin, form a network of fine fibers and boutons codistributed in all calycal regions with the cholinergic terminals and with tiny profiles, mainly Kenyon cell dendrites. We have investigated the synaptic circuits of these three neuron types using preembedding immuno-electron microscopy. All ChAT/VAChT-ir boutons form divergent synapses upon multitudinous surrounding Kenyon cell dendrites. GABA-ir elements also regularly contribute divergent synaptic input onto these dendrites, as well as occasional inputs to boutons of projection neurons. The same synaptic microcircuits involving these three neuron types are repeatedly established in glomeruli in all calycal regions. Each glomerulus comprises a large cholinergic bouton at its core, encircled by tiny vesicle-free Kenyon cell dendrites as well as by a number of GABAergic terminals. A single dendritic profile may thereby receive synaptic input from both cholinergic and GABAergic elements in close vicinity at presynaptic sites with T-bars typical of fly synapses. ChAT-ir boutons regularly have large extensions of the active zones. Thus, Kenyon cells may receive major excitatory input from cholinergic boutons and considerable postsynaptic inhibition from GABAergic terminals, as well as, more rarely, presynaptic inhibitory signaling. The calycal glomeruli of Drosophila are compared with the cerebellar glomeruli of vertebrates. The cholinergic boutons are the largest identified cholinergic synapses in the Drosophila brain and an eligible prospect for studying the genetic regulation of excitatory presynaptic function.
The neural mechanisms underlying the craniotopic updating of visual space across saccadic eye movements are poorly understood. Previous single-unit recording studies in primates and clinical studies in brain-damaged patients have shown that the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) has a key role in this process. In the present study, we used single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to disrupt the processing within the PPC during a task that requires craniotopic updating: double saccades. In this task, two targets are presented in quick succession and the subject is required to make a saccade to each location as accurately as possible. We show here that TMS delivered to the PPC just prior to the second saccade effectively disrupts the craniotopic coding normally observed in this task. This causes subjects to revert to saccades more consistent with a representation of the targets based on their positions relative to one another. By contrast, stimulation at earlier times between the two saccades did not disrupt performance. These results suggest that extraretinal information generated during the first perisaccadic period is not put into functional use until just prior to the second saccade.
In the supraoptic nucleus (SON), the incidence of conducting gap junctions (gjs), as indicated by dye coupling, is low in cycling females, but dramatically elevated in nursing mothers. Functionally, this is consistent with the well-established presence of synchronous milk ejection bursts among oxytocin neurons only in the lactating rat. In situ hybridization data, however, revealed elevated gj mRNA expression on the last day of pregnancy, a time when burst firing by putative oxytocin neurons is absent. Using Lucifer Yellow dye coupling, we determined the incidence of high conductance gjs in SONs of proestrous, immediately prepartum, postpartum non-lactating, lactating day 1, and lactating day 9-10 rats. Results indicate that coupling incidence is high only at times when milk ejection bursts are known to occur, and that the elevated gj mRNA expression seen on the last day of pregnancy does not indicate conducting gjs. It is suggested that gj conductance states, but not gj expression, are modulated by plasma estradiol titers.
The free radical trapping agents NXY-059 and alpha-phenyl-N-tert.-butylnitrone (PBN) markedly reduce infarct volume, even when given 1 or 3 h after the start of recirculation, following 2 h of middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion in rats. Their anti-ischemic effects are shared by the two immunosuppressants cyclosporin A (CsA) and FK506. Interestingly, CsA causes an additional reduction in infarct volume when given after only 5 min of recirculation, possibly reflecting blockade of a mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) pore. PBN, CsA and FK506 are known to ameliorate the secondary dysfunction of mitochondrial function, as assessed in vitro, which occurs during the first 4-6 h of recirculation. The present experiments were undertaken to assess whether NXY-059 reduces tissue damage by acting directly on mitochondrial membranes, and provided that this is the case, if blockade of an MPT is involved. The results were compared to those of CsA, which thus served as a reference compound. NXY-059 was given i.v. after 5 min and 1 h, and CsA after 5 min of recirculation. Both NXY-059 and CsA reduced infarct volumes to about 30% of control, prevented the secondary decline in mitochondrial respiratory function during recirculation, and reduced the mitochondrial release of cytochrome c after 6 and 24 h of recirculation. However, NXY-059 failed to block the effect of Ca(2+) on mitochondrial swelling in vitro, as CsA did. Furthermore, NXY-059, given after 5 min of recirculation, did not reproduce the effects of CsA. The results thus suggest that NXY-059 exerts its effects on mitochondria by indirect mechanisms.
Adenosine modulates long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) in the hippocampus. We tested whether induction of LTP or LTD might reciprocally modify the role of adenosine as an inhibitory modulator of synaptic transmission in the hippocampus. The experiments were performed on hippocampal slices of the rat. Two separate sets of the Schaffer pathway were alternately stimulated. Evoked field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) were recorded extracellularly from CA1 stratum radiatum. Long-term potentiation (LTP) was induced by high-frequency stimulation and long-term depression (LTD) by low-frequency stimulation. The inhibitory effects of the adenosine analogue, 2-chloroadenosine (CADO, 0.1-5 microM), on the fEPSP slope were similar in both pathways (EC(50)=0.72 (95% confidence intervals: 0.50-1.1) microM and EC(50)=0.84 (0.55-1.3) microM, n=6). After induction of LTP in the test pathway, a second concentration-response curve was obtained. CADO was significantly less potent as compared to the first concentration-response curve, however the inhibitory effects of CADO were still similar in the potentiated pathway (EC(50)=2.2 (1.6-3.1) microM) and in the control pathway (EC(50)=2.1 (1.5-3.0) microM, n=6). The inhibitory effects of CADO (0.1-5 microM) were also not significantly different in the pathway where LTD was previously induced (EC(50)=1.7 (1.5-2.0) microM), compared to the control non-depressed pathway (EC(50)=1.7 (1.4-2.0) microM, n=6). In conclusion, the neuromodulatory action of adenosine seems to be maintained in the presence of substantial variations in long-term synaptic efficiency during LTP or LTD.
Seizurogenic activity develops in many patients following brain injury and may be involved in the pathophysiological effects of brain trauma and stroke. We have evaluated the effects of the use-dependent sodium channel blocker RS100642, an analog of mexiletine, as a neuroprotectant and anti-seizure agent in a rat model of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo). Post-injury treatment with RS100642 (0.01-5.0 mg/kg) dose-dependently reduced brain infarction, improved functional recovery of electroencephalographic (EEG) power, and improved neurological outcome following 2 h of MCAo and 24 h recovery. This effect was more potent and offered a larger reduction of brain infarct volume than a maximal neuroprotective dose of mexiletine (10.0 mg/kg). Furthermore, brain seizure activity recorded following 1 h MCAo and 72 h of recovery in injured rats was either completely blocked (30 min pre-MCAo treatment) or significantly reduced (30 min post-MCAo treatment) with RS100642 (1.0 mg/kg) treatment resulting in greater than 60% reduction of core brain infarct. These results indicate that brain seizure activity during MCAo likely contributes to the pathophysiology of brain injury and that RS100642 may be an effective neuroprotective treatment not only to decrease brain injury but also to reduce the pathological EEG associated with focal ischemia.
Agmatine, decarboxylated from arginine by arginine decarboxylase, is particularly prominent in the hypothalamus. The present study utilized the rat hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system to determine expression and &quot;pre-synaptic&quot; modulation of agmatine in the central nervous system (CNS). Under confocal-laser scanning, agmatine-like immunoreactivity (Agm-LI) was found enriched in arginine-vasopressin (AVP)-containing magnocellular neurons of the supraoptic nuclei (SON) and paraventricular nuclei (PVN). In addition, using electron microscopy, Agm-LI was found closely associated with large neurosecretory-like vesicles in neurohypophysial nerve terminals of posterior pituitary gland. Radioimmunoassay revealed that 10 and 30 microM agmatine concentration-dependently inhibited the depolarization-evoked AVP release from isolated neurohypophysial terminals. Using perforated patch-clamp, effects of agmatine on whole-terminal voltage-gated ion currents in the isolated neurohypophysial nerve terminals were examined. While it did not significantly affect either tetrodotoxin (TTX)-sensitive Na(+) or sustained Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channel currents, agmatine (1-40 microM) inhibited Ca(2+) channel currents in approximately 53% of the total nerve terminals investigated. The onset of inhibitory effect was immediate, and the inhibition was reversible and concentration-dependent with an IC(50)=4.6 microM. In the remaining (approximately 47%) neurohypophysial nerve terminals, only a higher (120 microM) concentration of agmatine could moderately inhibit Ca(2+) channel currents. The results suggest that: (1) endogenous agmatine is co-expressed in AVP-containing, hypothalamic magnocellular neurons of the SON/PVN and in neurohypophysial nerve terminals of posterior pituitary gland; (2) agmatine may serve as a physiological neuromodulator by regulating the voltage-gated Ca(2+) channel and, as a result, the release of AVP from neurohypophysial nerve terminals.
Efficient transfection of NG108-15 cells with GABA(B) receptor subunits was achieved using polyethylenimine. Baclofen modulated high voltage-activated Ca(2+) current in differentiated cells transfected with GABA(B1) and GABA(B2) receptor subunits or with the GABA(B2) subunit alone, but not with the GABA(B1) subunit alone. Characteristics of the current modulation were very similar for cells transfected with GABA(B1/2) and GABA(B2) subunits. Using antisense oligonucleotides against GABA(B1) subunits and also western immunoblotting, we are able to show that NG108-15 cells contain endogenous GABA(B1) subunits. Therefore, functional receptors can be formed by the combination of native GABA(B1) subunits with transfected GABA(B2) subunits, in agreement with the proposed heteromeric structure of GABA(B) receptors. Finally, we used selective channel blockers to identify the subtypes of Ca(2+) channels that are modulated by GABA(B) receptors. In fact, in differentiated NG108-15 cells, the recombinant GABA(B) receptors couple only to N-type Ca(2+) channels.
Estrogen reduces the risk of Alzheimer's disease in post-menopausal women, beta-amyloid (Abeta) burden in animal models of Alzheimer's disease, and secretion of Abeta from neuronal cultures. The biological basis for these effects remains unknown. Here, utilizing cell-free systems derived from both neuroblastoma cells and primary neurons, we demonstrate that 17beta-estradiol (17beta-E2) stimulates formation of vesicles containing the beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) from the trans-Golgi network (TGN). Accelerated betaAPP trafficking precludes maximal Abeta generation within the TGN. 17beta-E2 appears to modulate TGN phospholipid levels, particularly those of phosphatidylinositol, and to recruit soluble trafficking factors, such as Rab11, to the TGN. Together, these results suggest that estrogen may exert its anti-Abeta effects by regulating betaAPP trafficking within the late secretory pathway. These results suggest a novel mechanism through which 17beta-E2 may act in estrogen-responsive tissues and illustrate how altering the kinetics of the transport of a protein can influence its metabolic fate.
The pathogenesis of the neurotoxicity of most antineoplastic drugs is unknown. Recent reports suggest that changes in the circulating levels of nerve growth factor (NGF) might be related to the dorsal root ganglia sensory neuron damage induced by cisplatin (CDDP), the first member of a family of widely used and very effective platinum-derived anticancer agents. Using a well-characterized model of CDDP neurotoxicity, we demonstrated that the NGF circulating level decreased during chronic CDDP administration in close accordance with the clinical course and returned to normal levels after recovery from the neurotoxic damage. Moreover, these changes were restricted to NGF and did not involve other trophic factors of the same neurotrophin family. Our findings are in agreement with previous in vitro and in vivo results and further suggest that NGF plays a specific role in the course of CDDP-induced primary sensory neuron damage.
The perception of odors is well identified as having strong emotional correlates. The effects of ambient odors on arousal level and task performance have also been suspected but remain poorly assessed in the literature. The present study compared the reaction times of subjects between ambient odor conditions (pleasant and unpleasant) and a no-odor condition. The results showed that the reaction time in simple tasks (responses to visual or auditory stimulation) significantly decreased in the ambient odor conditions (whatever the pleasantness of the odors) compared with the no-odor condition. These results underline the importance of the olfactory environment in human behavior.
We raised monoclonal antibodies against senile plaque (SP) amyloid and obtained a clone 9D2, which labeled amyloid fibrils in SPs and reacted with approximately 50/100 kDa polypeptides in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains. We purified the 9D2 antigens and cloned a cDNA encoding its precursor, which was a novel type II transmembrane protein specifically expressed in neurons. This precursor harbored three collagen-like Gly-X-Y repeat motifs and was partially homologous to collagen type XIII. Thus, we named the 9D2 antigen as CLAC (collagen-like Alzheimer amyloid plaque component), and its precursor as CLAC-P/collagen type XXV. The extracellular domain of CLAC-P/collagen type XXV was secreted by furin convertase, and the N-terminus of CLAC deposited in AD brains was pyroglutamate modified. Both secreted and membrane-tethered forms of CLAC-P/collagen type XXV specifically bound to fibrillized Abeta, implicating these proteins in beta-amyloidogenesis and neuronal degeneration in AD.
Intrastriatal delivery of the tyrosine hydroxylase gene by viral vectors is being explored as a tool for local delivery of L-dopa in animals with lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway. The functional effects reported using this approach have been disappointing, probably because the striatal L-dopa levels attained have been too low. In the present study, we have defined a critical threshold level of L-dopa, 1.5 pmol/mg of tissue, that has to be reached to induce any significant functional effects. Using new generation high-titer recombinant adeno-associated virus vectors, we show that levels of striatal L-dopa production exceeding this threshold can be obtained provided that tyrosine hydroxylase is coexpressed with the cofactor synthetic enzyme, GTP-cyclohydrolase-1. After striatal transduction with this combination of vectors, substantial functional improvement in both drug-induced and spontaneous behavior was observed in rats with either complete or partial 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway. However, complete reversal of motor deficits occurred only in animals in which part of the striatal dopamine innervation was left intact. Spared nigrostriatal fibers thus may convert L-dopa to dopamine and store and release dopamine in a more physiologically relevant manner in the denervated striatum to mediate better striatal output-dependent motor function. We conclude that intrastriatal L-dopa delivery may be a viable strategy for treatment and control of adverse side effects associated with oral L-dopa therapy such as on-off fluctuations and drug-induced dyskinesias in patients with Parkinson's disease.


Dissection of the internal carotid artery usually occurs in the cervical segment, but rarely may involve the artery in the intracranial course (1). The clinical course of intracranial dissection is often catastrophic, with rapid onset of profound neurological deficit, as a result of middle and/or anterior cerebral artery involvement. When this occurs the mortality rate is generally considered high. We describe a case of intracranial internal carotid artery dissection following trivial trauma presented with an isolated painful pupillary sparing oculomotor nerve palsy.
A case of Kleine-Levin syndrome with typical periodic hypersomnia and bulimia was diagnosed. On examination with single photo emission tomography (SPECT) (CERETEC) during a relapse period and 2 weeks later there was marked cortical hypoperfusion of the frontal and temporal lobes, especially on the left side as well as in the right parietal lobe. Neuropsychological testing performed 1 week after a relapse showed a reduction in encoding to memory function of verbal learning indicating neocortical damage of the left fronto-temporal region. A follow-up 2 months later after the patient had spontaneously recovered showed only a slight left fronto-temporal disturbance. CT and MRI of the brain were normal although the MRI showed a large and asymmetric mamillary body. Neuropsychological testing 6 years after recovery showed pronounced reduction in short-time verbal and visual memory. Seven years after recovery SPECT demonstrated a normalized frontal perfusion but still a slight hypoperfusion in the left temporal lobe. Our results correlate to autopsy findings in two cases described previously.
This study describes the developmental neuropathology of two infants who survived 7 and 9 years, respectively, an episode of violent shaking (shaken infant syndrome) early in their lives. The shaking injuries include cortical and subcortical contusions, hemorrhages, hypoxic/ischemic and axonal damage, and severe edema. The types, distribution, and resolution of these shaking injuries are detailed by sequential radiographic studies and by pathologic examination at postmortem. Despite their severity and extent, these injuries resolved in a relatively short period of time. By 6 months, the original injuries are repaired and the resultant encephaloclastic encephalopathies (e.g., multicystic encephalomalacia, porencephaly, generalized white matter attenuation, diffuse cortical atrophy, microgyria, ulegyria, and hydrocephalus ex vacuo) are well established. No appreciable pathologic differences are detected when radiographic findings at 6 months of age are compared to postmortem observations. On the other hand, undamaged and/or partially damaged cortical regions survive the original insult and undergo post-injury reorganization that transforms the residual cortex structural and presumably functional organization. Prominent features of this post-injury reorganization include progressive cortical dysplasia with cytoarchitectural disorganization, laminar obliteration, morphologic and functional (synaptic reorganization) transformation of some neurons, preservation of layer 1 intrinsic fibers and Cajal-Retzius cells, and the presence of large (hypertrophic) intrinsic neurons with intense neurofilament immunoreactivity. We propose that this progressive dysplastic process modifies the residual cortex structural and functional organization, influences the child's neurological and psychological maturation, and may play a significant role in the pathogenesis of ensuing neurological and/or psychological sequelae.

The evolutionary significance of neurochemical events in the brain has received minimal attention in the field of addiction research. Likewise, the general failure of neuroscientists to postulate how basic brain circuits might mediate emotional urges has retarded the development of scientific perspectives that could inform new inquiries into the underlying dynamics and treatment of addictions. In this paper, we revisit the argument that prototypically abused substances activate or alter specific emotional brain systems that were evolutionarily designed to signal potential increments or decrements in fitness. We then discuss two distinct emotional systems (reward seeking and separation distress) which may track different types of potential changes in fitness. Based on this evolutionarily inspired approach, we illustrate how a mammalian model of emotion (i.e. rodent ultrasonic vocalizations) may enable scientists to predict drug-related phenomena such as abuse potential, anatomical location of mediating neural substrates, and the psychological impact of withdrawal. We conclude by discussing some therapeutic and social implications of examining drug addiction processes with multiple emotional brain systems in mind.
Normal brain aging is associated with deficits in learning and memory. The hippocampus, a structure critical for proper learning and memory functions, is frequently implicated in aging-related learning deficits. There are many reports of learning-related changes in hippocampal pyramidal neurons from animals that were trained in hippocampus-dependent learning paradigms. One consistent finding in hippocampal pyramidal neurons is a learning-related increase in postsynaptic neuronal excitability, resulting from a reduction in the postburst afterhyperpolarization (AHP). The hippocampus, as well as the ability to acquire hippocampus-dependent tasks, is particularly affected by aging. Correspondingly, hippocampal neurons also display an age-related decrease in excitability, resulting from an enhanced AHP. The correlation between neuronal excitability and learning ability strongly suggests that changes in the AHP are critically involved in learning and age-related learning deficits. Additional support for this argument comes from in vitro studies that examined the effect of compounds that facilitated learning in aging animals on the properties of CA1 pyramidal neurons. Many of these compounds increased the excitability of CA1 pyramidal neurons by reducing the AHP. Subsequent voltage-clamp recordings showed that AHP reduction by these compounds mainly reflects the reduction of two of its currents, the I(AHP) and the sI(AHP). Conversely, age-related AHP enhancements primarily impact the I(AHP) and the sI(AHP). Given that the I(AHP) accounts for a small portion of the total AHP, and that the sI(AHP) is the AHP current that most critically modulates neuronal excitability, changes in neuronal excitability seen in learning and in aging are predominantly caused by changes in the sI(AHP). The fact that the sI(AHP) receives neuromodulation from many transmitter systems important for learning and sensitive to aging lends further support for its role in age-related learning deficits. In this article, we review: (1) two hippocampus-dependent learning tasks, trace eyeblink conditioning and Morris water maze training, that are used extensively in our laboratory to examine learning and aging-related learning deficits; (2) aging-related changes in several important neurotransmitter systems, and how the these changes impact learning and memory functions during aging; and (3) changes in the AHP and the sI(AHP) in hippocampal pyramidal neurons in relation to compromised neurotransmission, as well as to learning, in aging animals. The correlations between a reduction in the sI(AHP) in learning, and an enhancement in the sI(AHP) in aging provide compelling evidence that this current plays a critical role in cognitive functions, and further suggest that the key modulators of the AHP are good candidates for future therapeutic interventions in age-related neurodegenerative diseases.
The prevalence of coronary artery disease increases with age, and age itself is an independent risk factor for atherogenesis, suggesting that the biological milieu in aging populations is conducive to atheromatous lesion formation. Increased generation of reactive oxygen species and accrual of oxidative damage are likely factors in the atherogenic mechanism attributable to aging, yet the precise molecular processes underlying the age-associated events culminating in atherosclerotic lesion formation remain to be determined. Recent data suggest that changes in reactive oxygen species production are among the factors that contribute to vascular cell dysfunction associated with aging and that cell cycle events also become dysregulated at the same time, although we do not yet know the extent to which these two events are linked. Recent studies are discussed here that explore the link between aging, cell cycle events, and reactive oxygen species generation within the context of vascular cell biology and atherogenesis.
There is generally a positive correlation between brain/body size ratio and lifespan, particularly among mammals, suggesting a role for the brain in determining lifespan. Recent studies in diverse organisms including nematodes, flies and rodents have provided evidence that, indeed the brain may control lifespan. Signaling pathways involved in both central nervous system and peripheral stress responses and regulation of energy metabolism may play important roles in lifespan determination. Indeed, genetic and environmental manipulations of these systems can greatly affect lifespan by changing levels of hormones that modulate energy metabolism, stress resistance and regenerative capacity of cells throughout the body. A signal transduction pathway in neurons involving receptors coupled to phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase, Akt and glycogen synthase kinase-3beta appears to play a key role in regulation of longevity by the brain. Mutations in genes that encode proteins in the insulin signaling pathway can increase lifespan in C. elegans and Drosophila, this signaling pathway in neurons in the brain may be particularly important in limiting lifespan. Dietary restriction results in the upregulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the brain, which may increase the resistance of neurons to aging. Interestingly, BDNF signaling in the brain can increase peripheral insulin sensitivity, suggesting a mechanism whereby the brain can control lifespan. We speculate that during evolution the brain took on the task of monitoring and controlling peripheral energy metabolism, and thereby regulating lifespan in the context of food availability. Roles for other evolutionarily conserved brain signaling pathways in lifespan determination are likely to be discovered in the near future.

Ethanol has been shown to exert many of its biochemical and behavioral effects through an interaction with the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor system. This review focuses on a subset of studies that has used self-administration, as well as place and taste conditioning, procedures to investigate a role for the GABA(A) receptor system in modulating the rewarding and aversive effects of ethanol. Potential advantages and disadvantages of each procedure are also discussed. A significant amount of evidence supports the suggestion that GABA(A) receptors are important modulators of the motivational effects of ethanol, although most of the findings have been obtained from studies examining oral ethanol self-administration. Relatively fewer studies have investigated ethanol place and taste conditioning. All self-administration studies reviewed used rats, whereas most conditioning studies used mice. Results of these studies show that GABA(A) antagonists and inverse agonists reduce ethanol self-administration under limited-access conditions. The effect of GABA(A) agonists on ethanol self-administration is less clear due to their bidirectional effects. GABA(A) receptor antagonists have been shown to increase ethanol-induced conditioned place preference and conditioned taste aversion in mice and decrease ethanol-induced conditioned taste aversion in rats. Issues related to interpretation and integration of these findings across models and species are considered. The integration of data from self-administration and conditioning procedures is necessary to define the role of GABA(A) receptors in modulating the rewarding and aversive effects of ethanol and may lead to the development of pharmacotherapies that target GABA(A) receptors to treat alcoholism in human beings.

Midlife weight gain occurs in many species, suggesting that leptin signaling is impaired at middle age. To test this hypothesis, we measured changes in food intake and body composition in young (Y) and middle-aged (MA) C57BL/6 male mice infused subcutaneously with phosphate-buffered saline or leptin. Leptin-induced decreases in food intake and body fat were delayed in MA mice and associated with catabolism after longer treatment periods. Endogenous plasma leptin levels did not correlate with body fat in MA mice. Calorie restriction (CR) reduced body fat, plasma leptin, and insulin in MA mice to levels in Y mice but did not upregulate leptin sensitivity. CR mice did not respond to leptin doses that inhibited food intake in MA mice and reduced food intake and body fat in Y mice significantly below levels in CR mice. Plasma corticosterone was significantly higher in leptin-treated CR vs. MA mice. We conclude that MA C57BL/6 mice exhibit impaired leptin signaling and that CR, possibly by elevating glucocorticoids, impairs appetite control without improving the metabolic actions of leptin.
In the current study, the cardioprotective efficacy of 0.35 mmol/l acetaminophen administered 10 min after the onset of a 20-min period of global, low-flow myocardial ischemia was investigated. Matched control hearts were administered an equal volume of Krebs-Henseleit physiological buffer solution (vehicle). In separate groups of hearts, the concentration-dependent, negative inotropic properties of hydrogen peroxide and the ability of acetaminophen to attenuate these actions, as well as the effects of acetaminophen on ischemia-reperfusion-mediated protein oxidation, were studied. Acetaminophen-treated hearts regained a significantly greater fraction of baseline, preischemia control function during reperfusion than vehicle-treated hearts. For example, contractility [rate of maximal developed pressure in the left ventricle (+/-dP/dt(max))] after 10 min of reperfusion was 109 +/- 24 and 42 +/- 9 mmHg/s (P &lt; 0.05), respectively, in the two groups. The corresponding pressure-rate products were 1,840 +/- 434 vs. 588 +/- 169 mmHg*beats*min(-1) (P &lt; 0.05). Acetaminophen attenuated peroxynitrite-mediated chemiluminescence in the early minutes of reperfusion (e.g., at 6 min, corresponding values for peak light production were approximately 8 x 10(6) counts/min for vehicle vs. &lt;4 x 10(6) counts/min for acetaminophen, P &lt; 0.05) and the negative inotropic effects of exogenously administered hydrogen peroxide (e.g., at 0.4 mmol/l hydrogen peroxide, pressure-rate products were approximately 1.0 x 10(4) and 3.8 x 10(3) mmHg*beats*min(-1) in acetaminophen- and vehicle-treated hearts, respectively, P &lt; 0.05). Ischemia-mediated protein oxidation was reduced by acetaminophen. The ability of acetaminophen to attenuate the damaging effects of peroxynitrite and hydrogen peroxide and to limit protein oxidation suggest antioxidant mechanisms are responsible for its cardioprotective properties during postischemia-reperfusion.
The neurons of the central cervical nucleus (CCN) convey information about the position and movements of the head, and receive excitatory input from dorsal neck muscles and the labyrinth. Both of these afferent sources form glutamatergic synaptic contacts with CCN neurons. However, these sensory afferent sources can also inhibit CCN neurons. To further elucidate the synaptic organization, we made an electron microscopic investigation, identifying and evaluating the relative frequency of bouton profiles containing the inhibitory transmitters GABA and glycine in apposition to identified CCN neurons. In addition, labeling for glutamate was performed. The identification of the CCN neurons was made possible by injections of retrograde tracer substances into the cerebellum. These substances were made visible by preembedding immunocytochemistry or postembedding immunogold staining. Such staining was also used to detect the three amino acids that were found in boutons apposed to the identified neurons (cf. Ornung et al., J. Comp. Neurol. 1996;365:413-426; Lind et al., J. Comp. Neurol. 2000;425:10-23). Due to the relatively poor transport of the tracer substances into dendrites of the CCN neurons, the analysis was restricted to the cell body and included bouton profiles in direct apposition to the soma membrane. Data from 10 CCN neurons revealed that about 50% of the apposing bouton profiles were immunoreactive for GABA, and about 34% for glycine. In four neurons, the degree of colocalization of GABA and glycine was determined to be close to 30%. Thus, the vast majority of glycine-labeled profiles also contained GABA, while a considerable fraction of the profiles were immunoreactive for only GABA. The values for glycine immunoreactive bouton profiles presented here may represent somewhat low estimates, depending on the method used. Data from four neurons showed that about 18% of the profiles were labeled for glutamate. The large fraction of purely GABA immunoreactive profiles, or at least a substantial group of them, is suggestive of their derivation from axons descending from the brainstem.










The development of animal and mathematical models for several forms of acquired nystagmus has led to more comprehensive knowledge of these disorders. In the best understood forms, such as periodic alternating nystagmus, our range of knowledge includes an animal model, the neurotransmitters involved, and effective treatment. For some other forms, such as downbeat nystagmus, we have an animal model, but reliable treatment is lacking. In other cases, exemplified by acquired pendular nystagmus, we have only a provisional hypothesis for pathogenesis to account for the oscillations, without an animal model, but effective treatment is possible in some patients. The present trend of studying all aspects of the neurobiology of nystagmus, from molecules to behavior, seems to be the best approach to extend our knowledge and to identify new treatments, but much remains to be done.
Disparity steps applied to large patterns elicit vergence eye movements at ultrashort latencies. Disparity tuning curves, describing the dependence of the amplitude of the initial vergence responses on the amplitude of the disparity steps, resemble the derivative of a gaussian and indicate that appropriate servo-like behavior occurs only with small disparity steps (&lt;1 degree). Lesion data from monkeys suggest that these vergence responses are mediated, at least in part, by neurons in the medial superior temporal area of the cerebral cortex, and we here review a recent study of the associated single unit activity in that area. Few medial superior temporal neurons have disparity tuning curves whose shapes resemble the tuning curve for vergence. Yet, when the disparity tuning curves for all of the disparity-sensitive cells recorded from a given monkey are summed together, they match the tuning curves for the vergence responses of that monkey very closely, even reproducing that animal's idiosyncracies. When all of the spike trains elicited by a given disparity step are summed together to give an average discharge profile for the whole population of recorded cells, many are noisy, but others that are less so match the temporal profile of the motor response, vergence velocity, quite well. We conclude that the discharges of the disparity-sensitive cells in the medial superior temporal area each represent only a very limited aspect of the sensory stimulus (and/or associated motor response?), but when pooled together, they provide a complete description of the vergence velocity motor response: population coding.
Scanpaths, the sequence of saccades and fixations during visual search, provide the means to study a range of cognitive activities: planning, visuospatial attention, and spatial working memory. By measuring scanpaths, we have been able to identify impairment of working memory in patients with spatial hemineglect. Scanpaths during cognitively demanding tasks indicate a defect of working memory in patients with Parkinson's disease. Studies of scanpaths in patients with homonymous hemianopia have provided the means to develop a new strategy for visual rehabilitation.
Results of three experiments related to the role of the paramedian pontine reticular formation (PPRF) in the control of gaze are described. (1) Chronic unit recording methods, used to study the on-directions of short-lead burst neurons in head-restrained monkeys, and (2) reversible inactivation techniques confirmed the traditional view of the importance of PPRF in the control of horizontal eye movements. Reversible inactivation of neurons in the vicinity of identified short-lead burst neurons produced dramatic reductions in the speed of saccades to horizontal target displacements. The reductions in velocity were largely compensated for by an increase in saccade duration. Only minor, if any, effects were observed upon the velocity, duration, and amplitude of saccades to upward target displacements. (3) Microstimulation was applied to omnipause neurons to gate activity of excitatory burst neurons that discharge during coordinated eye-head movements. The microstimulation failed to noticeably slow (prevent) head movements when stimulation was applied during (prior to onset of) gaze shifts, suggesting that signals relayed to motoneurons innervating the neck muscles are not inhibited by the omnipause neurons. In other words, the desired gaze signal is parsed into eye and head pathways upstream of the excitatory burst neurons.
The results of analysis, by high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrochemical detection and by nano-electrospray-ionization, double quadrupole/orthogonal-acceleration, time-of-flight mass spectrometry, indicate that adult Dracunculus medinensis and Schistosoma mansoni both contain the opiate alkaloid morphine and that D. medinesis also contains the active metabolite of morphine, morphine 6-glucuronide. From these and previous observations, it would appear that many helminths are probably using opiate alkaloids as potent immunosuppressive and antinociceptive signal molecules, to down-regulate immunosurveillance responsiveness and pain signalling in their hosts.
When the behavioral cost of access to food is increased in the 24 h closed-economy procedure, the number of meals per day decreases, the amount consumed per meal increases, and the total daily food intake remains relatively constant. This &quot;Collier function&quot; is found widely in individuals of different species and poses interesting questions about the mechanisms by which behavioral cost achieves these effects on feeding. Data from experiments with pigeons are reviewed which show that: (a) behavioral costs that differentially alter ingestive behavior are not differentiated by energetic costs (VO(2)), (b) the effects of a rise in behavioral cost of food require several days for full expression in ingestive behavior, (c) a bimodal distribution of feeding activity across the active phase is conserved when increased costs reduce the number of meals per day, (d) when ingestive behavior fails to supply a satisfactory nutrient load, physiological and behavioral energy-saving responses occur during the inactive phase. Mechanisms responsible for behavioral-cost effects on feeding will need to make provision for development of the effects across days, conservation of within-day distribution of feeding activity, and apparent lack of differential feed back from energy expenditure related to the differential behavioral costs. A complete energetic picture of life in a closed economy will include the inactive phase of the day and consideration of the effects of ambient temperature.
The human polyomavirus JC virus is the etiologic agent of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). As the JC virus early promoter directs cell-specific expression of the viral replication factor large T antigen, transcriptional regulation constitutes a major mechanism of glial tropism in PML. It has been demonstrated that SV40 or JC virus large T antigen interacts with p53 protein and regulates many viral and cellular genes. In this study we found that p53 represses the JC virus early promoter in both glial and nonglial cells. To identify the cis-regulatory elements responsible for p53-mediated repression, deletional and site-directed mutational analyses were performed. Deletion of the enhancer region diminished p53-mediated transcriptional repression. However, point mutations of several transcription factor binding sites in the basal promoter region did not produce any significant changes. In support of this observation, when the enhancer was fused to a heterologous promoter, p53 reduced the promoter activity about three fold. These results indicate that the enhancer region is important for the repression of JC virus transcription by p53. Furthermore, coexpression of JC virus T antigen with a p53 protein abolished p53-mediated repression of the JC virus early promoter in non-glial cells, but not in glial cells. This finding suggests that T antigen interacts with p53 and regulates JC virus transcription in a cell-specific manner.
1 The aim of this study was to determine if stimulation of duodenal motility by duodenal fluid distension or by administration of carbachol, activates the sphincter of Oddi-duodenal reflex, in an in vitro preparation from the Australian possum. 2 Duodenal distension was achieved by infusion of Krebs solution (0-8 cm H2O). In separate experiments, the sphincter of Oddi (SO) was partitioned from the duodenum and carbachol (10(-7) - 5 x 10(-6) M) added to the duodenal compartment. 3 Fluid distension increased duodenal motility to 120-600% of control activity. These treatments induced increased SO motility (to 120-390% of control) in six preparations, reduced activity (to 60% of control) in one and no response in another. 4 Addition of carbachol to the duodenal compartment resulted in increased duodenal motility. SO motility was increased in seven preparations, reduced in another two and no response were evoked in two others. All SO responses were blocked by tetrodotoxin pretreatment. 5 These data suggest that the SO receives inputs from duodenal mechano and/or stretch receptors resulting in excitatory or inhibitory responses, with the excitatory response dominating. These findings support the role for the SO-duodenal reflex in preventing duodenobiliary/pancreatic reflux during periods of elevated duodenal activity.
In order to demonstrate that rats solve dead reckoning (path integration) tasks in which they return to a starting location using self-movement (idiothetic) cues, it is necessary to remove external (allothetic) cues. Odor cues, especially those generated by a rat on a single passage, are difficult to control and they can potentially serve as a cue to guide a homeward trip. Because it is presently unknown whether rats can track the cues that they themselves leave, as opposed to the odor trails left by other rats, we investigated this question in the present study. A tracking task was used in which rats: (1) followed a scented string from a refuge to obtain a food pellet located on a large circular table; (2) followed odors left on the table; (3) followed odors left by the passage of another rat; or (4) followed odors left by themselves. Groups of rats were presented with strings scented with either the rat's own odor (Group Own), a conspecific's odor (Group Other), or another scent, vanilla (Group Vanilla). After training, a series of discrimination tests were given to determine the nature of the stimulus that controls scent tracking. The results indicated that Own, Other, and Vanilla groups were equally proficient in discriminating and following their respective odors. The rats were also able to follow odor trails on the table surface as well as a trail left by the single passage of another rat or their own passage. This is the first study to demonstrate that rats can discriminate between conspecific odors and their own odor left during a single passage. The results are discussed in relation to their implications for experimental methodology and olfactory contributions to spatial navigation in general and dead reckoning in particular.
Psychiatric disorders like schizophrenia or autism are thought to result from disruption of the normal pattern of brain development. Abnormalities in the amygdaloid complex and hippocampus have been reported in these disorders. In the present study rats were lesioned in the amygdala or ventral hippocampus on day 7 of life (immature brain) or day 21 of life (almost mature brain) and open field behaviour was determined later in life before and after puberty. Lesioning on day 7 resulted in behavioural changes, interpreted as locomotor stereotypy and decreased anxiety in case of amygdala or hippocampus, respectively. These effects were more profoundly present after puberty. Lesioning on day 21 did not result in these behavioural changes, which subscribes to the importance of the stage of brain maturation on functional development. The results suggest that the behavioural changes in rats lesioned on day 7 may due to a malfunctioning of structures connected to the amygdala or ventral hippocampus. Brain lesions made on day 7 of life may serve as a potential model of psychopathological neurodevelopmental disorders.
Using an event-triggered recording system, the quantity of daily song bout production was measured weekly in male zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata) during sensory-motor learning and at one year of age. Our aim was to ask whether the development of a stereotyped vocal pattern involves a practice-driven component. If so, we hypothesized that juvenile males learning song should sing more often than adults reciting a vocal pattern they had already learned, and that greater levels of juvenile singing should be associated with improvement in the quality of the adult song. Across the period measured (36-365 days of age), subjects showed an inverted U-shaped pattern of daily song bout production. Song bout production was lowest during subsong, with increased production associated with plastic song and song crystallization, although individual differences were large. Daily song bout production decreased in adulthood. Higher levels of song bout production during plastic song correlated with fewer sequencing errors in adult song patterns (r(2)=0.77). In contrast, quantity of singing during song crystallization showed no relationship to vocal stereotypy (r(2)=0.002). Our data suggest a sensitive period for vocal practice during zebra finch sensory-motor learning with consequences for the note-sequence fidelity of the adult vocal pattern.
When exposed to extreme cold or injected with the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist, clonidine, infant rats emit ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs). Based upon the cardiovascular changes that accompany these two manipulations, especially decreased venous return, it was hypothesized that USVs are the acoustic by-product of the abdominal compression reaction (ACR), a maneuver that increases venous return. If this hypothesis is correct, then other anithypertensive drugs that decrease venous return should evoke USVs. In Experiment 1, sodium nitroprusside (SNP, 400 microg/kg), a direct-acting dilator of arteries and veins, was administered to 15-day-old rats under thermoneutral conditions while cardiac rate and ultrasound production were monitored. In Experiment 2, femoral artery pressure was monitored after SNP administration. Infants responded to SNP administration with decreased arterial pressure and tachycardia and, in addition, significantly increased ultrasound production. In Experiment 3, chlorisondamine (5 mg/kg), a ganglionic blocker that causes vasodilation and bradycardia, and hydralazine (20 mg/kg), a selective dilator of arteries, was administered to 15-day-olds. As predicted, chlorisondamine evoked ultrasound production and hydralazine did not. These results introduce SNP and chlorisondamine as only the second and third known agents capable of independently evoking USVs in thermoneutral conditions, and provide further support for the notion that ultrasound production is triggered by decreased venous return.
It is generally accepted that there is something special about reasoning by using mental images. The question of how it is special, however, has never been satisfactorily spelled out, despite more than thirty years of research in the post-behaviorist tradition. This article considers some of the general motivation for the assumption that entertaining mental images involves inspecting a picture-like object. It sets out a distinction between phenomena attributable to the nature of mind to what is called the cognitive architecture, and ones that are attributable to tacit knowledge used to simulate what would happen in a visual situation. With this distinction in mind, the paper then considers in detail the widely held assumption that in some important sense images are spatially displayed or are depictive, and that examining images uses the same mechanisms that are deployed in visual perception. I argue that the assumption of the spatial or depictive nature of images is only explanatory if taken literally, as a claim about how images are physically instantiated in the brain, and that the literal view fails for a number of empirical reasons--for example, because of the cognitive penetrability of the phenomena cited in its favor. Similarly, while it is arguably the case that imagery and vision involve some of the same mechanisms, this tells us very little about the nature of mental imagery and does not support claims about the pictorial nature of mental images. Finally, I consider whether recent neuroscience evidence clarifies the debate over the nature of mental images. I claim that when such questions as whether images are depictive or spatial are formulated more clearly, the evidence does not provide support for the picture-theory over a symbol-structure theory of mental imagery. Even if all the empirical claims were true, they do not warrant the conclusion that many people have drawn from them: that mental images are depictive or are displayed in some (possibly cortical) space. Such a conclusion is incompatible with what is known about how images function in thought. We are then left with the provisional counterintuitive conclusion that the available evidence does not support rejection of what I call the &quot;null hypothesis&quot;; namely, that reasoning with mental images involves the same form of representation and the same processes as that of reasoning in general, except that the content or subject matter of thoughts experienced as images includes information about how things would look.
Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) is expressed by many types of neurons in the developing and adult rodent brain. We have now mapped tPA transcripts and protein in the human central nervous system using tissue arrays and find widespread expression, in particular in neocortical mantle, thalamus, amygdala, and hippocampal pyramidal neurons. The abundant presence of tPA protein in cellular vesicles implies that its acute release, e.g. upon ischaemic stroke or trauma, could play a role in neuronal damage. We also found in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), and to a lesser extent patients with leukaemia and encephalitis, prominently elevated tPA activity in the cerebrospinal fluid and in MS in neurons in the proximity of areas of demyelination elevated tPA mRNA and antigen levels. In addition, we observed up-regulation of tPA expression in a mouse model of MS, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Accumulating evidence implies roles for tPA in normal neural function, as well as in neurodestructive processes in humans, such as occur in MS and brain tumours and warrant further studies on expression of tPA and its regulatory molecules in neurodegenerative diseases.
Mismanagement of intracellular iron is a key pathological feature of many neurodegenerative diseases. Our long-term goal is to use animal models to investigate the mechanisms of iron neurotoxicity and its relationship to neurodegenerative pathologies. The immediate aim of this experiment was to determine regional distribution of iron and cellular distribution of iron storage proteins (L- and H-ferritin) and an oxidative stress marker (heme oxygenase-1) in brains of mice fed the lipophilic iron compound (3,5,5-trimethylhexanoyl) (TMH)-ferrocene. We fed male and female weanling BALB/cj mice diets either deficient in iron (0 mg Fe/kg diet), adequate in iron (35 mg Fe/kg diet; control mice), or adequate in iron and supplemented with 0.1 or 1.0 g TMH-ferrocene/kg diet for 8 wk. Iron concentrations in cerebrum were higher in mice fed 1.0 g TMH-ferrocene/kg diet than in control mice (p &lt; 0.05). Liver iron concentrations were eightfold higher in mice fed 1.0 g TMH-ferrocene/kg diet than in control mice (p &lt; 0.0001). L-Ferritin and heme oxygenase-1 expression were elevated in striatum in mice fed 1.0 g TMH-ferrocene/kg diet. We conclude that administration of the lipophilic iron compound TMH-ferrocene leads to subtle perturbations of cellular iron within the brain, potentially representing a model of iron accumulation similar to that seen in various neuropathological conditions.

The place for neurosurgical management of movement disorders in multiple sclerosis is unclear. To evaluate the potential benefits of unilateral thalamic deep brain stimulation (DBS) a prospective study was performed. Fifteen patients with confirmed MS and chronic, severe, drug-resistant movement disorders underwent stereotactic surgery to implant a thalamic DBS electrode using CT image guidance and intra-operative neurophysiological testing. The primary outcome measures were reduction in tremor severity and improvement in tests of hand function when the DBS electrode was turned on, 12 months after surgery. Secondary outcome measures included indices of disability, handicap, neuropsychological function and independence. Thirty-seven patients were assessed for treatment, but only 15 underwent surgery. In the 10 patients in whom implantation of the complete DBS system was carried out there was a significant reduction in the severity of tremor (p = 0.02) and improvement in hand function (p = 0.02). There were no benefits in any of the secondary outcome measures. Two patients had thalamocapsular haemorrhages at the site of electrode implantation and two had seizures in the follow-up period. Thalamic stimulation significantly reduced the tremor associated with MS and improved hand function in the targeted upper limb. However, there can be difficulties with identifying an optimal implantation site during operation, significant procedural morbidity and difficulty in predicting immediate outcome. It is also likely that the insignificant benefits of DBS on disability and handicap reflect persisting cerebeller dysmetria, and both the severity and diffuse nature of the disease process in this patient cohort.

1. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is one of the most potent stimulants of food intake. It has been debated which receptor subtype mediates this response. Initially Y(1) was proposed, but later Y(5) was announced as a 'feeding' receptor in rats and mice. Very little is known regarding other mammals. The present study attempts to characterize the role of NPY in feeding behaviour in the distantly related guinea-pig. When infused intracerebroventricularly, NPY dose-dependently increased food intake. 2. PYY, (Leu(31),Pro(34))NPY and NPY(2 - 36) stimulated feeding, whereas NPY(13 - 36) had no effect. These data suggest that either Y(1) or Y(5) receptors or both may mediate NPY induced food intake in guinea-pigs. 3. The Y(1) receptor antagonists, BIBO 3304 and H 409/22 displayed nanomolar affinity for the Y(1) receptor (K(i) values 1.1+/-0.2 nM and 5.6+/-0.9 nM, respectively), but low affinity for the Y(2) or Y(5) receptors. When guinea-pigs were pretreated with BIBO 3304 and H 409/22, the response to NPY was inhibited. 4. The Y(5) antagonist, CGP 71683A had high affinity for the Y(5) receptor (K(i) 1.3+/-0.05 nM) without having any significant activities at the Y(1) and Y(2) receptors. When CGP 71683A was infused into brain ventricles, the feeding response to NPY was attenuated. 5. The present study shows that NPY stimulates feeding in guinea-pigs through Y(1) and Y(5) receptors. As the guinea-pig is very distantly related to the rat and mouse, this suggests that both Y(1) and Y(5) receptors may mediate NPY-induced hyperphagia also in other orders of mammals.
1. This paper reports on a primary cell culture system that predominantly expresses native norepinephrine (NE) transporters (NETs), and is amenable to biophysical as well as biochemical analyses. 2. Previous research has identified human and rat placentas as rich sources of NET. We have exploited this to develop primary cultures of rat placental trophoblasts. NE uptake in these cultures is about 10 times higher when compared to 5HT uptake. The presence of NET protein is revealed by immunoblot analysis, while there is no detectable SERT protein. 3. NE transport in rat trophoblasts is sensitive to NET-specific antagonists, desipramine (DS) and nisoxetine (NX), but not to the dopamine-transporter (DAT) specific antagonist, GBR12909 or to the serotonin (5HT) transporter (SERT) specific antagonist paroxetine (PX). Drugs of abuse such as cocaine and amphetamine also inhibit NE transport in these cells. Together these results suggest that rat placental trophoblasts predominantly express NET over other monoamine transporters. 4. Patch-clamp analysis reveals that NETs in intact rat trophoblasts are electrogenic. Comparison of NE uptake with NE-induced currents suggests that these two modes of transporter activity are differentially regulated.

1. The effects of ascorbate were assessed on vasodilatation mediated by endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF) in the ciliary vascular bed of the bovine isolated perfused eye and in the rat isolated perfused mesenteric arterial bed. 2. In the bovine eye, EDHF-mediated vasodilator responses induced by acetylcholine or bradykinin were powerfully blocked when ascorbate (50 microM) was included in the perfusion medium for at least 120 min; with acetylcholine a normally-masked muscarinic vasoconstrictor response was also uncovered. 3. The blockade of EDHF-mediated vasodilatation by ascorbate was time-dependent (maximum blockade at 120 min) and concentration-dependent (10 - 150 microM). 4. Ascorbate (50 microM) also blocked acetylcholine-induced, EDHF-mediated vasodilator responses in the rat mesenteric arterial bed in a time-dependent manner (maximum blockade at 180 min). 5. The ability of ascorbate to block EDHF-mediated vasodilatation is likely to result from its reducing properties, since this action was mimicked in the bovine eye by two other reducing agents, namely, N-acetyl-L-cysteine (1 mM) and dithiothreitol (100 microM), but not by the redox-inactive analogue, dehydroascorbate (50 microM). 6. In conclusion, concentrations of ascorbate present in normal plasma block EDHF-mediated vasodilator responses in the bovine eye and rat mesentery. The mechanism and physiological consequences of this blockade remain to be determined.
1. We compared the changes in binding energy generated by two mutations that shift in divergent directions the constitutive activity of the human beta(2) adrenergic receptor (beta(2)AR). 2. A constitutively activating mutant (CAM) and the double alanine replacement (AA mutant) of catechol-binding serines (S204A, S207A) in helix 5 were stably expressed in CHO cell lines, and used to measure the binding affinities of more than 40 adrenergic ligands. Moreover, the efficacy of the same group of compounds was determined as intrinsic activity for maximal adenylyl cyclase stimulation in wild-type beta(2)AR. 3. Although the two mutations had opposite effects on ligand affinity, the extents of change were in both cases largely correlated with the degree of ligand efficacy. This was particularly evident if the extra loss of binding energy due to hydrogen bond deletion in the AA mutant was taken into account. Thus the data demonstrate that there is an overall linkage between the configuration of the binding pocket and the intrinsic equilibrium between active and inactive receptor forms. 4. We also found that AA mutation-induced affinity changes for catecholamine congeners gradually lacking ethanolamine substituents were linearly correlated to the loss of affinity that such modifications of the ligand cause for wild-type receptor. This indicates that the strength of bonds between catechol ring and helix 5 is critically dependent on the rest of interactions of the beta-ethanolamine tail with other residues of the beta(2)-AR binding pocket.
Genetic screening of 171 patients with frontotemporal lobar degeneration disclosed 14 patients, across nine pedigrees, with mutations in the intron to exon 10 in the tau gene, a region regulating the splicing of exon 10 via a stem loop mechanism. Thirteen of these patients had the +16 splice site mutation and one had the +13 splice site mutation. Affected members of all nine families presented with changes in behaviour and social conduct that were prototypical of frontotemporal dementia (FTD). In all patients with the +16 splice site mutation, the behavioural profile was characterized by disinhibition, restless overactivity, a fatuous affect, puerile behaviour and verbal and motor stereotypies. The single patient with the +13 mutation presented a contrasting picture of apathy and inertia. In addition, all patients had evidence of semantic loss. Pathologically, five of the six patients so far autopsied shared frontotemporal atrophy with involvement of the substantia nigra. The underlying histology was that of microvacuolar-type cortical degeneration with a few swollen cells. Tau pathology was widespread throughout the brain and present in neurones and glial cells, mostly in the frontal and temporal cortical regions. This was in the form of neurofibrillary tangles and amorphous tau deposits (pre-tangles); Pick bodies were not observed. Ultrastructurally, the tau filaments had a twisted, ribbon-like morphology distinct from the paired helical filaments of Alzheimer's disease. One patient died from an unrelated illness whilst in the early clinical stages of FTD. In this patient, cortical microvacuolar and astrocytic changes were absent, though there were scattered neurones and glial cells, immunoreactive to tau, throughout the cortical and subcortical regions. The disease process underlying the neurodegeneration within these inherited forms of FTD may therefore stem directly from early, primary alterations in the function of tau. All eight families with the +16 mutation seem to be part of a common extended pedigree, possibly originating from a founder member residing within the North Wales region of Great Britain.
The present study is concerned with two Slovenian-speaking patients who were asked to produce, in various tasks, verbs, nouns, and adjectives derived by prefixation with prepositions. Despite differences due to their specific linguistic difficulties, both patients' performance was characterized by the differential processing of prefixes and remaining components of complex words. Prepositions in prefixation were mostly preserved, and less frequently substituted, regardless of the numerous errors produced in the remaining portion of the words. These errors seem clearly determined by the morphological structure of the words and therefore appear to be authentic morphological errors. These findings contribute to the theoretical debate on mental lexical representation, speaking in favor of a morphological decomposition in processing of prefixed complex words at different processing levels.
A 40-year-old Xhosa male presented with progressive upper lumbar back pain and weakness At examination he was emaciated and had enlarged lymph nodes in the groin and axilla. Both lower limbs were severely atrophic and weak. Sensation to touch and pain was decreased below L3 bilaterally. MR of the spine showed a discrete, contrast-enhancing epidural mass. A T10-T12 laminectomy revealed an soft, vascular extradural tumor dorsal to the cord. The mass was loosely applied to the dura and easy to remove. The operative specimen consisted of a sausage-shaped (3.5 x 2.0 x 1.2 cm), thinly-encapsulated mass of reddish-brown tissue. The cut surface had a mottled, vaguely nodular, yellowish-brown appearance. Microscopic examination revealed sheets of hematopoeitic elements, including myeloid, red cell and megakaryocytic lines, the latter showing Factor 8-related positivity. The final diagnosis was extramedullary hematopoiesis (EMH). A bone marrow biopsy performed as a result of the diagnosis showed a myeloproliferative disease and polycythemia vera. EMH in the spinal epidural space is a rare but treatable cause of progressive paraparesis in patients with a variety of hematological disorders. Since 1956 there have been more than 50 reported cases, most of which occurred in association with thalassaemia. In spinal cord compression secondary to EMH, the lesions are commonly localized to the mid-lower thoracic region.
In this review, we have provided an overview of the implementation and characteristics of some of the most prevalent models of temporal lobe epilepsy in use in laboratories around the world today. These include spontaneously seizing models with status epilepticus as the initial precipitating injury (including the kainate, pilocarpine, and electrical stimulation models), kindling, and models of drug refractoriness. These models share various features with one another, and also differ in many aspects, providing a broader representation of the full spectrum of clinical limbic epilepsies. We have also provided a brief introduction into how animal models of temporal lobe epilepsy facilitate use of modern state-of-the-art techniques in neurobiology to address critical questions in the pathogenesis of epilepsy.
Tissue microdissection is a rapidly growing technique with wide applicability in the field of gene expression analysis as improved RNA extraction and reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) techniques provide the sensitivity to amplify transcription products from increasingly small numbers of cells. In spite of these advances, isolation, cloning and regional localization of rare or low-abundance mRNA from very small tissue samples remain a difficult and challenging task, especially when high degenerate primers are to be used. We have addressed this problem using a combination of optimized techniques and purification steps added between individual reaction steps. The extreme sensitivity resulting from these modifications permits cloning of new members of a closely homologous gene family from only one microdissected tissue sample and widens the applicability of tissue microdissection. Using this protocol, nested degenerate PCR primers were designed to amplify members of the large and relatively homologous olfactory receptor (OR) gene family from RNA extracted from 125-microm diameter punches of tissue microdissected from 16-microm sections of the main olfactory bulb (MOB) of the mouse. Levels of OR mRNA in these punches are extremely low, due to the small volume of tissue and the low abundance of OR mRNA in MOB tissue. Several ORs were amplified, cloned and sequenced from a series of individual tissue punches, and in situ hybridization was used to verify the presence of mRNA corresponding to the cloned OR sequences in MOB sections.
Several experimental strategies have been employed to minimize tissue damage and to enhance axonal growth and regeneration after spinal cord injury. The transplantation of suitable cell types to provide an axonal growth substrate and the application of growth factors have been shown to augment morphological and sometimes functional recovery. In this review we discuss the use of neural stem cell transplants and neurotrophic factor delivery by gene therapy to improve axonal regeneration in animal models of spinal cord injury.
Central nervous system disorders evoke special fear though their varied and unrelenting threats to memory, cognition, mobility, and every aspect of personal integrity and independence. Understandably, neurologic patients and their families become desperate for help, making fully free, informed consent problematic but not impossible. This desperation mandates our anticipatory attention to ethical questions related to any aggressive new therapy, including central nervous system grafting. In the United States, the right-to-life issue dominates ethical discussions on neural grafting. A variety of alternative tissue sources may permit technically suitable preparations, at least for some uses. If plentiful supplies of grafting cells can be made commercially, this should reduce problems related to allocating scarce resources, although financial and other scarcity barriers may still raise ethical problems. Many contemporary conceptions of selfhood depend on the identity and intactness of the mind and, by implication, the brain as substrate of mind. How much can we reweave the cerebral tapestry without creating a new self, a new identity? These philosophical questions will probably be approached pragmatically and incrementally, in the context of many other developments in human genetics and biomedicine. Our vision of the self will evolve amidst conflicting religious, ethical and pragmatic perspectives.
A challenge for cognitive neuroscience is to determine how the prefrontal cortex (PFC) contributes to the cognitive control operations that oversee thought and action. We studied the effects of damage to the lateral PFC in two types of attentional control. Subjects performed a choice reaction time task that required attention switching and processing selection. The performance of individuals with PFC or parietal cortex damage was compared with that of age-matched and young control subjects. Damage to the lateral PFC did not significantly impair the switch from attending to one color to attending to another. PFC damage did, however, significantly increase the effects of distractor stimuli, implicating the lateral PFC in processing selection. Individual subjects' performance suggested that the left inferior posterior PFC was the most critical for processing selection. Our data are consistent with the view that the lateral PFC contributes to the top-down control of the information flow along pathways from sensory input to motor output.
Learning novel visuomotor tasks requires precise processing and transformation of incoming sensory information to produce accurate motor responses. The present study characterized neural activity associated with sensorimotor processes during novel visuomotor learning. We hypothesized that the acquisition of a visuomotor skill would be accompanied by experience-dependent modulation of sensorimotor cortical activity. Subjects controlled a cursor on a computer screen with a joystick. With the goal to move the cursor to a cued target after a brief delay, the relationship between joystick and cursor movement was manipulated such that joystick movement controlled cursor velocity, not displacement (rate task). Individual trials in this task were further divided into early (rate1) and late (rate2) blocks. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were averaged to target presentation, the cue for movement, and movement onset. Subjects were more accurate after practice in late rate2 compared to early rate1 blocks. ERPs associated with movement onset were larger in amplitude and occurred earlier over centroparietal sites following practice. In contrast, ERPs to the cue to move were enhanced frontocentrally initially and diminished with practice. The results suggest that practice on a novel visuomotor task is associated with changes in frontoparietal networks involved in motor preparation and sensorimotor integration. Specifically, practice-related enhancement of movement-related ERPs supports experience-dependent alterations in the network subserving motor preparation.
Attending to objects implies the concurrent process of features that are analyzed in different visual subsystems or domains. Previous works have shown that attention cannot be simultaneously directed to the components of motion present in two transparent surfaces [M. Valds et al., Cognition 66 (1998) B13-B23], even though they occupy overlapping regions of space. In this paper, possible across-domain effects in object-based attention were examined using a conjunction of form and motion in transparent superimposed surfaces. After directing attention to one surface, different combinations of motion and form judgements were performed. If both attributes belonged to the same surface, no interference was found. If the two judgements concerned features from different surfaces, a large performance cost was present for the attribute belonging to the uncued surface. The fact that these effects cut across feature domains supports the integrated competition hypothesis [J. Duncan, Attention and Performance XVI, The MIT Press, 1996, pp. 549-578].
The present study investigated the test-retest reliability of EEG source localization of somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) over an extended time period and tested the accuracy of source reconstruction co-registred with individual brain morphology (MRIs). Seven healthy subjects were stimulated pneumatically at the first digit and fifth digit of each hand and at the left and right lower corner of the mouth in two sessions spaced several weeks apart. At each location 1000 stimuli were presented. The overlay of the dipole localizations with the individual anatomic structure of the subjects' cortex was accomplished by the use of magnetic resonance images. A spherical 4-shell model of the head was used to localize the neuroelectric sources of the EEG data. In two cases a more realistically shaped 3 compartment model was computed using the boundary element method (BEM). The source localizations of the SEP component were found to be highly reproducible: the mean standard deviation of the dipole locations was 5.21 mm in the x-, 5.98 mm in the y- and 4.22 mm in the z-direction. BEM was not found to be superior to a 4-shell model. These data support the use of multi-electrode EEG recordings combined with MRI as an adequate method for the investigation of the functional organization of the somatosensory cortex.
This article deals with a new approach in sleep characterization that combines EEG source localisation methods with standard frequency analysis of multielectrode EEGs. First, we describe the theoretical methodology and the benefits that we get from a three-dimensional image (LORETA) of the cerebral activity related to a frequency band. Then, this new application is used as signal-processing technique on sleep EEG recordings obtained from young male adults using four frequency bands (delta 0.5-3.5 Hz, theta 4.0-7.5 Hz, alpha 8.0-12.5 Hz and beta 13.0-32.0 Hz) in different sleep stages. Finally, we show that the obtained results are highly consistent with other physiological assessments (standard EEG mapping, functional magnetic resonance imaging, etc.), but give us more realistic additional information on the generators of electromagnetic cerebral activity.
There are two bradykinin receptor subtypes, designated B1 and B2. Whilst both have been implicated in nociception, it is believed that there is a low level of constitutive expression of B1 receptors and that their expression is induced by inflammation or tissue damage. The present study investigated the role of B1 receptors in spinal nociceptive processing using an in vivo electrophysiological assay in decerebrate, spinalized rabbits, a species that shares close B1 receptor homology with the human receptor. Inflammation was induced in the paw by an injection of complete Freund's adjuvant at least 1 h before recording single motor unit activity of the semitendinous/biceps femoris muscle in response to a noxious pinch of the foot. Control animals received an intraplantar injection of saline. The peptide B1 receptor antagonist B9858 was administered i.v. and caused dose-dependent and complete inhibition of the nociceptive spinal reflex (ID50 = 1 mg x kg(-1)). In control animals without paw inflammation, B9858 had no effect. These findings are consistent with other evidence that peptide B1 receptor antagonists inhibit spinal nociceptive reflexes only after induction of B1 receptors by inflammation and support the potential therapeutic utility of B1 receptor antagonists as analgesic and anti-inflammatory drugs.
1. Although the cellular and molecular mechanisms of the anticonvulsant action of gabapentin (GBP) remain incompletely described, in vitro studies have shown that GBP binds to the alpha2delta subunit of the high voltage-activated (HVA) Ca2+ channels. 2. In this report, we analyzed the effects of GBP on the functional expression of HVA Ca2+ channels in the PC12 cell line model system. Negligible inhibition of Ca2+ channel activity was observed after acute treatment, but a significant decrease in Ca2+ current amplitude was promoted by chronic exposure to GBP. 3. Consistent with this, radioligand binding experiments showed a comparable reduction in the total number of membrane HVA N-type channels after GBP treatment.
1. Changes in intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) levels provide signals that allow neurons to respond to a host of external stimuli. A major mechanism for elevating [Ca2+]i is the influx of extracellular Ca2+ through voltage-gated channels (Ca(V)) in the plasma membrane. Malfunction in Ca(V) due to mutations in genes encoding channel proteins are increasingly being implicated in causing disease conditions, termed channelopathies. 2. Seven spontaneous mutations with cerebellar ataxia and generalized absence epilepsy have been identified in mice (tottering, leaner, rolling Nagoya, rocker, lethargic, ducky, and stargazer), and these overlapping phenotypes are directly related to mutations in genes encoding the four separate subunits that together form the multimeric neuronal Ca(V) complex. 3. The discovery and systematic analysis of these animal models is helping to clarify how different mutations affect channel function and how altered channel function produces disease.
Various coated vesicles are implicated in the intracellular transport between different compartments. In vitro reconstitution is a powerful experimental system to study molecular mechanisms involved in assembly of coat proteins from cytosol onto membranes as well as formation of coated vesicles. Liposomes have been recently utilized in the cell-free systems. In this review, we summarize studies on reconstitutions of coated vesicles or coated structures on liposomes. A novel method using dynamic light scattering (DLS) to quantify vesicle formation from liposomes also is described. Our recent study on the role of phospholipids in vesicle formation, where the DSL assay is used in combination with lipid analysis, also is introduced.
The classification of patients with migraine who develop chronic daily headache is controversial, with some classifying such patients as 'transformed migraine'. We compared patients with intermittent migraine attacks and patients with transformed migraine in terms of mean headache intensity on days with headache, depression, pain-related anxiety and headache-related disability. Patients classified clinically as also having tension-type headache were excluded. Aside from the number of days with headache per month, patients with intermittent migraine attacks and patients with transformed migraine were very similar in terms of all parameters studied. Our results support the concept that these two headache groups are closely related.
We describe representations of the visual field in areas 18, 19 and 21 of the ferret using standard microelectrode mapping techniques. In all areas the azimuths are represented as islands of peripheral visual field surrounded by central visual field representation. The zero meridian was found at the 17/18 and 19/21 borders; at the 18/19 and anterior border of 21 the relative periphery of the visual field was found. In areas 18 and 19, elevations are represented in a smooth medio-lateral progression from lower to upper visual field. In several cases the elevations in area 21 evidenced a similar medio-lateral progression; however, in others the elevations exhibited a split representation of the horizontal meridian. Anatomically determined callosal connections coincided with the representation of azimuths near the zero meridian. Medio-lateral bands of callosal connectivity that straddle the 17/18 and 19/21 borders are connected by bridges of callosally projecting cells. Acallosal cortical islands corresponded to the peripheral visual field and were found straddling the 18/19 border and the anterior border of area 21. The results are discussed in relation to callosal connectivity and retinotopy in extrastriate visual cortex and to proposed homologies of carnivore and primate visual cortex.
Visual areas 17, 18, 19 and 21 of the ferret can be distinguished on the grounds of cytoarchitecture, myeloarchitecture and cytochrome oxidase reactivity, and with transneuronal tract-tracing from the eye. Each visual area contains callosally connected, as well as acallosal, regions. The callosal connections originate mainly from layers 2 and 3 and, more widely, from layer 6. Callosally projecting neurons and callosal terminals are organized in three roughly medio-laterally oriented bands. The posterior and intermediate bands straddle the 17/18 and 19/21 border, respectively; the third band extends along the medial bank of the lateral suprasylvian sulcus. These bands are linked by a variable number of bridges of connections that demarcate acallosal islands. The distribution of callosal connections predicts the existence of vertical meridian representations corresponding to each of the bands and of non-isotropic representations of the visual field within the bridges and islands.
We used positron emission tomography (PET) to investigate the neural correlates of selective attention in humans. We examined the effects of attending to one side of space versus another (spatial selection) and to one sensory modality versus another (intermodal selection) during bilateral, bimodal stimulation of vision and touch. Attention toward one side resulted in greater activity in several contralateral areas. In somatosensory cortex, these spatial attentional modulations were found only when touch was relevant. In the intraparietal sulcus, spatial attentional effects were multimodal, independent of the modality attended. In occipital areas, spatial modulations were also found during both visual and tactile attention, indicating that tactile attention can affect activity in visual cortex; but occipital areas also showed more activity overall during visual attention. This suggests that while spatial attention can exert multimodal influences on visual areas, these still maintain their specificity for the visual modality. Additionally, irrespective of the attended side, attending to vision activated posterior parietal and superior premotor cortices, while attending to touch activated the parietal operculi. We conclude that attentional selection operates at multiple levels, with attention to locations and attention to modalities showing distinct effects. These jointly contribute to boost processing of stimuli at the attended location in the relevant modality.
A computational neuroscience framework is proposed to better understand the role and the neuronal correlate of spatial attention modulation in visual perception. The model consists of several interconnected modules that can be related to the different areas of the dorsal and ventral paths of the visual cortex. Competitive neural interactions are implemented at both microscopic and interareal levels, according to the biased competition hypothesis. This hypothesis has been experimentally confirmed in studies in humans using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) techniques and also in single-cell recording studies in monkeys. Within this neuro-dynamical approach, numerical simulations are carried out that describe both the fMRI and the electrophysiological data. The proposed model draws together data of different spatial and temporal resolution, as are the above-mentioned imaging and single-cell results.

1. The present study was designed to assess the effect of the tetradecapeptide somatostatin on the GABA(A) receptor complex in the rat hypothalamus. 2. GABA(A) receptors were labelled with [35S]-tert-butylbicyclophosphorothionate (TBPS), which binds in or near the chloride channel, and binding as assessed by in vitro quantitative autoradiography using a computer-assisted image analysis system. 3. Somatostatin inhibited the binding of [35S]-TBPS to the convulsant site of the hypothalamic GABA(A) receptor complex of rat slide-mounted hypothalamic structures in a concentration-dependent manner with an affinity in the micromolar range (10(-6) to 3 x 10(-6) mol/L). Somatostatin appeared to mimic the effects of the neurosteroid 5alpha-pregnane-3alpha ol-one (5alpha3alphaP), GABA and picrotoxin on [35S]-TBPS binding in the rat hypothalamus in all structures examined. Furthermore, GABA or muscimol (a GABA(A) receptor agonist), when added to the incubation medium, enhanced the capacity of somatostatin to inhibit [35S]-TBPS binding, with an IC50 of 10(-7) mol/L. However, incubation with bicuculline (a GABA(A) receptor antagonist) led to the abolition of the inhibitory effect of somatostatin on [35S]-TBPS specific binding in rat hypothalamus. 4. The present results demonstrate the presence of a modulatory effect of somatostatin on the GABA(A) receptor complex in rat hypothalamic structures. Furthermore, the data suggest that somatostatin allosterically modifies [35S]-TBPS binding through a mechanism similar to that of GABA. Taken together, these results provide evidence for the presence of somatostatin- GABA interactions in rat hypothalamus.







How can functional neuroimaging be applied to clinical neurology and psychiatry? This article reviews selected contributions of functional neuroimaging to the clinical neurosciences. We review selected technical aspects of positron emission tomography, single photon emission tomography, and functional magnetic resonance imaging with a focus on the relative strengths and weaknesses of these techniques. Consumers of functional neuroimaging research are encouraged to consider the limitations of imaging techniques and theoretical pitfalls of cognitive task design when interpreting results of functional imaging studies. Then, we selectively review the contributions of functional neuroimaging to neurology and psychiatry, including the areas of epilepsy, stroke, chronic pain, schizophrenia, depression, and obsessive-compulsive disorder. Future directions of functional neuroimaging research are offered, with the emphasis that the best conclusions are informed by a convergence of research from functional neuroimaging, neurophysiological, and lesion studies.
A critical question in cognitive science concerns how numerical knowledge develops. One essential component of an adult concept of number is ordinality: the greater than and less than relationships between numbers. Here it is shown in two experiments that 11-month-old infants successfully discriminated, whereas 9-month-old infants failed to discriminate, sequences of numerosities that descended in numerical value from sequences that increased in numerical value. These results suggest that by 11 months of age infants possess the ability to appreciate the greater than and less than relations between numerical values but that this ability develops between 9 and 11 months of age. In an additional experiment 9-month-old infants succeeded at discriminating the ordinal direction of sequences that varied in the size of a single square rather than in number, suggesting that a capacity for non-numerical ordinal judgments may develop before a capacity for ordinal numerical judgments. These data raise many questions about how infants represent number and what happens between 9 and 11 months to support ordinal numerical judgments.
The potential of fertility control in the management of pest mammalian and avian species is discussed as a tool additional to the conventional methods based on poisons. There are several advantages in the use fertility control methods, and many chemical compounds are already available that disrupt fertility and act through different mechanisms. The chemicals more effective are those with long-lasting effects acting on both sexes. This article briefly synthesizes the knowledge gathered on the use of chemicals disrupting male fertility. Models suggest that such an approach can be effective for population control of pest vertebrates. However, the efficacy of sterilizing males has been positively tested so far only in species in which females mate with territorial or dominant males.
The prefrontal cortex is known to be involved in performing complex cognitive tasks requiring reasoning, planning and decision-making. Neuropsychological evidence also supports the idea that the prefrontal cortex is generally involved in encoding and retrieving complex events, such as action and narrative knowledge. Patients with frontal lobe damage are reported to have difficulty in processing different aspects of narrative representations, such as the figurative moral meaning, syntactic features, and inference generation. In the present study, we examined story processing in 17 patients with frontal lobe lesions and compared their performance to 7 amnesic patients and 17 normal controls. Two stories were presented by using two slightly different processing demands in order to assess the subject's ability to draw inferences on-line during the course of comprehension or later retrieval. Although all patients had impaired story memory, patients with frontal lobe lesions showed a pattern of deficit at an early stage of story comprehension that specifically involved the ability to reconstruct the sequential links among events and to extract inferential knowledge from the text during encoding. Amnesic patients were severely impaired in recalling story semantic units, including single events and larger narrative constituents, as well as in the event recognition task. Consequently, they were unable to establish inferential relations among the events and, thus, the global sequential structure of the stories during retrieval. In contrast, they had no difficulty in extracting inferential knowledge during story comprehension on the basis of readily available information. This study shows that damage to different cortical regions may induce impairments at various levels of story processing.

Agonists for mGlu2/3 receptors decrease the evoked release of glutamate at certain (ie. forebrain / limbic) glutamatergic synapses, indicating that the functional role of mGlu2 and/or mGlu3 receptors is to suppress glutamate excitations. This offers a mechanism for dampening glutamate excitation under pathological states resulting from excessive glutamate release. Based, in part, on the psychotomimetic actions of phencyclidine (PCP)- like drugs, excessive or pathological glutamate release has been implicated in a number of clinical conditions including psychosis. With this in mind, the pharmacology of multiple mGlu2/3 receptor agonists have been investigated in PCP treated rats. Agonists for mGlu2/3 receptors such as LY354740 and LY379268 have been shown to block certain behavioral responses to PCP in rats. The effects of mGlu2/3 agonists on PCP-induced behaviors are blocked by a low doses of a selective mGlu2/3 receptor antagonist, indicating that these actions are mediated via mGlu2/3 receptors. In addition, mGlu2/3 agonists potently suppress glutamate release in rat prefrontal cortex, as reflected by excitatory post-synaptic potentials (EPSPs) induced by serotonin (5-HT) acting on 5HT(2A) receptors. These actions of LY354740 and LY379268 are also blocked by a selective mGlu2/3 antagonist. Atypical antipsychotic drugs such as clozapine also suppress 5-HT-induced EPSPs in this brain region, thus suggesting a common pathway for the actions of atypical antipsychotic drugs and mGlu2/3 receptor agonists. As glutamatergic dysfunction has been implicated in psychotic states and possibly in the etiology of schizophrenia, clinical studies with mGlu2/3 agonists may be warranted to further explore the validity of the glutamatergic hypothesis of schizophrenia.
The family of 5 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors belongs to the superfamily of G protein coupled neurotransmitter receptors that serve in part as regulators of synaptic function. Muscarinic receptors are anatomically positioned in cortical and subcortical areas and modulate dopaminergic and glutamatergic neurotransmission thought to be dysfunctional in schizophrenia. Neurochemical studies have shown that dopamine and muscarinic receptors reciprocally modulate one another. For example, the muscarinic agonist xanomeline increases extracellular levels of dopamine and Fos expression in cortical areas greater than subcortical areas, similar to effects of atypical antipsychotics. In electrophysiological studies, xanomeline with acute and chronic administration decreased firing of the mesocorticolimbic dopamine A10 tract, but not the motoric dopamine A9 tract. Behavioral investigations have shown that muscarinic agonists, like dopamine antagonists, inhibit conditioned-avoidance responding and dopamine-agonist-induced behaviors including hyperactivity, climbing behavior and disruption of prepulse inhibition, models for positive symptoms of schizophrenia. Transgenic knockout mice lacking M(4) receptors are hyperactive and hyper-responsive to dopamine D(1) agonists, suggesting a dynamic balance between the dopamine and M(4) receptors. Muscarinic agonists had activity in animal models of negative symptoms, cognitive dysfunction and affective disorders, symptoms that are prominent in schizophrenic patients. Consistent with effects in animal models, preliminary clinical investigation indicates that muscarinic agonists like xanomeline may be effective in the pharmacotherapy of schizophrenia. Thus, we hypothesize that a combined M(1) agonist to promote cognition and a M(4) agonist for antipsychotic-like effects would treat the symptom domains of schizophrenia without parasympathomimetic side effects.
Recent advances in the study of axon guidance have begun to clarify the intricate signalling mechanisms utilised by receptors that mediate path-finding. Many of these axon guidance receptors, including Plexin B, EphA, ephrin B and Robo, regulate the Rho family of GTPases, to effect changes in motility. Recent studies demonstrate a critical role for the cytoplasmic tails of guidance receptors in signalling and also reveal the potential for a great deal of crosstalk between the various receptor-signalling pathways.

The limited capacity of neural processing restricts the number of objects and locations that can be attended to. Selected events are readily enhanced: the bright side of attention. However, such focal processing comes at a cost, namely, functional blindness for unattended events: the dark side of visual attention. Recent work has advanced our understanding of the neural mechanisms that facilitate visual processing, as well as the neural correlates of unattended, unconscious visual events. Also, new results have revealed how attentional deployment is optimized by non-visual factors such as behavioral set, past experience, and emotional salience.
Recognition of emotion draws on a distributed set of structures that include the occipitotemporal neocortex, amygdala, orbitofrontal cortex and right frontoparietal cortices. Recognition of fear may draw especially on the amygdala and the detection of disgust may rely on the insula and basal ganglia. Two important mechanisms for recognition of emotions are the construction of a simulation of the observed emotion in the perceiver, and the modulation of sensory cortices via top-down influences.
Recent findings from the study of primary visual cortex in humans and animals blur the distinction between early and late visual processing. Under some conditions, the activity of neurons in primary visual cortex appears as close or closer to perception than activity in 'higher' visual areas.
Once considered the province of philosophy and the behavioral sciences, the process of making decisions has received increasing scrutiny from neurobiologists. Recent research suggests that sensory judgements unfold through the gradual accumulation of neuronal signals in sensory-motor pathways, favoring one alternative over others. Stored representations of the outcome of prior actions activate neurons in many of these same areas during decision-making. The challenge for neurobiologists lies in deciphering how signals from these disparate areas are integrated to form a single behavioral choice and the mechanisms responsible for selecting the appropriate information upon which decisions should be informed in particular contexts.
Anticipation, the phenomenon of a disease becoming more severe or having earlier onset as it is transmitted down the generations, was originally described in families with psychiatric illness but was thought due to ascertainment bias and became forgotten. Interest was rekindled when a number of neurodegenerative disorders that show this phenomenon, were found to be due to a novel form of mutation--unstable triplet repeats showing intergenerational expansion. Some recent studies of anticipation are consistent with its occurrence in bipolar disorder but are still associated with methodological problems making interpretation difficult. A number of case-control studies employing the repeat expansion detection (RED) technique have found longer repeats in bipolar probands but other studies have found no such association. Despite a large number of studies examining the role of various repeat containing candidate genes, a pathogenic triplet repeat has yet to be found for bipolar disorder. It is likely that the controversy surrounding anticipation and the existence of triplet repeats will only finally be resolved with the demonstration of such a mutation in the aetiology of bipolar disorder.
Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that is prevalent among the elderly. It is a heterogeneous disease involving a number of genetic components, risk factors and other poorly defined elements that all impact on the accumulation of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta). Current understanding of pathology, biochemistry and genetics strengthens the notion that Abeta is potentially the common pathogenic agent in an apparent convergence of various mechanisms leading to the decline of cognitive function and neuronal loss. While many issues remain controversial, recent evidence attributing Abeta accumulation to cognitive decline in humans, coupled to the demonstrated improvement of cognitive function following Abeta immunization in pre-clinical models, strongly supports the &quot;amyloid hypothesis&quot; and a central role for Abeta; in the pathophysiology and etiology of AD. These and other observations endorse the notion that therapeutic strategies targeting the inhibition of Abeta accumulation by the use of protease inhibitors,immunization or other strategies, may provide disease-altering interventions to the development and progression of AD. The only approved and marketed treatments currently available for AD are the acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, a palliative strategy aimed at the temporary improvement of cognitive function. The purpose of this overview is to provide a brief understanding of key events leading to the progression of AD and to highlight a few of the current and most promising therapeutic strategies that one day might be available for the treatment of AD.
Recent studies suggest that extra-embryonic tissues may be essential sources of early organizing signals for the mouse embryo. In vitro studies of human amniotic epithelial cells (HAEC) have shown that the amnion can produce various biologically active substances. In this study, the synthesis and release of activin A and noggin, and the activin signaling pathway, was investigated in HAEC. Conditioned medium from cultured HAEC contained activin A which was functionally active in Xenopus laevis animal cap assays. Immunohistochemistry, western blotting and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction confirmed that HAEC also synthesize and release noggin. Noggin transcripts were induced by the addition of recombinant activin A, and activin A was inhibited by activin antibody except in the presence of cycloheximide (CHX). These data demonstrate that noggin mRNA expression is induced directly by activin A without new protein synthesis, indicating that noggin is a primary response gene. The results suggest that there is an activin signaling pathway in HAEC, and that the human amnion might therefore be involved in neural formation during early development.
Converging approaches across domains of brain anatomy, cell biology, and behavior indicate that Fragile X syndrome, arising from impaired expression of a single gene and protein, appears to involve an aberration of normal developmental processes. Synapse overproduction and selective elimination, or pruning, characterize normal brain development. In autopsy tissue from Fragile X patients and in a knockout mouse model of the disease, synapse overproduction appears to occur unaccompanied by synapse pruning and maturation, leaving an excess of immature spine synapses in place. The absence of the Fragile X protein seems to impair the synthesis of important proteins at synapses. The developmental outcome in Fragile X is a nervous system that is relatively disorganized, resulting in disrupted perceptual, and cognitive social, behavior.
The ability to process two or more rapidly presented, successive, auditory stimuli is believed to underlie successful language acquisition. Likewise, deficits in rapid auditory processing of both verbal and nonverbal stimuli are characteristic of individuals with developmental language disorders such as Specific Language Impairment. Auditory processing abilities are well developed in infancy, and thus such deficits should be detectable in infants. In the studies presented here, converging methodologies are used to examine such abilities in infants with and without a family history of language disorder. Behavioral measures, including assessments of infant information processing, and an EEG/event-related potential (ERP) paradigm are used concurrently. Results suggest that rapid auditory processing skills differ as a function of family history and are predictive of later language outcome. Further, these paradigms may prove to be sensitive tools for identifying children with poor processing skills in infancy and thus at a higher risk for developing a language disorder.
Adults are normally very quick and accurate at recognizing facial identity. This skill has been explained by two opposing views as being due to the existence of an innate cortical &quot;face module&quot; or to the natural consequence of adults' extensive experience with faces. Neither of these views puts particular importance on studying development of face-processing skills, as in one view the module simply comes on-line and in the other view development is equated with adult learning. In this article, we present evidence from a variety of methodologies to argue for an &quot;interactive specialization&quot; view. In this view, orienting tendencies present early in life ensure faces are a frequent visual input to higher cortical areas in the ventral visual pathway. In this way, cortical specialization for face processing is an emergent product of the interaction of factors both intrinsic and extrinsic to the developing child.
This special issue of Developmental Psychobiology reflects a number of recent advances in the field of developmental neuroscience. The most evident are methodological advances in noninvasive neuroimaging such as those described in a parallel special issue of Developmental Science, Volume 5, 2002. While advances in imaging methods offer a new era in developmental research, other methods (e.g., animal, computational, lesion, and genetic) remain essential in constraining and informing theories of brain and behavioral development. The papers in this issue highlight the importance of a converging methods approach to the study of developmental science and illustrate how a variety of available tools allow insights into both new and classic developmental questions.
In the year 1987, we discovered a new area in the striatum that was subsequently designated as the marginal division according to the location where it situates. More than 10 years of systemic study has yielded substantial knowledge of the unique structure of this new region, and it has come to light that the marginal division is predominantly associated with learning and memory functions, as have been recognized by researchers either nation-wide or world-wide. Further study of the marginal division may have potential significance in efforts to promote human intelligence and in contriving means for prevention of Alzheimer's disease.

Idiopathic low back pain has no known cause, and the molecular basis is unknown. Neuropeptidergic systems have been previously studied, and proteomics methods have been applied in this present study. Proteomics combines high-resolution two-dimensional (2-D) gel electrophoresis, high-sensitivity mass spectrometry, and continuously expanding protein databases. Proteomics offers a comprehensive, bird's-eye view to analyze, at a systems level, all of the proteins in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) that might contribute to idiopathic low back pain. CSF contains a high salt concentration and low protein concentration. In order to obtain a high-quality 2-D pattern, several sample preparation methods were tested to remove salts - protein precipitation with either acetone or trichloroacetic acid/acetone, or sample treatment with a Bio-Spin column. More spots were visualized on the 2-D gel of human CSF, and a relatively high protein recovery was obtained when a Bio-Spin column was used to process a human CSF sample. Sixty-one protein spots, obtained from 2-D gels with a pH range of either 3-10 or 4-7, were identified by matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization-mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS) and MALDI-post-source decay (PSD)-MS. These 61 protein spots represent 22 proteins; six of those proteins were not annotated in any previously published 2-D maps. Those six proteins are PRO2619, pigment epithelium-derived factor, albumin homolog, kallikrein-6 precursor, DJ717I23.1, and AMBP protein precursor. These protein-mapping data will contribute to the database that will be used in the future to compare the proteomes obtained from the CSF of controls and low back pain patients, to characterize differentially expressed proteins, and to elucidate the biological markers for idiopathic low back pain.
In the central nervous system, stressful conditions can easily cause the oxidation of lipoprotein particles, followed by the oxidative modification of apolipoproteins such as apolipoprotein E (apoE) and the production of free radicals and aldehydes. We have confirmed that oxidized very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) inhibits the proliferation, viability and differentiation of neuronal PC12 cells leading to cell death. The cells internalized intact apoE, but did not internalize oxidized apoE. The phosphorylation of stathmin and various mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases including extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK), p38, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) was examined in PC12 cells exposed to native and oxidized VLDL, H(2)O(2) (which generates free radicals), and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE) (an aldehyde). Oxidized VLDL and H(2)O(2) reduced stathmin phosphorylation while HNE increased it, suggesting that oxidized VLDL and H(2)O(2) stimulated similar signal transduction pathways. Based on the results, free radicals, but not aldehydes may play a major role in the neuronal cell death induced by lipoprotein oxidation. Furthermore, the phosphorylation status of MAP kinases indicated that the activation of the JNK cascade might be required for neuronal cell death.

The neurotrophin nerve growth factor (NGF) and its two membrane-anchored receptors are expressed in the developing ovary before the organization of the first primordial follicles. In the absence of NGF, the growth of primordial follicles is retarded, indicating that NGF contributes to facilitating early follicular development. The present experiments were undertaken to determine whether NGF can also be involved in the differentiation process by which ovarian follicles become responsive to gonadotropins. Treatment of 2-d-old rat ovaries in organ culture with NGF increased FSH receptor (FSHR) mRNA within 8 h of exposure. This effect was cAMP-independent but additive to the cAMP-mediated increase in FSHR gene expression induced by either forskolin or vasoactive intestinal peptide, a neurotransmitter previously shown to induce FSHR formation in neonatal rat ovaries. After NGF treatment, the ovary acquired the capacity of responding to FSH with cAMP formation and preantral follicular growth, indicating that exposure to the neurotrophin resulted in the formation of biologically active FSHRs. Quantitative measurement of FSHR mRNA demonstrated that the content of FSHR mRNA is reduced in the ovaries of mice carrying a null mutation of the NGF gene. These results indicate that one of the functions of NGF in the developing ovary is to facilitate the differentiation process by which early growing follicles become gonadotropin-dependent during postnatal life, and that it does so by increasing the synthesis of FSHRs.
We have investigated the physiological regulation and functional significance of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the endocrine melanotrope cells of the pituitary pars intermedia of the amphibian Xenopus laevis, which can adapt its skin color to the light intensity of its environment. In black-adapted animals, melanotrope cells produce and release alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH). In white-adapted animals, the activity of melanotrope cells is inhibited by neuronal input. Using Western blotting and immunocytochemistry at the light and electron microscopical level, we have detected both the BDNF precursor and the mature BDNF protein in Xenopus melanotrope cells. In situ hybridization and RT-PCR revealed the presence of BDNF mRNA in the pituitary pars intermedia, indicating that BDNF is synthesized in the melanotropes. Real-time quantitative RT-PCR showed that levels of BDNF mRNA in melanotrope cells are about 25 times higher in black- than in white-adapted animals. Although there is no difference in the amount of stored mature BDNF, the amount of BDNF precursor protein is 3.5 times higher in melanotropes of black-adapted animals than in those of white-adapted animals. These data indicate that BDNF mRNA expression and BDNF biosynthesis are up-regulated in active melanotrope cells. Because immunoelectron microscopy showed that BDNF is located in melanotrope secretory granules, BDNF is probably coreleased with alpha-MSH via the regulated secretory pathway. Superfusion and (3)H-amino acid incorporation studies demonstrated that BDNF stimulates the release of alpha-MSH and the biosynthesis of its precursor protein, POMC. Our results provide evidence that BDNF regulates the activity of Xenopus melanotrope cells in an autocrine fashion.




The present article discusses reviews, meta-analytical and other relevant outcome studies of treating school-aged conduct-disordered children. Meta-analytical studies of Parent Management Training and Cognitive-behavioural Therapy for the child have demonstrated that these interventions affect conduct disorder in children positively. However, most studies involved in these meta-analyses are conducted in research conditions and are not representative of the treatment effectiveness in everyday clinical practice. We believe there is a gap between the so-called efficacy studies in research conditions and the effectiveness studies in clinical practice and we discuss how clinical and research practice could be brought together.
Cytokine-mediated regulation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1 alpha) non-hypoxic stabilization, translocation and activation is not well characterized. Furthermore, evidence that reactive oxygen species (ROS) signaling mediates interleukin (IL)-1 beta-dependent regulation of HIF-1 alpha has yet to be ascertained in alveolar epithelial cells. Recombinant human IL-1 beta induced, in a time-dependent manner, the nuclear translocation of HIF-1 alpha, an effect associated with up-regulating the activity of this transcription factor under normoxic conditions. In addition, analysis of the mode of action of IL-1 beta revealed a novel induction of intracellular ROS, including hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), the superoxide anion (O(2)(-*)) and the hydroxyl radical (*OH). The antioxidants, dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and 1,3-dimethyl-2-thiourea (DMTU), purported to be prototypical scavengers of H2O2 and *OH, attenuated, in a dose-dependent manner, IL-1 beta-induced HIF-1 alpha nuclear translocation and activation. The NADPH-oxidase inhibitor, 4'-hydroxy-3'-methoxy-acetophenone (HMAP), which may affect mitochondrial ROS production, attenuated IL-1 beta-mediated nuclear translocation and activation of HIF-1 alpha. Inhibition of the mitochondrion complex I nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-dependent oxidase by diphenylene iodonium (DPI), which blocks the conversion of ubiquinone --&gt; ubiquinol, abrogated IL-1 beta-dependent nuclear translocation and activation of HIF-1 alpha. Similarly, interrupting the respiratory chain with potassium cyanide reversed the excitatory effect of IL-1 beta on HIF-1 alpha nuclear translocation and activation. These results indicate that a non-hypoxic pathway mediates cytokine-dependent regulation of HIF-1 alpha translocation and activation in a ROS-sensitive mechanism.
There continues to be great interest in evaluating the adaptive plasticity of the human nervous system in response to exercise training or other interventions. For various reasons, researchers have been interested in estimates of spinal reflex processing in intact human subjects before and after training. A reflex pathway that has been employed in this regard is the Hoffmann (H) reflex. This brief review describes the basic procedure for evoking the H reflex in different muscles. Other sections address methodological issues that affect interpretation of the H reflex. In particular, the role that presynaptic inhibition serves in the modification of the H reflex and how this precludes its use as an unambiguous measure of alpha-motoneuron excitability will be discussed. Applications of the H reflex to study adaptive plasticity in humans is also reviewed, and methodological requirements that should be maintained for accurate interpretation of H reflexes in exercise studies are presented.
We studied the timecourse of neural activity in the primate (Macacca mulatta) prefrontal (PF) cortex during an object delayed-matching-to-sample (DMS) task. To assess the effects of experience on this timecourse, we conducted the task using both novel and highly familiar objects. In addition, noise patterns containing no task-relevant information were used as samples on some trials. Comparison of average PF ensemble activity relative to baseline activity generated by objects and noise patterns revealed three distinct activity periods. (i) Sample onset elicited a transient sensory visual response. In this sensory period, novel objects elicited stronger average ensemble activity than both familiar objects and noise patterns. (ii) An intermediate period of elevated activity followed, which began before sample offset, and continued well into the delay period. In the intermediate period, activity was elevated for noise patterns and novel objects, but near baseline for familiar objects. (iii) Finally, after average ensemble activity reached baseline activity at the end of the intermediate period, a reactivation period occurred late in the delay. Experience had little effect during reactivation, where activity was elevated for both novel and familiar objects compared to noise patterns. We show that the ensemble average resembles the activity timecourse of many single prefrontal neurons. These results suggest that PF delay activity does not merely maintain recent sensory input, but is subject to more complex experience-dependent dynamics. This has implications for how delay activity is generated and maintained.
In the present work, we investigated if an impairment of dopaminergic neurons after subchronic haloperidol treatment might be a possible physiopathologic substrate of the &quot;early onset&quot; vacuous chewing movements (VCMs) in rats. For this purpose, different antipsychotics were used to analyse a possible relationship between VCMs development and morphological alterations of tyrosine-hydroxylase-immunostained (TH-IM) neurons. Rats treated twice a day with haloperidol displayed a significant increase of VCMs that was both time- (2-4 weeks) and dose (0.1-1 mg/kg) dependent. Immunocytochemical analysis showed a shrinkage of TH-IM cell bodies in substantia nigra pars compacta and reticulata and a reduction of TH-immunostaining in the striatum of haloperidol treated rats with the arising of VCMs. No differences were observed in TH-IM neurons of ventral tegmental area and nucleus accumbens vs. control rats. The atypical antipsychotics risperidone (2 mg/kg, twice a day), amisulpride (20 mg/kg, twice a day) and clozapine (10 mg/kg, twice a day) did not produce any nigro-striatal morphological changes or VCMs. TH-IM nigro-striatal neuron morphological alterations and VCMs were still present after three days of withdrawal in rats treated for four weeks with haloperidol (1 mg/kg). Both the main morphological changes and the behavioural correlate disappeared after three weeks of withdrawal. These results suggest that haloperidol induces a morphological impairment of the dopaminergic nigro-striatal neurons which is directly associated with the arising, permanency and disappearance of VCMs in rats.

Numerous studies report a connection between low platelet monoamine oxidase activity (trbc MAO) and personality traits such as impulsiveness and sensation seeking. Generally, criminal offenders constitute a group of individuals that are high in such temperamental characteristics. In this study, we investigated trbc MAO activity in imprisoned criminal offenders and in controls where the confounding factor of smoking was under control. Radiometric MAO assays were performed in 99 male criminal offenders and in 60 non-criminal volunteers. Offenders had significantly lower trbc MAO activity than controls, i.e., 8.8 +/- 3.0 nmol/10(10) platelets/mm and 11.3 +/- 5.1, respectively (p&lt;0.0001). When only smoking individuals were included in the analysis, the difference in trbc MAO was still statistically significant (p&lt;0.05). Based on these data, we suggest that trbc MAO is related to mechanisms predisposing for development of specific personality characteristics that in turn increase vulnerability for criminal behaviour. The results also suggest that low trbc MAO activity in criminal offenders is not an artefact of cigarette smoking.
(S)-UH-301 ((-)-(S)-5-fluoro-8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin hydrochloride) is a well known 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist. The present study describes the pharmacokinetic properties of (S)-UH-301 after subcutaneous administration in rats, using a newly developed HPLC-UV bioanalytical method. The relationships between (S)-UH-301 concentrations and some pharmacodynamic effects were also studied. The AUC of (S)-UH-301 in brain, but not in plasma, increased in proportion to dose (1-100 mumol/kg). However, at doses above 32 mumol/kg, peak concentrations of the drug did not increase in proportion to dose, and there was a doubling of its apparent half-life. There was a good correspondence between the time courses for the antagonism of 8-OH-DPAT-induced motor behaviours and hypothermia and the tissue concentrations of (S)-UH-301. Doses of (S)-UH-301 above 10 mumol/kg decreased 5-HT and dopamine synthesis. Therefore, a selective 5-HT(1A) antagonistic dose range of (S)-UH-301 should be 0.1-10 mumol/kg s.c., corresponding to concentrations below approximately 10 nmol/g in brain and approximately 1 nmol/ml in plasma.

This study examines the properties of the Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Screening Inventory-Retrospect, CAPSI-R, a self-report 146-item questionnaire for adults concerning earlier child psychiatric symptoms, comprising both DSM-IV categories and functional impairment. The instrument was mailed to 359 former child psychiatric patients born between 1951 and 1977 (164 of whom responded) and to a matched control group (193 of whom responded). There was good internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha ranged between 0.62-0.93, and between 0.76-0.93 after elimination of one item). The lifetime prevalence of a mental disorder was 87.8% in the former patients' without considering impairment and 76.8% when impairment was considered. The corresponding figures for the control group were 49.7% and 10.4%, respectively. When the former patients' CAPSI-R diagnoses (with incorporation of the impairment criterion) were validated against the DSM-IV diagnoses based on information in their medical records, generally, an acceptable sensitivity and specificity were obtained. The overall kappa between CAPSI-R diagnoses and those from medical records was 0.79. The CAPSI-R shows promise for further evaluation and may be useful in recognising child and adolescent mental disorders in adults.

In this paper, we develop techniques based on evolvability statistics of the fitness landscape surrounding sampled solutions. Averaging the measures over a sample of equal fitness solutions allows us to build up fitness evolvability portraits of the fitness landscape, which we show can be used to compare both the ruggedness and neutrality in a set of tunably rugged and tunably neutral landscapes. We further show that the techniques can be used with solution samples collected through both random sampling of the landscapes and online sampling during optimization. Finally, we apply the techniques to two real evolutionary electronics search spaces and highlight differences between the two search spaces, comparing with the time taken to find good solutions through search.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether species differences in neonatal vocalizations of rodent pups could be observed. Ultrasonic vocalizations of pups of 5 rodent species, mouse (ICR), vole (Microtus arvalis), Syrian hamster, rat (Wistar-Imamichi), and Mongolian gerbil were recorded from 3 to 15 or 21 days of age. Recordings were made under conditions of separation from mothers and litter mates in a cooled chamber (approximately 10 degrees C). The major species differences observed were age specific and species specific frequencies. The Mongolian gerbil displayed a different frequency change with age. Namely, the day on which ultrasonic vocalizations ceased was delayed in Mongolian gerbil compared with the other rodents. The modal peak frequencies of ultrasound emitted from pups at 3 days of age were low (around 35 kHz) in the vole and the Syrian hamster, medium (around 45 kHz) in the rat and the Mongolian gerbil, and high (around 55 kHz) in the mouse.
It has been proposed that a vestibular reflex originating in the otolith organs and other body graviceptors modulates sympathetic activity during changes in posture with regard to gravity. To test this hypothesis, we selectively stimulated otolith and body graviceptors sinusoidally along different head axes in the coronal plane with off-vertical axis rotation (OVAR) and recorded sympathetic efferent activity in the peroneal nerve (muscle sympathetic nerve activity, MSNA), blood pressure, heart rate, and respiratory rate. All parameters were entrained during OVAR at the frequency of rotation, with MSNA increasing in nose-up positions during forward linear acceleration and decreasing when nose-down. MSNA was correlated closely with blood pressure when subjects were within +/-90 degrees of nose-down positions with a delay of 1.4 s, the normal latency of baroreflex-driven changes in MSNA. Thus, in the nose-down position, MSNA was probably driven by baroreflex afferents. In contrast, when subjects were within +/-45 degrees of the nose-up position, i.e., when positive linear acceleration was maximal along the naso-ocipital axis, MSNA was closely related to gravitational acceleration at a latency of 0.4 s. This delay is too short for MSNA changes to be mediated by the baroreflex, but it is compatible with the delay of a response originating in the vestibular system. We postulate that a vestibulosympathetic reflex, probably originating mainly in the otolith organs, contributes to blood pressure maintenance during forward linear acceleration. Because of its short latency, this reflex may be one of the earliest mechanisms to sustain blood pressure upon standing.
The Ebbinghaus illusion, in which a central circle surrounded by large circles appears to be smaller than a central circle surrounded by small circles, affects the speed of pointing movements. When the central circle appears to be big, pointing movements directed towards it are faster than when the central circle appears to be small. This effect could be due to an interaction between ventral stream processing associated with determining relative object size and dorsal stream processing associated with sensorimotor output. Alternatively, the dorsal stream alone could mediate the effect via the transformation of object shape representations into motor output within the parietal lobe. Finally, ventral stream processing could be integrated into motor output through projections to the prefrontal cortex and subsequently to the motor areas of the cortex, thus bypassing the dorsal stream. These three alternatives were tested by disrupting either the ventral or dorsal stream processing using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) while subjects made pointing movements as quickly and accurately as possible to the central target circles within the Ebbinghaus illusion display. The relative changes in reaction time, movement speed, and movement accuracy for small versus large appearing target circles were compared when TMS was delivered over each site as well as at a control site (SMA). The results showed that TMS over either the dorsal or ventral stream but not the SMA reduced the influence of the illusion on the pointing movement speed but did not affect reaction time or movement accuracy. A second control experiment was completed in which TMS was delivered during pointing movements to target circles of physically different sizes that were not surrounded by either large or small circles. This allowed us to determined whether the effect we observed in the main experiment was due specifically to the relative size information contained within the illusory display and the effect this has on the preparation of pointing responses or to an influence on basic perceptual and sensorimotor processes occurring within the ventral and dorsal streams, respectively. The results showed that the affect on pointing movement speed was still present with dorsal but not ventral stream stimulation. Taken together, this evidence suggests that the ventral stream contributes to pointing movements based on relative object size information via its projections to the prefrontal areas and not necessarily through interactions with the dorsal stream.
Primary astrocytes were genetically modified ex vivo to express recombinant glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and subsequently were tested for their ability to provide neuroprotection to dopaminergic neurons in a 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) mouse model of Parkinson's disease. A replication-defective retrovirus was constructed, which contained the rat GDNF sequence and a sequence encoding a beta-galactosidase (beta-gal)/neomycin phosphotransferase fusion protein, linked via an internal ribosomal entry site. Murine astrocytes transduced with this vector secreted GDNF into the culture media at the rate of 115 +/- 34 pg/24 h/10(5) cells and expressed cytoplasmic beta-gal, whereas control nontransduced astrocytes were negative for GDNF production and cytoplasmic beta-gal expression. Mice that received implants of GDNF-producing astrocytes into the striatum or nigra displayed elevated levels of GDNF compared to mice that received control nontransduced astrocytes. In addition, tissue content of GDNF was increased bilaterally and in brain regions both proximal and distal to the graft, even though astrocyte migration away from the graft site did not occur. Importantly, GDNF-producing astrocytes provided marked neuroprotection of nigral dopaminergic perikarya, and partial protection of striatal dopaminergic fibers, when implanted into the midbrain 6 days prior to a retrograde 6-OHDA lesion, as assessed by tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry. Similarly, GDNF-producing astrocytes prevented the acquisition of amphetamine-induced rotational behavior in 6-OHDA-treated mice and completely prevented dopamine depletion within the substantia nigra, as assessed by high-performance liquid chromatography. These results indicate that continuous exposure to low levels of GDNF provided by transgenic astrocytes provides marked neuroprotection of nigral dopaminergic neurons. (c)2002 Elsevier Science (USA).
The brain renin-angiotensin system (bRAS) is involved in the control of hydromineral balance. However, little information is available on the functional regulation of the bRAS as a consequence of sodium deficit in the extracellular fluid compartments. We used a pharmacological model of acute Na+ depletion (furosemide injections) to investigate changes of a major component of the bRAS, the hypothalamic angiotensin type 1A (AT(1A)) receptors. Furosemide induced a rapid and long-lasting expression of the AT(1A) mRNA in the subfornical organ, the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO), and the parvocellular division of the paraventricular nucleus (pPVN). Na+ depletion increased the number of cells expressing AT(1A) mRNA in the pPVN, but not in the MnPO. The enhancement of AT(1A) mRNA expression was associated with an increase in AT(1) binding sites in all the regions studied. It is of interest that in the paraventricular nucleus, the majority of the neurons expressing AT(1A) mRNA also showed an increase in metabolic activity (Fos-related antigen immunoreactivity [FRA-ir]). By contrast, in the MnPO, we observe two distinct cell populations. Our data demonstrated that an acute Na+ deficit induced a functional regulation of the hypothalamic AT(1A) receptors, indicating that these receptors are subject to plasticity in response to hydromineral perturbations.
Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) is an essential cofactor of the electron transport gene as well as an important antioxidant, which is particularly effective within mitochondria. A number of prior studies have shown that it can exert efficacy in treating patients with known mitochondrial disorders. We investigated the potential usefulness of coenzyme Q10 in animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Huntington's disease (HD). It has been demonstrated that CoQ10 can protect against striatal lesions produced by the mitochondrial toxins malonate and 3-nitropropionic acid. These toxins have been utilized to model the striatal pathology, which occurs in HD. It also protects against 1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) toxicity in mice. CoQ10 significantly extended survival in a transgenic mouse model of ALS. CoQ10 can significantly extend survival, delay motor deficits and delay weight loss and attenuate the development of striatal atrophy in a transgenic mouse model of HD. In this mouse model, it showed additive efficacy when combined with the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, remacemide. CoQ10 is presently being studied as a potential treatment for early PD as well as in combination with remacemide as a potential treatment for HD.
Amyloid beta protein 40 (Abeta40) and 42 Abeta42, major components of senile plaque amyloids, are physiological peptides present in the brain, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma. The levels of CSF Abeta40 and Abeta42(43) show a U-shaped natural course in normal aging. The increase of Abeta42(43) over 60 years of age is inhibited in Alzheimer's disease (AD). This specific alteration of CSF Abeta42(43) correlates with Abeta deposits in the AD brain providing a biological basis for a biomarker of AD. In the GTT2 study, assays of the CSF Abeta ratio ((Abeta40/ Abeta42(43)) showed a diagnostic sensitivity (59%) and specificity (88%) compared with non-AD type dementia and controls. The levels of the Abeta ratio increased from early to late stages of AD. Combination assays of CSF tau and Abeta ratio provided further efficient diagnostic sensitivity (81%) and specificity (87%). The reliability of the assay may prompt worldwide usage of these CSF biomarkers for Alzheimer's patients.
All social relationships are dependent on an organism's ability to remember conspecifics. Social memory may be a unique form of memory, critical for reproduction, territorial defense, and the establishment of dominance hierarchies in a natural context. In the laboratory, social memory can be assessed reliably by measuring the reduction in investigation of a familiar partner relative to novel conspecifics. The neurohypophyseal neuropeptides oxytocin and vasopressin have been shown to influence a number of forms of social behavior, including affiliation, aggression, and reproduction. This article reviews vasopressin and oxytocin effects on social cognition, particularly the acquisition and retention of social recognition in rats and mice. Studies in rats have demonstrated that vasopressin in specific neural pathways, such as the lateral septum, is necessary for social recognition. As vasopressin facilitates recall when given after an initial encounter, the peptide appears important for the consolidation not the acquisition of a social memory. Although oxytocin has complex effects on social memory in rats, mice with a null mutation of the oxytocin gene are completely socially amnestic without other cognitive deficits evident. As oxytocin given centrally before but not after the initial encounter restores social recognition in these mutant mice, the neuropeptide appears critical for the acquisition rather than the consolidation phase of memory. Oxytocin's effects on social memory are mediated via a discrete cell population in the medial amygdala. These findings support the hypothesis that vasopressin and oxytocin are essential for social memory, although they appear to influence different cognitive processes and may modulate different neural systems. (c) Elsevier Science.
Seasonal changes in the brain of songbirds are one of the most dramatic examples of naturally occurring neuroplasticity that have been described in any vertebrate species. In males of temperate-zone songbird species, the volumes of several telencephalic nuclei that control song behavior are significantly larger in the spring than in the fall. These increases in volume are correlated with high rates of singing and high concentrations of testosterone in the plasma. Several song nuclei express either androgen receptors or estrogen receptors, therefore it is possible that testosterone acting via estrogenic or androgenic metabolites regulates song behavior by seasonally modulating the morphology of these song control nuclei. However, the causal links among these variables have not been established. Dissociations among high concentrations of testosterone, enlarged song nuclei, and high rates of singing behavior have been observed. Singing behavior itself can promote cellular changes associated with increases in the volume of the song control nuclei. Also, testosterone may stimulate song behavior by acting in brain regions outside of the song control system such as in the preoptic area or in catecholamine cell groups in the brainstem. Thus testosterone effects on neuroplasticity in the song system may be indirect in that behavioral activity stimulated by testosterone acting in sites that promote male sexual behavior could in turn promote morphological changes in the song system.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a degenerative disease of the brain, and the most common form of dementia. It is estimated that more than 22 million individuals worldwide will have AD by 2025. The causes of the disease are still unknown and recent hypotheses suggest that an aberrant protein processing initiates the neurodegeneration. Several lines of research are centered on the study of proteins that are genetically associated with this syndrome, such as amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilins. This review focuses on recent advances in the processing of APP and on the neuropathological role of its amyloidogenic fragments, which have been shown to be directly involved in neurodegeneration and glial inflammation and which likely influence the development of AD.
On the basis of information collected from ten IRCCS, it has emerged altogether that the accident are not much frequent. Accident statistics indices from 1994 to 1998 were respectively: frequency rate 21.36, incidence rate 3.32, severity rate 0.24. In the &quot;Neurology&quot; Institutes we have above all needlestick injuries and cufs to the arms and hands. The workers most exposed are doctors, trained nurses, technicians. In the &quot;Psychic&quot; Institutes we have falling, impact, lifting and physical contact accidents. The injuries are contusions to legs and head. The most exposed workers are therapists and rehabilitation educators.
A Professional Multicentric Audit, concerning Staff knowledge level about security on workplaces, was conducted by way of a standardized questionnaire given to 1022 (26.4%) IRCCS professional staff pertaining to Neurobiology. Four were the principal tasks of the questionnaire investigating the &quot;sensibility&quot; and &quot;consciousness&quot; concerning risk prevention on workplaces. It came out that there is a great variability in the knowledge level on this field, even if the &quot;medium value&quot; is &quot;pretty good&quot;.
The results of meta-analysis carried out on all documents for the valuation of the risk, recorded by IRCCS of Neuroscience, has led to identify a risk matrix for the medical personnel of the Scientific Institute of Neuroscience. Such analysis allowed to tackle the day to day risk faced by hospital staff. As a general rule the IRCCS of Neurosciences distinguishes themselves as structures of mainly neurologic typology and as structures of more typical psychiatric interest. In the first case the analogy with the traditional Hospital structures are more noticeable, in the second case instead the kind of patients and the particular relations between the health worker and the patient himself may represent an important differentiation factor. This is, above all, evident on the biological risk; for it's determinism has an important rule the interpersonal relationship between the health worker and the patient. Concerning other risk factors such as the chemical and the allergic one, it is noticeable a closed analogy with the actual Hospital reality. On work organization level, manual handling of patients is often necessary and also the relatives risks. In this kind of structures the stress factor is of the greatest importance, it should therefore have a strong consideration on the valuation of risk by the IRCCS.

To accelerate the molecular analysis of behavior in the honey bee (Apis mellifera), we created expressed sequence tag (EST) and cDNA microarray resources for the bee brain. Over 20,000 cDNA clones were partially sequenced from a normalized (and subsequently subtracted) library generated from adult A. mellifera brains. These sequences were processed to identify 15,311 high-quality ESTs representing 8912 putative transcripts. Putative transcripts were functionally annotated (using the Gene Ontology classification system) based on matching gene sequences in Drosophila melanogaster. The brain ESTs represent a broad range of molecular functions and biological processes, with neurobiological classifications particularly well represented. Roughly half of Drosophila genes currently implicated in synaptic transmission and/or behavior are represented in the Apis EST set. Of Apis sequences with open reading frames of at least 450 bp, 24% are highly diverged with no matches to known protein sequences. Additionally, over 100 Apis transcript sequences conserved with other organisms appear to have been lost from the Drosophila genome. DNA microarrays were fabricated with over 7000 EST cDNA clones putatively representing different transcripts. Using probe derived from single bee brain mRNA, microarrays detected gene expression for 90% of Apis cDNAs two standard deviations greater than exogenous control cDNAs. [The sequence data described in this paper have been submitted to Genbank data library under accession nos. BI502708-BI517278. The sequences are also available at http://titan.biotec.uiuc.edu/bee/honeybee_project.htm.]
Cytokines have been shown to play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS). However, still limited data are available on the expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines within the central nervous system (CNS) during MS lesion development. Therefore, we have examined the expression of the anti-inflammatory cytokines, interleukin-10 (IL-10) and IL-4, and their specific receptors, IL-10R and IL-4R, in postmortem human brain tissue obtained from MS patients. Specific patterns of protein localization and expression for both proteins could be observed within active and chronic MS lesions. Strongest IL-10 immunoreactivity was observed in reactive astrocytes within active demyelinating lesions and the hypercellular rim of chronic active MS lesions. Moreover, perivascular macrophages were immunoreactive for IL-10 in (chronic) active MS lesions. Most intense IL-4 immunoreactivity was detected in reactive fibrillary astrocytes within the hypocellular regions of chronic active and chronic inactive MS lesions. Strong immunoreactivity for IL-10R and IL-4R was detected on macrophages in both parenchymal and perivascular areas and on reactive astrocytes in active and chronic MS lesions. Our results indicate that IL-10 and IL-4 have an active role in CNS immune responses. The specific patterns of protein localization and protein expression for both IL-10 and IL-4 in MS lesions at different stages of development suggest that these anti-inflammatory cytokines and their receptors participate in processes leading to the formation of chronic MS lesions.
Multi-unit (MU) activity and local field potentials (LFP) were simultaneously recorded from 161 sites in the middle cortical layers of the primary auditory cortex (AI) and the anterior auditory field (AAF) in 51 cats. Responses were obtained for frequencies between 625 Hz and 40 kHz, at intensities from 75 dB SPL to threshold. We compared the response properties of MU activity and LFP triggers, in terms of characteristic frequency (CF), threshold at CF, minimum latency and frequency tuning-curve bandwidth 20 dB above threshold. On average, thresholds at CF were significantly lower for LFP events than those for MU spikes (4.6 dB for AI, and 3 dB for AAF). Minimum latencies were significantly shorter for LFP events than for MU spikes (1.5 ms in AI, and 1.7 ms in AAF). Frequency tuning curves were significantly broader for LFP events than those for MU spikes (1.0 octave in AI, and 1.3 octaves in AAF). In contrast, the CF was not significantly different between LFP events and MU spikes. The LFP results indicate that cortical neurons receive convergent sub-cortical inputs from a broad frequency range. The sharper tuning curves for MU activity compared to those of LFP events are likely the result of intracortical inhibitory processes.
Within the last few years, advances have been made regarding perivascular nerves and the endothelium of the vascular system, both potentially important in the understanding of the mechanisms of local control of blood flow. Endothelin-1 (ET-1) has been identified in rat cerebrovascular nerves, neuropeptide Y (NPY) has been demonstrated in umbilical endothelium, the arginine-vasopressin (VP) system has been discovered in the heart (including coronary endothelium), and P2X receptors have been observed in vascular endothelial cells. After a brief introduction to vascular biology, this review will focus on the above-mentioned new data.
The RS447 megasatellite DNA, which maps to human chromosome 4p16.1, is a highly polymorphic conserved tandem repetitive sequence containing a functional deubiquitinating enzyme gene, USP17. To characterize the hypervariability seen in RS447 fully, we have conducted a pedigree analysis of RS447 transmission by high-resolution pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. We have identified 44 distinct alleles in 74 unrelated chromosomes containing 20-103 copies of the 4.7-kb RS447 unit. Five of 60 parent-to-offspring transmissions clearly show changes in copy number, indicating a high frequency (approximately 8.3%) of meiotic instability. Evidence for somatic mosaicism has also been observed. Searches of the database have revealed the presence of minor RS447 sequences mapping to chromosome 8p23, raising the possibility of a rearrangement or transposition of RS447 within the human genome. These results suggest that the unstable nature of RS447 megasatellite DNA gives rise to its hypervariability and may contribute to the structural dynamics of this repetitive DNA in the genome.
Mutations in the gene encoding for the lysosomal enzyme glucocerebrosidase (GBA) result in Gaucher disease. In this study, seven novel missense mutations in the glucocerebrosidase gene (A136E, H162P, K198E, Y205C, F251L, Q350X and I402F) and a splice site mutation (IVS10+2T--&gt;A) were identified by direct sequencing of three amplified segments of the glucocerebrosidase gene. Five of the novel mutations were found in patients with neuronopathic forms of Gaucher disease, two of which, K198E and F251L, appear to be associated with type 2 Gaucher disease.
Unlike other CNS depressants, alcohol intoxication can be associated with increased error rates, coupled with unaffected (or speeded) response rates during psychomotor and cognitive processing. The present study examined whether concurrent consumption of caffeine may differentially affect these aspects of alcohol and performance.A randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled design was utilised in which 64 healthy young volunteers received either 0.66 g/kg alcohol, caffeine (110-120 mg), both or neither. Performance was assessed using a four choice reaction time task (FCRT) with elements of repetitive (predictable) and random stimuli sequences and the digit symbol substitution task (DSST). Individuals on alcohol made significantly more errors during both fixed and random FCRT sequences, and there was evidence of weak antagonism of these effects by caffeine on the latter measure. On the DSST test of psychomotor speed, alcohol was associated with a significant slowing, the caffeine group were significantly faster and there was clear antagonism of the effects of alcohol by caffeine. These findings confirm that alcohol consumption is associated a greater number of errors and provide some evidence for task-specific antagonism of alcohol's cognitive effects by caffeine.
Computerized dynamic posturography (CDP) is widely used for assessment of altered balance control. CDP trials are quantified using the equilibrium score (ES), which ranges from zero to 100, as a decreasing function of peak sway angle. The problem of how best to model and analyze ESs from a controlled study is considered. The ES often exhibits a skewed distribution in repeated trials, which can lead to incorrect inference when applying standard regression or analysis of variance models. Furthermore, CDP trials are terminated when a patient loses balance. In these situations, the ES is not observable, but is assigned the lowest possible score--zero. As a result, the response variable has a mixed discrete-continuous distribution, further compromising inference obtained by standard statistical methods. Here, we develop alternative methodology for analyzing ESs under a stochastic model extending the ES to a continuous latent random variable that always exists, but is unobserved in the event of a fall. Loss of balance occurs conditionally, with probability depending on the realized latent ES. After fitting the model by a form of quasi-maximum-likelihood, one may perform statistical inference to assess the effects of explanatory variables. An example is provided, using data from the NIH/NIA Baltimore Longitudinal Study on Aging.
PVG rats are resistant to actively induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and this appears to be directly related to high and sustained systemic levels of reactive nitrogen intermediates(RNI) following sensitization for EAE when compared to the highly susceptible Lewis rat. An apparent cellular basis for the different EAE susceptibility between the two rat strains is described. Spleens of PVG rats have increased monocyte/macrophage numbers(NO producing cells) and lower erythrocyte (NO scavengers) to nucleated spleen cell ratios compared with Lewis rats. Splenectomy demonstrated the pivotal role of the spleen in resistance to EAE as splenectomized PVG rats were rendered completely susceptible to disease induction. It was further demonstrated that EAE resistance in PVG rats is limited only to females and that only female PVG rats have increased splenic macrophage and an enhanced NO production following immunization. The males are fully susceptible to EAE and their spleen cell populations are similar to those of Lewis rats of either gender. Despite being resistant to active disease induction, immunized female PVG rats can generate EAE effector cells that are capable of passively transferring disease.Furthermore, female PVG rats are fully susceptible to passively transferred EAE. Thus, there appears to be no defect in the female PVG target tissue or in the processing or presentation of antigen,but a block at the level of effector cell expansion and/or recirculation and transmigration into the target tissue in actively induced EAE.
Pyrethroid insecticides alter the normal gating of voltage-gated sodium channels in the nervous system. Three sodium channel mutations (E434K, C764R, L993F) were recently identified in pyrethroid resistant German cockroach populations. In this report, we show that the L993F mutation decreased sodium channel sensitivity to the pyrethroid, deltamethrin, by five-fold in Xenopus oocytes. In contrast, neither E434K nor C764R alone decreased channel sensitivity to deltamethrin. However, E434K or C764R combined with L993F reduced deltamethrin sensitivity by 100-fold. Furthermore, concomitant presence of all three mutations (KRF) reduced channel sensitivity to deltamethrin by 500-fold. None of the mutations significantly affected channel gating. However, sodium current amplitudes from the mutant sodium channel carrying either E434K or C764R alone were much reduced compared to those of the wild-type channel or the channel carrying the double or triple mutations (KF, RF and KRF). These results indicated that evolution of sodium channel insensitivity in the German cockroach is achieved by sequential selection of a primary mutation L993F and two secondary mutations E434K and C764R, and concomitant presence of all three mutations dramatically reduced sodium channel sensitivity to deltamethrin.
Pyrethroid insecticide resistance due to reduced nerve sensitivity, known as knockdown resistance (kdr or kdr-type), is linked to multiple point mutations in the para-homologous sodium channel genes. Previously we demonstrated that two mutations (E434K and C764R) in the German cockroach sodium channel greatly enhanced the ability of the L993F mutation (a known kdr -type mutation) to reduce sodium channel sensitivity to deltamethrin, a pyrethroid insecticide. Neither E434K nor C764R alone, however, altered sodium channel sensitivity. To examine whether E434K and C764R also enhance the effect of pyrethroid resistance-associated sodium channel mutations identified in other insects, we introduced a V to M mutation (V409M) into the cockroach sodium channel protein at the position that corresponds to the V421M mutation in the Heliothis virescens sodium channel protein. We found that the V409M mutation alone modified the gating properties of the sodium channel and reduced channel sensitivity to deltamethrin by 10-fold. Combining the V409M mutation with either the E434K or C764K alone did not reduce the V409M channel sensitivity to deltamethrin further. However, the triple mutation combination (V409M, E434K and C764R) dramatically reduced channel sensitivity by 100-fold compared with the wild-type channel. These results suggest that the E434K and C764R mutations are important modifiers of sodium channel sensitivity to pyrethroid insecticides.
Preliminary studies, performed in our laboratory, showed that staurosporine (ST), a protein-kinase (PK) inhibitor, increases the expression of the carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in a human colon cancer cell line. The present study explores the cellular and molecular effects of ST on the CEA expression in breast cancer MCF-7 line and in a number of colon cancer cell lines characterized by the different basal levels of the antigen, including two cloned sublines (i.e. C22.20 and C6.6, expressing low and high CEA levels, respectively). In all cases, increase of the CEA expression was observed at drug concentrations devoid of marked cytostatic effects (e.g. 5 nM) and was accompanied by the enhanced CEA shedding in the supernatant. Moreover, the increase of the CEA levels both occurred in the cell membranes and in the cytosolic compartments and appeared to be the result of the enhanced CEA gene transcription. Similar results have been previously obtained with interferon-gamma. However, ST treatment, different from interferon-gamma, did not up-regulate the level of the HLA class I molecules. A preliminary investigation also showed that other PKC inhibitors did not substantially modulate the CEA expression. Therefore, the biochemical mechanism underlying the effect of ST should not be correlated with that involved in the PKC inhibition. The present study suggests that ST and, presumably, its analogs used in the cancer treatment could enhance the CEA expression on neoplastic cells in patients affected by the CEA-positive malignancies. This appears to be of potential clinical interest for the development of new immunotherapeutic or diagnostic approaches based on the pharmacological modulation of this antigenic marker.
The Zwicker tone (ZT) is an auditory sensation that occurs following the presentation of broadband noise containing a spectral notch. The present study aimed to test whether the changes in auditory thresholds that have been shown to follow the presentation of the ZT inducer are accompanied by suprathreshold effects. Using an interaural loudness-balance procedure, the loudness of probe tones presented after notched and after flat noise was compared. The results revealed small differences in the influence of the two types of noise on loudness at low intensities only. This suggests that the influence of notched noise stimulation on the auditory system is mediated by changes in the internal noise in auditory centres.
The aim of this study was to investigate the hearing threshold levels (HTL) of an otologically unscreened population in Sweden. The results are compared to other studies of otologically unscreened populations, and a new mathematical model of hearing threshold levels as a function of age is presented. The subjects were males and females aged from 19 to 81 years, selected from the province of Ostergtland in Sweden. The test battery included otoscopy, tympanometry, pure-tone audiometry, and a questionnaire. Subjects exposed to occupational noise were excluded, and in total 603 persons were included in the analysis. The regression analysis resulted in different hyperbolic tangent functions with four parameters: HTL=A+B x tanh(C x age+D).

Nitric oxide (NO) activates corpus cavernosum smooth muscle soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) and increases the synthesis of cGMP that results in smooth muscle relaxation and ultimately, penile erection. To characterize sGC and define the potential synergy between NO and the allosteric activator YC-1 in corpus cavernosum, rat sGC was activated by either sodium nitroprusside (SNP) or YC-1, and YC-1 potentiated the effects of SNP with a 200-fold activation of sGC. Both SNP and YC-1 decreased the Km and increased the Vmax. ODQ significantly inhibited sGC activated by SNP with IC50 of 0.5 nM, but did not affect the sGC activated by YC-1 as well as basal sGC activity. SNP and YC-1 synergistically increased intracellular cGMP levels in rabbit corpus cavernosum smooth muscle cell cultures. YC-1 significantly relaxed rabbit cavernosum tissue strips in organ baths with an EC50 of 8.4 microM. In the presence of L-nitroarginine methyl ester to block endogenous NO production, co-administration of SNP shifted the dose response of YC-1 to the left, showing the synergism of SNP and YC-1 in tissue strips. In view of the clinical efficacy of phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors, activation of sGC may provide an alternative means for enhancing the activity of neurally derived NO during sexual stimulation in the corpus cavernosum, representing a novel approach for the treatment of erectile dysfunction.
